22-07-2021||Calcutta||Homemaker resists robbery in north Calcutta, attacked with knife||A homemaker was attacked with a knife when she tried to resist an armed robbery at her home in Burtolla in north Calcutta on Tuesday afternoon, police said. Diamond-encrusted jewellery and Rs 80,000 were robbed when Nivedita Adak, the homemaker, was home with her mother-in-law and three-year-old child. The police said Nivedita had left her son sleeping on the bed of her first-floor bedroom and gone to the washroom for a few minutes when the robbers were suspected to have entered the two-storey house in Chidam Mudi Lane around 4pm. “When the woman came out of the washroom, she saw her child sleeping as she had left him but the door of the cupboard was ajar and the locker was empty,” said an officer. She heard some unusual sound from an adjoining room and saw at least two men ransacking the cupboards. A lot of stolen articles was heaped on the bed, the woman has purportedly told the police. “As she started shouting ‘chor chor’, the robbers tried to gag her. One of them was holding a knife. When she tried to resist, she was attacked with the knife that hit one of her arms,” an officer said. No one else in the house was injured. The robbers fled the house with cash and valuables. The family then alerted their neighbours. The woman’s husband, Prodosh Karmakar, a doctor, refused to share any details about the robbery citing the police investigation. “I will not comment on the matter till the investigation is over,” Karmakar said. A senior officer at Lalbazar said they were in the process of analysing footage of CCTV cameras installed in the neighbourhood to identify the accused. “We are banking on electronic as well as human intelligence to identify and track down the accused,” said an officer No one was arrested till Wednesday night. “The incident shows how desperate criminals have become. Lockdown had left many jobless. I will not be shocked if someone in financial distress had carried out the daring robbery,” said a resident of the neighbourhood.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||Woman found dead at Bangur Avenue home, cops suspect murder||An elderly woman living alone in her home at Bangur Avenue was found dead when her relatives, alarmed that she had not been answering calls for two days, went to check on her on Wednesday afternoon, police said. Dipa Mukherjee, 62, a widow, was found with a towel wrapped around her neck. Police said after a preliminary investigation that Mukherjee’s domestic help was missing. “The cupboards were all ransacked. Relatives said Mukherjee used to wear ornaments. But no jewellery was found on her. Her mobile phone is missing, too,” said an officer of Lake Town police station. “Since the help is missing, it seems to be a murder for gain.” Some of the relatives of the deceased said they were unable to contact her over the phone for the past two days, an officer said. “Alarmed, they went over to check on her. On reaching the house, they found the door open and the woman lying dead inside,” the officer said. The decomposed body — the police said it was a few days’ old — was sent to the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital for post-mortem. A forensic team visited Mukherjee’s house. “We have got in touch with the next of kin and are waiting for the post-mortem report to confirm whether the death was homicidal,” the officer said. “We are gathering information from neighbours about the help. We are also trying to find out whether anyone heard any unnatural sound from the house.” A source said the elderly woman had not submitted any details of her help to the local police station. Police stations across the state have forms that people are expected to fill in with details of their domestic workers or tenants. The forms are to be submitted with photographs of the workers and tenants. “Such information helps the police track down a help or a tenant if he or she is suspected to have been involved in some criminal activity…. Despite awareness campaigns, the majority of the people do not submit the details,” an officer in the Bidhannagar commissionerate said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||Teachers in several schools notice online fatigue among students||Teachers in several schools have noticed a certain level of “online fatigue” setting in among students in the second year of online classes. That is manifested in selective attendance, and in the practice of keeping videos switched off or not wanting to respond in class. Instances of such behaviour had reduced after students got used to online classes last year, only to rise again, a trend that many teachers feel is caused by online fatigue. With no end in sight of online classes, at least in near future, students are feeling “worn out” and some of them are in need of counselling, a principal said. Schools are trying to engage students in activities and organise non-academic sessions to keep children interested in class. The question is for “how long”, because the syllabus has to be completed, too. What was new last year has become routine this year, a school head said. “Last year, everything was in a nascent stage and children were in awe of the development. There was a novelty in studying on mobile phones and laptops, but that novelty has worn out,” said Aruna Gomes, the principal of Loreto House. Calcutta Girls’ High School has received requests from parents to conduct counselling sessions for students. “Parents of students of Class IV upwards have asked us to conduct counselling because students are showing signs of emotional disturbance. They are mentally fatigued and teachers can understand that because children are lethargic. The spark in them is missing. But as schools we have to take classes and complete the syllabus,” said Basanti Biswas, the principal of Calcutta Girls’. “School from home” has taken away the everyday pleasure of walking through corridors or on the field from a student’s life. Worse still, there is no sign of pre-pandemic life being restored. “There is an online fatigue and children are demotivated. The usual motivators like prizes for outstanding performance are not there. They know there is automatic promotion and so they show less interest and pick and choose classes they want to join,” said Amita Prasad, the director of Indus Valley World School. The practice of switching off the video or skipping classes is prevalent across schools. “One day we suddenly announced that we would have an aerobics session for Class VIII. We noticed that all videos were switched on during the aerobics session and no one complained about the network,” said Madhumita Seal, the vice-principal of BDM International. Seal said cultural exchange programmes organised in association with schools in other countries boost the socio-emotional wellbeing of students and keep them interested in class in the absence of physical interaction. Sri Sri Academy is trying to be more “liberal” with seniors to keep them engaged. “We have initiated more collaborative work among students so they get to interact amongst themselves. But there is no denying the mental tiredness of being in front of the screen. Also, even for collaborative projects and group work, the communication is via social media and there is no face-to-face interaction,” said Suvina Shunglu, the principal of Sri Sri Academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||Virus hits corporate health check-ups at private hospitals||One casualty of Covid across private hospitals in Calcutta is the corporate annual health check-up. Most big hospitals did not have any person coming for the routine health check-up for the past one-and-a-half years, since the Covid outbreak. Others said they did not have any till last month but it has started picking up slowly since. Hospitals said many companies had kept tie-ups pending as they were negotiating with the healthcare units over rates. Officials of some of the companies cited two reasons for keeping tie-ups and health check-ups on hold. Most employees are not ready to go to hospitals or diagnostic centres amid the pandemic and wait for hours to get blood and other tests done. Companies are also reluctant to send their staff for the check-up and many are waiting for their employees to get both doses of a Covid vaccine. Financial difficulties caused by the pandemic have forced some of the employers to keep the annual check-up on hold to cut costs. The annual check-up packages usually range between Rs 3,000 and Rs 10,000 per person. The check-ups at almost all private hospitals have stopped since the outbreak. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, around 40 people would turn up every day for the annual check-up before the pandemic. They would include beneficiaries of corporate health check-up packages as well as those who would pay from their pockets. “However, for the last one-and-a-half years, the health check-up programme has completely stopped. No one is coming for the tests,” said R. Venkatesh, regional director, east, Narayana Health, which runs the RN Tagore hospital. The authorities of the Mukundapur hospital are running a Covid vaccination clinic in the space that was once reserved for annual check-ups. Forty-two of the 105 corporate clients of the RN Tagore hospital have not renewed their contracts, Venkatesh said. Tie-ups allow corporate bodies to enjoy special rates for beds and treatment at the hospitals. Rates usually increase by 10 per cent after every revision. Many of the companies are asking the hospitals to continue with the old rates or agree on a lower rate of increase. Peerless Hospital would have 30 people turning up daily on an average for the check-up before the pandemic. Now the number is zero. “We have kept the facility closed because there are no takers. Now that Covid restrictions have been eased, we are expecting some to turn up,” said Sudipta Mitra, the chief executive of Peerless Hospital. He said about 10 companies had not got the rates revised for treatments of their employees. Mitra said that apart from employees of various companies, many Bangladeshis would queue up for the health check-up. “Relatives accompanying a patient would undergo check-ups. Bangladeshi nationals are not coming now because of the travel ban,” said Mitra. An official of a technology company said employees used to be sent for check-ups before they flew abroad on assignments. “Now there is no foreign travel. So those check-ups are not required,” said the official. “Pre-joining health check-ups, too, are not taking place as there is a freeze on recruitment.” A senior HR official at a private company said: “None of our employees are ready to go to a healthcare unit and wait for three to four hours to get tested amid the Covid pandemic. We cannot force them to go for the tests in this situation. Our primary target is to get all our employees fully vaccinated. Also, we are waiting for the threat of Covid to finally go away.” The official said for the handful of people the company has recruited, the system of collecting samples from home has been introduced. “We have omitted X-ray, USG and ECG, because for those diagnostic procedures one has to go to the healthcare unit,” said the official. Some of the hospitals are trying to adapt to the changing pattern. Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals’ corporate health check-up programme was affected during the pandemic. “The number has dipped sharply. But now it is slowly picking up,” said Rana Dasgupta, the CEO of Apollo Gleneagles. The hospital has a Pro Health check up programme that is based on artificial intelligence. The programme for minimum one year includes wellness activities like Yoga and a health mentor who would provide as consultant and provide support through the year to the individual. The hospital has now introduced post Covid check up as part of this AI based health check up programme. “We are having good response from corporates,” said an official of the hospital. The hospital has also started collecting blood samples from home for those who want to conduct health check-up. “They are asked to come to the hospital for tests like X-Ray, USG, CT-scan and ECG. So, the waiting time is minimised,” said the official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||IIT Kharagpur calls back students facing issues with online classes||Five-hundred students of IIT Kharagpur who are not able to attend online classes because of resource constraints will be called back to the campus in batches from August, an official of the institute said. Earlier this month, the students’ senate of the IIT had demanded that such students be called back to the campus at the earliest so they could use the institute’s internet facility and other infrastructure to attend online classes. An official of the IIT said the 500 students who would return to the campus either lacked smart devices or could not afford data packs as the financial condition of their families had worsened because of Covid-induced curbs on economic activities. “Some of these students are not in a position to buy a laptop, which is a must to study engineering drawing and lab classes. The screen of a smartphone may not be enough to figure out details of drawing or lab classes,” the official said. “These students, of both BTech and MTech programmes, were identified based on inputs from the students’ senate, which represents all students on the campus,” the official said. The dean of students’ affairs at the IIT, Dhrubajyoti Sen, in an email to the students on Wednesday wrote: “We understand that you are facing certain difficulties while being at home and would like to come to the campus of IIT Kharagpur to continue your studies.” “We would like you to reach IIT Kharagpur within the following time period: 02 August — 06 August,” the email says. The first 150 of the 500 students will have to reach the campus between August 2 and 6. Classes have been held on digital platforms since March last year as a precaution against Covid. “Financial constraints are coming in their way of attending online classes. They will be lodged at hostels after following the quarantine norms and other health protocols. We will bring them in batches of 150 so they can be accommodated in hostels without too much of an assembly.” The parents of the students will have to give their consent in writing to their wards’ return to the campus. Along with the undertaking, the students have to produce an RT-PCR negative report. The test has to be conducted within 96 hours before the start of the train journey or 72 hours before the flight departure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||NGO mentors women to make quality products amid pandemic||A profit of Rs 3.5 lakh, that too amid the pandemic. A group of women from a Calcutta slum has done it. Mentored by an NGO, 20 women — most of whose income or family’s earnings dried up during the pandemic  —  were making apparels and tote bags. But the pandemic forced them to improvise and come up with quality products. And within a year they sold items worth Rs 9 lakh and even posted a profit of about Rs 3.5 lakh. Some of these women are now the sole earning members of their family. Thirty-nine-year-old Krishna Routh’s two daughters would have starved had it not been for her resilience. Routh’s husband worked in a travel agency and earned Rs 8,000 per month before the pandemic. But business has suffered since last year. “They would still pay him Rs 2,000. But the office finally closed down in February and he has had no income since then,” said Routh. The tailoring training, which she had taken before the pandemic, became the fall-back option to sustain her family. The crafts centre at Calcutta Social Project, the NGO that was already making these products, changed the strategy and shifted the focus on quality. “There was a change in our stand from only doing social service to attaining professional efficiency in our work. What we make has to be the best,” said Arjun Dutta, the president of Calcutta Social Project. The products should have marketability — something that people would want to buy. “The pandemic has triggered a fear of being decimated and from that stems the desire to improve,” said Nupur Ghosh, a governing body member. Ghosh said she would recommend products that have some quality to her friends or acquaintances. “Or else people will not come back and the project will not sustain.” The women, mostly in the age group of 18 to 40, have been making dohars, totes, pouches, cushion covers, table mats and runners — things that are still in demand. “People are now very careful about spending. We had to make things that they would buy,” said Barsha Mukherjee, the head of the crafts centre at Calcutta Social Project. The absence of fairs during the pandemic has also impacted the business prospects of the self-help groups that deal in these items. But Nirmala Devi is satisfied with what she is able to bring home. “...at least I am able to earn a living.” The NGO has noticed that more women are interested in learning. This has led it to open two craft centres  — one in Keoratala and another in Garia. “They want to acquire a new skill because during the pandemic many of them have lost their jobs,” said Mukherjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||Stories for a better world||“Two individuals look for a piece of land to live in. They finally find a patch, after much searching. But the search weakens their legs and they can walk no more…” Thus goes a short story by Class III student Megh Ganguly. The story, written in Bengali, is part of a creative project initiated by ThinkArts to keep young minds engaged during the pandemic. Children aged between six and 10 years from all over India took part in the storytelling event – Let Me Tell You A Story – where they used different media to narrate an original idea. Some prompts (lines from children’s books) have been given to help children recreate their own world of fantasy, utopia and friendships since February. Illustrators from Switzerland worked on 15 best stories and 45 of them have been picked by various storytellers for audio narrations. Megh’s story has been illustrated by Swiss artist Mirjana Farkas.  “My story is entirely a figment of my imagination,” said Megh, a student of Calcutta Public School, Bidhan Park who loves math and computers, besides writing stories. A fan of Ruskin Bond and Leela Majumdar, Megh likes to unwind by writing and reading. Let Me Tell You A Story has unleashed the imaginative side of many students who are otherwise getting restless at home, following over a year of virtual schooling. “I miss school and my friends,” said Prapti Mandal of Patha Bhavan. Her story is her way of reaching out to an ideal world.  “It has parts of my life. I used to love visiting my grandmother’s house that is surrounded by trees and greenery. I would personally love gaping at a tall palm tree. My story is about a girl finally managing to climb that tree and catching a glimpse of a perfect world,” said Prapti who loves writing in Bengali just like her favourite author Sukmar Ray. Nine-year-old Aarohan Dasgupta of Hindustan Park is home schooled. So virtual education is not a new experience for this student of Grade Four. What is new is losing out on playtime with his para friends. “I miss the fun and interaction that I had when friends would come to call,” said the boy who writes poetry and plays the piano to vent out. His story (in English) is about animals – a badger, a squirrel, a rabbit and a rat - and friendship, things that he holds dear. “I love feeding strays and am an animal lover. The story brings out a part of me,” said the boy who is very excited at the prospect of Swiss artist Paloma Canonica illustrating his tale. ThinkArts has uploaded 100 such short stories in English, Bengali and Hindi on their website, as part of the project. “In these difficult times, the stories by the children have given us a reason to smile, to hope and to imagine and strive for a new and better world. It is great to see that the stories are now being read and heard by hundreds of children from across India and abroad. We are grateful to Pro Helvetia New Delhi-Swiss Arts Council for supporting this project,” added Ruchira Das, the founder of ThinkArts. Pratt Memorial School A plate full of colours - the nursery kids of Pratt Memorial School created magic with a variety of fruits, sugar, cream and chaat masala at a fruit salad party that was conducted on July 16 morning. The event was a fun way of educating children about the different varieties  of fruits and their seeds. "We have around 50 children in each section. So nearly 200 of them were ready with their fruits and ingredients on the day of the party, eager to whip up a tasty dish and share recipes," said Ruth Anita Malik, the head of the pre-primary department. Some children were also dressed in a chef's gear as also were the class teachers who conducted the sessions. The four sections of Nursery had their separate party. Aiza Hussain of Section C made her concoction with bananas, mangoes, pomegranates and apples. "Banana is my favourite and I loved the party," gushed Aiza, whose mother Ruhi Shiraz and twin brother Aadil joined in the fun. "I cut the fruits for her but it was Aiza who mixed it and prepared the chaat. She kept some for her father who devoured it with relish despite not being a fruit lover," added Ruhi. Every child was given a chance to prepare her own salad or chaat and share the recipe. They also sang fruit-themed songs and had a merry time. "As we step into the second year of online teaching, it is especially important now to make virtual teaching fun for our little ones so that they are able to enjoy learning even from the comfort of their home. They also need to learn how to interact with their teachers and peers confidently and comfortably. So we keep doing fun events online. Even though we have been divided by the pandemic, we have been united by technology," said principal Carolyn Lionel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||More people in the 18-44 age group in Calcutta are vaccinated||More people in the 18-44 age group in Calcutta are vaccinated against Covid than those who are older, data in the CoWIN portal has revealed. This despite the fact that the vaccination of the 18-44 age group started a month later than those who are 45 or older. Till 7.45pm on Wednesday in Calcutta, 16,08,828 doses were administered to those in the 18-44 age group; 14,50,617 to people in the 45-60 category and 10,55,038 to those who have crossed 60. The 18-44 group has been eligible for the Covid shot since May 1. Covid vaccination started in India in mid-January with healthcare workers. Those above 60 have been eligible since March 1 and those in the 45-60 group since April 1. A doctor who is an expert in public health said people between 18 and 44 formed the majority of the working population. “Since people in the 18-44 group step out of their home regularly, they are keen to get vaccinated. As soon as vaccination started for this section in May, people from the group queued up at many centres for the shot,” the doctor said. Several private hospitals have said that 70 per cent or more of those arriving for the shot belong to the 18-44 group. “About 70 per cent of those getting vaccinated at our hospital as well as in our outreach camps are between 18 and 44. This has been the trend since May, when Covid vaccination was opened for people in the 18-44 group,” said Pradip Tondon, the chief executive officer of Belle Vue Clinic. The hospital has been vaccinating about 1,600 people at its on-site and off-site camps together. At the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, 75 per cent of those who are being vaccinated are in the 18-44 group, said an official of the hospital. Around 1,000 people are being given the shot at the hospital daily. “As restaurants and companies are reopening, their employees are being vaccinated. The majority of the employees are in the 18-44 group. Naturally, more doses have been administered to this group than other age groups,” said an official of a private hospital. The number of doses administered to the 18-44 group has risen despite the fact that the 190 Covid vaccination centres of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation are still administering doses to only those in the group who belong to priority groups such as traders, transport workers and hawkers. “We are not administering Covid vaccines to people from the 18-44 section who do not belong to any priority group. However, if there are surplus doses at the end of the day’s vaccination and people from the 18-44 category not belonging to any priority group turn up, we give them the shots,” said a CMC official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
22-07-2021||Calcutta||UK woman ‘stuck’ in New Town flat rescued||A 30-year-old British woman, who was allegedly “stuck” in an apartment in New Town along with her pet dog, was rescued by the residents’ welfare association of the housing complex and police on Tuesday. The woman from Bromley went to the residents’ welfare association (RWA) office of the Rail Vihar Housing Complex in Action Area I, behind Nazrul Tirtha, seeking help, a member of the association said. According to the member, the woman told the association that she had been staying as a paying guest in a third-floor apartment of K Block for the past year. She said she had learnt about the place from the Internet. “The woman told us that her visa had expired in December 2020 and she had run out of money and somehow lost her cell phone. She also alleged that the couple she was sharing the flat with were not giving her enough food. After hearing her plight, we called the cops for help,” said Subrata Saha, the joint secretary of the Rail Vihar Housing Complex’s RWA. After receiving the call from the RWA, a team from New Town police station went to the housing complex. According to an officer who went there, they first spoke to the woman who told them that she had become malnourished and sought their help. “We then called the couple with whom she was staying. They told us that she was not able to share the rent and that they were helping her on humanitarian grounds. They also told us that since she had approached the RWA and us (police) for help, they did not want to let her stay in the flat,” the officer said. The cops and RWA members contacted the owner of the flat, who lives in Ahmedabad. “The owner told us that he was only aware of the couple staying in the flat,” said the officer. Sanat Das, the inspector-in-charge of New Town police station, checked the woman’s passport and visa. “Although her passport is valid, her visa expired in December 2020. She told us that she was backpacking across India. She also said she could not get the visa renewed because of the ongoing Covid-19 restrictions. She asked us to help her get back home. We then contacted the British high commission,” said Das. According to another senior officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate, the woman did not lodge a complaint of mistreatment against the couple or anybody else in the housing complex. “We are probing how she managed to overstay her visa tenure,” said the officer. Das, along with members of the New Town News and Forum (NTFN), an NGO, started looking for a safe home that was pet-friendly where the woman could be put up. The woman was sent to a home on Park Street. A spokesperson for the British deputy high commission in Calcutta said they had received an alert regarding the woman. “We are aware of a British national in Calcutta and are providing consular assistance,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-07-2021||Calcutta||Over 70 km of defunct cables removed from Salt Lake roads||More than 70km of defunct cables that had been lying across several roads in Salt Lake have been removed till Wednesday. The Telegraph had reported on July 3 how the bundles of television and Internet cables strewn along several roads of Salt Lake posed a risk to motorists and pedestrians alike. A senior official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said that nearly 70km of defunct wires had been removed. A team from the corporation started removing the wires lying on streets and footpaths as well as low-hanging ones on July 7. These wires had turned several roads in Salt Lake dangerous for two-wheeler-riders, pedestrians as well as those driving cars. A two-wheeler-rider headed home from his workplace had met with an accident after his bike’s front wheel got entangled with a dangling cable on an unlit stretch of the road along the Eastern Drainage Canal, in front of the Mahavir Vikas Housing Complex. In the first phase, nearly 15km of dead wires were removed from a section of Broadway, which connects Salt Lake with EM Bypass; the road that runs parallel to the Eastern Drainage Canal connecting the Chingrighata crossing with the township; and a stretch of the Second Avenue, near the CGO Complex in DF Block. The corporation team conducted the drive equipped with a truck and an earthmover. “We needed the earthmover's hydraulic arms to remove the mess of cables from the road. Once the earthmover moved the wires aside, they were snipped and loaded on the truck,” said an official of the civic body. Ranjan Poddar, a ward coordinator whose area covers Mahavir Vikas Housing Complex and the stretch of Broadway and who coordinated the operation, said the team had removed more than 15km of wires in the first phase. Old cables that have long outlived their utility have been dangling from posts, all jumbled up, for years in Salt Lake. Mesh of cables can be spotted in several places, including the Karunamoyee intersection, in front of City Centre and on First Avenue near the Punjab National Bank island. Some of the wires criss-cross the road and are difficult to spot at night because several of these stretches are unlit. Another corporation official said they had planned to undertake more such drives across all three sectors of the township.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-07-2021||Calcutta||IIHM International College of Distinguished Fellows confers Fellow of IIHM to 150 global hospitality leaders||The IIHM (International Institute of Hotel Management) International College of Distinguished Fellows conferred the Fellow of IIHM to 150 global hospitality leaders for their exemplary contribution to their industry at a glitzy event. Streamed over Zoom and YouTube on July 10 from noon, the convocation ceremony had Suborno Bose, CEO, International Institute of Hotel Management & CEO, International Hospitality Council, and Prof David Foskett, MBE, chairman - International Hospitality Council, London, coming together to confer the fellowship. IIHM believes that hospitality is not merely a job. It’s a passion and wholehearted dedication towards serving mankind. Across the world, this passion has met profession in many ways, creating magic that has, in turn, inspired thousands of youngsters and students of hospitality. The IIHM International College of Distinguished Fellows had elected 150 dedicated professionals to become Fellows of IIHM. All of them have greatly contributed to the international hospitality industry in one way or another. The motto of The IIHM International College of Distinguished Fellows is ‘Fiat Lux’ (Let there be Light). The distinguished fellows are the shining light of the industry, guiding future generations and students of hospitality. The vision is to create The IIHM International College of Distinguished Fellows membership, which will solely comprise individuals who have been conferred the Fellow of IIHM. The key objective of this college is to proactively create and provide support in a range of ways to the students and academic community in general. This will further enhance the educational and career aspirations of all students and graduates of the hospitality industry through inspirational leadership. Here are the highlights of the nine-hour-long event: The 8EX Hospitality E-Conclave was live-streamed on July 9 on Zoom, marking the debut year of IIHM International College of Distinguished Fellows, bringing together over 200 global hospitality leaders. The global conclave was a platform to exchange ideas and strategies through various panel discussions and talks for the entire hospitality fraternity. A few of the Fellowship awardees||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-44
22-07-2021||Business||Sensex rallies 639 points in closing trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied 639 points on Thursday, propelled by index majors Infosys, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 638.70 points or 1.22 per cent higher at 52,837.21, while the broader NSE Nifty surged 191.95 points or 1.23 per cent to 15,824.05. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, jumping over 5 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finance, Bharti Airtel, Bajaj Finserv, L&T, Tata Steel and Infosys. On the other hand, HUL, Asian Paints, Bajaj Auto and M&M were the laggards. According to Milind Muchhala, Executive Director, Julius Baer, Indian markets have made a smart pull-back, supported by the positive global set-up and a decent start to the Q1FY22 earnings season. "Markets are clearly rewarding the stocks/sectors where the earnings momentum is strong (such as IT - especially midcap IT, cement, metals) or where growth visibility remains good (such as chemicals, healthcare, etc.). Moreover, with the flurry of IPOs, which are seeing a very healthy response from investors, the related sectors are seeing interest due to benchmark valuations. Also with the headline index remaining steady at elevated levels, the broader market (Midcaps/Smallcaps) continues to witness a lot of excitement/participation," he said. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo ended with strong gains. Equities in Europe were also trading on a positive in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 1 per cent to USD 72.95 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
22-07-2021||Business||Financial bids for Air India likely to be received by September 15, says Aviation Minister||Financial bids for Air India are likely to be received from qualified interested bidders (QIBs) by September 15 this year, Minister of State for Civil Aviation V K Singh said on Thursday. The Centre had invited Expression of Interests (EoIs) for Air India on January 27, 2020. The last date of submission -- after multiple extensions due to COVID-19 pandemic -- of EoIs was December 14, 2020. "Multiple EoIs were received by Transaction Advisor. The EoIs were evaluated by the Transaction Advisor for selection of QIBs. Request for Proposal (RFP) along with draft Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) have been shared with QIBs by the Transaction Advisor on March 30, 2021, for submission of financial bids," Singh stated. "The financial bids are likely to be received by September 15, 2021," he added in a written reply to a question in Lok Sabha. The Centre has not revealed the names of QIBs as yet. Of the airline's total debt of Rs 60,074 crore as of March 31, 2019, the buyer would be required to absorb Rs 23,286.5 crore, while the rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle, stated the EoI floated in January 2020. Singh told Lok Sabha on Thursday: "Monetization proceeds of non-core assets of Air India are to be used to offset the debt of Air India transferred to AIAHL." Currently, Air India has been trying to sell a couple of its properties to reduce its debt. The reserve prices of Air India's properties were fixed by the airline's Oversight Committee as the highest value received from three valuers, the minister stated. "The Oversight Committee approved 10 per cent reduction in the reserved prices of 16 properties after previous attempts to auction the properties failed to attract bidders," Singh noted. The Centre had announced in October 2020 that the bidding for Air India would be done based on enterprise value instead of equity value. Enterprise value of a company includes the equity value, debt as well as cash with the company. Equity value measures the value of a company's shares. The Centre had said in October 2020 that whatever enterprise value the bidder quotes, minimum 15 per cent of that has to be given in cash to the government and remaining value has to be taken as debt along with Air India. After its unsuccessful attempt to sell Air India in 2018, the government in January last year restarted the divestment process and invited bids for selling 100 per cent of its equity in the state-owned airline, including Air India's 100 per cent share holding in Air India Express Ltd and 50 per cent in Air India SATS Airport Services Private Ltd. In 2018, the government had proposed to off load 76 per cent equity share capital of the national carrier as well as transfer the management control to private players. However, the offer failed to attract any bidder when the deadline for initial bids closed on May 31, 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
22-07-2021||Business||Sensex jumps over 400 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 400 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, Infosys and ICICI Bank amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 444.17 points or 0.85 per cent higher at 52,642.68 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty surged 129.15 points or 0.83 per cent to 15,761.25. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by Tata Steel, HDFC Bank, HUL, ICICI Bank and Infosys. On the other hand, Asian Paints, PowerGrid, Bajaj Auto and Dr Reddy's were among the laggards. In the previous session on Tuesday, Sensex ended 354.89 points or 0.68 per cent lower at 52,198.51, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 120.30 points or 0.76 per cent to 15,632.10. Stock markets were closed on Wednesday on account of Bakri Id'. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,834.96 crore on Tuesday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, domestic equities are likely to see some amount of recovery during the day. "Selling pressure especially in financials due to concerns over asset quality dragged the market in the last couple of days. Further, mounting concerns over global growth due to recent rise in delta variant coronavirus cases in different parts of the world have weighed on sentiments. "However, we continue to believe that the underlying strength of the domestic market remains intact and therefore any meaningful correction in the market should be taken as an opportunity to get in quality stocks," he stated. On the global front, US equities recovered sharply in the last two days as strong earnings reported by corporates and buy-on-dips in an improving economy trend overshadowed concerns with regards to spread of delta plus variants in various parts of the world, Modi added. Bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with strong gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.40 per cent to USD 71.94 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
22-07-2021||Business||Kesoram Industries Ltd promoters to plough Rs 100 crore into company ||The promoters of Kesoram Industries Ltd are ploughing Rs 100 crore into the company by way of preferential allotment of shares, laying the ground for multiple rounds of equity issues over the next 12-18 months. A promoter group entity will pay Rs 105 apiece for shares and fully convertible warrants, which are nearly at 20 per cent premium to the closing price of Kesoram on the bourses. The stock had closed at Rs 87.9 on BSE on Tuesday. The preference offer will be the first of the multiple tranches of equity issues the Basant Kumar Birla flagship plans to undertake. The board of the company, led by chairperson Manjushree Khaitan, younger daughter of late B.K. Birla, had earlier set a ceiling of Rs 600 crore on raising capital to retire debt. “Seeing the confidence reposed by the promoter group in the company, we expect Kesoram will get rerated. There is obviously a lot of value in the company,” P. Radhakrishnan, CEO and wholetime director of Kesoram, said. The preference shares to the promoters will increase their holding a little over 5 per cent. The Birla family holds a 45.97 per cent stake in Kesoram as on June 30, down from 53.13 per cent it held as on December 30. During this interim six month period, Kesoram undertook a massive debt rejig exercise whereby it paid off Indian lenders fully by taking on high cost debt from private investors such as Edelweiss and Goldman Sachs. As part of the one-time settlement, the Indian lenders also converted part of their loan into equity, which brought down promoter holding. The preference share at a premium could work in favour of Kesoram at multiple levels. It might give confidence to general investors about its prospects apart from egging on the credit rating agencies to look at the debt more favourably. The company has now over Rs 2,200 crore of debt which carries a steep interest rate of close to 20 per cent. It hopes to bring it down to Rs 1,400 crore and interest rate to 10-11 per cent over the next 24 months. Given the strong demand for cement, Kesoram may also be able to operate the two plants close to its nameplate capacities of 10 million tonnes. It is expected to generate an EBIDTA of Rs 600 crore annually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Bajaj Finserv reports over 31 per cent decline in consolidated net profit||Bajaj Finserv on Wednesday reported an over 31 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 833 crore for the first quarter ended June 2021. The company had reported a net profit of Rs 1,215 crore a year ago. Consolidated total income also fell to Rs 13,949 crore from Rs 14,192 crore. The consolidated figures of Bajaj Finserv include results of its wholly owned subsidiaries Bajaj Finance (BFL), Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Company (BAGIC) and Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Company (BALIC). According to the break-up, Bajaj Finance saw a 4.2 per cent rise in consolidated net profit at Rs 1,002 crore during the quarter. BAGIC reported an 8.4 per cent decline in net profit at Rs 362 crore, while BALIC’s net profit declined by 35.4 per cent to Rs 84 crore. Jubilant profit Jubilant Foodworks on Wednesday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 69.06 crore in the first quarter ended June 30, aided by higher revenues despite the second wave of Covid-19 disrupting operations. The company, which operates popular fast-food chains Domino’s Pizza, had posted a consolidated net loss of Rs 74.47 crore a year ago. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 893.19 crore compared with Rs 388.41 crore a year ago. ICICI Securities ICICI Securities has reported a 61 per cent jump in profit after tax (PAT) at Rs 311 crore in three months ended June 2021 on account of a growth in revenue and improvement in margins. The company had posted a PAT of Rs 193 crore a year ago. Revenue rose 37 per cent to Rs 748 crore from Rs 546 crore  a year ago. Ceat net Tyre major Ceat on Wednesday posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 23 crore for the first quarter ended June 30, 2021. The company had reported a net loss of Rs 35 crore for the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Airtel announces collaboration with Intel for 5G network development||Telecom operator Bharti Airtel on Wednesday announced a collaboration with Intel for 5G network development by leveraging virtual and open radio access network technologies and making indigenous solutions. This is Intel’s second 5G-related partnership in India. It recently joined hands with Reliance Jio to help the telco with its 5G network development, including in the areas of 5G radio, core, cloud, edge, and artificial intelligence. Bharti Airtel and other telecom operators are at present conducting 5G trials in select cities across India. “The collaboration is part of Airtel's 5G road map for India as it transforms its networks to allow its customers to reap the full possibilities of the hyperconnected world where Industry 4.0 to cloud gaming and virtual and augmented reality become an everyday experience,” Airtel said in a statement. As part of the collaboration, Airtel will deploy Intel’s Xeon Scalable processors and other components across its network to build a foundation for rolling out wide-scale 5G, mobile edge computing and network slicing. “Airtel is delighted to have Intel as a part of its rapidly expanding partner ecosystem for 5G. Intel’s cutting-edge technologies and experience will contribute immensely to Airtel's mission of serving India with world-class 5G services. “We also look forward to working with Intel and home-grown companies to unlock India's potential as a global 5G hub,” Bharti Airtel chief technology officer Randeep Sekhon said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Byju’s acquires US-based digital reading platform Epic||Edtech major Byju’s has acquired Epic, a US-based digital reading platform, for $500 million (around Rs 3,729.8 crore), just months after its $1-billion buyout of Aakash Educational Services. Byju’s, which ranks among the highest valued startups in the country, will also invest an additional $1 billion (about Rs 7,459.7 crore) in the North American market. Epic is a digital reading platform for kids aged 12 years and under. The acquisition will help Byju’s expand its footprint in the US by providing access to more than two million teachers and 50 million kids on  Epic’s existing global user base, which has more than doubled over the last year. Epic CEO Suren Markosian and co-founder Kevin Donahue will remain in their roles, the statement noted. Epic has a collection of over 40,000 books, audiobooks and videos from more than 250 of the world’s best publishers. It has made access free to educators, and more than 2 million teachers have signed up for classroom use.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Investors clued in to quarterly results of Hindustan Unilever and Reliance Industries||After a rather mixed start to the earnings season, investors are clued in to the quarterly results of two giants Hindustan Unilever Ltd  and Reliance Industries Ltd to be released later this week. While the FMCG major will declare its numbers for the quarter ended June 30 on Thursday, RIL will announce them on Friday The scorecards come at a time expectations have been sullied by the disappointing show of HDFC Bank last week. RIL had topped Street estimates during the fourth quarter ended March 31, 2021, on the back of its oil to chemicals (O2C) and retail businesses. Analysts said Reliance’s  02C business will continue to do well in the last quarter, though its overall performance will be impacted by the retail and telecom businesses . According to  BofA Securities, the O2C business is expected to show a sequential improvement of 6 per cent in EBIT (earning before interest and taxes) inspite of a weakness in domestic demand.  The brokerage expects RIL to post a net profit of Rs 13,075.4 crore against Rs 13,227 crore in the preceding three months — a decline of 1.1 per cent. It expects revenues to come  in at Rs 1,66,401 crore, an increase of 7.4 per cent over the January-March period . Centrum Broking said RIL will report another quarter of strong year-on-year improvement, even as the sequential improvement would be more muted. It expects a consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) of Rs 23,900 crore a growth of 42 per cent over the year ago period and 2.4 per cent compared with  the previous three months and a consolidated profit after tax of Rs 14,700 crore, a sequential increase of 3.2 per cent. In telecom, brokerages are of the view the sector could report a muted quarter. “The first quarter is likely to be a soft quarter for telcos as the lockdowns that followed the second wave of Covid resulted in lower smartphone shipments and subscriber additions,” IIFL Securities said. Margins will be affected by the benefits extended to low-income users. IIFL expects Jio to report a flat revenue growth on a sequential basis at Rs 17,494 crore. Net profit is forecast to fall 5.8 per cent sequentially. In consumer goods, companies are expected to report steady results though they could also feel the impact of rising input costs. HUL is expected to report net profit between Rs 2,200 crore and Rs 2,500 crore with brokerages such as Emkay projecting revenue growth of around 19 per cent at Rs 10,560 crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Centre to seek financial bids for Shipping Corporation next month||The Centre is expected to seek financial bids for Shipping Corporation sometime next month after the potential investors have had the chance to pore over the state-owned company’s books, a senior finance ministry official said. “The data room has been opened to potential bidders and we are planning to call the financial bids as early as next month and hope that the deal could be closed before the end of the financial year, if the market conditions were favourable,” the official said. The government is selling its entire 63.75 per cent stake in the company along with the transfer of management control. SCI owns a fleet of bulk carriers and crude oil tankers. It has a fleet strength of 59 vessels and is India's top cargo carrier. Though the names of the bidders were not available officially, three entities have been reportedly shortlisted by transaction advisors RBSA: US-based Safesea, a consortium led by NRI businessman Ravi Mehrotra and Hyderabad-based Megha Engineering for access to the virtual data room. The access to the data room will allow the bidders to obtain detailed financial information about the company as well as scrutinise its financial liabilities, contracts and other relevant material. The SCI had reported a 23 per cent decline in its consolidated profit to Rs 85.76 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2021. The state-owned company had clocked a consolidated profit of Rs 111 crore for the corresponding quarter in 2019-20. Analysts said the recent decision by the cabinet to offer subsidy to domestic shipping companies will sweeten the deal for the privatisation of SCI and help boost the valuation of the national carrier. The subsidy support to local fleet owners is also an indication that the government will not allow the private buyer of Shipping Corporation to re-flag the ships to tax friendly nations. SCI was one of the first public sector companies that the government had identified for privatisation along with Bharat Petroleum Corporation and Container Corporation of India (Concor) in November 2019. In 2021-22, the government has set a disinvestment target of Rs 1.75 lakh crore and has raised Rs 7,645.70 crore so far. The listing of LIC will be crucial for the government to meet its disinvestment target. A failure to execute the LIC initial public offer and the BPCL strategic disinvestments last fiscal saw the Centre collecting only Rs 32,835 crore last fiscal against a target of Rs 2.1-lakh-crore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Civil aviation ministry forms three advisory groups to resolve challenges||The civil aviation ministry has formed three advisory groups to deliberate and resolve challenges faced by the sector, an official statement said on Wednesday. The group will include airlines, airport operators, cargo carriers, ground handling companies, flying training organisations and maintenance, repair and overhaul companies. The ministry said: “The groups shall meet regularly to deliberate upon issues.” Apart from minister of civil aviation Jyotiraditya Scindia, the groups will include officials from the ministry and organisations such as AAI, DGCA and representatives from the private sector. The airline group has among its members three promoters — IndiGo’s Rahul Bhatia, SpiceJet’s Ajay Singh and GoAir’s Ness Wadia; CEO/CMDs — AirAsia India’s Sunil Bhaskaran, Vistara’s Bhaskar Bhat, Air India’s Rajiv Bansal. The airports group includes GMR Group chairman  G.B.S. Raju; Bangalore Airport CEO Hari Marar and Adani Group vice-president (group finance) Jeet Adani. The third group has people from MROs, cargo and flying training organisations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||Business||Infosys tells employees to resume work from offices||Indian outsourcing giant Infosys told employees last week they could resume work from offices, according to a memo seen by Reuters that offers an early sign of the country’s $190 billion technology services sector moving to get back on track. The Bangalore-based IT services company stopped short of calling all employees back to work, reflecting wider caution across the sector as Indian officials warn about the looming threat of a third wave of Covid-19 infections. After a devastating second wave of infections in May, the country’s daily numbers are roughly a tenth of the peak, with infections falling to the lowest in four months on Tuesday. However, health experts have appealed to state governments and citizens to not lower their guard, saying a third wave was inevitable. In its memo, Infosys said the country’s safety situation seems to be improving, with growing vaccination coverage. Infosys did not respond to Reuters’ request for comment on the memo. The company said it had been operating in emergency mode for months but noted that the situation in the country was now improving. “We have been getting requests from certain accounts to allow their team members to work from Infosys campuses. In addition, some of our employees have also been asking to come back and start working from office, as a personal preference.” After reporting results last week, Infosys executives told analysts that roughly 99 per cent of its staff was working from home, and the company would make efforts to get “more and more people to come to office” over the next couple of quarters. However, many companies are holding off and focusing on getting more employees vaccinated. TCS said earlier this month that it hoped to vaccinate all its employees and their families by September. Wipro has said it will wait until September to get staff back to office. The software services sector, which offers critical services for some of the world’s biggest companies, struggled when the pandemic first hit the country last year. Thousands of tech employees have grown comfortable with working from home since and some managers in the sector privately say they are worried about their ability to get workers back on site if and when the situation improves.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-134
22-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Anil Ambani's numbers inlcuded in target list in 2018||Anil Ambani’s phone numbers allegedly appear on the list of potential targets of surveillance of an unknown Indian subscriber of the Pegasus spyware, The Wire has reported. Numbers of Ambani and one other official of the Reliance ADG Group were included in the list as the Rafale deal came under public scrutiny. The opposition Congress had accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of settling for a grossly overpriced deal for 36 Rafale fighters only to help Mr Ambani win a whopping offset deal from Rafale maker Dassault. The phone number for Dassault Aviation's representative in India, Venkata Rao Posina, former Saab India head Inderjit Sial and Boeing India boss Pratyush Kumar were also on the list The developer of the Pegasus, Israeli firm NSO -- which claims it supplies its software only to "vetted" governments for control of terrorism and crime - has claimed the leaked list of numbers is "not a list of targets or potential targets of Pegasus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
22-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi targets Centre over deaths due to oxygen shortage||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi once again hits out at the central government on Thursday over the deaths due to the shortage of oxygen during the second wave of Covid-19, saying ‘sab yaad rakha jayega’ (everything will be remembered). Rahul tweeted a 44-second video on his Twitter profile showing people searching for oxygen cylinders and carrying their loved ones for the oxygen during the second wave of the pandemic. The video, which opens with the message “the truth about oxygen shortage”, shows several images and news articles from the time of the second wave of Covid-19, and the related deaths reported across states and Union territories (UTs) owing to lack of oxygen. It may be noted that the Narendra Modi dispensation has faced intense criticism after it informed the Rajya Sabha that no deaths were reported due to lack of oxygen during the second wave. Rahul’s latest remark follows the one he made on Tuesday soon after Union minister of state for health and family welfare Dr Bharati Pravin Pawar, in response to Congress MP KC Venugopal’s question, told the Rajya Sabha that no deaths “due to lack of oxygen have been specifically reported by the states/UTs.” “It wasn’t just the lack of oxygen but also a severe lack of sensitivity and truth. It was then, still is today,” Rahul wrote on Twitter on Tuesday. Several opposition leaders apart from Rahul, including Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi, Delhi deputy chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain, and Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut, criticised the Centre over its claim on oxygen shortage. However, many states have backed the claim as well, citing that no Covid-19 patients died in their states due to lack of oxygen.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
22-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Ex CBI chief included in target list following his termination||The Wire has reported that following the sacking of former CBI chief Alok Verma at midnight on October 23, 2018, an unidentified Indian agency, known to be a Pegasus user, noted three telephone numbers registered in his name. Along with Verma, the telephone numbers of his wife, daughter and son-in-law were eventually included in the list, totaling 8 numbers from one family. Numbers of two other senior CBI officials, Rakesh Asthana and A.K. Sharma, were also added to the list. Asthana was also removed from the CBI on the night of October 23, 2018;  he is currently head of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF). Sharma was removed as the head of the policy division, but continued with the CBI till January 2019, when he was transferred out. He retired from government service earlier this year. Verma’s ousting came two days after he ordered the filing of a criminal case against Asthana, then special director, accusing him of corruption. Asthana, known to be close to PM Modi, filed a complaint against Verma with the Central Vigilance Commission two days later. It is also believed that Verma invited the Centre’s ire by not rejecting a request for a criminal probe into the controversial Rafale deal. On October 4, 2018, about three weeks before his termination, Prashant Bhushan and former Union minister Arun Shourie met him to hand over a complaint involving the Rafale deal. The government’s displeasure with this meeting was widely reported by news agencies at that time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
22-07-2021||India||Centre to move suspension motion against TMC MP Shantanu Sen for snatching papers from IT minister||The government will move a motion seeking suspension of Trinamool Congress MP Shantanu Sen for snatching papers from Union Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, sources said.  They said some opposition MPs "misbehaved" with the treasury bench members, including a minister, even after the House was adjourned.  Sen snatched papers from Vaishnaw after the TMC, Congress and other opposition party members, who had earlier forced two adjournments of the proceedings in the Rajya Sabha, rushed into the well of the House as the minister was called to make a statement on the Pegasus snooping row.  The government will move a motion seeking suspension of Sen on Friday. Union Minister V Muraleedharan is expected to move the motion, sources said.  "We are approaching the Rajya Sabha chairman seeking action against them (opposition MPs) as their behaviour is a blow to parliamentary decorum," a Union minister, who did not wish to be named, said.  Government sources said Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and his deputy Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi reached out to the Opposition members and assured them that the minister will reply to their queries after he makes his statement, but in vain.  With Vaishnaw not able to read out the complete statement, it was laid on the table and the House was adjourned. However, the situation remained tense in the House as the two sides engaged in heated exchanges.  Sen alleged that Union minister Hardeep Puri verbally abused him in the Upper House of Parliament and was on the verge of physically assaulting him before he was rescued by his colleagues. Puri has so far not commented on the issue.  The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has described the opposition conduct as a "new low" in Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
22-07-2021||India||Amarinder Singh to attend Sidhu's installation ceremony on Friday ||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has invited party leaders for tea on Friday from where they will "all go for the installation" of the new Congress team under Navjot Singh Sidhu, his media adviser said, signalling truce in the dissension-riven party. In an apparent bid to bury the differences with the CM, Sidhu too in a separate letter requested Amarinder Singh to come for the installation ceremony and said he had "no personal agenda". "My resolve and commitment on Punjab's issues and fulfilling high command's pro-people 18-point agenda for the welfare of every Punjabi is well-known to you and all," Sidhu said. "Thus as the eldest of our Punjab Congress family, I request you to please come and bless the new team," wrote Sidhu. The tweet by the CM's media adviser came after Kuljit Singh Nagra and Sangat Singh Gilzian, two of the four newly appointed working presidents for the state party unit, extended a formal invite to the CM at his farmhouse in Mohali's Siswan for the installation ceremony. The invitation letter was signed by over 55 legislators. Sidhu and Amarinder Singh have been at loggerheads for the past some time, with the Amritsar (East) MLA recently attacking the CM over the desecration cases. The chief minister had opposed Sidhu's appointment as the state Congress chief and had said he won't meet him until the cricketer-turned-politician apologises for his "derogatory" tweets against him. On Thursday, after the Congress leaders met the chief minister, the media adviser tweeted, "Punjab CM @capt_amarinder has invited all @INCPunjab MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10 am on Friday. They will all then go to Punjab Congress Bhawan together from there for the installation of the new PPCC team." Nagra told reporters that the CM will come to the event. "An invitation from the pardhan sahib (PPCC president), ministers and MLAs has been given to the CM. He has accepted the invitation and will reach there to give his blessings," said Nagra. Incharge of Punjab affairs at the AICC, Harish Rawat, is also expected to attend the event. Congress president Sonia Gandhi had on Sunday appointed Sidhu as the new president of the party's Punjab unit, notwithstanding the strong opposition from Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. Gandhi also appointed four working presidents, Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra, to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the state Assembly elections next year. On Wednesday, several legislators backing Sidhu had said that there was no need for him to tender an apology to Amarinder Singh. Tensions between the CM and Sidhu flared up in April this year after the Punjab and Haryana High court quashed a probe report into 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident. Sidhu had attacked the CM through his tweets over the issue of alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police firing incidents. The Amritsar legislator had resigned as minister in 2019 after he was divested of his Local Bodies portfolio. Sidhu had joined the Congress after leaving the BJP before the 2017 Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
22-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Dalai Lama's advisors, NSCN leaders listed as potential targets||Top ring of advisers around the Dalai Lama and several leaders of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN) are among those listed as potential targets of Israeli spyware Pegasus, an international media consortium reported on Thursday. In the continuing series of reports on revelations from the international collaborative journalistic investigation called the Pegasus Project, the Wire has reported that phone numbers of multiple people close to Dubai Princess Sheikha Latifa, who was captured by Indian soldiers in 2018, were added to a list of potential targets for surveillance. According to a report in The Guardian, the phone numbers of the top ring of advisers around the Dalai Lama are believed to have been selected as those of people of interest by government clients of NSO Group. "Analysis strongly indicates that the Indian government was selecting the potential targets. Other phone numbers apparently selected by Delhi were those of the president of the government-in-exile, Lobsang Sangay, staff in the office of another Buddhist spiritual leader, the Gyalwang Karmapa, and several other activists and clerics who are part of the exiled community in India," it claimed. "Senior advisers to the Dalai Lama whose numbers appear in the data include Tempa Tsering, the spiritual leader's long-time envoy to Delhi, and the senior aides Tenzin Taklha and Chhimey Rigzen, as well as Samdhong Rinpoche, the head of the trust that has been tasked with overseeing the selection of the Buddhist leader's successor," the report added. The Pegasus spyware was created by Israeli technology firm NSO. The government has dismissed the reports on the use of Pegasus software to snoop on Indians, saying the allegations levelled just ahead of the Monsoon session of Parliament are aimed at "maligning Indian democracy". In a separate report by the Wire, the phone numbers of several top leaders of the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak Muivah), NSCN (I-M) were added to a list of numbers of persons of interest believed to be generated by an Indian client of the Israeli spyware company. "In the aftermath of the August 2015 framework agreement, which is intended to resolve the six-decade-old Naga political issue, the NSCN (I-M) has been in talks with the Modi government to flesh out the details of a final settlement. Among the top leaders of the NSCN (I-M) whose phone numbers have been found in the leaked database are that of Atem Vashum, Apam Muivah, Anthony Shimray and Phunthing Shimrang. "The leaked records also shows that N. Kitovi Zhimomi, convenor of the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs), with which the Modi government is also in parleys to find one solution' to the Naga issue since end 2017, was selected as a possible candidate for surveillance towards the end of 2017," the Wire report said. In another report, the Wire said, after princess Sheikha Latifa fled Dubai where her father, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, is the ruler her closest relatives and friends had their telephone numbers added to a list of potential targets of a military-grade spyware. "Latifa's own number was added just before she fled but she had ditched her phone in Dubai before slipping across to Oman. While the UAE authorities had multiple methods of surveillance at their disposal, the analysis of a leaked database highlights how her escape seems to have coincided with the inclusion of several numbers related to Latifa appearing on a list of potential Pegasus targets," the report said. The reports have been published by The Wire in collaboration with 16 other international publications including the Washington Post, The Guardian and Le Monde, as media partners to an investigation conducted by Paris-based media non-profit organisation Forbidden Stories and rights group Amnesty International. The investigation focuses on a leaked list of more than 50,000 phone numbers from across the world that are believed to have been the target of surveillance through Pegasus software of Israeli surveillance company NSO Group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
22-07-2021||India||Meenakshi Lekhi slams protesting farmers, calls them ruffians||Union minister and BJP leader Meenakshi Lekhi on Thursday denounced farmers protesting here against the three contentious farm laws as "mawali" (ruffian) after she was asked about incidents of alleged violence during their protests. After a reporter referred to "farmers" attacking a camera person when he was covering their protests at Jantar Mantar, she said, "You should stop calling them farmers because they are not farmers. They are playing in the hands of some conspirators. Farmers don't have time to sit in Jantar Mantar. They are working in their farms. Middlemen are behind them (protestors) who do not want farmers to get benefits." She also cited the violent incidents in the national capital during farmers' protest on January 26, and said these protestors should not be called farmers. Replying to another question about the attack on the camera person, who work with a leading Hindi news channel, and also the January 26 incidents, she said, "You are calling them farmers again. They are mawali." She said such attacks are criminal incidents whose cognisance should be taken. The cameraperson was injured after he was allegedly attacked by a freelance journalist on Thursday at Jantar Mantar where the farmers are protesting against the new agri laws, police said. The cameraperson has been identified as Nagendra Gosain, police said. A senior police officer said Gosain was attacked by Prabhjot Singh, a freelance journalist. Gosain said Singh was abusing mediapersons in the morning and was also recording it. Singh also used foul language against a woman journalist, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
22-07-2021||India||Centre tables Bill at Lok Sabha to ban people working in essential services from holding strikes||The government on Thursday introduced a bill in Lok Sabha which seeks to prohibit any agitation and strike by anyone engaged in the essential defence services. The Essential Defence Services Bill, 2021, introduced by Minister of State for Defence Ajay Bhatt amid din created by the Opposition over three new agri laws and the alleged Pegasus snooping controversy, seeks to replace an ordinance issued in June. According to the Statements of Objects and Reasons of the Bill, Indian Ordnance Factories is the oldest and largest industrial set up which functions under the Department of Defence Production of the Ministry of Defence. The ordnance factories form an integrated base for indigenous production of defence hardware and equipment, with the primary objective of self-reliance in equipping the armed forces with the state-of-the-art battlefield equipment. In order to improve autonomy, accountability and efficiency in ordnance supplies, the Government decided to convert the Ordnance Factory Board into one or more one hundred per cent government-owned corporate entity or entities to be registered under the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. Against the decision, the recognised federations of the employees gave a notice for an indefinite strike. The conciliation proceedings initiated by the government at the level of Chief Labour Commissioner failed in the meeting held on June 15. On June, 16, the government decided to convert the Ordnance Factory Board into seven Defence Public Sector Undertakings. "In spite of the government's assurance to take care of the conditions of service of the employees of the Ordnance Factory Board, the recognised federations of the employees have reiterated their intention to go on an indefinite strike from July 26. "Since, it is essential that an uninterrupted supply of ordnance items to the armed forces be maintained for the defence preparedness of the country and the ordnance factories continue to function without any disruptions, especially in view of the prevailing situation on the northern front of the country, it was felt necessary that the government should have power to meet the emergency created by such attempts and ensure the maintenance of essential defence services in all establishments connected with defence, in public interest or interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India or security of any State or decency or morality," it read. The Statement of Objects said the ordinance issued on June 30 defines the expressions "essential defence services" and "strike". It also empowers the central government to prohibit strike in essential defence services and provides for disciplinary action, including dismissal, against employees participating in strike.It also provides for penalties for "illegal strikes, instigation thereof and providing for financial aid to such illegal strikes."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
22-07-2021||India||Refusing to give up on their demands, farmers hold first Kisan Sansad session ||After eight months of harsh winters, unforgiving heat, and rains, farmers protesting against the three contentious agri laws on Thursday reached Jantar Mantar, a few metres away from Parliament where the Monsoon Session is underway, unrelenting in their demand that the legislations be scrapped. "We have come this far after losing many of our own. We are ready for a long haul. We have come prepared, said Harpal Singh from Bharatiya Kisan Union (Chaduni)," as he wrapped his saffron safa around his head. The 200 farmers, wearing identification badges and carrying flags of their unions, travelled to Jantar Mantar from their Singhu border protest site in four buses with a police escort. The protest was to start at 11 am, but the farmers reached the venue only by 12.10 pm. Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said police stopped them at three places en route and their Aadhaar cards were checked. Even a bus from Pakistan won't be subject to such strict checking The government wants to harass the farmers, Harpal Singh said. "Two of our buses broke down en route, so police escorted us in DTC buses," he added. Upon reaching Jantar Mantar, the farmers raised slogans, pumping their fists in the air, and demanded that the government scrap the three laws. However, they were restricted to a small section of Jantar Mantar with police putting up barricades on both sides. Farmers' representatives from several states, including Maharashtra, Odisha, Kerala, West Bengal, Telangana, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana, and Uttar Pradesh, joined the stir. They organised a Farmers' Parliament and debated the changes in the APMC Act in two sessions, punctuated by a 'langar' (community kitchen), on the first day. The debate also featured women and the elderly. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint forum of the farmers' unions protesting against the three laws, said 20 MPs from Kerala visited the farmers' parliament and expressed solidarity with them. As no politician was allowed to share the stage, the MPs joined in as audience. Farmer leaders say 200 farmers will come to the protest site everyday till August 13 to discuss the three laws clause by clause. Police threw a ring of security around central Delhi and kept a tight vigil on the movement of vehicles. Several teams of the Delhi Police manned the roads leading to the protest venue, while personnel of the Rapid Action Force, a specialised unit of the Central Reserve Police Force, stood guard at the site, carrying riot shields and batons. A water cannon and metal-detector gates have been deployed at the site. Two tankers carrying drinking water have also been stationed there. The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee organised a langar for the farmers and media persons and kept an ambulance on standby. The SKM was asked to give an undertaking that all COVID-19 norms would be followed, but hardly anyone wore a mask or maintained physical distance. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has given special permission for demonstration by a maximum of 200 farmers at Jantar Mantar, a few metres from the Parliament Complex, till August 9. This is the first time since the violence in the national capital during a tractor rally on January 26 that the authorities have granted permission to the protesting farmer unions to hold a demonstration in the city. Gathering for protests is currently not allowed in the national capital in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, according to an order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority. Thousands of farmers from across the country have been agitating at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws at major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
22-07-2021||India||UP: Family kills teen daughter over insistence to wear jeans||A teenaged girl died after she was allegedly thrashed by her family members over her insistence to wear jeans at a village here, police said on Thursday. Family members have also been accused of trying to dispose of the body by throwing it from over the Patanwa bridge on the Deoria-Kasya in Deoria but it got stuck in its railing and was spotted by police later. The 17-year-old Neha Paswan from Savreji Kharg village was severely thrashed by her family members after she insisted on wearing jeans and a top on Monday. According to the complaint given by her mother, the girl received serious head injuries when she was beaten up, leading to her death, Circle Officer (City) Yash Tripathi said. The post-mortem examination has also confirmed severe injury and fracture in the head, the CO said. Earlier Vivek, the younger brother of the girl, had told reporters that their uncles and grandfather were angry with her over washing of clothes and thrashed her. "While thrashing her, they were continuously abusing her for her dressing sense," Vivek said, adding that they used to always object to her wearing jeans and on that day too had asked her several times to stop wearing it. The girl's mother has given a complaint against 10 people, including grandparents. The case has been registered case under Sections 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence), 302 (punishment for murder) and other provisions of the IPC, Mahuadih SHO Ram Mohan Singh said. The grandparents have been taken into custody and are being interrogated. Police, however, said the story of family members being angry over her insistence on wearing jeans is not very convincing. The reason for the incident appears to be something else, which the family members are trying to hide and investigations are on, police said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
22-07-2021||India||645 children lost parents to second wave between April to May 28, says Centre||A total of 645 children lost their parents to Covid-19 from April to May 28 this year during the second wave, the Women and Child Development Ministry said on Thursday. In response to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Women and Child Development Minister Smriti Irani gave data on the children orphaned during the second wave of Covid-19. According to the data, a total of 645 children lost their parents to Covid from April 2021 to May 28. The highest number of such children was reported from Uttar Pradesh at 158 followed by Andhra Pradesh at 119, Maharashtra at 83 and Madhya Pradesh at 73. The states and UTs have been jointly requested by the Ministry of Women and Child Development and the Department of School Education & Literacy (DoSEL), Ministry of Education to ensure continuity of education of the children who have lost their parents in the Covid-19 pandemic, while accommodating them under the various schemes being run by Department of School Education and Literacy, Irani said in a written reply. She further said that the prime minister has announced a scheme to support the children who have lost both parents or surviving parent or legal guardian or adoptive parents due to the pandemic. "The scheme provides support for education and health and will create a corpus of Rs 10 lakh for each child when he or she reaches 18 years of age. This corpus will be used to give a monthly financial support/ stipend form 18 years of age, for the next five years to take care of his or her personal requirements during the period of higher education and on reaching the age of 23 years, he or she will get the corpus amount as one lump-sum for personal and professional use," Irani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
22-07-2021||India||Calcutta HC asks Bengal govt to file affidavit on NHRC report||The Calcutta High Court on Thursday directed the Bengal government to file an affidavit stating its position on the NHRC report on post-poll violence in the state. A five-judge bench hearing a clutch of PILs alleging that people were subjected to assault, made to flee homes and property were destroyed as a result of post-poll violence in Bengal, asked the state government to file its affidavit by July 26. The matter will be taken up for hearing again on July 28. In an indictment of the Mamata Banerjee government, the NHRC inquiry committee report had said the situation in the state is a manifestation of "Law of Ruler" instead of "Rule of Law". The seven-member committee, which submitted its report before the high court on July 13, recommended that investigation in grievous offences like murder and rape be handed over to the CBI, and these cases should be tried outside the state. Appearing for one of the respondents, senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi claimed there were irregularities in the NHRC report and that it contained allegations of crime that preceded the date of declaration of Bengal Assembly election results on May 2. He also alleged that the report smacked of political consideration. Representing one of the petitioners, senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani submitted that the NHRC report reflected the true law and order situation in Bengal. He urged the bench, presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, to hand over the investigation into heinous crimes like murder and rape to an independent investigating agency for an impartial probe. The National Human Rights Commission, in its report, had also talked about "retributive violence" by supporters of the ruling party against those of the main opposition party. Criticising the NHRC observations, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee had accused the BJP-led government at the Centre of "using impartial agencies to settle political scores" and "malign" the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
22-07-2021||India||Prison authorities allow Sushil Kumar to watch TV ahead of Tokyo Olympics||Delhi Prison authorities on Thursday allowed two-time Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar, lodged in Tihar jail in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl, to watch television in the common area of his ward ahead of the Olympic games, which is set to begin on July 23, officials said. On July 2, Kumar through his advocate had urged prison authorities to provide him a television to remain updated about wrestling matches and other happenings outside the jail. The COVID-hit Olympic games will begin at Tokyo in Japan on July 23. Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said, "We have allowed Sushil Kumar to watch television in the common area of his ward along with others since the Olympics is set to begin from tomorrow. "He has made a request through his lawyer for a TV to stay updated about wrestling matches and other happenings." Kumar was arrested along with co-accused Ajay Kumar on May 23 from outer Delhi's Mundka area. He and his associates allegedly assaulted wrestler Sagar Dhankar and two of his friends Sonu and Amit Kumar on the intervening night of May 4 and 5 over a property dispute. Dhankar, 23, succumbed to injuries later. Kumar, who is facing charges of murder, culpable homicide and kidnapping, was shifted to Tihar jail number 2 from Mandoli jail where he was lodged earlier. Police said 12 accused, including Kumar, have so far been arrested in connection with the Chhatrasal Stadium brawl case. The police have claimed that Kumar is the "main culprit and mastermind" of the murder and said there is electronic evidence in which he and his associates could be seen beating Dhankar. Last month, a Delhi court had dismissed an application filed by Kumar, seeking special food and supplements in the prison, saying that they are not the "essential need or necessity". Kumar had moved the Rohini court seeking special food, supplements and exercise bands in the prison, asserting that these are extremely necessary for him to maintain his health and performance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
22-07-2021||India||Categorically stand by findings of Pegasus Project, says Amnesty International||Amnesty International on Thursday said it "categorically stands" by the findings of the Pegasus Project and asserted that the data is irrefutably linked to potential targets of NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. The comments by Amnesty International came after some media reports quoting a few Israreli journalists said that the human rights group has claimed that it never said that the recently leaked phone numbers was specifically a list of numbers targeted by Pegasus spyware. Amnesty claimed that the "false rumours" being pushed on social media are intended to distract from the widespread unlawful targeting of journalists, activists and others that the Pegasus Project has revealed. "Amnesty International categorically stands by the findings of the Pegasus Project, and that the data is irrefutably linked to potential targets of NSO Group's Pegasus spyware. The false rumours being pushed on social media are intended to distract from the widespread unlawful targeting of journalists, activists and others that the Pegasus Project has revealed," Amnesty International said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-406
22-07-2021||India||Farmers: We suspect the government is snooping on us||Farmer leaders protesting against the Centre's contentious farm laws on Thursday said they suspect that they were being snooped on by the government using Israeli software Pegasus. "It is an unethical government. We suspect that our numbers are also on list of those being snooped on," farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said. "The government is behind the snooping. That's clear and the issue is gaining traction. We know that they are keeping an eye on us too," he alleged. Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav said the phone numbers of farmer leaders will figure in the data of the year 2020-21. "When this data will be made public, our numbers will be there, of course," he told PTI. The protesting farmers have come to Jantar Mantar to prove to the government that they are not fools, Yadav said, adding that the UK parliament debated their issues but not the Indian Parliament. Addressing a press conference, Yadav pressed for a debate on the issues raised by the farmers protesting against the central legislations. Another farmer union leader, Hannan Mollah, said they had written to all MPs to raise their demands, but alleged that Parliament was not taking up their issues. A group of 200 farmers reached Jantar Mantar in central Delhi on Thursday to protest against the Centre's three contentious farm laws as the Monsoon session of Parliament was underway. Police threw a ring of security around central Delhi and kept a tight vigil on the movement of vehicles. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has given special permission for demonstration by a maximum of 200 farmers at Jantar Mantar, a few metres from the Parliament Complex, till August 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
22-07-2021||India||HC refuses to quash CBI FIR on corruption charges against Anil Deshmukh||The Bombay High Court on Thursday refused to quash the First Information Report (FIR) lodged by the CBI against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh on charges of corruption and misconduct. A bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar said Deshmukh's plea seeking quashing of the FIR "deserved to be dismissed". The FIR was registered against Deshmukh and some unidentified persons on April 24 this year on charges of corruption and misconduct following a preliminary inquiry that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) conducted in compliance with the high court's order. The HC also refused Deshmukh's request to stay its judgement to give him time to file an appeal against the same. The inquiry was initiated into the complaint lodged by lawyer Jaishri Patil, in the aftermath of allegations of corruption levelled against Deshmukh by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Deshmukh through senior advocate Amit Desai had sought that the FIR against him be quashed. The NCP leader had said the ongoing CBI inquiry against him was illegal, since the central agency had not taken prior sanction from the Maharashtra government to prosecute him. Additional Solicitor Generals Aman Lekhi and Anil Singh, who appeared for the CBI, had told the HC that no sanction was required, as by indulging in corruption and misconduct, Deshmukh hadn't been discharging his official duties. The CBI's FIR said Deshmukh had knowledge of the reinstatement of former assistant police inspector Sachin Waze, an accused in a case of bomb scare near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, and the NCP leader used to exercise undue interference in transfers and postings of Maharashtra police officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
22-07-2021||India||Delta variant still dominant in new cases of Covid-19 in India, says govt panel||The Delta variant of SARS-CoV2 continues to be the dominant lineage for new cases across the country, while the other Variants of Concern (VoC) are at a lower rate and declining, INSACOG, a consortium of government panels involved in the genome-sequencing of the coronavirus, has said. There is currently no evidence of any new Delta sub-lineage that is of greater concern than Delta, it has said. "Delta continues to be the dominant lineage for new cases across all parts of India in recent samples and remains the most rapidly rising lineage globally that is responsible for multiple outbreaks, including across Southeast Asia, which shows the fastest growth in new cases globally," the INSACOG said. Regions with high vaccination and strong public health measures, such as Singapore, continue to do well, it noted. The Delta variant was behind the deadly second wave of the coronavirus in India that killed thousands and infected lakhs during March to May. The INSACOG said a study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has confirmed that most of the clinical cases in vaccine breakthrough were infected with the Delta variant but only 9.8 per cent cases required hospitalisation, while fatality was found to be restricted to 0.4 per cent. It added that the data for higher infectivity of Delta continues to grow with the secondary attack rate in household contacts being almost double for Delta, when compared to Alpha (Public Health England, July 9 update). The other VoC continue to be very low in India and are declining relative to Delta globally. "Public health measures to reduce transmission and vaccination remain critical," the INSACOG stressed. No cases of the Lambda variant have so far been reported in the country, it added. In data from the UK, Lambda is still seen primarily in travellers or their contacts and is not growing relative to Delta. A growing spectrum of mutations is seen in the Delta background in the UK, the US and India. The most frequent spike protein mutations, other than K417N (AY.1/AY.2), seen in the UK are G446V and P251L. In India, A222V and K77T have been reported as possible markers of sub-lineages. Previous research into the A222V mutation for either transmissibility or immune escape was negative. In case of the K77T mutation, it has previously been reported in a cluster of Delta that spread to Asiatic lions in a zoo, and seen in sequences from Tamil Nadu, but has no known impact on transmission or immune escape in humans, the INSACOG said. The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG), jointly initiated by the Union Ministry of Health and the Department of Biotechnology (DBT) with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and the ICMR, is a consortium of 28 national laboratories to monitor the genomic variations in SARS-CoV-2.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
22-07-2021||India||Pegasus snooping row: Congress workers stage stir||Haryana Congress leaders, including MLAs, staged a protest here on Thursday in connection with the Pegasus snooping row, but were stopped by police when they tried to march towards the Raj Bhavan on foot. Led by AICC in-charge of Haryana affairs Vivek Bansal and state Congress chief Kumari Selja, the leaders and workers gathered at the party office here. They staged a protest outside the party office, but as they tried to march towards the Raj Bhavan on foot, police detained them. Congress leaders told reporters that the police cited the prohibitory orders in place due to COVID-19 and said they could not allow them to take out the march. "We were holding a peaceful protest, but the police did not allow us to proceed further," Selja said. The opposition party leaders said they wanted to hand over a memorandum to the governor in connection with the snooping row. Selja said the Centre must answer how the alleged use of Israeli spyware Pegasus to snoop on at least 300 phone numbers in the country, including those of opposition leaders, activists and journalists, happened right under its nose. She also claimed that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, whose name is on the list of the possible victims of the snooping row, has become a "target" for the government as he has constantly been raising various issues of public importance. "How can it be that such things are happening right under the nose of this government? How did this spyware come here, who gave permission? The government must answer these questions," the state Congress chief said. Meanwhile, asked why Leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda did not join the protest, Bansal told reporters that the former chief minister had communicated that he would not be able to come as doctors had advised him a few days of rest on health grounds. An international media consortium reported on Sunday that more than 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two serving Union ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders and a sitting judge, besides scores of businessmen and activists in India could have been targeted for hacking through the Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
22-07-2021||India||TMC MP tears Ashwini Vaishnaw's statement on Pegasus as Rajya Sabha gets adjourned||Opposition TMC MPs on Thursday tore papers and flung them into the air, throwing the Rajya Sabha into bedlam as IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw read a statement on the alleged snooping using an Israeli company spyware Pegasus. TMC and other Opposition party members rushed into the Well of the House as Vaishnaw was called to make a statement over the issue. They shouted slogans and while TMC MP Shantanu Sen TMC tore papers that appeared to be copies of the statement that the minister was to make. As papers were flung into the air, the minister could not complete his statement and instead laid a copy of it on the table of the House. Deputy Chairman Harivansh asked members to desist from unparliamentary behaviour, before adjourning the proceedings of the House for the rest of the day. Opposition MPs had stalled the proceedings in the earlier part of the day as well, forcing two adjournments with not even officially listed papers being allowed to be laid. As soon as the House assembled for the day, Congress leader Digvijaya Singh tried to raise the issue of raids against the media group in multiple cities. They shouted slogans over alleged snooping and other issues. Government sources said Leader of the House in Rajya Sabha Piyush Goyal and his deputy Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi reached out to the Opposition members and assured them that the minister will reply to their queries after he makes his statement, but in vain. With Vaishnaw not able to read out the complete statement, it was laid on the table and the House was adjourned. However, the situation remained tense in the House as the two sides engaged in heated exchanges. Sen alleged that Union minister Hardeep Puri verbally abused him in the Upper House of Parliament and was on the verge of physically assaulting him before he was rescued by his colleagues. Puri has so far not commented on the issue. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has described the opposition conduct as a "new low" in Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
22-07-2021||India||Tax raids on Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar attempt to scare media, says Kejriwal||Calling the tax raids on Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar an attempt to scare the media, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday demanded that such actions be stopped immediately and the media be allowed to work freely.  The Income Tax Department on Thursday conducted raids against the Dainik Bhaskar group and the Uttar Pradesh-based Hindi news channel Bharat Samachar in multiple cities over alleged tax evasion, official sources said.  Reacting to the raids, Kejriwal tweeted, "Income tax raids on Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar are an attempt to scare the media. The message is clear -- those who speak against the BJP government will not be spared. Such thinking is very dangerous. Everyone should raise their voice against it. These raids should be stopped immediately and the media should be allowed to work freely." The searches against Dainik Bhaskar are being conducted in Bhopal, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Noida and some other locations in the country. The premises of the Uttar Pradesh-based news channel Bharat Samachar and its promoters and staffers were raided in Lucknow, sources said. There was no official word from the Income Tax Department or its policy-making body, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), on the raids.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
22-07-2021||India||Centre calls media reports on Covid deaths being undercounted 'totally fallacious'||Refuting media reports that alleged India's Covid-19 death toll was "vastly undercounted", the government on Thursday said the reports assume that all excess mortality figures are Covid deaths, which is not based on facts and totally fallacious. "Given the robust and statute-based death registration system in India, while some cases could go undetected as per the principles of infectious disease and its management, missing out on the deaths is unlikely," the Union Health Ministry said. There have been some recent media reports alleging that India's toll of excess deaths during the pandemic could be in millions, terming the official Covid-19 death toll "vastly undercounted", the ministry said in a statement. In these news reports, quoting findings from some recent studies, the US and European countries' age-specific infection fatality rates have been used to calculate excess deaths in India based on the sero-positivity. "The extrapolation of deaths has been done on an audacious assumption that the likelihood of any given infected person dying is the same across countries, dismissing the interplay between various direct and indirect factors such as race, ethnicity, genomic constitution of a population, previous exposure levels to other diseases and the associated immunity developed in that population," the statement said. Furthermore, the sero-prevalence studies are not only used to guide strategy and measures to further prevent the spread of infection to the vulnerable population but are also used as another basis to extrapolate deaths. The studies also have another potential concern that the antibody titers may diminish over time, leading to underestimation of true prevalence and corresponding overestimation of infection fatality rate. "Further, the reports assume that all the excess mortality figures are Covid-19 deaths, which is not based on facts and totally fallacious. Excess mortality is a term used to describe an all-cause mortality figure and attributing these deaths to Covid-19 is completely misleading," the statement said. India has a thorough contact-tracing strategy. All the primary contacts, whether symptomatic or asymptomatic, are tested for Covid-19. The true detected cases are the ones that test positive with RT-PCR, which is the gold standard of Covid-19 test. In addition to the contacts, given the vast availability of more than 2,700 testing laboratories in the country, anyone who wants to get tested is able to get the test done. This, coupled with awareness campaigns about the symptoms and access to medical care, has ensured people could reach out to hospitals in case of need. Given the robust and statute-based death registration system in India, missing out on the deaths is unlikely. This could also be seen in the case fatality rate, which, as on 31st December 2020, stood at 1.45 per cent and even after an unexpected surge observed in the second wave in April-May 2021, the case fatality rate today stands at 1.34 per cent, it said. Moreover, the reporting of daily new cases and deaths in India follows a bottom-up approach, where districts report the number of cases and deaths to the state governments and to the Union Ministry on a continuous basis, the statement said. As early as May 2020, to avoid inconsistency or confusion in the number of deaths being reported, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) issued 'Guidance for appropriate recording of Covid-19 related deaths in India' for correct recording of all deaths by States/UTs as recommended by the WHO for mortality coding. In his statement in Rajya Sabha, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya has refuted allegations of hiding Covid-19 deaths and said that the central government only compiles and publishes data sent by the state governments, the statement said. The Union Health Ministry has been repeatedly advising states and UTs for recording of deaths in accordance with guidelines. The Health Ministry has also regularly emphasised the need for a robust reporting mechanism for monitoring district-wise cases and deaths on a daily basis. States have been advised to conduct thorough audits in their hospitals and report any cases or deaths that could have been missed with a district and date-wise details so as to guide a data-driven decision-making. During the peak of the second wave, the entire health system was focused on effective clinical management of cases requiring medical help, and correct reporting & recording could have been compromised which is also evident in a few states such as Maharashtra, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh reconciling their number of deaths recently. In addition to this reporting, the robustness of the statute-based Civil Registration System (CRS) ensures all the births and deaths in the country get registered. The CRS follows the process of data collection, cleaning, collating and publishing the numbers, which although is a time-consuming process, but ensures no deaths are missed out. For the expanse and amplitude of the activity, the numbers are usually published a year later, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
22-07-2021||India||India's legal system cannot make a distinction between rich and poor, observes SC||India cannot have two parallel legal systems, one for the rich and resourceful and those who wield political power and the other for small men without resources and capabilities to access justice, the Supreme Court said on Thursday. The apex court also said the "colonial mindset meted out to the district judiciary" must change to preserve the faith of citizens and stated that judges are "made targets when they stand up for what is right". The top court made these crucial observations while cancelling the bail granted to Madhya Pradesh BSP MLA's husband, who was arrested in over two-year-old murder case of Congress leader Devendra Chourasia. "An independent and impartial judiciary is the cornerstone of democracy and it should be immune from political pressures and considerations," the top court said. "India cannot have two parallel legal systems, one for the rich and resourceful and those who wield political power and the other for small men without resources without capabilities to gain justice. "The existence of dual system will only chip away the legitimacy of the law. The duty also falls on the state machinery to be committed to the rule of law," the top court said. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah said district judiciary is the first point of interface with the citizens. "If the faith of citizens in the judiciary is to be preserved, it is the district judiciary on which attention must be focused," the bench said. The top court said trial court judges work amidst appalling conditions, lack of infrastructure, inadequate protection and there are examples of judges being made targets when they stand up for what is right. "Also there is sadly a subservience to the administration of the high courts for transfers and postings which renders them vulnerable," the bench said. "The colonial mindset meted out to the district judiciary must change, it is only then that civil liberties for every citizen, be it accused victim or civil society will be meaningfully preserved in our trial courts which are first line of defence for those who are being wronged," the bench said. The apex court said function of the judiciary as an independent institution is rooted in concept of separation of powers. "Individual judges must be able to adjudicate disputes in accordance with law unhindered by any other factors and for that reason independence of judiciary and of each judge is a must," the bench said. "Independence of individual judges also encompasses that they are independent of their superiors and colleagues," it said adding that our constitution specially envisages Independence of district judiciary which is mentioned in Article 50. If District judiciary operates under the supervision of the high court then is it must secure its independence from from external influence and control. "This compartmentalisation of judiciary and executive should not be breached by personal decision making of the judges and the conduct of court proceedings under the relevant acts," the bench said. The top court said there is no gainsaying that judiciary should be immune to political pressures and considerations. A judiciary susceptible to such pressures allows politicians to operate with impunity and criminality to flourish in the political apparatus of the state. The apex court said the the judges being undeterred in their commitment to follow law and do justice should be cautious of launching a diatribe against state authorities without due care and diligence. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
22-07-2021||India||Mumbai Police register FIR against IPS officer Param Bir Singh for extortion||Mumbai police have registered an FIR against senior IPS officer Param Bir Singh, five other police personnel and two more persons for allegedly demanding Rs 15 crore from a builder to withdraw cases against him, an official said on Thursday. Based on the builder's complaint, the case was registered at the Marine Drive police station in south Mumbai, he said. The five other cops accused in the case are - DCP (crime branch) Akbar Pathan, inspector Shrikant Shinde, Asha Korke, Nandkumar Gopale and Sanjay Patil, the official said. Two of the builder's partners, Sunil Jain and Sanjay Punamia, have been arrested in the case, he said. According to the complaint, Jain and Punamia had conspired with police officials and demanded Rs 15 crore from the builder to withdraw some cases against him, he said. The builder had named former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh along with others in his complaint, the official said. The case has been registered under Indian Penal Code Sections 387, 388, 389 (all pertaining to extortion), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 403 (dishonest misappropriation of property), 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 423 (dishonest or fraudulent execution of deed of transfer containing false statement of consideration), 464 (making false document in name of fictitious person), and 465, 467 468, 471 (all for forgery), and other sections. Singh was shunted out as Mumbai police commissioner and transferred as the DG-Home Guard in March this year after the arrest of dismissed police officer Sachin Waze in the case of an explosives-laden vehicle found near the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani in Mumbai. Singh is also facing a case under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act registered April this year on a complaint lodged by Akola police inspector BR Ghadge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-407
22-07-2021||India||NDRF deploys nine rescue teams in Maharashtra, four of them headed for Mumbai||The National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) has deployed nine rescue teams in Maharashtra, including four in Mumbai, after heavy rains caused flooding in some coastal areas of the state on Thursday. Mumbai, its neighbouring Thane and Palghar and other districts in the Konkan region have been witnessing heavy downpour since the last few days, leading to inundation at several places and disruption of rail and road transport services. Water level of many rivers has risen and crossed the danger mark at some places. The Indian Meteorological Department has meanwhile issued a red alert for Mumbai and an orange alert for Maharashtra's East Vidarbha region, which includes districts such as Bhandara, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli and Yavatmal, indicating the likelihood of heavy to very heavy showers. An official statement issued by the NDRF said four of its teams have been deployed in Mumbai, and one each in Thane and Palghar districts. One team will reach Chiplun town in Ratnagiri district by late afternoon. Besides, two teams have been sent to Kolhapur district. One of it will undertake rescue or preventive evacuation in the flood-prone Shirol tehsil, while the other one will conduct rescue work in Kolhapur city, the NDRF said. Some villages in the Sahapur taluka of Thane were marooned, a local official earlier said, adding that authorities with the help of the NDRF rescued hundreds of people from those places. Incidents of water-logging leaving people stranded were also reported from Mumbra, Bhiwandi, Titwala and Kasara areas of Thane district. Various places in Vasai, Virar and other locations in Palghar also witnessed flooding, but no loss of life was reported so far, officials said. The Modak Sagar dam at Sahapur in Thane started overflowing in the early hours of Thursday and two of its gates were opened to release the water, the district administration said. Train services of the Central Railway in the Kasara Ghat section of Thane and near Lonavala hill town in Pune district adjoining Mumbai were severely affected after heavy rains caused flooding, washing out of tracks, boulder crashes and mudslides in that region, officials said. Besides, train services on the Konkan Railway route in Ratnagiri were also suspended in the morning after a river overflowed following heavy rains in the area, they said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
22-07-2021||India||Delhi HC seeks Centre's reply on plea challenging IT Rules||The Delhi High Court Thursday sought the Centre's reply on a plea challenging the new IT Rules for allegedly being in gross disregard of the fundamental rights of free speech and privacy of users of social media intermediaries such as WhatsApp, Instagram and Twitter. A bench of Justice Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notice to the Centre on advocate Uday Bedi's plea contending that the new IT rules are unconstitutional and antithetical to the fundamental principles of democracy. Granting time to the Centre to file its counter affidavit, the court listed the plea for further hearing on September 13. In his petition, Bedi has argued that the social media intermediaries cannot be given the power to decide, on the basis of a complaint or otherwise, as to which information is liable to be taken down. The petition states that the new Information Technology Rules themselves do not define how the social media intermediaries would voluntarily take action against a complaint without peeping into all conversations over the SMI platform and that it is not possible to trace the first originator of a message without decrypting all the private information that is stored, published, hosted or transmitted through the platform. While giving powers in excess of the powers given under the parent legislation, the IT Act, to voluntarily remove access to information that does not conform to Rule 3(1)(b), the Impugned Rules have allowed the social media platforms to place the users under constant surveillance which is a gross breach of the right to privacy, the petition reads. The rules also mandate that even if the person is not under any investigation for violation of the rules, the intermediary has to retain his or her data without any justification, which is a gross violation of the right to privacy of the user, the petition further said. Emphasising that no appellate procedure has been provided for under the rules against the decision of a Grievance Officer and/or the Chief Compliance Officer, Bedi, in his plea, has added that wide powers to restrict free speech of citizens have been placed in the hands of private individuals, which is shockingly disproportionate and completely unjustified. There is also no mandate that the author of the allegedly objectionable information has to be heard before deciding any complaint against him/her, it is stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
22-07-2021||India||Farmers to hold Kisan Parliament near Jantar Mantar from today||A group of 200 farmers reached Jantar Mantar in central Delhi on Thursday to protest against the Centre's three contentious farm laws as the Monsoon session of Parliament was underway. Police threw a ring of security around central Delhi and kept a tight vigil on the movement of vehicles. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has given special permission for demonstration by a maximum of 200 farmers at Jantar Mantar, a few metres from the Parliament Complex, till August 9. The 200 farmers, wearing identification badges and carrying flags of their unions, travelled to Jantar Mantar from their Singhu border protest site in buses with a police escort. The protest was to start at 11 am, but the farmers reached the venue only by 12:25 pm. Farmer leader Shiv Kumar Kakka said police stopped them at three places en route and their Aadhaar cards were checked. Upon reaching Jantar Mantar, farmers raised slogans, demanding the government scrap the three laws. The protesting farmers have been restricted to a small section of Jantar Mantar with police putting up barricades on both sides. Several teams of the Delhi Police manned the roads leading to the protest venue, while personnel of the Rapid Action Force, a specialized unit of the Central Reserve Police Force, stood guard at the site, carrying riot shields and batons. A water cannon and metal detector gates have been deployed at the site. Two tankers carrying drinking water have also been stationed there. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the protest against the three farm laws, has been asked to give an undertaking that all COVID-19 norms would be followed and the stir would be peaceful. Although the SKM had said that their protest at Jantar Mantar would continue till the end of the Monsoon session of Parliament on August 13, the lieutenant governor has given permission for protest till August 9. This is the first time since the violence in the national capital during a tractor rally on January 26 that the authorities have granted permission to the protesting farmer unions to hold a demonstration in the city. Gathering for protests is currently not allowed in the national capital in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to an order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority. What the peasants plan After a meeting with Delhi Police officials on Tuesday, a farm union leader said they will hold peaceful demonstrations at Jantar Mantar demanding scrapping of the agri laws and no protester will go to Parliament. "We will hold 'Kisan Parliament' from July 22 till the monsoon session ends and 200 protesters will go to Jantar Mantar every day. One speaker and one deputy speaker will be chosen every day. "In the first two days, there will be a discussion over the APMC Act. Later, the other bills will also be discussed every two days," a leader had said. Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh national president Shiv Kumar Kakka on Tuesday told PTI that farmers, wearing identification badges, will go to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border to hold the protest. "We informed the police that every day 200 farmers will go to Jantar Mantar from the Singhu border in buses during the monsoon session. It will be a peaceful demonstration and protesters will have identification badges. "When police asked us to reduce the number of protesters, we told them to focus on the law-and-order situation and also gave assurance that the protest will be peaceful," Kakka had said. A tractor parade in Delhi on January 26, that was to highlight the demands of farmer unions to repeal three agriculture laws, had dissolved into anarchy on the streets of the national capital as thousands of protesters broke through barriers, fought with the police, overturned vehicles and hoisted a religious flag from the ramparts of the iconic Red Fort. Congress support to farmers Congress MPs staged a protest inside the Parliament complex in support of protesting farmers and demanded that the three agriculture laws be withdrawn. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and other leaders of the party participated in the protest. Congress MPs from both houses gathered outside Mahatma Gandhi's statue in Parliament complex and raised slogans against the government and the prime minister. Carrying placards and hoardings, they also raised slogans in support of the farmers and their demands. The Congress has been demanding the repeal of the three farm laws, which the farmers are against alleging that these legislations will end the mandi and MSP procurement systems and leave them at the mercy of big corporates. The government has rejected these apprehensions as misplaced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
22-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa breaks silence on his future as Karnataka CM||Amid heightened buzz over his continuation as Chief Minister of Karnataka, B S Yediyurappa on Thursday indicated that his exit was imminent and said he will remain in the post till the BJP's central leadership asks him to step down. The 78-year-old Lingayat strongman said he had offered to resign two months ago with an intention to make way for others and asserted that he won't name a possible successor even if asked to. "Centreal BJP leaders did not talk about his replacement during his recent Delhi visit," he said. "The party high command is likely to give directions on July 25 regarding my future as the Chief Minister and I will continue to perform my duties till the last minute and thereafter will work for strengthening the BJP with an aim to bring it back to power," he added. "I still haven't got any message (regarding his future as CM), I'm waiting if there will be any message on July 25. I will abide by the Centre's decision, I have said this in the past and I'm saying it once again," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters here, he said, "Whether in power or not, I will travel across the state and work towards strengthening the organisation and bringing the party back to power. As long as I'm asked to be the Chief Minister, I will remain in the post, when I'm told they don't want me in the post I will work towards strengthening the organisation." Yediyurappa's government will be completing two years in office on July 26. Noting that he will continue with the work and will inspect the developmental works in Bengaluru on Friday like construction of roads and rajakaluves (storm water drains), the Chief Minister said, "I will perform my duties till the last minute, let's see what happens in the end." Asserting that there is no confusion and the party is united, he said abiding by the instructions of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national President J P Nadda is "our duty". Reiterating his earlier statement that there are alternative leaders in the state to replace him, Yediyurappa said, "I will not make any suggestion (on successor).. who should be made (the next CM) is left to the central leadership. I'm not naming any one, there is no need for it also. Even if I'm asked, I will not suggest any names." Asked whether any one from the Lingayat community should be his successor, the leader who hails from the community said, "I will not put any such pressure. Why are you coming to such decisions so soon? After July 25, based on what the central leadership says, let's see." To a question whether the central leaders spoke to him regarding the replacement, during the recent visit, he said, "absolutely not." The CM on Thursday chaired a cabinet meeting, which is being seen as his "last", in case he steps down after July 26. Earlier in the day, Yediyurappa said he will abide by the BJP central leadership's decision, regarding his continuation as the CM. Based on the instructions that the central leaders will give him on July 25, he said he will begin "his work" from July 26. "We have a special programme on July 26 regarding two years of our government, after attending that programme, I will abide by the instructions from the national president," he said. "PM Narendra Modi, Amit Shah, and Nadda have a special love and faith towards me. You are aware that no position has been given to those who have crossed 75 years of age," he said, but appreciating his work they have given me an opportunity despite his age crossing 78. Yediyurappa's sudden trip to Delhi last week during which he met national leadership, had raised questions in some quarters if the party is now working out a succession plan. On his return from the national capital, Yediyurappa had however, rubbished talks in some quarters that he is on way out, and asserted that the central leadership has asked him to continue in the post. Asking his supporters and well wishers not to give any statements in his favour or indulge in any kind of protest, Yediyurappa said, "It is not appropriate, I appeal for cooperation, without indulging in such things." Hundreds of pontiffs belonging to various communities have blessed me and have extended their support, he said, "I cannot forget this throughout my life. No one has got such support in the past.. with their blessing, I will function according to the decision of the high command." Support has continued to pour in for Yediyurappa from Mutts, pontiffs, political leaders across the party line (especially Congress), amid speculations that his exit was on the cards. Leaders and pontiffs, especially from the Veerashaiva- Lingayat community, and also All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha have declared support to Yediyurappa and have urged for his continuation as the Chief Minister, while also warning "bad consequences" for the BJP if he is replaced. While, BJP National General Secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh, ducked the questions on leadership change in the state, several Ministers of Yediyurappa cabinet either maintained that they were unaware of the developments or said that they will abide by the decision of the high command. Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, who have been dismissing reports of possible leadership change in the past few days, today said they will abide by the decision of the high command and they were not aware of what discussions are happening at the leadership level. Food and Civil Supplies Minister Umesh Katti expressing his aspiration to become CM said, he has all the "qualifications" as he has won assembly election nine times. "I also desire to become CM, age is also on my side as I'm 60 years now... may become someday. If I get an opportunity I will perform by giving good administration." Rural Development Minister K S Eshwarappa, welcoming Yediyurappa's statement to abide by high command's decision and the party, appealed to pontiffs not to cause embarrassment to the CM by issuing statements against BJP while demanding for his continuation. Meanwhile, there seems to be a sense of nervousness among 12 legislators who became ministers after defecting from the Congress and JD(S), as they had come to BJP trusting Yediyurappa's leadership, and without him they fear uncertainty, sources said, adding that they met the Chief Minister today. On the other hand, accusing Yediyurappa of providing a "bad government" to Karnataka, Senior Congress leader and leader of opposition in the assembly, Siddaramaiah said he doesn't expect that the state will get a competent government and a honest CM by removing him, as the BJP itself is a "corrupt party".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
22-07-2021||India||India records over 41,000 fresh Covid cases, 507 casualties in a day||India saw a single day rise of 41,383 coronavirus infections taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,12,57,720, while the active cases registered an increase for the second consecutive day and were recorded at 4,09,394, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The country's COVID-19 death toll rose to 4,18,987 with 507 fresh fatalities. The active cases comprise 1.31 per cent of the total infections, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.35 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,224 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 17,18,439 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 45,09,11,712. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.41 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 31 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.12 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,04,29,339 and the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 41.78 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 507 new fatalities include 165 from Maharashtra and 105 from Kerala. A total of 4,18,987 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,30,918 from Maharashtra, 36,262 from Karnataka, 33,809 from Tamil Nadu, 25,039 from Delhi, 22,739 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,027 from West Bengal and 16,246 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
22-07-2021||India||Tax department raids multiple premises of media group Dainik Bhaskar||The Income Tax Department on Thursday conducted multi-city raids against two prominent media groups -- Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar -- on charges of tax evasion, official sources said. The searches against Dainik Bhaskar are being conducted in Bhopal, Jaipur, Ahmedabad, Noida and some other locations in the country. The premises of the Uttar Pradesh-based news channel Bharat Samachar and its promoters and staffers were raided in Lucknow, they said. There was no official word from the Income Tax Department or its policy-making body, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), on the raids. Tax sleuths also raided some premises linked to BJP MLA from UP's Harraiya assembly seat in Basti district Ajay Singh and his associates. It was, however, not immediately clear if the raids on the legislator and the media groups were connected. Sources said the action against the Dainik Bhaskar group included searches at the residential premises of its promoters in Madhya Pradesh capital Bhopal. Personnel of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and Madhya Pradesh Police were seen providing security to the tax officials in Bhopal. The two media groups have been critical of the COVID-19 management in the country and have done numerous stories highlighting failings of authorities and people's distress during the second wave of the pandemic that peaked in India in April-May. The Dainik Bhaskar group has presence across 12 states of the country and brings out 65 editions and 211 sub-editions in Hindi, Gujarati and Marathi, according to information provided on the website of its parent company D B Corp Ltd. It also operates 30 radio stations in seven states and has online presence with six web portals and four mobile phone apps. The Bharat Samachar TV said on its official Twitter handle that searches are being conducted at the "house of its Editor-in-chief Brajesh Mishra, state head Virendra Singh, houses of some employees and the channel office." Dainik Bhaskar later posted a message on its website saying income tax teams raided its offices in Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat and Rajasthan. It said the government raids have come against it as it put out the "true picture of the government's inefficiency before the country during the second wave of COVID-19." It said the raids were carried out at residences of many staffers, they seized the mobile phones of those present in the offices and they were not being allowed to go out. "Officials involved in the raids said this was part of the process and they will be released after panchmana proceedings are done," it said. It said the digital team working on the night shift was released at 12:30 pm. It said the tax teams had no women members as it raided its Bhopal and Ahmedabad digital wing offices where female staffers were present. Senior income tax officers in the team have not clarified the reason for these searches till now, it said. Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh said on Twitter that tax officials "are present" at at half-a-dozen premises of the Dainik Bhaskar group, including at its office at the Press Complex in Bhopal. Reacting to the raids, Aam Aadmi Party leader and Delhi Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said they are an "attempt to scare the media." "Their message is clear that whoever will speak against the BJP government, they will not be spared. Such thinking is very dangerous. Everyone should raise their voice against this," he said in a tweet. "These raids should be stopped immediately and the media should be allowed to work freely," he added. Congress leader and Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot said the raids "on Dainik Bhaskar newspaper & Bharat Samachar news channel is a brazen attempt to suppress the voice of media." "Modi government cannot tolerate even an iota of its criticism. Due to its fascist mentality, the BJP doesn't want to see the truth in a democratic setup," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
22-07-2021||India||Delhi likely to receive light rain today||Delhi is likely to witness a generally cloudy sky with light rain or drizzle on Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The minimum temperature in the national capital was recorded at 25.6 degrees Celsius -- two notches below the normal -- and the maximum is expected to hover around 35 degrees Celsius, it said. The relative humidity at 8.30 am was 85 per cent. Delhi's air quality was in the "satisfactory" category in the morning. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the hourly air quality index (AQI) stood 89 at 8.05 am. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe". The maximum and minimum temperatures on Wednesday were 34.7 degrees and 22.4 degrees Celsius respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
22-07-2021||India||Security beefed up at Jantar Mantar in view of farmers' protest||Security at Jantar Mantar in central Delhi has been tightened in view of a protest by farmers against the Centre's agri laws on Thursday amid the Monsoon session of Parliament, officials said. Adequate security arrangements have been made and police and paramilitary personnel deployed, they said. Jantar Mantar is a few metres away from the Parliament House where the Monsoon session is underway. A group of 200 farmers will travel to Jantar Mantar from their Singhu border demonstration site in buses with a police escort and hold protest there from 11 am to 5 pm. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM), an umbrella body of farmer unions which has been spearheading the protest against the three farm laws, has been asked to give an undertaking that all COVID-19 norms would be followed and the stir would be peaceful. This is the first time since the violence in the national capital during a tractor rally on January 26 that the authorities have granted permission to the protesting farmer unions to hold a demonstration in the city. Thousands of farmers from across the country have been agitating at three Delhi border points -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- against the three farm laws that they claim will do away with the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws at major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
22-07-2021||India||Manoj Jha’s apology to the Covid dead fills a national vacuum||An apology rang out in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, addressed “to all those citizens whose deaths we didn’t even acknowledge”, “to the bodies floating in the Ganga that we sought to dismiss” and “to those who in their passing have left behind a living document of our failures”. The moment of introspection came not from the Narendra Modi government, which on the very same day was splitting hairs to deny knowledge of any oxygen-related deaths during the Covid second wave. The “maafinama (apology)” was delivered by Manoj Jha, a Rajya Sabha member of the Rashtriya Janata Dal and a professor at Delhi University. In his eight-minute address, which he insisted more than once was not a speech but an apology, Jha held all governments since Independence collectively responsible for the tragedy that unfolded during the pandemic. Excerpts from Jha’s apology in the Upper House, where he sought to become the “voice” of lakhs of people and drew the approval of lawmakers who thumped their desks: ⚫ I’m not speaking here as a member of any political party. Consider me an ordinary citizen of a bereaved republic or a public representative. ⚫ I am speaking here on behalf of lakhs of people who want to speak here. ⚫ This is not a speech. This is an apology to all those citizens whose deaths we didn’t even acknowledge. ⚫ Our faith in this House should make us send a collective apology to all those whose bodies were floating in the Ganga and which we sought to dismiss. ⚫ This is a personal pain. I am not citing any figures. Look for (death) figures in your personal pain. ⚫ There is not one person in this country, in this House, outside this House and in the other House who can say they haven’t lost someone they knew (to Covid). ⚫ I don’t need any figures. Those who have passed on have left behind a living document of our failure. ⚫ I’m not talking about you (those in power). You’ll say nothing has happened in 70 years. I don’t want to go into it. ⚫ This is a collective failure of all the governments since 1947. ⚫ When I step out of this House, I see big advertisements saying: ‘free vaccines, free rations, free treatment’. ⚫ This is a welfare state, isn’t it? When a poor man buys a bar of soap, he is as much a taxpayer as are Adani and Ambani. And you’re telling him ‘free vaccine, free treatment, free ration’. ⚫ No Sir, nothing is free. He has a stake. This welfare state has a commitment. Don’t denigrate, demonise and dwarf him. This is my appeal. ⚫ A lot of big talk is going on about new legislations. Why aren’t you (the government) talking about the right to health? No ifs and buts. A constitutionally guaranteed (right to health) that is linked to right to life is the need of the hour. Then, no hospital can dare to play with the right to life. ⚫ Talk about right to work. A lot is being said about population. Leave demography to the demographers. ⚫ Bring a legislation on right to life and right to work. ⚫ What happened during the one-and-a-half months (during the second wave of the pandemic) feels like a nightmare. The anguished cries for hospitals, ICU beds, medicines.… ⚫ Look for the personal pain in this tragedy. Then alone will you be able to find a solution. Blaming each other won’t achieve anything. This has been going on for long. ⚫ It was said, the governments didn’t fail, the system failed. What’s this system? ⚫ Since childhood, I have been told that behind the system there are people. If the system has failed, whether in Delhi or in village alleys, then the governments there have failed. Don’t blame it on the system because people make the system. ⚫ I’m hurt, I want to wake up myself and you all as well. Floating bodies in the Ganga.… We have witnessed undignified deaths. ⚫ If we are not able correct this (state of affairs), the coming centuries will not pardon us. It doesn’t matter if you put up big thanksgiving advertisements. History should be able to say thank you.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
22-07-2021||India||Delhi riots: SC to hear plea against  bail to three student activists||The Supreme Court is scheduled to hear on Thursday the petitions filed by Delhi police challenging the Delhi High Court verdicts granting bail to three student activists in a Delhi riots case. The apex court had on June 18 expressed its displeasure over the high court discussing the entire anti-terror law UAPA in a bail matter and made it clear that the judgments shall not be treated as a precedent and may not be relied upon by any of the parties in any of the proceedings. The top court, which had agreed to hear the appeals filed by police and issued notices to JNU students Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita and Jamia Millia Islamia university student Asif Iqbal Tanha seeking their responses, had refused to stay the high court verdicts. The apex court had clarified in its June 18 order that release of these students on bail was not being interfered with at this stage. The pleas would come up for hearing on Thursday before a bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta. While hearing the matter last month, the top court had taken note of solicitor-general Tushar Mehta’s submission that the entire Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) has been “turned upside down” by the high court in granting bail in the case and observed that the issue is important and can have pan-India ramifications. Mehta had said that 53 people died and over 700 were injured during the riots which took place at a time when the then US president and other dignitaries were here. The high court had said although the definition of “terrorist act” in Section 15 of the UAPA is wide and somewhat vague, it must partake the essential character of terrorism and the phrase “terrorist act” cannot be permitted to be applied in a “cavalier manner” to criminal acts that squarely fall under the Indian Penal Code. The Delhi police have assailed the verdict, saying the interpretation of high court would weaken the prosecution in terror cases. The police further contended in its appeal that the high court had said the UAPA provisions can only be applied to deal with matters of profound impact on the “Defence of India”, nothing more and nothing less. The high court had on June 15 granted bail to the three student activists saying in an anxiety to suppress dissent the State has blurred the line between right to protest and terrorist activity and if such a mindset gains traction, it would be a “sad day for democracy”. The high court, in three separate judgments, had set aside the trial court’s orders denying bail to these student activists and allowed their appeals by admitting them to regular bail on furnishing a personal bond of Rs 50,000 each along with two sureties of the like amount. These three student activists were released from jail on June 17. The case relates to the last year’s communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). In its three separate appeals filed in the apex court, the Delhi police have said that the high court’s findings are “perverse and contrary to record” and appeared to be based “more on the social media narrative than the evidence gathered and elaborated in the chargesheet”. Kalita, Narwal and Tanha are accused in four, three and two cases respectively relating to communal riots that broke out on February 24 last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-408
22-07-2021||India||Lingayat pontiffs signal BJP to let Yediyurappa carry on till 2023||Dozens of Lingayat pontiffs have been calling on Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa in a signal to the BJP to let him run the show till the next Assembly election less than two years away. With several recent developments pointing towards a leadership change, although the party has not officially confirmed it, the seers have come out in support of Yediyurappa, who belongs to the influential Lingayat community that has been the BJP’s mainstay for over two decades. In a state where religious leaders make no attempt to hide their political leanings, more than 30 pontiffs met Yediyurappa on Wednesday in a show of strength. More than 20 other pontiffs had met the veteran leader on Tuesday evening and urged the party not to replace him. The head of the Murugha Mutt, Shivamurthy Muruga Sharanu, is among the seers who want the BJP to allow Yediyurappa to continue till the 2023 elections. “The BJP must not remove him now. He is the man who built the party and opened the first southern gateway for them,” he said. The Lingayat community was formed in the 12th century by reformer-saint Basaveshwara, fondly called Basavanna, as an alternative to Brahminical Hinduism. A minority component called the Veerashaivas, who are often clubbed with the Lingayats, follow Vedic texts. But Lingayats practise the teachings of Basavanna and do not consider themselves as Hindus. The pontiff of the Nidumamidi mutt, Veerabhadra Chennamala Swami, warned the BJP of the damage it could inflict upon itself if Yediyurappa was removed. “The party would suffer badly if it forces him to resign. They should not take any sudden decision to remove him,” he told reporters after meeting Yediyurappa on Wednesday. Siddalinga Swamy of the Siddaganga Mutt urged the BJP to let Yediyurappa complete the rest of his term. “We want him to continue in the interest of the state. He did not say anything when we asked if he was ready to resign.” The seers said they were ready to travel to Delhi to convince the BJP leadership about their demand. Even Lingayat Congress leaders have expressed their support to Yediyurappa with Shamanur Shivasankarappa and M.B. Patil visiting the chief minister on Monday. But state Congress working president Saleem Ahmed explained that Shivasankarappa met Yediyurappa in his capacity as the president of the All India Veerashaiva Mahasabha and Patil in his personal capacity. A BJP functionary told The Telegraph it wouldn’t be easy to remove Yediyurappa. “We have to first convince him to resign and with a proper formula to take care of his sons and supporters,” said the functionary who wished not to be named. While his elder son B.Y. Raghavendra is a Lok Sabha member, younger son and BJP state vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra is Yediyurappa’s Man Friday. The last time Yediyurappa was forced to quit as chief minister was in 2011 when he was arrested over illegal land deals. He then formed the Karnataka Janata Party in 2012 and garnered about 10 per cent votes in the 2013 state polls, decimating the BJP by cutting into its votes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
22-07-2021||India||Covid: Rahul Gandhi blames Centre for the death of millions ||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who has consistently dismissed the official Covid death figures as a “lie”, on Wednesday said 50 lakh people had lost their lives in India during the pandemic so far and held the government responsible for this. Rahul tweeted: “The Truth. Government of India’s wrong decisions during Covid second wave killed 50 lakh of our sisters, brothers, mothers and fathers.” The official Covid death toll in India is over 4.18 lakh. The Congress leader posted the findings of a study by the Centre for Global Development, a Washington research institute, that offers three estimates of the number of casualties in India. Released on Tuesday, the study estimates that between 3.4 and 4.9 million more people than would normally be expected died in the country between January 2020 and June 2021. The study notes that “India lacks an authoritative estimate of the death toll from the Covid-19 pandemic”. “We report excess mortality estimates from three different data sources,” it says. “First, extrapolation of state-level civil registration from seven states suggests 3.4 million excess deaths. Second, applying international estimates of age-specific infection fatality rates (IFR) to Indian seroprevalence data implies a higher toll of around 4 million. Third, our analysis of the Consumer Pyramid Household Survey, a longitudinal panel of over 800,000 individuals across all states, yields an estimate of 4.9 million excess deaths,” the report says. It adds: “Each of these estimates has shortcomings and they also diverge in the pattern of deaths between the two waves of the pandemic. Estimating Covid deaths with statistical confidence may prove elusive. But all estimates suggest that the death toll from the pandemic is likely to be an order of magnitude greater than the official count of 400,000; they also suggest that the first wave was more lethal than is believed.” One of the authors of the study is Arvind Subramanian, former chief economic adviser to the Narendra Modi government. The other authors are Abhishek Anand and Justin Sandefur. Anand is a graduate from Harvard Kennedy School while Sandefur is associated with the Centre for Global Development. Some other studies in the recent past have also suggested that the number of deaths in India is far higher than the official toll. The media has been agog with reports on deaths exceeding the official counts by several times. Regional newspapers have based their reports on blizzards of death certificates issued during the second wave of the pandemic and the overflowing crematoriums and graveyards. Oxygen deaths Rahul also referred to the Centre’s assertion that no deaths had been reported because of oxygen shortage during the second Covid wave. “It wasn’t just oxygen that was scarce. There was and still is a huge shortage of sensitivity and truth,” he tweeted in Hindi. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram also commented on the Centre’s claim on medical oxygen. “Now, it is ‘no reports of deaths due to shortage of oxygen’. Read that carefully. Minister did not say there were ‘no deaths’. He said ‘no reports of deaths’. A blind and deaf government will not be able to see or hear the truth. The government has perfected the art of facing every tragedy with bluff and bluster,” the Congress veteran tweeted, referring to Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya’s response in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. In April and May, visuals and reports of families scrambling to secure oxygen cylinders and of hospitals sending out SOS messages on social media and approaching the courts for urgent oxygen supply were in the newspapers and on television. The Centre told Parliament that the states and Union Territories had not reported any deaths because of oxygen shortage. What it did not say was that the Centre had not sought the data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
22-07-2021||India||Covid: BJP defends government's zero oxygen death claim||The BJP on Wednesday defended the government’s claim that there were no deaths because of oxygen shortage, passing the buck to the states and accusing the Opposition of playing politics. Spokesperson Sambit Patra blamed the Opposition-ruled states, saying if they did not report any deaths by oxygen shortage, the Centre couldn’t be blamed. Like health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday, Patra said the states reported deaths based on a detailed guideline by the Centre. What he did not say was that the Centre’s guideline did not ask for data on deaths caused by oxygen shortage. “The data that was presented in Parliament was given by the states. If the Opposition says the data is not correct, then they should ask their own state governments,” Patra said. He was tasked with defending the government after claims of no oxygen-related deaths led to widespread criticism. “It’s completely false to say no one died due to oxygen shortage. If there was no shortage, why did hospitals go to Delhi High Court with desperate appeals?” Delhi health minister Satyendra Jain asked. Jain accused the central government of trying to suppress deaths due to oxygen crisis in Delhi. “The Kejriwal government constituted an oxygen audit committee to assess deaths due to oxygen shortage and provide compensation, but Modi government through the LG (lieutenant governor) dismissed it to hide the truth,” he added. Delhi had witnessed an acute shortage of oxygen at the peak of the second Covid-19 wave early this summer. As many as 25 Covid patients had died on a single day at Jaipur Golden Hospital in the capital after the facility ran out of medical oxygen. Patra sought to deny the oxygen-related deaths. He claimed that Delhi High Court had ordered a probe into the deaths and that a committee formed by the Kejriwal government had in its report made “no mention of oxygen shortage”. He accused the Delhi government of playing politics and asked why the committee constituted by them couldn’t ascertain any oxygen-related deaths in the Jaipur Golden Hospital case. Hitting out at Rahul Gandhi, Patra said no deaths due to oxygen crisis had been reported by any Congress-ruled state. “Rahul Gandhi is acting like a Twitter troll, spreading lies and misinformation. Why states like Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh didn’t report any deaths due to oxygen shortage?” he asked. Along with Rahul and the Delhi government, Shiv Sena MP and spokesperson Sanjay Raut slammed the Centre’s claim. “I am speechless. How would families who have lost their loved ones due to the shortage of medical oxygen feel after listening to this? These families should file a case against the government,” Raut said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
22-07-2021||India||Bihar: Hint of imminent change of guard in RJD and JDU||A churning in Lalu Prasad’s RJD and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s JDU has indicated an imminent change of guard in the two largest parties of Bihar. While Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu is considering abdicating in favour of his younger son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, Union minister R.C.P. Singh could lose the position of Janata Dal United national president. These moves will have wide-ranging political ramifications, and will also decide the trajectory of Bihar politics in the coming months. The upheaval started in the RJD, the largest single party in the legislative Assembly with 75 out of total 243 seats, earlier this month when its state unit president and veteran politician Jagadanand Singh, 77, tendered his resignation apparently on health grounds. A few senior party leaders said that he took the step after becoming annoyed by the continuous barbs of Lalu’s eldest son and Hasanpur MLA Tej Pratap Yadav. Though RJD national president Lalu has not accepted the resignation so far, sources say that Jagadanand is quite adamant about leaving the post. This has led to a hunt for his successor. There are also talks that Lalu wants to abdicate on the grounds of poor health in favour of Tejashwi, who successfully led the party in the 2020 Assembly elections. The RJD chief is diabetic and is suffering from heart and kidney-related ailments. The deliberations on these issues are currently going on between Lalu, Jagadanand, Tejashwi at the house of Rajya Sabha member and Lalu’s eldest daughter Misa Bharti in Delhi. Rabri Devi is also present there. Most of the RJD leaders are tightlipped on the two sensitive issues that could impact the future of the party. “Though no decision has been conveyed to us so far, it is a well-known thing that Tejashwi has always wanted to become the national president of the party because it will give him more grip on it. This will come handy if a power struggle breaks out with his siblings Misa Bharti and Tej Pratap. Moreover, he has proved himself to be a worthy politician who could succeed Lalu,” a former RJD MP told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. Another senior RJD leader pointed out that Tejashwi was in favour of a young and energetic person as the state unit president, who could understand and readily accept his directions, and be proficient in the use of technology, especially mobile phones, social media, computers. Jagadanand has been a failure on these fronts. “Former ministers Shyam Rajak and Alok Mehta are being considered along with a couple of Yadav legislators. There are indications of Tej Pratap Yadav also being in the race. Lalu, known as a doting father, could accommodate him (Tej Pratap) to stop any power struggle breaking out in the family, but it will spell doom for the party because he is not accepted as a serious politician,” the RJD leader said. However, RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari rejected all speculation over a change in the leadership of the party. “Tejashwi is lucky that his father is there with his experience to guide him and to give suitable suggestions. The media has created speculation about upcoming leadership changes. There is no doubt that he (Tejashwi) is the leader of the party, but right now there is no need for him for this (to become RJD national president),” Shivanand said. A leadership change in the ruling JDU is also being smelled round the corner as the party is gearing up for its national executive in Delhi on July 31. The issue emerged in full force after present JDU national president R.C.P. Singh became a cabinet minister in the NDA government at the Centre, leaving other hopefuls high and dry. His move created a controversy because Nitish had rejected a similar offer to his party to join the government at the Centre in 2019. Senior leaders in party, including Nitish, washed their hands off the issue by asserting that Singh was solely responsible for the decision. Coupled with it is the fact that the JDU performed poorly in the 2020 Assembly polls by winning just 43 seats out of 115 it contested, thereby slipping to the third position in the state. “Singh, a former bureaucrat, has not been able to come out of his bureaucratic mode of functioning. He is no worthwhile political experience and is no leader of the masses. Nitish is now trying hard to consolidate and expand the vote base of the party. This is the reason that he has asked leaders like Upendra Kushwaha and Umesh Kushwaha to tour the state,” a top JDU leader said. “It won’t be a surprise in this scenario if Nitish again takes the reign of the party in his own hands or appoints Upendra or Munger MP Lalan Singh as the national president of the party. Appointing Lalan will assuage his feelings of having been left out in the race for Union cabinet berth. It will also send a message that ours is an all-inclusive party,” the JDU leader added. Sources in the JDU asserted that Nitish is already planning with his eyes on the 2024 general elections, and will go for leadership changes in the party accordingly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
22-07-2021||India||Centre seeks four weeks’ time on ex gratia to kin of Covid dead||The Centre has informed the Supreme Court that the direction to make ex gratia payments to the families of the Covid dead is under “active consideration” and sought an additional four weeks’ time to come out with “comprehensive and robust guidelines”. The apex court had ruled on June 30 that the relatives of patients killed by Covid would have to be paid ex gratia under a central law, brushing aside the Narendra Modi government’s contention that such payouts were not mandatory. But the court had declined to fix the amount at Rs 4 lakh each, which the petitioners had sought on the basis of central guidelines issued in 2015 for disaster victims’ survivors. The court had asked the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) to decide the size of the payment within six weeks. In an affidavit filed before the top court on Tuesday, the Centre pleaded that it wanted to go for an “in-depth examination” of the matter as any “accelerated formulation” of the ex gratia amount would lead to “undesirable results”. Covid has officially claimed over 4.18 lakh lives in India so far. The court had on June 30 also directed the government to simplify the procedure for issuing death certificates to avoid unnecessary harassment of the claimants. In its affidavit filed through standing counsel B.V. Balram Das, the Centre said on Wednesday: “The applicant respectfully submits that the exercise to frame appropriate guidelines for payment of ex gratia to the victims of the Covid-19 disaster under Section 12(iii) of the DMA (Disaster Management Act) is in active consideration of the NDMA and going on. “It is submitted that this exercise, though at an active advanced stage, requires a little more in-depth examination before the same is finalised and implemented. Any accelerated formulation, in the respectful submission of the applicant, may result in undesirable results.” The affidavit added: “In view of the aforesaid, the applicant… is respectfully praying that this Hon’ble Court, in the interest of justice, be pleased to extend the time of six weeks granted to the applicant… to frame guidelines as enumerated in para 16(1) of the judgment dated 30.06.2021 by another four weeks so as to enable the NDMA to come out with comprehensive and robust guidelines. The present application is made bonafide and in the interest of justice.” Unlike compensation, ex gratia is an amount given as a succour to the affected or kin to tide over a sudden tragedy. The court had passed the directions while dealing with a batch of petitions filed by advocates Reepak Kansal and Gaurav Kumar Bansal and a couple of other interveners pleading for a minimum Rs 4 lakh ex gratia to the kin of all persons who had died on account of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-409
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata Banerjee explains 'Khela Divas' date after BJP equates it with great Calcutta killings||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said she had chosen the date August 16 to observe Khela Divas or Day of Sport as a mark of respect to sixteen football fans who died in a stampede during a football match on this day in 1980 at Kolkata's Eden Garden stadium. While addressing the TMC annual Martyrs Day rally, she announced that the state government would observe Khela Divas on August 16 every year. "Khela Hobe (will play)", she declared, renewing the battle cry she made during the state assembly elections, adding the fight will continue till BJP is ousted from power at the centre. According to a ndtv report, the explanation on why August 16 was chosen was possibly a response to criticism of her choice of date by Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta, known to be close to the BJP. Taking a dig at Banerjee's announcement, BJP Rajya Sabha MP Swapan Dasgupta said that Muslim League launched its Direct Action Day and began the Great Calcutta Killings in 1946 on August 16. "Interesting @MamataOfficial has declared August 16 as 'Khela divas'. It is the day the Muslim League launched its Direct Action Day & began the Great Calcutta Killings in 1946. "In today's West Bengal, Khela Hobe has come to symbolise a wave of terror attacks on opponents." he tweeted. His tweet reinforced BJP claims of widespread post-poll violence in Bengal. The matter is in fact currently in Calcutta High Court. "16 August used to be commemorated by many sporting clubs earlier. But that is dying out now. That's why we have chosen to mark Khela Hobe Divas on August 16," Banerjee said, as quoted by ndtv.com. "In the coming days, Khela Hobe indeed. To protect civilization and culture, sports, the sporting spirit is very important. Those who are misinterpreting don't understand that spirit," Banerjee said, adding, "Khela Hobe has become a theme across India. We are happy about that. So, we have fixed a day to celebrate the spirit." Footballs made by the handicraft department of the state government will be handed over to various sports clubs poor children on the occasion. "Khela Divas, which will be marked by the distribution of footballs to needy children," she said. On 16 August this year, the state's sports and youth department will distribute one lakh footballs to sporting clubs across the state. 283 clubs of the Indian Football Association will get 10 footballs each. The rest will go to clubs in villages. "50,000 'joyee' footballs have already been made by our mothers and sisters," the chief minister said. "Joyee" is the brand name of footballs being made by an NGO run by former footballers. August 16 is also a day after Independence Day. "But our freedoms are being threatened today. We need to defend that. We need to fight for freedom of speech," Banerjee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal Higher Secondary: Murshidabad girl tops exam with 499 marks ||A girl from Murshidabad district topped the class 12 board examinations conducted by the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education (WBCHSE), while over 97 per cent of the 8.19 lakh candidates passed the exams, the results of which were announced on Thursday. The examinations were not held this year due to the raging COVID-19 pandemic and marks were awarded based on a student's previous academic performance. Eighty-six candidates were among the top 10, and the chart was topped by a girl from the minority community who hails from Murshidabad district and secured 499 marks out of 500, council president Mahua Das told reporters. The council, however, didn't identify the topper as no merit list was officially announced this year. Of the 8,19,202 candidates who were slated to appear for this year's class 12 board exams, 97.69 per cent have passed, Das said, adding that the pass percentage was 97.70 each among boys and girls. "A total of 3,19,327 examinees got first division marks or more than 60 per cent. This is a bit lower than last year," she said. Das said that 9,013 candidates got the O grade (90-100 per cent marks) as compared to 30,220 last year. Similarly, 49,370 students got the A plus grade (80-90 per cent marks) as against 84,746 last year. "Though the number of students getting the O and A plus grades is significantly lower as compared to last year, the number of B plus grade (60-69 per cent) recipients has increased to 1,65,186 from 1,10,265 last year," she said. The number of students getting A grade (70-79 per cent) has slightly dipped to 95,758 from 96,825 last year, Das said. A total of 99.28 per cent of the students in the Science stream passed the examinations, while the pass percentage was 99.08 per cent for Commerce, and 97.39 per cent for Arts candidates. Candidates can access their results by entering their registration numbers on the designated nine websites, she said, adding that marksheets will be distributed to the schools from 52 camp offices of the council from July 23 onwards. Das said that some schools had sent last year's class 11 results a year later in June, 2021 and there were many inconsistencies, while marks awarded by some institutions were unusually high. "We could have withheld these results but considering the future of the students, our experts evaluated the answer sheets of class 11 final exams and awarded the marks," she said. If any school or candidate is unhappy with the result, the head of the institution will have to approach the local office of the council. As the class 12 board examinations were not held this year due to the pandemic, an evaluation method was worked out wherein the highest marks secured by a candidate in four of the seven subjects in the 2019 class 10 examinations were given weightage along with his/her marks in class 11 annual test. The total marks secured by a candidate in the class 12 projects and practical were also added to the weightage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata terms Pegasus snoopgate worse than Watergate||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday claimed that the snooping on Supreme Court judges, journalists and political leaders among others using the Pegasus spyware, news of which broke earlier this week, was "worse than the Watergate scandal" which broke in the US during the Nixon presidency. BJP was quick to counter the attack of the Trinamool Congress alleging that Mamata Banerjee government has been using the same Israeli snooping software to put her political opponents, journalists, government officials and even her own party leaders and ministers under surveillance. Banerjee likened the scandal which allegedly involved using spyware developed by an Israeli firm to infect the mobile phones of hundreds of Indians in a bid to spy on them to the imposition of a "super-emergency in the country". The chief minister claimed that all impartial institutions have been politicised by the BJP-led Government. "Pegasus is worse than Watergate scandal; it is super emergency," Banerjee told a press conference at the state secretariat here. "They (BJP leadership) don't trust even their own officers and ministers," she said, adding "I have heard they tapped the phones of several RSS people." The BJP's state president Dillip Ghosh claimed that his party, which has been under attack by various political parties at the national level, does not believe in the culture of phone tapping. The TMC denied the charge saying that only the authorities of a country can use the services of the company that sells Pegasus. "Mamata Banerjee has put her opponents, journalists, officials, her own party leaders and ministers under surveillance using Pegasus," Ghosh told reporters. Claiming that TMC leaders keep contact among themselves through WhatsApp, where the conversation is encrypted, Ghosh said, "They (TMC) don't make normal phone calls or share SMSs as they know that everything is being tapped." The BJP doesn't believe in the culture of phone tapping and it is the culture of the Congress, where Mamata Banerjee began her political innings, he said. Reacting to Ghosh's jibe, senior TMC leader and minister Sobhandeb Chatterjee said everyone knows that only a country can use the services of the Israeli company "even if clandestinely" "Dilip-babu is known for wild claims. His comments on phone tapping has no basis," he told PTI. "But he should remember that peddling such lies will only harm the spirit of truth and principle in politics. It violates the religion of politics," Chatterjee added. A global media consortium has recently reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including of two central ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of business persons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking using the Israeli spyware Pegasus, which is usually supplied to government agencies. The Indian government and Israeli surveillance company NSO Group, which sells Pegasus spyware worldwide, have separately refuted the reports.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Martyr's Day: Didi asks Opposition parties to unite across India||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday underscored the need for unity of Opposition parties across India and proposed a front to rid the country of the despair created by the Narendra Modi government, seeking to inject a sense of urgency and cautioning against a replay of the costly complacency of 2019. “There is despair, instability, violence and confusion across the country…. We want to bring in a new ray of hope,” said the Bengal chief minister, pitching for a “pro-people government” in Delhi after the 2024 Lok Sabha elections. “I don’t know what will happen in 2024, but our work should start now,” she added, stressing that less than three years were left for the big battle. “If the doctor comes after death, then there is nothing that can be done. If treatment can be offered after diagnosis of the ailment, something can be done…. So, we cannot waste any time. If you can organise a meeting next week, on July 27 or 28, I can attend,” Mamata said. The chief minister was delivering virtually Trinamul’s July 21 Martyrs’ Day address that was beamed live across multiple locations in the country. Representatives from the Congress, Samajwadi Party, RJD, Shiromani Akali Dal, Shiv Sena, NCP, Aam Aadmi Party, DMK and the TRS attended the event online from Delhi. Sharad Pawar of the NCP and P. Chidambaram and Digvijaya Singh of the Congress were among those who reached the Constitution Club in the capital to participate in the event. “I want to tell all the leaders to go back and talk to their parties and plan on how to unite. I want to repeat, form a front,” Mamata said. Aware that the biggest challenge for any such front would be selecting the face of the alliance, Mamata said that her role would be limited to that of a worker and she would follow the instructions of others. “Forget self-interest. Save the country, save the states and the federal structure,” Mamata said in her address delivered in Bengali, Hindi and English, keeping in mind the audience from several parts of the country. The call for the front brought back memories of a similar idea she had floated from the Brigade Parade Grounds in January 2019 — a few months ahead of the general election in which Modi routed his rivals. But the content of Mamata’s speech on Wednesday made it clear that she did learn her lesson from the failed experiment she had tried two-and-a-half years ago. Unlike the 2019 attempt, when she got leaders of 23 national parties on a platform in Calcutta barely four months ahead of the polls, Mamata made it clear this time that a concerted and planned approach is indispensable. Mamata sought to debunk  the perceived invincibility of Modi and Amit Shah and gave a new twist to her signature poll slogan “khela hobe”. “One game has happened in the state and another game is afoot…. Khela will happen in all states until the BJP is removed from the country,” Mamata said, before declaring August 16 as “Khela Hobe Divas” in Bengal. Unlike other July 21 programmes — the most important event in Trinamul’s annual roster— Mamata hardly spoke about the political scenario in Bengal. The theme of Mamata’s 48-minute address was national politics and she took care to explain the BJP’s follies and the need for a consensus among the Opposition parties to take on the saffron camp in the next general election, scheduled in May 2024, to save the country. Sources close to the chief minister said that several senior Opposition leaders like Pawar and Sonia Gandhi had been prodding her since the outcome of the Bengal elections to play a role in bringing together the non-BJP parties so that a united fight can be put up in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “While Didi and the other leaders behind the initiative are aware of the enormity of the task, they are convinced that the time is right as the mood of the country seems to be changing because of the Modi government’s mishandling of the pandemic,” a source said. In her address, Mamata not only held the Modi government responsible for the death of over 4 lakh people across the country because of Covid-19 but also highlighted the Centre’s failure in making vaccines and oxygen available on time for people. “Your failure in handling Covid-19 has been monumental…. Instead of planning on how to tackle the second wave, you had become a daily passenger to Bengal during the (Assembly) elections. What did you get?” Mamata asked, hurling a direct question at Modi before urging him not to lecture the country any more with his “Maan ki Baat”. She criticised the Prime Minister for his recent praise of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath for his handling of the Covid situation in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Pegasus: Mamata points finger at Modi govt on spyware fiasco||Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday called the spyware scandal “even bigger than” Watergate, described it as “Narendra Modir nabhishwash (last gasp)” and urged the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance of the issue and intervene. The Bengal chief minister had clearly been awaiting the July 21 dais to broach the subject, and by the end of her address it was apparent that she would optimally use the issue to corner the BJP. The Trinamul Congress chief began her virtual address at 2.14pm and it took her barely seven minutes to bring up Pegasus. “Our phone is totally tapped. Not only tapped, it is just like a recorder…. Pegasus. Dangerous, ferocious. They have forgotten how to allow people to live peacefully…. Their dictatorship is too much,” Mamata said. Displaying her unconventional but effective communication skills that break down complex topics into easily comprehensible capsules, Mamata showed the audience how she has taped up the cameras of her iPhone after the Pegasus-related revelations as no one is safe now. “I have done one thing, I am showing you. See, I have fully plastered this,” said Mamata, holding aloft her phone for all to see. “What does one do otherwise…? They capture everything through the camera, even if I am only making an audio call. Even if I am using FaceTime (a video-telephony product of Apple). Even if I am on a video call. That’s why I fully plastered the cameras,” added Mamata, ruing how she cannot freely talk to any leader from the non-BJP parties because of the snooping fears. “Yeh government of India ko bhi plaster lagana chahiye, nahi toh desh barbad ho jayega…. Keu kaukey bishwash korte parchhe na (This government should also be plastered up, otherwise the nation will be ruined…. Nobody is being able to trust anybody),” she said. The chief minister implied that even Modi might not be aware of every such activity. “Modiji, bura na maney, hum aapko personally criticise nahi kar rahe hain (Mr Modi, do not mind, I am not criticising you personally). Because I am not in the habit of doing such things…. But consider this, the amount of time you and Amit Shah spent together… although I don’t even know if you (Modi) knew any of this at all, whether it’s all done by Amit Shah only… I don’t know,” Mamata said. According to the Project Pegasus investigative reports by a media collective, among the potential targets of surveillance was the phone number of Abhishek Banerjee, Trinamul’s national general secretary. The phone of Prashant Kishor, the poll consultant closely involved with the Trinamul election battle, was found to have been hacked. Mamata herself had, on numerous occasions in the past couple of years, publicly alleged that she suspects her phone had been hacked by the BJP. At times, she had named Modi and Union home minister Shah as those responsible. “Instead of giving money to the poor, you (the BJP-led Centre) are spending lots of money for spy-giri. Spy. Spying, beating, killing, and talking too much, doing nothing,” she added. “You want to turn this into a surveillance state instead of a democratic state.” The chief minister asserted that a nation could not be run this way, before issuing a plea to the apex court for its intervention. “My humble regards to our honourable Supreme Court. Everybody has great respect for you. Can’t you take suo motu cognisance, Sirs? I appeal to my Supreme Court judges. Can’t you take suo motu cognisance when judges’ phones are tapped? All political parties’ phones are tapped, fully,” she said. “Even the central government… your (the BJP’s) ministers, their phones are also (hacked)? Spy-giri is on. Ministers’ phones, Pegasus dhukey gyachhey (has entered). Officers’ phones, Pegasus captured. All leaders’ phones, Pegasus captured. All judges’ phones… maximum judges’ phones… also captured,” she added. Addressing the judges of the Supreme Court, Mamata said: “Everything is recorded. Sirs, either with a suo motu case… please have mercy and save the people, the nation and its democracy. Or else have an SIT (special investigation team) set up, which will work under you, you will monitor it. If anybody can save democracy in India today, it is the judiciary… and the people of this nation.” The Trinamul chief accused the BJP of weakening the foundations of India’s democracy. “The BJP party… they bulldoze the democracy, they finish the federal structure, they have finished the democratic rights. Three main pillars in democracy, one is (the sanctity of) elections… two, media, and three is judiciary. Now, your Pegasus, captured the election process, captured the judiciary, captured the political party leaders, captured the media houses. Now, whatever you (the BJP) will say, every institution has to do it. Otherwise, you will blackmail them with Pegasus,” Mamata said. “You only misuse agencies, disturb the Opposition, kill people, enact black laws… but what the people need, about that, you never consult anybody. You never do. The lowest possible lows, you sank to. Despite that, you didn’t benefit. Bengal’s people rejected you…. The entire nation, even many parts of the world, were keenly watching,” she added, rubbing salt into the duopoly’s smarting wound. The Trinamul chief asked not only her party to launch mass movements but also every other non-BJP party across the nation. “I urge you, please take strong action, generate mass movements against this.” She reminded them of the Watergate scandal of the 1970s in the US and said: “This is even bigger than that. Do not let this pass, do not forget it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Turtles seized, one man held in Siliguri||The Bengal forest department on Wednesday seized 15 turtles from a bus and arrested one man who was allegedly carrying the animals for sale in Siliguri for the meat. The seizure and the arrest were made by the Sarugara range of the Baikunthapur forest division after receiving a tipoff. “The foresters had information that some turtles were being illegally transported to Siliguri in a bus that had departed Gangarampur (in South Dinajpur district). Accordingly, the bus was stopped at Matigara (on the outskirts of Siliguri) and the turtles were seized. The animals were kept in a sack,” assistant divisional forest officer Jayanta Mandal said. The animals are of three different species — Ganges softshell turtle, peacock softshell turtle and Indian softshell turtle. The peacock softshell turtle and the Indian softshell turtle are labelled as endangered in the red data book of threatened species published by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). The foresters caught Bhaban Sarkar, a resident of Gangarampur, who was illegally carrying the turtles. “The initial probe has revealed that the turtles had been smuggled from Bihar to Gangarampur. The animals were then being taken to Siliguri and were supposed to be sold illegally for the meat,” an officer said. Sarkar was produced in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Siliguri and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Two held over extortion in Bimal Gurung’s name||Two Kalimpong residents were arrested on Tuesday night for allegedly extorting money in the name of Gorkha Janmukti Morcha leader Bimal Guring from the head of a private education institution in Siliguri. A court here on Wednesday remanded Dipesh Trikhatri and Tara Pariyar in police custody for five days. The duo were arrested by the cyber police station of Siliguri Metropolitan Police following a complaint filed by the education institute at Dagapur here. Police sources said Trikhatri had made a phone call to the institute on July 8 and introduced himself as the private assistant of Gurung. “He asked for Rs 1 lakh for the party’s fund. The authorities of the institute believed him and the following day, they deposited the amount in a bank account that Trikhatri had mentioned. They again received a call on July 10 and were asked to pay Rs 2 lakh,” said a police officer. The second call made the institute authorities suspicious. They made some inquiries and found out that Gurung’s party hadn’t made any such fund demand. On July 12, a complaint was filed at the cyber police station. “We tracked down Trikhatri and found out that the bank account is in the name of Pariyar. Both were arrested from Kalimpong last night,” the officer said. Police sources said Trikhatri had been arrested in 2018 on a similar attempt. He had allegedly tried to extort money then in the name of Binay Tamang, who quit the Morcha last week. Reacting to the arrests, Gurung said in Darjeeling on Wednesday: “The arrested men have no connection with our party. Police should take appropriate action against them.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Suvendu’s Martyrs’ Day counter laced with communal overtones||Leader of Opposition and BJP MLA Suvendu Adhikari’s speech at the saffron party’s Shaheed Shraddhanjali on Wednesday, a BJP event planned to counter Trinamul’s Martyrs’ Day, was peppered with communal overtones that laid bare the party’s strategy to stick to divisive politics in Bengal. “People who believe in the Sanatan (classical religion), who worship tulsi (plant) in their homes and blow conches, who celebrate Durga Puja’s Ashtami, who worship Lord Shiva...have been targeted in Bengal after May 2,” Suvendu said at the event held at BJP office in Calcutta’s Hastings to pay tributes to party supporters who died in the alleged post-poll violence. Apparently unable to digest the defeat of the Hindutva brigade in the Bengal polls, BJP leaders like Adhikari have been trying to build a communal narrative by suggesting BJP’s Hindu supporters were being persecuted by Trinamul’s Muslims workers. Adhikari on Wednesday said goons from “a particular community” were used to carry out attacks in front of an inactive police and administration. At one point in his speech, Adhikari said Trinamul’s coming to power for a third term had been “celebrated in Bangladesh”, apparently to hint that Muslim extremists in Bangladesh were ecstatic at Mamata’s victory. “We have to stop the attempts to turn Bengal into Bangladesh. We have to save the state from the Rohingyas,” Adhikari said. His speech made it clear that despite the poll drubbing, the BJP would continue to tread the path of communal politics in Bengal. At a recent state executive committee meeting of the party, the BJP had accepted a political resolution dubbing Trinamul as an anti-Hindu party. However, Adhikari’s speech on Wednesday didn’t go down well with some in his own party. Several BJP leaders told The Telegraph that his comments were uncalled for at a sombre event. “It is true that polarisation did work for us to an extent. The 2.28 crore people who voted for us primarily are Hindus. But today’s (Wednesday’s) event was not the stage for  a divisive cry,” a state BJP leader said. State BJP chief Ghosh took part in a sit-in demonstration with other party MPs in Delhi. Later, he attended the Calcutta event virtually from the party's Delhi headquarters and said 45 BJP workers died  in the post-poll violence. “The CM is saying all the murders happened before she took oath on May 5. What about the deaths that happened after that?... We have filed around 11,782 complaints,” he said. Criticising the Trinamul supremo’s address to her supporters, BJP's Rajya Sabha member Swapan Dasgupta tweeted: “Interesting @MamataOfficial (Mamata) has declared August 16 as “Khela hobe divas”. It is the day the Muslim League launched its Direct Action Day & began the Great Calcutta Killings in 1946. In today’s West Bengal, “Khela Hobe” has come to symbolise a wave of terror attacks on opponents.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid recovery rate in West Bengal now 98%||Bengal on Wednesday achieved a significant Covid-19 management landmark of reaching a 98 per cent recovery rate, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.32 per cent, as the state logged 981 recoveries, 869 new infections and six deaths. Wednesday was the 17th successive day of less than 1,000 new Covid-19 infections detected in Bengal. The state recorded a drop in its total of active cases for the 31st consecutive day by 118 to touch 12,391. Bengal now has 3.06 per cent of the national total of active cases, and is eighth among states with most such cases. With Calcutta logging 68 new infections and North 24-Parganas 91, Wednesday was also the 14th consecutive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections detected. Twenty districts reported double-digit figures while Malda, Murshidabad and Birbhum single-digit figures. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.6 per cent on Wednesday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Of the six deaths, one each was reported from Calcutta, North and South 24-Parganas and Hooghly. Eighteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths. The state now has a total of over 15.2 lakh Covid-19 cases since the onset of the pandemic, including 14.9 lakh recoveries and 18,027 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Martyrs’ Day: I will be with you as a worker, Mamata tells Delhi guests||Leading lights of nine Opposition parties on Wednesday joined the Trinamul Congress in Delhi to observe the July 21 Martyrs’ Day that commemorates the victims of police firing in Calcutta in 1993. The Opposition leaders included Sharad Pawar and Supriya Sule of the NCP, P. Chidambaram and Digvijaya Singh of the Congress, Ram Gopal Yadav and Jaya Bachchan of the Samajwadi Party, Tiruchi Siva of the DMK, D. Keshava Rao of the TRS, Sanjay Singh of the AAP, Manoj Jha of the RJD, Priyanka Chaturvedi of the Shiv Sena and Sardar Balwinder Singh Bhunder of the Shiromani Akali Dal. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s speech from Calcutta was beamed on giant screens beyond Bengal, including in states like Punjab, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, New Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh. This is the first time Opposition leaders from other states showed up for what is essentially a Trinamul event. They offered tributes to the martyrs. Mamata made it a point to refer to several Opposition leaders in her speech and insisted she would be a mere “worker” in the effort to forge an anti-BJP front. “Ek saath hoke gathbandhan taiyaar karein, aage barein, main aap logon ke saath ek hoke worker ke maafik ek saath larenge (Come together to form a united front. I will be with all of you in this fight as a worker),” the Trinamul leader said. Referring to the Pegasus controversy, Mamata said: “No, I cannot talk to Chidambaramji because my phone will be tapped. Sometimes, if I wish, I cannot talk to Sharad Pawarji. I cannot talk to, even, Delhi chief minister (Arvind Kejriwal). I cannot talk to Shiv Sena chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray of Maharashtra). I cannot talk to Andhra Pradesh chief minister (Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy). I cannot talk to Odisha chief minister (Naveen Patnaik). Why? What Pegasus?” Mamata is scheduled to visit Delhi soon. Although Mamata makes it a practice to visit Delhi when Parliament is in session, this time she comes with the additional aura of the convincing victory in the Assembly elections. In Delhi, the speech was shown on a giant screen put up at the Constitution Club. Also in attendance were Trinamul MPs who are in Delhi for the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament. The party also relaunched its mouthpiece, Jago Bangla, with Mamata’s new slogan: “Ebar Shopoth, Cholo Dilli (New Pledge, Chalo Delhi).” Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Martyrs’ Day: Trinamul Tripura chief, 80 others held for allegedly violating Covid restrictions||Trinamul supporters observed Martyrs’ Day across BJP-ruled Tripura on Wednesday, despite “Covid restrictions and administrative hurdles” leading to the preventive detention of its state unit president Ashish Lal Singh and supporters under Kailashahar police station in Unakoti district. Singh told this paper after his release that he was taken into custody soon after hoisting the party flag, around 11.30am, and released around 4.30pm, along with 80 party workers, for allegedly violating Covid-19 restrictions. Mamata Banerjee condemned the alleged harassment of party workers in BJP-ruled states on Martyrs’ Day. “I am aware that in Tripura, in other states… our party was not allowed to conduct the programme…. Only BJP will speak, nobody else will speak? Is this the ethos of our democracy?” she asked. According to Singh, the day was observed by offering floral tributes to the martyrs and hoisting the party flag in 54 of Tripura’s 60 Assembly seats despite alleged attempts by the BJP-led administration to disrupt the events on the pretext of Covid-19 curbs. Trinamul, in a first this year, streamed live Mamata’s Martyrs’ Day message on giant screens  at venues spread across Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Tripura, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Gujarat. But in Tripura, at least, many Trinamul supporters and the public were deprived of hearing the speech from the event venues, alleged Singh. “We installed five giant screens in as many places, two in state capital Agartala and one each in North District, Gomati and Dhalai districts, at a cost of Rs 25,000, but the vendor returned the advance,” said Singh, who said he was appointed state president of the party in December, 2017. Not to give up, the Dharmanagar party unit in North District set up a giant screen inside their office compound around 2pm. “Our Dharmanagar district leaders continued playing the Bengal chief minister’s recorded speech till late in the evening,” Singh said, alleging that BJP activists had damaged 10 bikes and an auto-rickshaw, belonging to Trinamul supporters, in Unakoti district on Tuesday night. Unakoti police officers said Singh and 35 others were detained as they had not taken permission from the administration to host the event, a must during the pandemic. Trinamul supporters have become active in Tripura after the party’s victory in Bengal. Recently, a song in Bengali, “Tripura koitase, Mamata-di aaitase (Tripura is saying, Mamata-di is coming)"”by singer Kamalika Chakraborty went viral in the state, capturing the sudden change in mood in favour of Trinamul, which also saw some BJP and CPM members joining the party. Trinamul, which lost its six MLAs to the BJP before the 2018 Assembly election in Tripura, sees an opportunity in the Bengali-majority Northeast state where both the Congress and the Left are struggling to stay afloat. “There is a wave. We will definitely win the 2023 polls here, because of BJP-IPFT’s misrule ” claimed Singh. The BJP-IPFT combine won the 2018 polls, ending the Left’s 25-year reign, but it has been tough sailing for the Biplab Deb government since. In other BJP-ruled states of Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Gujarat too, Trinamul alleged administrative harassment. Trinamul planned to hold 25 programmes to show the event live in Uttar Pradesh, but not a single one was allowed in the open, as the local administration refused permission. Trinamul leaders had to organise the event inside their local offices. “We had all arrangements ready to set up a stage roadside or outside our party offices to reach out to the people of Lucknow and other places in Uttar Pradesh. Interestingly, we were not given permission to hold our open programmes here on the grounds of Covid-19 safety protocols. The Yogi Adityanath government is afraid to air the voice of Mamata Banerjee,” said Sukhendu Sekhar Roy, Trinamul’s national spokesperson, from Lucknow. Other leaders said the same happened in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, where many flexes put up to campaign for the virtual show were removed and the local administration stopped to broadcast at many places. Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee tweeted the party’s condemnation of such incidents. “We strongly condemn the attack on @AITCofficial supporters in @BJP4India ruled states. We will NOT be cowed down by such intimidation tactics!” posted the party’s No. 2. “On #ShahidDibas let me reiterate that TRINAMOOL will not budge an inch in its fight against the oppressive forces. COME WHAT MAY!” he added in his post on the microblogging site. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Visitors from Sikkim face riders||The administrations of Darjeeling and Kalimpong districts, which share borders with Sikkim, have issued separate notifications imposing conditions on the entry of people from the neighbouring Himalayan state. The restrictions, to kick in from Thursday, come close on the heels of the Sikkim government announcing that 97 patients in the neighbouring state had been detected with the Delta variant of the coronavirus. The notifications issued by the district magistrates state that people, including drivers and helpers of vehicles, can enter Kalimpong and Darjeeling districts through border points at Rangpo and Melli from Sikkim only if they have a double-vaccination certificate or the negative report of an RTPCR test done within 72 of their travel or a similar report of a rapid antigen test (RAT) within 48 hours, said an official of the Darjeeling district administration. A few days back, the Sikkim government imposed similar restrictions for tourists, allowing the entry of fully vaccinated people only. In case of a family where some members are fully vaccinated but others are aged below 18 years or have got only the first dose, they can enter Sikkim with a negative report of an RTPCR test not older than 72 hours. The Bengal government had imposed similar restrictions at the interstate border of Assam a recently  amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the Northeast. Those associated with the tourism industry have welcomed the decision but pointed out that the administrations of both Darjeeling and Kalimpong need to clarify rules for entry of tourists from within Bengal itself. They pointed out that in some places of Bengal like Digha, Santiniketan and western Dooars (under Jalpaiguri district), local administrative notifications for tourists mandate an RTPCR negative report or vaccination certificate before hotel check-in. No such notification has come from  Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Alipurduar.  “A specific notification will empower hotel and resort owners to ask their guests for vaccination or test report documents,” said Samrat Sanyal, general secretary, Himalayan Hospitality & Tourism Development Network.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Martyrs’ Day: Two dead, three injured as TMC camps clash over venue ||A youth and an elderly woman were killed during a clash on Wednesday allegedly between two Trinamul factions in North 24-Parganas over the venue for the Martyrs’ Day virtual event. Trinamul supporters Laxmi Bala, 75, and Sanjib Jana, 35, at Mohonpur village were rushed to nearby Haroa rural hospital, where doctors declared them dead. Three others were critically injured. Party insiders claimed the incident was the fallout of a feud between two factions led by Trinamul leaders Tapan Roy and Jaggeswar Pramanik. Pramanik, the local area president of the party, allegedly involved in a power struggle with Roy over  the Mohonpur gram panchayat. Youth wing leader Roy is the observer of local panchayat committee. Police and local sources said the incident occurred at about 2.30pm when goons allegedly linked with Pramanik opened fire at close aides of Roy who were returning home after attending the party event. The rivals retaliated with bombs. Roy alleged the bullets were fired from the home of Changramari village Trinamul booth president Bhaskar Das. He added Laxmi Bala, was fatally injured as she got trapped in the crosshairs of the clash, fell down and was trampled on. Jana got a gunshot wound. Insiders claimed that earlier this week, Pramanik objected to the way Roy planned the July 21 event at Mohonpur, but did not get much support and hence attacked his rivals on Wednesday. Pramanik dismissed the allegations. “A large police force has also been deployed in the area and 18 goons involved in the clash have been arrested,” said Joby Thomas K, superintendent of Basirhat police district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||West Bengal||Martyrs’ Day: Mamata gives morale boost to TMC workers for 2024 polls||Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Martyrs’ Day call on Wednesday to form a front to counter the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls turned out to be a tonic for Trinamul Congress leaders and workers in Bengal districts as they felt the lack of such an exhortation was one of the reasons for the saffron camp’s victory in 18 Lok Sabha seats in the state in 2019. Mamata asked her party to prepare for the 2024 fight against the BJP and advised Trinamul workers to give priority to women, youths and students as they had contributed greatly to the victory in the Assembly polls. “We have to make a better Trinamul (unnototoro Trinamul )... I pay my respect towards women, youths and my students who played a great role to bring us to power for the third time. We need to make ourselves better by prioritising them,” Mamata said. Trinamul insiders said before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Mamata had called for a greater alliance by organising a mega rally at Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta, but this time, she has focussed on a better organisation. “In 2019, we were asked to go for an all-out drive in January and it was too late to counter the BJP. Now the call has come early and it will help us plan properly. Now, we can set our target for 2024. The call is stronger this time because the Assembly poll victory has given her the confidence that she can defeat Narendra Modi,” said a senior Trinamul leader. Analysing Mamata’s speech, political scientist Biswanath Chakraborty said: “Mamata’s early call will help Trinamul exploit the anti-Modi government sentiment on the ground on issues like vaccine shortage and Covid-19 mismanagement.” Trinamul leaders in districts like Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and Hooghly, where the BJP had performed well in 2019 but failed to repeat the feat in the Assembly polls, said the party supremo’s guidelines to improve organisational strength were being seen as a critical input. “The Assembly polls in 2021 under the chief minister’s leadership taught us a lot. We were behind in all Assembly segments but one in 2019, but this year, we won three seats in the district. Going by her advice, we will launch drives to counter the BJP on issues like hike in the prices of fuel, cooking gas and others,” said Nabendu Mahali, a Trinamul spokesperson in Purulia. Trinamul leaders also acknowledged that the defeat in the Assembly polls had broken the backbone of the BJP to a great extent and was evident in the trend of supporters and local leaders of the saffron camp switching sides. Even on Martyrs’ Day, the trend to desert the BJP and join Trinamul continued at several places in Bengal. On Wednesday, a group of BJP leaders and workers in Jhargram, Bankura and Purulia joined Trinamul. Asked about the success of Wednesday’s virtual event, Trinamul’s national spokesperson Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said: “We had set a target to reach out to one crore people through our Martyrs’ Day programme this year. According to our report, we have crossed the number. Apart from those present at viewing sites, an uncountable number of people watched Mamata’s Banerjee’s speech on social media.” Trinamul leaders in the districts said to adhere to Covid norms, they had to request a large number of people to leave venues. Birbhum Trinamul chief Anubrata Mondal said the event was held at no less than 3,800 booths in the south Bengal district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-164
22-07-2021||North East||NPF joins ruling alliance to push for the Naga peace process||Nagaland will have an Opposition-less state Assembly for the second time after the Naga People’s Front decided to join the ruling alliance to push for an early solution to the Naga peace process. Senior NPF leaders have confirmed the development, adding that the party will, however, maintain its identity. Though the ruling NDPP welcomed the NPF proposal of an Opposition-less government at an emergency meeting held on Tuesday evening, it will consult its alliance partner BJP before taking the move forward. The BJP has till now maintained a studied silence while the Opposition Congress claimed the move was aimed at delaying a solution to the Naga political problem. Asked about the decision to join the government, NPF secretary general Achumbemo Kikon told the media: “Correct… correct. We have a consistent stand on the Naga peace process... to expedite the Naga peace process. We were there and we are still there supporting the government. Towards that endeavour an idea was mooted to form an Opposition-less government to push the Naga peace process to a logical conclusion....” The ruling People’s Democratic Alliance (PDA) comprises the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) and the BJP, which unseated the NPF in the 2018 Assembly elections. In the 60-member Assembly, the ruling alliance has 34 members — NDPP 20, BJP 12 and 2 Independent MLAs, while the Opposition NPF has 25 legislators. One seat is vacant. Asked when the move would be concretised, Kikon said: “The party has endorsed the legislature wing’s concept of an Opposition-less government... to discuss, deliberate on it and come up with the possibility of working with the present government to expedite the process.... We have to go a little steady…. The final shape will hopefully emerge within a week’s time. The NPF will, however, maintain its separate identity both within and outside the Assembly.” NPF legislature party spokesperson Imkong L. Imchen said the decision was taken on Monday at the Dimapur residence of leader of the Opposition T.R. Zeliang to facilitate an early solution to the Naga peace process. Though the government and the Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs) claim that the peace talks concluded in October 2019, the NSCN (I-M) has asserted there cannot be any forward movement without a favourable decision on their twin demands for a separate flag and constitution. The NSCN (I-M) and the government have been in a ceasefire since 1997. This is the second time after 2015 that the state will be without an Opposition in the Assembly if the move materialises. In 2015, all the eight Opposition Congress MLAs had joined the NPF, which headed the Democratic Alliance of Nagaland (DAN) government. The then Zeliang government included 46 MLAs from the NPF, four from the BJP, one each from the JDU and NCP and eight Independents. The council of ministers cannot exceed 12 in the 60-member House. Like Kikon and Imchen now, Zeliang had said in 2015 that an Opposition-less Assembly would boost the ongoing Naga peace process. The NPF decision came on the eve of the scheduled meetings between the recently formed Core Committee on Naga Political Issue with the working committee of the NNPGs on Tuesday and the NSCN (I-M) on Wednesday. Headed by chief minister Neiphiu Rio, the core committee, formed in June, has MLAs from all parties. At the meetings, the NNPGs will be led by its convener N. Kitovi Zhimomi, while NSCN (I-M) will be represented by its general secretary Th. Muivah. The committee had mooted “one solution, one agreement” to the one of the oldest insurgencies in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
22-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Navjot Singh Sidhu becomes Punjab Congress chief, men’s spending patterns cause more emissions than women||Wrong choice Sir — With less than a year to go for the Punjab assembly elections, the Congress has appointed the former minister, Navjot Singh Sidhu, as its state unit chief in spite of reservations expressed by the chief minister, Amarinder Singh (“Sceptre games”, July 21). It would help to remember that Sidhu had spent 13 years in the Bharatiya Janata Party before joining the Congress four years ago and had also flirted with the idea of joining the Aam Aadmi Party in between. Sidhu joined the Congress ahead of the 2017 assembly elections. He was given a cabinet berth in the state government but fell out with the chief minister soon enough. Singh did not approve of Sidhu’s visits to Pakistan and was also opposed to providing a ticket to the latter’s wife for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Moreover, Sidhu has scant support among party workers, with many arguing that his elevation is a result of his association with the Gandhis. On the other hand, Singh commands the respect of the people. Whether Sidhu’s appointment as state president is harmful for the government and the party will be clear in the upcoming months. It will be a significant challenge for Sidhu to garner the support of the old guard, particularly the long-time loyalists of the chief minister. As of now, it seems that the crisis within the Punjab Congress has come to an end. But the forced and uneasy truce is fragile. In the run-up to the assembly elections, the nomination of party candidates and other critical decisions might trigger another round of friction, hampering the party’s poll prospects. Sidhu must bury the hatchet with Singh; they must work together for the 2022 assembly elections. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — For now, Navjot Singh Sidhu, as the state unit president, might have his way and prevail over Amarinder Singh, but it does not augur well for the Congress. The Punjab assembly elections are a few months away and it is one of the only states where the Congress can still hope to win. It is an open secret that the Congress won the 2017 elections simply because of the goodwill and reach of Singh amongst the voters. Alienating the chief minister who, unlike Sidhu, is a mass leader, is not a wise move. The Gandhis should have thought things through before taking this controversial decision. Bal Govind,Noida Sir — Since Navjot Singh Sidhu is close to the Gandhi family, it was a foregone conclusion that he would get a vital post in the Punjab Congress Committee. Thus, his elevation to the position of state unit chief is not surprising. This, however, will now pose problems for the chief minister, Amarinder Singh. Sidhu and Singh have been at loggerheads with each other for a while. This animosity will certainly reflect in the crucial decisions — including the selection of candidates — that need to be taken for the 2022 polls. One can only hope that the two will work out their differences before the party’s electoral prospects are irreparably damaged. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — The Congress high command has made a blunder by appointing Navjot Singh Sidhu as state unit chief. The repercussions of going against the wishes of Amarinder Singh, a strong regional leader, will be felt in the upcoming polls. As chief minister, Singh has tackled crises well and has further endeared himself to the people. On the other hand, Sidhu is mostly in the news for his constant barrage of criticism against the chief minister. The common people in Punjab will not look at this development favourably. D.V.G. Sankararao,Nellimarla, Andhra Pradesh  Take note Sir — A comparative analysis between single men and women in Sweden found that men’s spending patterns cause 16 per cent more emissions than women. This disparity is primarily a result of men spending on fuel for their cars. An earlier study found that in families with only one car, men used the vehicle more often to go to work while women opted for public transport. The European Union’s Green Deal has been criticized for failing to take into account the intersection of gender and environment. Policymakers must understand that gender is a crucial factor in the battle against climate change. Rishita Chakraborty,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
22-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Civilly solved||Mediation in disputes before going to court is not entirely new in India. Speaking at the India-Singapore Mediation Summit, the chief justice of India, N.V. Ramana, referred to a number of laws relating to commerce, industry and real estate that have provisions for compulsory pretrial mediation. The CJI expressed the need for a parliamentary enactment, an ‘omnibus’ law, to make mediation mandatory before a case comes to court. Mediation or conciliation and arbitration through an alternative dispute resolution system would not only lessen the pressure on courts but would also help citizens by reducing expense and time. Also, it would allow them to participate as ‘insiders’ with some control over the outcome of the process. The CJI reportedly saw ADR or mediation as a tool of social justice because it could provide ‘solace’ to litigants from the ‘middle or poorer’ sections of society. Alluding to the success of the ADR facility in Telangana and of Lok Adalats, the CJI felt that India should go into mission mode to ensure pretrial mediation before trial. The omnibus law is needed to ensure its legitimacy and enforcement. There can be no doubt about the importance of mediation as the CJI seems to envision it. The ideal, however, may not always inform the real. The CJI reportedly referred to India’s tradition of mediation — the archetypal mediator being Krishna — conducted by chieftains or elders of the community, or merchant bodies in the case of merchants before the establishment of the ‘adversarial’ legal system of the British. But the tradition has continued in perverse — and illegitimate — ways, through khap panchayats and local shalishi bodies. Dominant interests of gender, caste, community and wealth are alive and kicking in their ‘decisions’, making nonsense of social justice ideals. Clearly, it is not just what the CJI calls ‘luxurious litigation’ by richer parties with vested interests which frustrate justice. Therefore, any provision for mandatory mediation will have to be enacted with especial care. Community bodies such as panchayats ‘mediate’ — they are not supposed to — in complaints of rape, for example. Surely the law on mandatory mediation would include only civil disputes? The enactment of such a law must define its limits precisely and ensure that gender, caste, religious and other biases that afflict Indian society are eliminated from the process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
22-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Big brothers||Surveillance, real or imagined, is emblematic of both absolute power as well as its corruption. The United States of America and its allies recently accused China of being the patron of a global espionage ring. The relationship between totalitarian polities and the principle of civil liberties is, admittedly, fraught. But this is not to say that democratic regimes have an unenviable record in this respect. There are reports that the cell phones of several members of the French government, including that of the president, were among the potential targets of sophisticated surveillance by the spyware, Pegasus, that is manufactured by an Israeli firm which, it is believed, makes its product accessible to government agencies only. Pegasus’s tentacles, a media collective has asserted, have breached the frontiers of several countries and India, worryingly, is among them. The word — it needs to be corroborated with forensic and other evidence — is that snooping operations were conducted against leaders of the Opposition, journalists, human rights activists, lawyers and even some members of the government. The persistence of such charges against the Narendra Modi government — similar accusations had been hurled two years ago — is a matter of concern. Of course, such eavesdropping is not unprecedented. The Watergate scandal in the US is reminiscent of a similar blot in the history of a nation that prides itself as a torchbearer of freedom. Mass domestic surveillance of citizens by the US’s National Security Agency is well-documented. This only goes to show that the minders of national security — undoubtedly a crucial component in statecraft — can often share testy ties with institutions that claim to be defendants of democracy. It would be instructive to examine whether the nations accused of surreptitiously watching its own citizens are also the ones with the poorest rankings in international registers of press freedom. Technological surveillance will continue to be a reality in polities irrespective of the nature of governance. This calls for two simultaneous interventions. First, those with stakes in protecting the democratic ethos — the judiciary, media, civil society — must forge a compact and create checks and balances against this intrusion. Watergate cost an American president his seat only because of such collaboration. The second would be to sensitize data protection laws to ward off this threat. India’s data protection bill is yet to see the light of day and, even more worryingly, it includes the provision of exemption to State agencies invoking the clause of national security. There is a need to re-examine this kind of indemnity in the light of the Pegasus controversy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
22-07-2021||Opinion||Trying hard to make some gains||In the recent reshuffle of the Union council of ministers, three more candidates from the Northeast were inducted as ministers, bringing up the region’s total to five. Two among them are of cabinet rank — Kiren Rijiju from Arunachal Pradesh, who was already minister of state (independent charge) for youth affairs and sports, has been elevated to Union minister for law and justice, while the former chief minister of Assam, Sarbananda Sonowal, was made Union minister  of Ayush as well as of ports, shipping and waterways. The latter deal is obviously part of the settlement for Sonowal being made to forgo claims to continue as the chief minister of Assam after the state assembly elections in April in order to make way for the Bharatiya Janata Party’s blue-eyed boy in the state, Himanta Biswa Sarma. The other three from the Northeast are Tripura’s Pratima Bhoumik (social justice and empowerment); Assam’s Rameswar Teli, who gets the petroleum and natural gas portfolio; and Manipur’s Rajkumar Ranjan Singh (foreign affairs and education). All are ministers of state without independent charge. Much has already been written about the possible reasons for this mid-term reshuffle, but in the Northeast, the excluded states rather than the included seem to indicate a more interesting story of the BJP’s anxiety about its future prospect in the region. Of the seven northeastern states (excluding Sikkim), four are BJP-ruled and all the five ministers named are from these states. This is understandable. The three excluded states — Nagaland, Meghalaya and Mizoram — are predominantly tribal and Christian states, and the signs seem to indicate that the BJP is giving up hope of ever becoming the dominant party here. This is in spite of the fact that the BJP is currently piggyback riding on state parties to share power in Nagaland and Meghalaya. In Nagaland, the party has 12 legislative assembly members in the House of 60, but this was possible only because of the seat-sharing arrangement with the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party of the chief minister, Neiphiu Rio. In Meghalaya, the BJP has two MLAs, but is in the ruling coalition headed by the National People’s Party led by the chief minister, Conrad Sangma. In Mizoram, now ruled by the Mizo National Front under the leadership of Zoramthanga, the BJP managed to win only one seat. If this is the BJP’s Northeast anxiety, the message in the recent ministerial reshuffle seems to be that it is looking to consolidate its base in the three states in which it feels its ideology of Hindutva can take root. In the Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Assam assemblies, the party is a little sure-footed. Manipur is where it is likely to face some uncertainty. In the last assembly election in February 2017, it won only 21 seats, behind the Congress’s 28 in the House of 60. Yet it could form the government through means fair and foul, and with liberal help from the governor, Najma Heptulla. The party at that time also had to give away eight cabinet berths to partners to secure their support, leaving only four, including that of the chief minister, for those who won on BJP tickets to share, causing a lot of heartburn in the party. Now that the next elections are due in seven months, the party obviously feels the need to create fresh goodwill amongst the electorate and confidence among its putative candidates. The inclusion of a member of parliament from the state in the Union ministry would partly be a strategy towards this. Judging by the general euphoria generated, the strategy does seem to be having the desired effect for now. The choice of Ranjan would also be to address other concerns. As an MoS without independent charge, he would only be handling specific tasks within the two ministries he is placed in. He is a seasoned academic who specialized in geography and had served as registrar of Manipur University before retirement. He is also known for his interest in issues related to the India-Myanmar border. As MoS for foreign affairs, he could be asked to handle Indo-Myanmar cooperation in border affairs, including counter-insurgency measures. Considering the nature of insurgency in the Northeast — in Manipur above all — this can be a daunting and sensitive mission. Before him, another MP from the state, Meijinlung Kamson, had been made MoS for home affairs during 1995-1996, while Rajesh Pilot was the Union minister for internal security, and it is significant that it was during this period that the legwork for the ceasefire with the Naga insurgent group, the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah), which commenced in 1997, was initiated. It is reasonable to anticipate then that  with Ranjan in charge, the Centre may be hoping for such breakthroughs with regard to some or all Manipur insurgent groups still at large. As MoS for education, Ranjan is likely to be asked to explore the possibilities of upgrading the presence of northeastern history in the national school and college syllabi. This, too, is unlikely to be a cake-walk, considering the entangled nature of much of the region’s history. The recent controversies over the National Register of Citizens, and the Citizenship (Amendment) Act as well as the many claims of exclusive ethnic identities, lands and homelands, are some indicators of the likely roadblocks ahead. Pradip Phanjoubam is editor, Imphal Review of Arts and Politics||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
22-07-2021||Opinion||A common tune||In its initial phase, the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic left a trail of devastation across India, leading to the Narendra Modi government being at the receiving end of international media outrage and charges that the authorities had taken their eye off the ball. However, the discomfiture proved remarkably short-lived. Starting with the mass vaccination programme that was initiated in mid-June, the government regained its old sense of purposefulness and this paid handsome political dividends in the district body elections in Uttar Pradesh — interpreted in some political circles as an important pointer to the state assembly elections next year. The confidence of the Modi government was on full display in the Rajya Sabha debate on Wednesday on the state of pandemic management in India. While there was all-round concern that the much-awaited third wave would hit India, it was also tempered by the optimism that the hiccups witnessed during the initial stages of the second wave wouldn’t be repeated. Compared to, say, the United Kingdom, where there are alarmist suggestions that the Covid-19 tally in the third wave would be as high as 200,000 new infections each day, the official reaction in India was one of quiet confidence — an approach that shouldn’t be equated with denial. The confidence appears to be based primarily on the progress of the vaccination programme that began in mid-June. According to official figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare, the total number of people vaccinated (by either a single jab or both) was 41.18 crore as of July 20, with more than 50 lakh people being added each day. Without necessarily falling back on Boris Johnson’s evocative imagery of vaccines being the “cavalry over the hill”, it would seem that India, too, is confident that the third wave will be met by a human wall of the vaccinated. Certainly, without specifying a date by which India could be declared safe from the killer effects of a constantly mutating coronavirus, the new minister, Mansukh L. Mandaviya, reeled off data to suggest that India’s vaccine production capacity would be able to considerably narrow the existing gap between supply and demand. The Modi government is also understandably proud of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package that provides free basic rations of five kilogrammes of wheat or rice and a kilo of pulses to nearly 80 crore individuals or nearly two-thirds of India’s population. In addition, there have been direct cash transfers of varying amounts to farmers, women with Jan Dhan bank accounts, senior citizens and the disabled. The comprehensive relief package of Rs 1.70 lakh crore has certainly been a significant welfare cushion for large numbers of people who have seen their lives adversely affected by the pandemic and the enforced restrictions on normal life. Although criticized by some economists and Opposition parties for not favouring more cash transfers that can accommodate individual priorities, the Garib Kalyan package can be said to broadly correspond to an observation by the economist, Abhijit Banerjee, that: “The goal of social policy, in these times of change and anxiety, is to help people absorb the shocks that affect them without allowing those shocks to affect their view of themselves.” The government’s ability to hold a nation’s nerve is likely to be of some importance in the coming days. With the second wave having spread to rural India — nearly 50 per cent of all new cases are being reported from villages — and vaccine hesitancy being the most pronounced outside urban clusters, there is concern over what form the third wave will take in India. Additionally, the long-term after-effects of Covid on the health of individuals may pose problems for the overall health of the country. All in all, there is a growing concern that a virulent third wave could have a more serious effect on the country’s health and economy than the previous two waves of the pandemic. As the virus tries to keep a few steps ahead of the human determination to survive, the projection among Western optimists that post-vaccination, “Covid-19 has been downgraded as a nasty bug which is now no more lethal than viruses such as influenza” may not necessarily be applicable in the Orient. All this is in the realm of conjecture since clarity on the third wave hasn’t been forthcoming. This makes it imperative that in the political sphere at least, India bolsters its defences and irons out the rough edges that have either plagued the political class elsewhere or been exposed at different times since the big lockdown of March 2020. A prescriptive approach involves incorporating three principles of governance. The first is flexibility and open-mindedness, particularly in the realm of health policy. In theory, all governments claim to be guided by the advice of scientists and other domain experts. The first lockdown, for example, was dictated by the need to ‘flatten the curve’ by trying to minimize interaction between people. It was meant as a short, sharp, shock treatment and was part of an international trend stretching from Europe to China. The results were mixed, although in the case of India, the national freeze provided the breathing space for upgrading medical facilities and developing capacities in basic medical equipment. However, there was never any unanimity among the experts, and this discord extended to the treatment of Covid patients and the choice of vaccines. Since medical science itself evolved rapidly and often in conflicting directions, policymakers had to be open-minded and guided by flexibility. Certitudes ran the risk of travelling in a completely wrong direction. Secondly, the management of a pandemic has involved revitalizing the State and putting it at the forefront of social and political interventions. The efficiency and integrity of the public distribution system and public health bodies have been tested and, of course, need further improvements. At the heart of the matter is the need to enhance public trust in the State. The two principles that should determine the way forward are transparency and fairness. The pandemic holds out big challenges to the entire political class. The integrity of public reporting has been imperfectly established. Only too often, particularly in the initial days of the pandemic, Covid deaths were seriously under-reported. Again, in the management of containment measures, there has been a tendency to be discriminatory and even use provisions of the Disaster Management Act to settle political scores. There have been accusations, not least in West Bengal, of people being excluded from the vaccination programme on account of their political preferences. Partisan conduct affects the standing of the State for fairness and, ultimately, affects public trust in the State and its institutions. This needs to change. Finally, the Constitution has stipulated that health is a state subject. However, it has always been clear that state governments with limited monetary and human resources were never going to be successful in meeting the Covid-19 challenge by upholding regional autonomy. The insistence of, say, the West Bengal government to purchase vaccines globally turned out to be an empty boast and had to be quickly abandoned. The challenge has necessitated a growing dependence on the Centre. Yet, the shift has been grudging and even graceless. Consequently, the absence of coordination and mutual reliance has been evident. The seriousness of the threat confronting the nation and, indeed, all of humankind means that petty one-upmanship must be eschewed — at least until this war on the virus lasts — and replaced by an inclination to march to a common tune. This again demands a mindset transformation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia farmer kills pregnant daughter for inter-caste marriage||A Jharia based vegetable retailer killed his 20-year-old pregnant daughter for marrying a man from another caste of his locality on Wednesday night. The accused, Rajkumar Sao, a resident of Barfkal in Jharia took his daughter and wife to Nawatand area of Govindpur police station on the pretext of showing them a newly purchased land where he attacked the daughter from behind and fled. Sunita Devi, mother of the deceased, lodged an FIR against her husband for killing his daughter. Police later reached the site and recovered the body of Khusi Kumari alias Khusbu Kumari and collected other evidence and sent the body for post mortem. Khusi Kumari married Karan Bauri, a petrol pump staff of Saraidhela and a neighbour of Rajkumar Sao at Barf Kal, eight months ago against the wishes of her father by eloping to Bengal. Sunita Devi, shocked by the incident, first reported the incident to Jharia police but was later sent to Govindpur police station where she narrated the entire story after which  police swung into action, recovered the dead body and launched raids to arrest him. Sources in the Barfkal locality said that Rajkumar Sao, suffered a setback due to his daughter’s marriage with a youth of another caste of his locality and he tried in vain to convince his daughter to leave Bauri. Sao, who was nursing a grudge against his elder daughter, arranged and solemnized the marriage of his younger daughter on July 16 with a youth of his caste. “Nobody knew what was going in his mind although he was in depression after the marriage of his elder daughter,” said a relative of Rajkumar Sao at Jharia. The DSP of Govindpur, Amar Kumar Pandey, said,“The accused was not happy with the marriage of her daughter with a youth of his locality and prima facie it seems that he killed her as part of a conspiracy on Wednesday night and later fled the site.” “We have sent the dead body for post-mortem and began raids to arrest him on the basis of a complaint lodged by the deceased's mother,” said Pandey.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Visually impaired team wins first state para event||The four-member visually impaired team sprung a big surprise by emerging champions in the first bocce competition for students of special schools organised by Jamshedpur Para Sports Association at Children's Park in Sonari on Thursday. The team of Krishna, Sanjana, Ramdhan (Divyajyoti Netrahin Vidyalaya and Anita (National School for the Blind) exhibited a great sense of hearing while competing in the event. It received a huge round of applause from the guests, including chief guest and deputy superintendent of police (traffic) Babban Singh. The team members rolled the ball nearest to the target while stamping their authority. The participants walked home with a cash reward. Bocce is played with eight large balls and one smaller target or object ball called a pallina. For one player teams, each player throws four balls. When there are multiple players in a team, a playing rotation is determined at the start of a game and is maintained throughout the entire game. "The performance of the visually impaired team surprised us a lot. It was unbelievable and a great achievement to say the least. All members of the team are totally blind and sense the target on hearing the sound of a bell. Plaudits to the team." said Jamshedpur Para Sports Association president Avtar Singh. Singh, a seven time national cycling champion who captained the Indian team in 1982 Asian Games in New Delhi, added that the visually impaired generally don't get an opportunity to perform. They can very well display their talent if given an opportunity," he pointed out. Singh, who also happens to be the secretary of Jharkhand Para Sports Association (JPSA), promised that the state association would provide ample opportunity to the visually impaired and help them perform. The visually impaired outfit edged out joint team Jeevika and School of Hope (intellectually impaired) and La Gravitea (hearing impaired) who finished second and third, respectively. The competition was organised jointly by Jamshedpur Para Sports Association (an affiliated unit of JPSA) and Jeevika, an NGO working for the promotion of intellectually impaired. Former international cyclist Inderjeet Singh, social worker Jawaharlal Sharma, ND Subramaniam and Sushant Singh were among those present on the occasion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand Congress seeks judicial probe into Pegasus affair ||Over a hundred Congress party members, holding banners and posters against the Modi government at the Centre, marched to Raj Bhavan and held a sit-in there for over two hours on Thursday to demand the resignation of Union home minister Amit Shah and a judicial probe into the Centre's alleged attempts to snoop on  journalists, activists and politicians using Pegasus, an Israel-made spyware. The Congress, which is part of the ruling JMM-led alliance government in Jharkhand, denounced the Centre for attacking individual’s right to privacy. "The party will settle for nothing less for the illegal acts committed by the Modi government," said state party president Rameshwar Oraon. "One by one, the Modi government has been denting democratic institutions and now people’s right to privacy, enshrined in the Constitution, is also being violated. The Supreme Court must take cognizance and institute a judicial probe and the home minister must go,” he demanded. Over 150 party men took part in the political congregation. State agriculture minister and Jarmundi MLA Badal Patralekh wondered if anyone was safe in the country today. “From bedroom to bathroom, we are being watched by Modiji. He is so terrified and insecure that no one seems to be safe in this country,” he said. Notably, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) too attacked the Centre after the controversy surfaced, demanding a joint parliamentary probe (JPC) to unearth the truth.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Twin fires at old airport building, police headquarters in Ranchi||Fire broke out at two high-security buildings in Ranchi, one at Birsa Munda Airport and the other at Jharkhand Police Headquarters in Dhurwa, on Thursday, triggering panic among staff members. While fire-fighting teams swung into action and doused the flames within minutes at both buildings, the reason behind the fires was yet to be ascertained by the time this report was filed. No casualties were reported in any of the two buildings. However, furniture and other items were gutted at both places, said eyewitnesses. At about 11.15 am, airport staff saw smoke emanating from the room of the Chief Airport Security Officer (CASO) situated in the old airport complex, used as as an office now. Firefighters rushed to the spot to douse the fire, while airport staffers moved jet fuel tankers away at a safe distance from the site. “The fire did not affect flights scheduled for take-off and landing on Thursday,” said the airport director. “With god’s grace, we managed to avert a major tragedy and no casualties were reported. Our fire fighters swung into action as soon as possible and doused the fire within 15 minutes,” said Ranchi airport director Vinod Sharma, adding that some sofa sets and tables were gutted in the incident. A highly placed source at the airport said that at least five jet fuel tankers were at a distance of less than 100 meters from the site of the incident when the fire broke out and moving them away at a safer distance was the first priority of the airport staff. “We kept our calm and simply followed the rule book for fire fighting to avert a disaster,” he said. Barely a few hours later at 2pm, another fire broke out at the Tracking, Network & System (TNS) section on the second floor of the Police Headquarters. The staff members had to use emergency fire extinguishers available on campus to prevent the fire from spreading. Eyewitnesses said there was no major loss of property in the incident, but some old files were burnt to ashes . Although fire tenders reached the police headquarters within 30 minutes, staff members had already controlled the blaze by then, sources said. Sources said that a short circuit could be the reason behind the fire incidents in both buildings. However, no official statement regarding the cause of the fire or losses incurred due to it was issued by the airport authorities or Jharkhand police till evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia residents stuck in vulnerable coal zones as Covid stalls rehab||The Jharia rehabilitation has once again taken a backseat due to the second phase of Covid after some spate of activity between December 2020 and March 2021. The gravity of the situation can be ascertained from the fact that not a single family’s rehabilitation has been carried out from the fire affected areas to safer places after April, although more than 20 incidents of gas emission, subsidence and house collapse have taken place since the onset of monsoon. In one of recent incidents, a 28-year-old youth of Kenduadih had sustained 80 per cent burn injuries after falling into a crater on July 18. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Wednesday, Rajendra Paswan, a resident of Kujama area of Jharia, one of the underground fire affected sites said, “The coal company BCCL has been given responsibility to carry out some temporary shifting in view of any incident during monsoon but not a single shifting has been carried out by Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority (JRDA), the agency meant for executing Jharia Master plan.” Murari Sharma, an octogenarian resident of Jharia who is also the working president of Jharia Coalfield Bachao Samiti, a citizen's group said, “Discussions were held with a few residents on January 16, this year for preparing a revised master plan as the existing Jharia master plan has completed its tenure of 12 years with rehabilitation of only around 5 thousand families out of total 1.04 lakh families.” “We are not hopeful of any movement forward as there is no comprehensive policy with regard to shifting of Legal Title Holders (owners of land and property) and until and unless lucrative package is announced for them the rehabilitation is not likely to accelerate,” charged Sharma and added that under the original Jharia master plan they were offering a 50 square meter land for the Legal Title Holders which was not an acceptable proposal. Notably, only 6358 quarters have so far been constructed by JRDA at Belgarhia for rehabilitating non legal title holder (encroachers) of fire affected sites at Belgarhia area of Baliapur block. S.K.Choudhary, Chief Manager of Jharia Rehabilitation and Development Authority, said, “Construction of 8000 more quarters are in progress at Belharia for non LTH families under three different phases of work out of which 88% work of 2000 quarters in complete, while 70% work of m more 2000 quarters is also ready while 50% work of remaining 4000 quarters has been completed and work is still under progress.” He accepted that Covid had slightly affected the pace of civil as well as rehabilitation work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant inaugurates coal town varsity's new campus ||The Binod Bihari Mahto Koyalanchal University (BBKKU) on Thursday inaugurated its own campus spread across 25 acres of Bhelatand Mouza at its first convocation after operating from the abandoned building of Government Polytechnic Institute Nirsa ever since its inception more than four years ago. The seven-storey administrative building along with the five storey academic block was inaugurated virtually by chief minister Hemant Soren from Ranchi in the presence of lawmakers, ministers and university officials, degree recipients, teachers and researchers at Bhelatand. Notably, both the buildings constructed at a cost of around Rs 348 crore by Jharkhand State Building Construction Corporation Limited are part of a series of buildings, including the Central Library, Vice Chancellor’s Bungalow, Examination department building, central auditorium planned at Bhelatand, for which construction is on. Addressing the gathering online from Ranchi, Chief Minister Hemant Soren said, “At the time of pandemic when almost all the activities have been affected, continuing education is also a big challenge when university, colleges and schools are also lying closed.” “Though, online mode of education is practice but everyone is not able to take full benefit of online education due to various constraints and we are working to ensure the full benefit of online education for all through technological infrastructure development,” said Soren. He also exhorted the universities to launch such courses, which can fulfil the manpower requirement of various government departments and cited the example of shortage of Amin’s in revenue department as found during a recent review of the revenue department and suggested the BBMKU,Vice Chancellor, Anjani Kumar Srivastava to launch the course of Amin so that the manpower shortage can be meted out. Ramesh Bais, Jharkhand governor cum chancellor of state universities, in his pre-recorded statement said, “The degree recipients and pass outs of the university with receipt of the degrees have been entrusted today with the responsibility of solving the challenging issues facing the society, nation and humanity at large through the knowledge earned by them during the course of their education.” “In the era of globalisation and commercialisation when new challenges are being posed before the society everyday besides the opportunities the onus of turning all the challenges into opportunities lies upon the academia” further said Bais. Vice Chancellor Anjani Kumar Srivastava in his address to students, teachers, researchers and degree recipients, apprised them about the journey of the last four years and challenges that turned into the opportunity of establishing a university deprived of its own building, senate, syndicate which were gradually overcome one by one. Notably, altogether 51 toppers of two successive batches of  Post Graduation ( 2017-19 batch, 2018-20 batch) and under graduation (2016-19, 2017-20) were provided gold medals during the offline function at CIMFR auditorium while degrees to around 60,203 students were awarded online through the colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||IMD warns of heavy rain, flash floods till Saturday in Jharkhand ||IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre has issued an alert for heavy rains with the possibility of flash floods in several areas across Jharkhand for the next 48 hours, pointing out that the monsoon trough was passing through Ranchi. "The active monsoon trough, coupled with a cyclonic circulation and low- pressure zone, would result in heavy rain, especially in central, north western and southern Jharkhand during the next two days," a duty officer at Ranchi Met office said on Thursday, terming the warning as a "yellow alert", issued when there are chances of heavy rain with the possibility of flash floods. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Thursday  passing through Firozepur, Rohtak, Aligarh, Churk, Ranchi and  Balasore, extending upto 0.9km above mean sea level.  A cyclonic circulation was also prevailing over west Uttar Pradesh extending between 1.5km and 3.1km above mean sea level. Weathermen said a  low- pressure area was also persisting over northwest Bay of Bengal along with an associated cyclonic circulation extending upto 7.6km above mean sea level. Ranchi Met office also warned of moderate thunder and lightning in several districts of the state during the next two days. Statistics indicated light to moderate rain at many places over Jharkhand during the past 24 hours. The highest amount of rainfall was recorded at Koderma (57.2mm), followed by Ranchi and Ramgarh (30mm) and Chatra and Gumla (25mm). As many as 60 per cent IMD observatories across the state wtinessed rain during the last 24 hours. Data revealed that 15 observatories recorded around 10mm rain during the past 24 hours. The forecast for the next four days indicated no major changes in maximum readings which was hovering between 31 and 34 degree Celsius in most districts. So far, after the onset of the monsoon, Jharkhand has actually received 414mm rain against a normal of 431mm, a deficit of four per cent. Data suggests that as many as 14 districts, including Ranchi, Dhanbad, Dumka and Palamau, figure in the rain surplus list while 10 districts figure in the rain losers list. Weathermen said the heavy rain during the next 24 hours will help in minimising the deficit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand vaccinates 1 lakh residents after three-day lull||Jharkhand administered jabs to around 1 lakh residents on Wednesday using fresh supplies of vaccine doses from the Centre, a decent improvement from the barely 50,000 innoculations it had managed in the past three days due to an accute shortage of vaccines. The state, as per provisional data compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM), administered the first dose of vaccine to 65,272 residents, while at least 29,326 beneficiaries received the second dose. As many as 52,500 residents below the age of 45 years got the first jab, while 1,755 residents in this age group got the second. As per data shared by the NHM on Wednesday evening, Jharkhand had 1,74,370 vaccine doses in stock. The state has so far received 84,82,450 doses of vaccines and utilized 83,72,693 of them, records with the health department show. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 315 in Jharkhand on Wednesday as the state reported 46 cases against 51 recoveries, according to an NHM bulletin. However, the active caseload rose to 73 in Ranchi as the district reported 10 cases against four recoveries, the bulletin highlighted. At least 11 districts – Saraikela, Ramgarh, Palamau, Pakur, Lohardaga, Latehar, Jamtara, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on Wednesday. Barring Ranchi, no other district reported a double-digit-spike in Covid cases on the day. At least seven recoveries against four cases brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum down to 31, while nine cases against five recoveries took the count of active cases in Bokaro to 37 on Wednesday. At least three districts – Garhwa, Giridih and Khunti – had zero active cases of Covid-19 by Wednesday evening, government data highlighted. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 52,218 residents and 0.08 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2 virus. As per government data, over 3.46 lakh people have tested positive for Covid-19 in Jharkhand so far and 98.43 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. No fresh casualties were reported in Jharkhand on Wednesday and the Covid toll in the state remained 5,122. The Covid growth rate, as per government data, was 0.01 per cent in Jharkhand against the national average of 0.09 per cent, while the doubling rate in the state was more than 5780 days against the national doubling rate of 792.80 days. No fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis were reported in the state for the third day in a row on Wednesday. So far, 100 confirmed and 59 suspected cases of the fungal infection have been reported in Jharkhand and at least 30 patients have died, while 98 have recovered, highlights data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Pan-India protest to seek justice for Father Stan Swamy||The People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) along with other tribal rights and social organisations will organise a series of protests across the country from July 23 demanding justice for Father Stan Swamy. “Though PUCL units will be organising protests on their own across the country on July 23, in Ranchi, which was the karmabhumi (workplace) of Father Stan Swamy, we will form a human chain on the same day, with adherence to Covid protocols, at the Albert Ekka Chowk. Different tribal and human rights organisations and civil society groups have decided to join our protest,” said Arvind Avinash, national organising secretary of the PUCL. He said that a delegation would be going to the Raj Bhavan to submit a memorandum after the human chain protest. “After taking part in the symbolic human chain agitation, a small delegation will go to the governor’s house following all Covid protocols and submit a memorandum addressed to the President (Ram Nath Kovind) demanding justice for Father Stan who was killed in custody by the NIA, a unit of the Union government, and the prison authorities,’ said Avinash, who is also the general secretary of the PUCL Jharkhand unit. The memorandum will also demand the repeal of draconian legislation like the UAPA and sedition, release of all political prisoners, compensation to the family members of undertrial prisoners and action against authorities for lodging fabricated cases against innocent people and withdrawal of sedition cases lodged against Fr Stan and other tribals by the erstwhile Raghubar Das-led BJP government. “The PUCL units in other 24 districts of Jharkhand will also be organising a similar agitation demanding justice for Fr Stan. On August 9, which is observed as World Indigenous Day, we will also be staging agitation in different parts of Jharkhand. On August 15, we will protest against the attack on voices of dissent by the federal government by taking out candlelight marches in different parts of Jharkhand,” Avinash said. “Apart from Jharkhand, similar protests will be held on July 23, August 9 and 15 across the country. However, the other state units have been given liberty to determine the nature of agitation. They can organise a silent march, stage dharna or form a human chain. Our objective is to stage our protest in a peaceful manner,” he added. “We will be staging an agitation in Bokaro on July 23,” said Gautam Bose of PUCL Jharkhand. The PUCL, founded by social activist Jai Prakash Narayan, has been raising its voice against human rights violations across the country. The New Trade Union Initiative (NTUI), a non-party union having pan-India presence, has decided to stage an agitation across the country on July 23 demanding repeal of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, withdrawal of the new labour codes and rescinding of the Essential Defence Services Ordinance, 2021, among others. Father Stan, who had spent nearly five decades raising voices for rights of tribals and oppressed in Jharkhand, was lodged in Taloja Central Jail since October 9, 2020, after his arrest from his Bagaicha residence in Namkum near Ranchi the previous day by the National Investigation Agency in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist link case. He was charged under the UAPA provisions. However, there was not a single trial and his bail petition citing health issues and poor medical facilities in the central jail was rejected by the NIA special court on four occasions. Father Stan died while undergoing treatment under custody at Holy Family Hospital in Mumbai on July 5.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Jharkhand govt prohibits Shravani Mela and Kanwar Yatras ||The Jharkhand government has decided on prohibition of Shravani Mela and Kanwar Yatras at Baba Baidyanath Dham temple in Deoghar district because of the  Covid pandemic for the second year in succession. Nearly 40 lakh devotees draw holy water from River Ganga at Sultanganj (in Bhagalpur, Bihar) and travel almost 109km to Deoghar to offer it at the Baidyanath Dham during the holy month of Shravan which commences from July 25. “Considering the recent Supreme Court decisions on prohibiting devotees for Rath Yatra in Puri and forcing withdrawal of Kanwar Yatra in Uttar Pradesh due to the Covid pandemic we have decided against allowing Shravani Mela and Kanwar Yatras,” confirmed Deoghar deputy commissioner Manjunath Bhajantri. However, the government is making efforts to ensure devotees see the rituals at the temple online. “We will be arranging for showing live the rituals held in the temple 45 minutes in the morning against 45 minutes in the evening through www.JharGov.tv (Jharkhand’s own web television and portal) for the convenience of the devotees. We hope to start showing it from the morning of July 25 itself,” the deputy commissioner said. Incidentally, deputy commissioner of Deoghar is the ex-officio chairman of the Shravani Mela committee which oversees the month-long spiritual fair, one of the longest spiritual fair of Asia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Human chain against Stan death in Latehar and Gumla districts||The seeds of resistance sown by Father Stan Swamy continue to bear fruit even after his death in custody as more than 500 villagers took part in a human chain protest on Tuesday in Latehar and Gumla districts of Jharkhand. The symbolic human chain stretching over 2km was not only a protest against the custodial “killing” of the 84-year-old Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist but also strengthened the resolve of the villagers to continue their agitation against any attempts to acquire land for the proposed Netarhat firing range. The tribals under the aegis of Kendriya Jan Sangarsh Samity, Latehar-Gumla, which has been spearheading agitation against the Netarhat field firing range pilot project, formed the human chain from Chatakpur (near Mahuatand, Latehar) to Chainpur in Gumla district. “Father Stan Swamy was with us during our agitation in the early 90s (1993-94) against land acquisition for the firing range. He had been a pillar of strength advising us on strategies and helping us know our constitutional rights and legal provisions. We have come to know how the frail elderly man was literally killed in custody, denied bail and was sent to hospital in critical condition where he died on July 5. The agitation is a small token of our tribute to Father Stan,” said Jerome Kujur, secretary of the Samity and a resident of Gumla. The protest against the firing range has been going on since the 1990s, when the Union government had earmarked about 1,471sqkm in Netarhat hills spread over Gumla and Latehar to build a firing range for the army, prior to the formation of Jharkhand. Two state notifications of November and March 1992, under section 9(1) of the Manoeuvres Field Firing and Artillery Practices Act, 1938, notified this area for periodical field firing and artillery practice for 10 years. Separate notifications in 1992 and in 2002 extended the field firing and artillery practice till 2022, according to reports. Owing to enormous resistance in 1994, practice in the range and the displacement of over 2 lakh tribals across 245 villages was stopped. However, as the deadline for the renewal of the notification nears, the Adivasi community has renewed its struggle. The villagers who would be displaced by the firing range braved the rain and abided by Covid rules during the human chain protest on Tuesday maintaining social distance and wearing masks. They raised placards and shouted slogans against the death of Fr Stan. Separate delegations submitted memorandum to officials at three places. “Memorandum was submitted to the Mahuatand sub-divisional magistrate (in Latehar), the Chainpur sub-divisional magistrate (in Gumla) and the Gumla sub-divisional magistrate,” said Kujur. The memorandum, which was addressed to governor Ramesh Bais, demanded a judicial probe into the death of Fr Stan, ensure punishment to those allegedly responsible for his death, immediate release of human rights activists and political prisoners who have been detained on fabricated charges, repeal of draconian laws like the UAPA and accord martyrdom status to Fr Stan. The protesters said they will follow the path shown by Fr Stan and continue to raise their voices of dissent against any attempts to displace villagers for the firing range. Tributes were also paid to Fr Stan by members of Johar (a tribal organisation with which he was associated) at Chaibasa in West Singhbhum district on Tuesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
22-07-2021||Jharkhand||Cry against FIR delay by Latehar police in encounter death ||A conglomeration of human rights organisations in Jharkhand is planning to take legal recourse over the delay by Latehar police to lodge an FIR against security forces who allegedly shot dead a villager after accusing him of being a Maoist. The Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha has been forced to take the step as it has been three weeks since Jiramani Devi submitted an application with the Garu police station (on June 29) demanding that an FIR be registered against security forces allegedly responsible for the death of her husband Bramhadev Singh, 24. “The FIR is yet to be registered by the police which is a violation of the constitutional right of an individual. The gram sabha has also written to chief minister Hemant Soren asking for action against the security forces for the fake encounter of innocent villagers,” said Siraj Dutta, a member of the Mahasabha. A team of human rights activists under the aegis of the Mahasabha had visited Piri village under Garu block in Latehar district where Bramhadev was shot dead on June 12. The team in its fact-finding report released on June 23 claimed that innocent villagers carrying single-shot country-made guns were taking part in an annual hunting festival when they were fired at by security forces. “The security forces took Bramhadev Singh, 24, to the edge of the forest and fired three shots at him, which led to his death,” states the report, a copy of which has been submitted to Latehar deputy commissioner Abu Imran. A copy of the report is available with The Telegraph. The report said the incident was not an “exchange of fire”. “Innocent villagers were fired upon by the security forces. The six Adivasis associated with the incident (including Bramhadev) were out on a traditional hunting ritual, as every year for the Sarhul festival. They all carried a Bhartua gun, which has been in their families from generations. This single-fire gun is used to hunt small animals and birds like rabbits, pigs and chickens and to protect crops from animals,” the report says. “Suddenly, the security forces started firing without any warning. The villagers, however, did not fire any shots from the Bhartua gun they were carrying. They instead raised their hands, shouted that they are common people, not Maoists and requested the police to not shoot. But the security personnel kept firing. One of the bullets fired by them hit one of the villagers Dinanath in the hand. Another bullet hit Bramhadev in the body,” it says. The firing continued for about half an hour. Five of the men fled from the forest fearing for their life. Thereafter, the security forces took Bramhadev to the edge of the forest and fired three shots at him, which led to his death, according to the report. The villagers also told the team of activists that none of the six victims were associated with the Maoists. “The FIR does not mention Bramhadev’s death by the police firing. According to the FIR, this incident was an exchange of fire in which the first shot was fired by the group of armed villagers and some people fled into the forest. The FIR also mentions that Bramhadev’s body was found at the edge of the forest. These statements are contrary to the facts,” the report states. It also says the police have filed a case against the six Adivasis, including Bramhadev, under various sections (including the Arms Act). “This too exposes the true intention of the police — it wants to maintain pressure on the villagers to prevent them from questioning the police firing and the murder. In the police station, all the five victims were made to sign (or put their thumb impression) on many pages (some blank and some written) without informing them about the content of these pages,” the report says. The team also urged the deputy commissioner to ensure an FIR was lodged against the security personnel and officials responsible for the killing of Bramhadev and firing on the villagers. They also demanded the FIR registered by the police against the six Adivasis be quashed and administrative action against the local police and senior officials for filing wrong statements and FIRs. Latehar superintendent of police Prashant Anand said the case has already been handed over to the CID for investigation and that they are complying with all norms of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). “The case had already been handed over to the CID for investigation. We are complying with all norms laid out by the NHRC,” said Anand. However, Dutta of the Mahasabha said: “Even if the case has been handed over to the CID, there should be an FIR registered on the basis of complaint lodged by the victim’s wife as it is a constitutional right.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-97
