23-07-2021||Calcutta||Revival deal for the French Registry Building in Chandernagore||The mission to save a slice of Indo-French history is finally gathering steam with the state tourism department and the French consulate general pledging renewed commitment towards Registry Building in Chandernagore, the first French courthouse in India built in 1875 which is currently in a dilapidated state. A 12-month extension was signed on Thursday on the agreement drawn up in February 2019 on restoration and adaptive reuse of the building standing at the head of the Strand in Chandernagore in Hooghly district, around 47km from Calcutta. The original MoU, set to lapse this year, was of 30 months. “We have to extend the project because of the delay caused by the pandemic,” said principal secretary, tourism, Nandini Chakraborty, who signed the extension of the agreement with French consul general Virginie Corteval. The government, she said, wanted to turn the structure into a boutique hotel and cultural centre with a library. While the funds — pegged at Rs 3 crore — are being provided by the state government, France is bringing technical expertise. A detailed project report (DPR) has been drawn up by Aishwarya Tipnis, a conservation architect engaged by the French government who is part of the French Technical Expert Team that will collaborate on the project. The DPR has been submitted to the steering committee, comprising representatives of the tourism department, the district administration, the Chandernagore Municipal Corporation and the French government, and will now be vetted by the Calcutta Metropolitan Development Authority. The municipal corporation will be the implementing agency. The Registry Building could become a catalyst for the revival of the town’s colonial legacy. “We plan to develop colonial heritage tourism around Chandernagore. There can be a light and sound show, guided walks along the Strand... A total of 99 Indo-French heritage structures have been identified (by the French) in Chandernagore. Subsequently, our project ought to envelop everything. Many of the buildings are in private hands. They need to be sensitised. I have seen in France how they train private owners about the heritage value of properties which are often opened up for home stays,” Chakraborty said. Corteval, who had visited the town as a tourist 20 years ago, also pointed to the “huge tourism potential” of the former French colony. “Chandernagore is an important name in history that everyone in France has heard about,” she said, adding how invested she found residents to be in the town’s French identity. The tourism department, officials said, had plans to put infrastructure in place to start day-long cruises from Calcutta in future. A floating restaurant, called Jalashree: The Rivière Habitat, was launched in Chandernagore this February. The focus will now be on the Registry Building, which both signatories admitted was a difficult structure to repair. “We have been in discussion for several years. Finally we are entering the implementing stage of the partnership,” summed up Corteval, whose tenure ends this month. The tourism department is looking at a timeline of 18 months for its completion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Pool car owners shift gears to survive amid the pandemic||The owners of many pool cars that would once ferry children to school and back have now enrolled as drivers at travel agencies, started stitching garments or switched to delivering groceries in search of alternative means of livelihood amid the pandemic. Pool car drivers, too, have had to find alternative work. Some drivers have started selling fish in retail markets and a few others have started home delivery of cooked meals with their wives. Around 3,000 pool car operators in and around Calcutta would ferry around 60,000 schoolchildren every day. Pool car owners and drivers have been struggling since April last year, when schools were shut as a precaution against Covid and their services became redundant. For the first few months, some schools paid the pool car owners half of what they used to but gradually that stopped. For many of the operators and drivers, it took some time to realise that schools were not reopening anytime soon and that it would be disastrous to wait for their businesses to resume. The only way to survive the Covid pandemic was to find alternative sources of income. “I have started delivering groceries to the parents of children who used to go to school in my cars,” said Chiranjit Roy, a pool car owner from Jadavpur. Roy’s cars used to ferry around 300 students to South Point, DPS Ruby Park and a few schools in New Town in six cars, three of which he owned and the rest he hired. “I deliver rice, eggs, pulses and potatoes,” Roy, who has a wife and a one-year-old son, said. “The guardians have extended a helping hand.” Last month, the Pool Car Owners’ Welfare Association had appealed to transport minister Firhad Hakim urging the government to utilise their vehicles as ambulances so that drivers and other workers could find a means to survive. “Out of the five cars I owned, I sold three and got Rs 1.5 lakh. There are hardly any takers for old cars. After waiting for a few more months, I joined an agency that arranges for drivers,” said Rabi Roy, a pool car owner from Paikpara in north Calcutta. “I had to find a way to meet my family’s expenses.” He has a wife, son and elderly mother to look after. A couple of years ago, Timir Nath used to own a fleet of three mini-vans (two Wingers and one Ace) that ferried students to two schools in Behala. The mounting losses because of the Covid curbs forced him to sell two of his vehicles — one last year and one this year. “The vehicles were nine and 10 years old. I had to sell them as scrap. The vehicle I have kept is four years old,” said Nath, in his 50s. He was forced to let go of two of his drivers and two helpers. For the past two months, Nath has been running a tea stall from an 8ftX10ft room off Biren Roy Road West, a kilometre from Behala Chowrasta. The room used to house the office of Nath Travels. The signboard was removed recently. Nath used to rent out his vehicles during school vacations. He bought a tea vending machine for Rs 15,000. It serves regular tea, lemon tea and some other varieties. Nath has also started selling fish and bird food from the stall. One of his drivers helps him run it. “I am somehow getting by. But I feel sorry for the drivers and helpers I had to let go of. They had been with me for many years. I feel I have let them down,” said Nath. Pool car drivers, too, have taken up other jobs. “I learnt stitching from my friends who are in the trade. Now I stitch pieces for readymade garments. The pay is not good. It varies between Rs 4 and Rs 5 apiece,” said Gobindo Halder, from Baruipur. “I have managed to survive but a few of my friends are still struggling.” On July 7, the Bengal government had announced a waiver of road tax for transport vehicles till December, an incentive that was aimed at boosting the transport sector. “We have found out that the waiver applies to pool car operators, too. But the transport department has not issued a notification yet. So, we don’t know whether we will benefit or not,” said Sudip Dutta, the secretary of the Pool Car Owners' Welfare Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Higher Secondary pass percentage up, drop in O graders||Altogether 97.69 per cent of the candidates cleared higher secondary this year. In a year when the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education could not conduct the school-leaving exam because of the pandemic, the pass percentage rose by 7.56 per cent compared to last year’s 90.13, which was till then the highest ever. While the pass percentage of the results declared on Thursday witnessed a jump, the number of top graders declined drastically compared to last year. According to statistics released by council president Mahua Das, the number of candidates who got the ‘O’ grade — between 90 and 100 marks — came down to 9,013 this year from 30,220 in 2020. The council prepared the results by giving 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to the performance in the Class XI annual exams. The combined score was added to the marks obtained in the 30-mark practical or 20-mark project paper to arrive at the final score. “The number of A+ grade (between 80 and 89) recipients has dropped to 49,370 from 84,746 last year. The number of A grade (70-79) recipients stands at 95,758. Last year, the figure was 96,825,” said Das. The number B+ grade (60-69) recipients, however, increased from 1,10,265 in 2020 to 1,65,186. This year a girl from a minority community emerged the topper, scoring 499 out of 500. Last year, four students had emerged toppers scoring 499. Sunita Sen, the principal of the BSS school, said: “In Class XI, students are not as serious as they would be in Class XII. The schools also mark the students conservatively so that they know their weaknesses and work on them to do better in Class XII. Taking into account the Class XI performance while arriving at HS marks might have led to a fall in the number of the top-grade achievers,” said Sen. Debabrata Mukheerjee, the headmaster of Sanskrit Collegiate School, said a section of students remained more focused on the preparations for the JEE and the medical entrance exam in Class XI. “They turn their focus on the board curriculum as the Class XII board exam approaches.” Saugata Basu, the secretary of the government school teachers’ association, said: “If the Delhi boards evaluate their results in a way that their top-grade achievers outnumber those from the Bengal board, students of the state board will lose out on securing admission in colleges.” The results of the CBSE Class XII and ISC exams are expected to be published by the end of July. The concern over the fate of the Bengal board students has heightened because of the state higher education department’s instruction to colleges and universities to screen students for admission to undergraduate courses solely on the basis of their plus-II marks this year. “Our students will fail to get admission in premiere institutions (if the Delhi boards produce more high achievers). An admission test could have provided a level playing field to all,” said Basu. The teachers of Jadavpur University has said in an email to education minister Bratya Basu on Tuesday that in a year when plus-II students could not write their school-leaving exams, assessment through an admission test “is vital for determining whether or not a candidate ought to take up a particular field of study at the higher levels”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||IISER ranks fourth on Nature Index annual table 2021||The Nature Index annual table 2021 has rated the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) Kolkata as 4th among the top-most academic institutions in the country. Last year, the institute at Nadia’s Mohanpur had ranked 5th in the category. Among all categories of institutions across the country, the IISER has ranked 7th for its high-quality scientific research. In 2019-20, the institute had ranked 8th in the overall category. The Nature Index is a database of author information collated from research articles published in an independently selected group of 82 science journals, including the British journal Nature. The database is compiled by a research team of Nature. The overall categories include teaching and non-teaching institutes in the public and private sectors, as well as NGOs involved in research and other academic activities. The Indian Institute of Science, in Bangalore, has ranked first in both categories and 62nd in the Asia-Pacific region. IISER Kolkata has ranked 100th in the Asia-Pacific region, joining three other institutions from India to make the cut among top 100. Last year, the IISER had ranked 111th in the region. The Mohanpur institution has retained its top-most position among all IISERs, in overall performance as well as subject-wise rankings. The Nature Index is considered the most competitive and prestigious metric observed closely across the globe to assess the performance of institutions and countries in scientific research. Ranking high in the index is considered a signature of high performance in research globally. The new ranking has been announced based on Nature Index data from January 1 to December 31, 2020. “This improved ranking reflects the consistent performance of researchers of the institute,” IISER director Sourav Pal said. “It was a difficult year because of the Covid pandemic. Research was constantly hampered. Nevertheless, we continued our work and this ranking is a recognition of our collective efforts.” The dean of international relations and outreach at the IISER, Anindita Bhadra, said: “This is quite an impressive ranking. It comes as a recognition of the high-quality research being done by our researchers.” “The annual table highlights the institutions and countries which dominated high-quality research in natural sciences in 2020, as tracked by the Nature Index,” an IISER official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Trader's murder triggers outrage in Birati||A 39-year-old building materials supplier was shot dead in Birati, around 18km north of Calcutta, when he was walking home from a club near Banik More on Wednesday night. Witnesses have told the police that the attackers came riding two motorcycles from behind and pumped five bullets into Subhrajit Dutta around 10.30pm. Alarmed at the sound of firing, some residents alerted police. He was taken to hospital, where he was declared dead. Hundreds of residents took to the streets in Birati on Wednesday night demanding the arrest of the assassins. A large police contingent led by officers of the Barrackpore police commissionerate and Nimta police station persuaded the residents to withdraw their protest. On Thursday, a police picket was set up in the locality, which has witnessed a spurt in construction of housing complexes in recent years. The police have started scanning CCTV footage and a case of murder against unknown persons has been drawn up at Nimta police station. Subhrajit’s murder came within hours of an attack on Babulal Singh, alleged to be a strongman and a member of the syndicate that controls supply of building materials in Birati, by a group of youths. Investigators said Babulal was once Subhrajit’s associate in the business of supplying construction materials and had borrowed around Rs 4 lakh from the latter several years back. Babulal had reportedly told Subhrajit that the amount would be invested in expanding their business and constructing an office for the duo in Birati. For some time Subhrajit allegedly started demanding the money back from Babulal. On Wednesday afternoon, a group of youths attacked Babulal with marble tiles. He was hit on his head with a tile and left to bleed till some associates rescued him. He was later admitted to a private hospital on EM Bypass. “It is still too early to conclude that Subhrajit’s murder was the fallout of the attack on Babulal but we are not ruling out the possibility,” said a senior officer of the Barrackpore police commissionerate. “We are tracing Babulal’s antecedence. The assassins will be arrested shortly,” the officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: People in Sunderbans turning to forests for livelihood||More and more people in the Sunderbans are turning to the forests for livelihood because the Covid pandemic has robbed them of their income. The people are illegally entering forest creeks to catch crabs and fish, risking their lives. This has led to a spurt in human-wildlife conflict. There have been four deaths because of tiger attacks in the past two months, most of them in the Jhila forest, said an official of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. Over 25 people have died in tiger attacks since March 2020, according to the forest department. The prolonged bar on tourists in the Sunderbans because of the Covid curbs has destroyed the livelihood of many residents. The owners and employees of hotels, tour guides, boatmen and the others have lost their income. Tens of thousands of migrant labourers had returned to the mangrove delta during the lockdown last year. Many of them took to an alternate livelihood. Some started farming and fishing in local ponds on a small scale. But the Covid curbs following a fresh spike in cases this year has again robbed many people of their income. Saline water flooded acres of land during the landfall of Cyclone Yaas in May this year, turning many farmlands infertile. “The mangrove delta is as much about its people as it is about its forests. The forests thrive because of the people living on the fringes. But the pandemic has posed unprecedented challenges to the local population,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. Tapas Manna, a boatman, is living on free ration and relief materials from NGOs. Manna was in charge of a boat owned by the owner of a hotel named Apanjan, near Pakhiralay, a village in the Gosaba block of the Sunderbans, around 92km from Calcutta. He used to earn Rs 7,000-8,000, including tips from tourists. “A party that spotted a tiger would give more than a party spotting a crocodile,” said Manna, who lives with his mother, wife, a son and a daughter. Manna owns a small plot of land but it has been rendered infertile by the incursion of saline water during Yaas. “For at least another year, it is impossible to till the land,” he said. Around two lakh tourists would visit the Sunderbans every year before the pandemic. A section of the earnings from them would go to the joint forest management committees for community development. There are over 100 hotels and homestays on the fringes of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve itself, according to the members of the Sundarban Hotel Owners’ Association. The number would be double if the hotels in the South 24 Parganas forest division are included. The hotels, according to its size, employ local youths as cooks and service staff and security guards. The number of licensed motor boats and launches would be close to 500, said an official of the local administration. Each launch would at least have a couple of people other than the helmsman. “The lives of close to 50,000 people depend on tourism. The owners of hotels are defaulting on payment of the loan instalments. Boatmen are working as daily labourers when they can,” said Prabir Sinha Ray, the general secretary of the hotel owners’ association. The mangrove delta was shut for tourists from March 2020, following the imposition of the country-wide lockdown as a precaution against Covid. After reopening for a few days in June last year, a suspension in July followed a spurt in cases. The National Park was reopened in September before shutting down again with the spike in cases this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Cataract removed from two-month-old girl in Calcutta||A two-month-old girl underwent surgery to remove cataract from both eyes at a clinic of a city hospital last week. The baby, who was born with the cataract, is able to see now, said doctors who treated her. If a congenital cataract is not treated early, it may lead to sub-normal or reduced vision. The period between eight and 12 weeks after birth is crucial for the development of a baby’s eyesight, they said. The two-month-old from Contai underwent the surgery at Apollo Hospitals’ Gariahat clinic on July 14. Her father, Muktar Ali Shah, told Metro that the baby never kept her eyes fixed on anything even for a few seconds. “I suspected something was wrong.” In case of cataract, the natural lens of the eyes becomes opaque and light cannot enter the retina. In people with normal eyesight, the image formed on the retina is transmitted to the brain, said Siddhartha Ghosh, an ophthalmologist. “But for people with cataracts, the transmission cannot happen. If this is not addressed at a proper time in kids, the brain will consider the reduced vision as normal,” said Ghosh, who was in the team that treated the girl. Debabrata Haldar, a paediatric ophthalmologist, said that delaying surgery to remove congenital cataract might lead to reduced vision development. “The fixation of vision, which means that a baby keeps looking at people known to it or at objects of interest for quite some time, develops between second and third months after birth. All developments of vision will depend on whether fixation develops properly,” said Haldar, who conducted the surgery. Congenital cataracts can develop because of an infection while the baby was in the womb or genetic factors, among other reasons. Parents, they said, should consult an ophthalmologist if they notice that the black part and the pupil of the eye of their children are greyish or white. The absence of vision fixation is also a warning sign. “After the surgery I feel she is able to see as she is looking at me or her mother,” said Muktar. The surgery and the necessary diagnostic tests cost more than Rs 1 lakh, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Online viva for RKM Vidyamandira admissions||Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will screen students for admission to undergraduate courses in 12 out of 15 subjects through online viva voce this year. “The viva voce will be held from August 24 to 28,” principal Swami Ekachittananda said. The English department will screen students based on their marks in the plus-II and secondary board exams and the economics and political science departments on the basis of the plus-II board marks. The rest of the departments will bank on online viva voce, marks at the plus-II and/or secondary levels as well as performance in competitions such as International Math Olympiad and International Physics Olympiad, wherever applicable. The state government has barred colleges and universities from conducting admission tests for undergraduate programmes. RKM institutions are outside the purview of the order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp in Covid times||Craft I spent my summer holidays in a joyful way. Even though I had loads of homework and assignments lined up, I didn’t let that dent my enthusiasm. At the beginning of the holidays, I mostly spent time finishing my work so I could have fun the rest of the time. I drew a painting of Lord Ganesha, wrote a short story, played games with my friends and did some programming. My father had bought me an Electronic Workshop from the Crossword store at City Centre 2 on Christmas and I have been busy with that. It has many components like resistors, capacitors, inductor and connecting wires. It also comes with a guide with an overview of some basic instructions on how to use a breadboard, the colour codes of resistors… The guide also has instructions for some projects that we can make, like a rain alarm and ghost detector. The part that I enjoy the most is putting together the components to build a project and then seeing it work as intended. For instance, the rain alarm goes off when there is water around or the bulb lights up on touch. Aashna Goyal, 10 years, Space Town, VIP Road Corona’s Labyrinth China gave birth to coronavirus. Soon it spread like a wildfire. Masks, sanitisers, handwash became a household name Everyone tried to keep the virus tamed. Lockdowns were imposed, Frontline workers were working in full force. Lots of rules were amended, And successfully the first wave ended. Scientists came with a ray of hope, As they found a vaccine to cope. Although jabs were given in phases, Coronavirus started showing once again its traces. Second wave was even deadlier. Lots of families lost their near and dear. The society learnt its lesson: Front line workers alone cannot fight this mayhem, People will have to equally make effort at their end. Covid has taught us a lot of things. We should always count our blessings. Doctors are demigods; We must always appreciate them against all odds. Let us pray and avoid the third wave and follow the rules set in, Till we make the world once again a better place to live in. Roshani Kasera, Age 37, EE Block||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||95 oxygen concentrators gifted to fight third wave||In yet another non-government organisational response to counter the possible ravages of the third wave of Covid-19, a total of 95 concentrators were handed over to people’s representatives as well as office-bearers of local housing complexes on July 7. The donor was Pradip and Kumkum Ghosh Family Foundation, which runs the Action Area IID-based International Institute of Innovation and Technology (I3T). The institute, founded in 2018, is involved in research on dengue and malaria and is starting work on Covid-19 too. The machines are a part of a total of 350 oxygen concentrators, worth Rs 2 crore, that the founder of the organisation, Pradip Kumar Ghosh, has pledged for the people of Bengal. An economist, based in Maryland, US, Ghosh hails from Khardah. “He took the decision to send the concentrators after seeing people die for lack of oxygen in the second wave earlier this year. Even if there were oxygen cylinders, lives were lost in the time needed to take the cylinders for refill,” said Moonmoon Chakraborty, the coordinator of I3T Mental Health Centre, which also runs under the institute’s umbrella. “Our team of psychologists has started counselling people who have lost jobs or suffered losses in the pandemic as well as students who are getting increasingly frustrated at home,” she said. On the day, 25 concentrators were handed over to Bidhannagar MLA and minister Sujit Bose, 15 to Rajarhat New Town MLA Tapash Chatterjee and 10 to Rajarhat Gopalpur MLA Aditi Munshi. Ghosh spoke to them over live video call, sharing his vision for the institute. Also receiving the gifts were representatives of housing complexes Uniworld City, Rosedale Garden, Highland Willows and Jal Vayu Towers in New Town and Purbasha, Bidhan Nivas and Aelite in the Ultadanga Hudco crossing area, which have built in-house oxygen-supported isolation centres for their residents. saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Tribute to Nazrul by Nazrul||Not just song and dance, for their Nazruljayanti celebration, a member of DB Block’s Gulabi Gang had herself dressed up as the bard. Sudhanya Dasgupta Mukherjee had dressed like Nazrul Islam, replete with a paper cap resembling one the bard would wear. “I am happy to see you all celebrate my birthday,” she said, personifying the poet. Viewers loved the appearance and Sonali Basak, the director of the programme, was delighted. “The idea had struck one of our members and I instantly knew it would have a great impact,” she said. Sudhanya was amused too. “Since I can’t sing Nazrulgeeti I was wondering how I could contribute to this show. Then my husband said that since I have curly hair, like the poet, I might as well play him. It was a unique role and all the more special for me as my bedridden mother and my octogenarian father could watch my performance sitting at home,” she said. The show had other participants too. Mala Banerjee sang Antare tumi achho, Karabi Chowdhury sang the Shyamasangeet Bolre jaba bol and the youngest participant Sharanya Mitra danced to Kar manjir rinijhini baje. Lakshmimoni Sen narrated an anecdote on Nazrul, Ananya Dasgupta spoke on his compositions on love and romance. Indrani Basak spoke on the poem Bidrohi, published in his first book Agnibina and Anjana Banerjee then recited Bidrohi for the virtual audience. Upon request, Chandrani Mukherjee sang Dur dweepobashini. “I am a Rabindrasangeet singer and this was the first time I sang Nazrulgeeti. The event was a refreshing change from our daily online classes,” said the lecturer. Mou Dubey narrated Nazrul’s life, philosophy and awards, Mahua De Sarkar spoke on his love for nature and sang a related composition Projapati kothay pele bhai. While Rama Mitra and Mou recited Lichuchor, Sonali and Kamalika Banerjee danced to Ami jar nupurer chhando. Mother-daughter Mousumi and Amisha Saha danced to Jago nari jago bonnhisikha too. Somdutta Basak sang Paradeshi megh jaore phire and the last piece was Rakhi Mazumder’s Sure o bani mala hoey. Nature & rebel poet Newtown Citizens Welfare Fraternity celebrated two occasions on a single day — a morning tableau for Environment Day and an online event in the evening clubbing the same with Nazruljayanti. “We wanted to celebrate Nazruljayanti in May itself but the Covid situation was alarming then so we held it together with Environment Day later,” said president of the forum Lutful Alam, who spoke on incidents in Nazrul’s life that indicated that he was not just a revolutionary poet but was also against all sorts of inequality and communalism. Alam had placed a Nazrul portrait beside him which was taking up more screen space than him. Secretary Samir Gupta garlanded the portrait of the bard and paid tribute. Cultural convenor Dipak Biswas reminded residents to abide by all they preached in the morning — about planting trees, avoiding plastic, conserving water… Public health expert Kajal Krishna Banik had been invited to speak on the two topics. “Protecting the environment isn’t simply planting trees. It means balancing the entire ecosystem. As for Nazrul, the poet opined that for peace we must eliminate inequality and corruption. He had even compared women with Mother Nature,” he said. “Even today, people are suffering due to lack of equal distribution of resources. Covid-19 has proved our total failure — this is evident in the vaccination figures in different countries of the world,” Banik said. The second phase of the programme was cultural performances by the residents of New Town. Chaiti Roy of DLF Newtown Heights, presented Nazrul’s Shyamasangeet Aar lukabi kothay ma and by 10-year-old Arnish Mitra of AB Block sang Karar oi louho kopat. Little Samriddhi Majumder was very expressive in her recitation of Nazrul’s Rajbhikari. Indrani Lahiri of CC Block recited Pichhudak from Nazrul’s Dolonchapa, Sukla Dasgupta of CD Block sang Hey Gobindo rakho charane and CD Block resident Rita Basu recited a poem on Nazrul. Oishik Ghosh of CE Block played Rum jhum jhum on the keyboard and Kakoli Majumder and Sabina Syed shared anecdotes from the poet’s life. Sabina even read out a passionate letter written by Nazrul to Nargis, his first wife, on the occasion of her second marriage. If you want to get a programme featured in this column, even a virtual one, write in to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta - 700001 or e-mail to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||‘Google’ goes to office even during pandemic||You may be working from home these days but a Siberian Husky from EC Block continues to go to office. Even on Sundays. “Every day after breakfast Google lets out a bark, as if to announce that he’ll be leaving now. I call our driver, who escorts him to the car and takes him for a drive around Central Park,” says Mousumi Das. “The dog loves feeling the wind in his face. In fact, he’ll bark to object if the driver ever switches the AC on. Onlookers wave at Google and tell one another that he’s off to office!” Google had come into the family three years ago, when Mousumi’s son finally managed to convince his parents to get a dog. “I was skeptical as it would be difficult looking after a dog and my son was anyway planning to go abroad for his Masters at the time. Finally they convinced me saying the dog would be like a younger son to us when our own son went away,” says the lady who has never once regretted her decision thereafter. Google was named so by Mousumi’s son Poorbayan, who wanted a unique name for him. Google’s birthdays are celebrated with cake, guests, music and decorations. But Mousumi and her son missed his first birthday. “We had to leave town for my son’s college the day before his birthday and it broke our heart. We attended his party over video call,” she says. If there’s one thing Google hates, it’s suitcases. “Whenever my husband takes one out Google knows he’s going on tour and gets morose. It’s the same if I pack my bags. But in my case, even if I go to City Centre he leaves all else and sits in the balcony waiting for me to return.” The Husky has a soft coat, piercing blue eyes and a fluffy tail that Mousumi likens to the chamor used during pujas. He is certainly a high maintenance breed, needing the AC round the clock. Why, even the water he drinks must be chilled, with ice cubes. “If by chance his water isn’t cool enough he’ll look at the fridge and bark,” Mousumi smiles. So popular is Google that on his walks, he spends less time walking and more time obliging his fans. No wonder at a pet show last winter someone came over to Mousumi and asked if she was the lady who lived in Google’s house! If you have a pet you have brought up at home as a family member and which has its eyes only for you, write to us with your contact number at The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Show stoppers all||Jurassic Park, the dinosaur-themed playground in Kankurgachhi was a haven of canine folk earlier this year. Kankurgachhi Dog Lovers had organised a dog show that drew nearly 100 dogs and even more dog lovers. While some pet parents had brought their dogs in for a lark, others were serious about the competition. “Are pets born only to please the families they live with? I know my dogs are meant for greater things and I want them to join shows and prove how competent they are,” said Moumita Majumdar. She had come with her Beagle Alex, who she said was her shejo chhele (third son). Back home she had a Labrador boro chhele, German Shepherd Dog mejo chele and Pug chhoto chhele. “My older dogs are already champions in the show circuit so I didn’t get them today. They are all so handsome they would have attracted a huge crowd, something we’re trying to avoid during the pandemic.” Suparna Bose was equally proud of her Chihuahua Jerry. “Regardless of the outcome, I feel dogs should be encouraged to participate in shows. Let them challenge themselves and have something to look forward to,” she said. It’s another matter that little Jerry has won many trophies, each of which is bigger than her! Mischief managed Another Jerry at the show was an extremely friendly “Indie”. “He wants to go meet every dog he sees, big or small. It can be dangerous if the other dog is aggressive,” said Sathi Chakraborty. “Good thing my nephew Soumik has come with me today. He’s having to physically restrain Jerry from running off.” Right then, an announcement was made about a pair of keys that was found in the ground. Turns out they had fallen out of Soumik’s pocket in the hullabaloo! A tent that drew a steady stream of selfie-hunters had three huge dogs — Belgian Shepherd Julie, St. Bernard Sandy and German Shepherd Dog Vaspa. Sukanta Mondal, who had got his Caravan Hound Sree, was delighted to see Indian breeds becoming popular at shows. “A couple of years ago there were just two or three of them in the city but now there must be 20 — Mudhols, Pashmis, Caravans... Shows are the best platform to showcase them to dog lovers so they consider adopting them,” he said. This was the seventh edition of the show and drew curious and excited children as well as adults like Amit Mitra, who said he loved dogs but got vetoed by his family whenever he broached the subject of bringing home one. “So I come over whenever I hear about a dog show and spend the whole day. The most adorable dog today, I thought, was a Chihuahua. I wish I could take her home!” he laughed. “It wasn’t easy pulling off a dog show in the midst of a pandemic. We had to take several permissions and maintain safety protocol,” said Snehashis Saha, secretary of Kankurgachi Dog Lovers. “But the show drew even more participants than last year, possibly as all registered shows have been called off this year.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Southern snack stall shifted||An outlet under the Cafe Ekante brand of Hidco, serving south Indian snacks, opened after being relocated on a New Town bus stand island. The earlier stall was dismantled to make way for an escalator for the upcoming Metro station. Named Karipatta On The Go, the stall sells south Indian munches. “We have largely retained the old menu but added a few special items from Kerala like Paniayaram, which is fried mini idli, and Appam with Vegetable Stew,” said Snehasis Sinha. additional general manager (tourism), Hidco. Other than traditional dishes from Andhra Pradesh, there are Ragi Dosa from Karnataka and Kanjeevaram Idli from Tamil Nadu. “A couple of fusion items — Special Butter Paneer Makhni Dosa and Pav Bhaji Dosa — are new additions, too, being inspired from cuisines of Punjab and Mumbai respectively,” he said. Though the outlet is mainly for take-away orders, there is seating arrangement for about 20 customers in the open.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||New Town: Land allotted for research facility named after Jyoti Basu||Land has finally been allotted for a research facility named after Jyoti Basu in New Town. A signboard was unveiled on July 8, the former chief minister’s 108th birth anniversary, in Action Area IIA in presence of top CPM leaders like Biman Bose, Surjyakanta Mishra, Mohd. Salim. Sujan Chakraborty and Gautam Deb. “The institute will undertake research on social issues. Party members who are involved in various movements or have a research background will come forward from across the country. Basu contributed so much to take society forward right from the time he got involved in trade union movement on his return from England. Also he always tried to keep himself updated,” said Rabin Deb, secretary of Jyoti Basu Centre for Social Studies and Research, as the centre has been named. The centre will house an exhibition, a museum, rooms to board researchers and a seminar hall. It is a five-acre plot. “We completed registration in November and the mutation was done in February. The building plan is being prepared for submission,” he added. Both Deb and Left Front chairman Biman Bose, who is also the centre president, pointed out that the land had been sought more than a decade ago. “We had applied for the plot in 2010 and cleared payment while Gautam Deb was still the housing minister. But the new government kept dillydallying, even claiming that the plot was under litigation. We did not force the matter and preferred to wait. Finally things moved in 2019 after the chief minister intervened. We are glad that good sense has prevailed,” said Rabin Deb. Till the building plan is ready for submission and approved, the organisers are unable to specify how many floors the facility will be. “We do not need a tall building as the plot is sufficiently large,” the secretary said. An appeal has been made to the public to donate things linked to Basu’s life. “We had collected his personal memorabilia from Indira Bhavan (his official residence in Salt Lake) after Basu expired. They are stored in Alimuddin Street (the party headquarter). There are things he received as gifts during his tours. He did not have much personal belongings other than things of day-to-day use,” he added. The organisers do not accept that a museum on his life would run contrary to the communist abhorrence of worship of the individual. “We are not worshipping the individual but his contribution in history. We are trying to preserve what the individual did for society — how he undertook land reforms, multiplied food production, made primary education free…” The leaders also planted mahogany saplings on the plot. Write in to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||New Town puja turns a decade old||When they performed their first Duga puja, they did not even have a field to host it. They performed it in the open space under a co-operative building. But now that New Town’s CC Block performed the khuti puja for its 10th edition, they consider it a landmark achievement. “Of course, the celebration would have been grander if it wasn’t for the pandemic but we are in a better position to hold it than last year,” said Lalit Kumar Ray, president of Newtown CC Block Puja Samity. “In 2020, we even contemplated a ghot puja but residents wanted all the rituals.” The khuti puja this year was held on Green Verge 12 that has now been allotted for their puja. Residents joined the priest for the rituals, maintaining distance. The idol, it was announced, would be a traditional one this year with shola pith decorations. “Our biggest success last year was that even a month after the Pujas not a single case of Covid-19 was reported in the block,” said secretary Biman Samaddar. “And this time, we have more experience on how to conduct the puja amidst the pandemic. For instance, we shall now install a projector at the pandal and play pre-recorded cultural performances by residents.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Market watch: Poppy seed price on the rise||Alu Posto, Posto Bora, Posto Bata, Deem Posto… People are thinking twice about cooking their favourite dishes now that the price of poppy seeds has touched Rs 2,000 a kilogram. Grocers across the township say the price of the posto has been rising steeply for the past couple of months and that many buyers were being forced to reduce consumption. “Those who would buy 100g previously are buying 50g now, those buying 50g are buying 25,” says Gopal Chakraborty of Dashabhuja Bhandar in CK Market. He sells packaged poppy seeds from brands like JK (selling 100g at about Rs 200) as well as a loose variety, that had touched Rs 210 for 100g a while back. It has returned to Rs 200 now. “We are selling between one and two kilos of poppy seeds a month now. This is way below what we used to a few months ago and it’s clearly due to the price rise,” says N. Nayak of Ma Sabita Bhandar in FD Market. Arun Ghosh of Baisakhi’s New Lokenath Bhandar has never seen such inflated prices of poppy seeds. “For many ghotis, posto is as important as fish, and come to think of it, the prices are almost as high as fish these days. No wonder many unscrupulous traders are resorting to adulteration now. They are mixing two kilos of sooji (that costs about Rs 80 a kilo) to a sack of posto.” He asks customers to bite a few grains of loose posto before buying as a test. “If they burst, it’s real posto. If it pastes out and sticks to your teeth, it’s adulterated,” Ghosh teaches. Time was when residents would buy loose posto from this Baisakhi grocery store and send relatives in the US. “And now sales are down to half. With job losses and salary cuts how much can people spend on fancy food? And it’s not like we vendors are here to do charity either. We need a profit mark up of five or six per cent to make our business viable,” says Ghosh. AE Market’s New Variety Stores calls itself a grocery store for chefs and restaurants. “We keep rare and expensive items you won’t get anywhere else in Salt Lake,” says Prasenjit Pramanik, citing a variety called Afghani Posto that seems to be of the highest quality. “Even in Burrabazar, very few shops stock this. Last year, we used to buy this for Rs 1,000 a kilo, six months back it was Rs 1,200. Now we are buying it for Rs 2,000 and are forced to sell it at Rs 2,100 or 2,200.” Customers who taste this posto once, he claims, are not satisfied eating anything else so they are continuing to buying it. The quantity, however, is much less. The most frustrating part for traders is not having clear answers as to why prices are skyrocketing. Nor do they have an indication of which way prices will go in the near future. “We are small players. Neither do we have the authority to ask suppliers about price rise nor do they offer an explanation. They simply quote the price and ask us to take it or leave it. In the bargain, it is we who have to put up with grumbling customers,” says Asim Kumar Das of Bapi Stores, CE Market. Then again, grocery stores in EC Market say customers have not reacted sharply to the price rise. “It’s true that posto prices are rising but it has been gradual. People are not feeling the pinch as they usually buy posto together with other household items and inflation is the general trend,” says Dulal Pal of New Joyguru Bhandar. Pal is more worried about online grocery sites eating into their business. Online, price of posto is about Rs 195 for 100g — just five rupees less than the rate at block markets — but the convenience of having items home delivered makes a big difference to customers, he says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||New Town gets brand ambassador||New Town now has a brand ambassador. Filmmaker Haranath Chakraborty has been named for the role. According to Hidco sources, the paper work will soon be done. “I have always felt there should be more than one cultural hub that the Rabindra Sadan-Nandan-Sisir Mancha complex represents in a big city like Calcutta. We want to make Nazrul Tirtha-Rabindra Tirtha a second hub. The chief minister has that vision too. To make that happen, we need someone who will speak for us, help us organise documentary film screenings and bring stars and directors over to New Town during the film festival. I have also heard he is into designing studios. He will help us in all these ways,” Hidco chief Debashis Sen told The Telegraph Salt Lake at a plantation programme in CC Block on Sunday. Just as Bengal’s brand ambassador Shah Rukh Khan is not a resident of Bengal, so it is with Chakraborty, a Tollygunge resident. “I will come over whenever Debashis babu needs me to be present here and help out in whatever capacity,” he said. Chakraborty has made several hit Bengali films like Sasurbari Zindabad, Pratibad, Sathi and Nater Guru, starring the likes of Prosenjit Chatterjee and Jeet. He is also a core committee member of Kolkata International Film Festival.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-42
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Eco Park’s Ekante cottage to get a facelift||The Ekante cottages in Eco Park island are set to become more attractive as a venue for hosting banquets. Utsari, the glass house that served as a banquet hall, had got damaged in Cyclone Amphan and is being rebuilt almost four times bigger in size. In its earlier avatar, the glass house was spread over 2,650sq ft. “That meant we could accommodate barely 70-80 people. While that was a problem for wedding organisers, during the Bengal Global Business Summit gala dinner, hosted by the chief minister, most guests had to remain outside the hall. Now it will have an area of 10,000 sq ft. That can easily take in over 12,000 guests,” said a Hidco official. Four rooms have been added on an upper level to provide space for bridal make-up and such related functions. Storage space has been added as well. “It is an island in the middle of the waterbody so each brick that you see here has had to be brought in by boat. No load is permitted across the wooden bridge. So it makes sense to store things in case of emergencies,” the official said. While Utsari enjoys high demand as a wedding venue, officials pointed out that there are only around 58 days considered auspicious for marriages in a year. “We need to generate revenue on other days too. So we will encourage organisers of national level meets to use the facility for their banquets as well,” the official said. The hall is expected to be ready by October.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-07-2021||Calcutta||Big cat hope for New Town mini zoo||With work underway at full tilt on the first phase of the mini zoo that will come up at Harinalaya, the deer park opposite gate 6 of Eco Park, the forest department has started preparing for a second phase. “We have proposed a carnivore block. It will have tiger, hyena, wolf, leopard and wild dog,” Rabindranath Saha, conservator of forests, parks and gardens, and ex-officio general manager, green projects wing, West bengal Forest Development Corporation, told The Telegraph Salt Lake. “We have prepared the master plan and are sending it to the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) with approval from the state zoo authority. Funds permitting, we will start work this year,” he added. There are also plans for an aquarium and a snake house, said Vinod Kumar Yadav, principal chief conservator of forests, wildlife and chief wildlife warden, West Bengal. In the open The mini zoo, the authorities promise, will be nothing like what the city has seen. “The ambience will be completely natural. As much as 70 per cent of the area will be open air, in accordance with the latest CZA guidelines,” said Yadav. Only for feeding and breeding will the tigers and leopards go indoors. “If we get the approval, we want to create a cave structure for the tiger. It will roam free behind iron fencing while people will be behind a glass partition. There will be a gap of about a foot and half between the toughened glass wall and the fencing. The top of the fencing will be energised, so that neither can anyone climb in nor can the big cat jump out,” Saha added. The current Harinalaya is spread over 15 acres. Recently, the Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has promised to hand over another 1.239 acres. “We will build a veterinary hospital, a food storage facility and a kitchen for the animals there,” said Yadav. A zoo, he pointed out, has its own utility in facilitating nature education, raising awareness about animal welfare and undertaking research on various species. “The old idea of keeping animals in a cage is outdated. The modern concept is to give them space. The CZA guidelines clearly state which animal needs how much space,” Yadav added. The forest department has plans for rainwater harvesting by opting for ground water recharge after treating the accumulated rain water. “This way we can compensate the huge volume of water the animals will require. The park will be completely lit by solar energy, thereby saving government funds as well as reducing our carbon footprint. Since New Town is a smart city, we want to gift it one of the most eco-friendly zoos in the country,” Saha said. Since huge footfall is expected, there will be separate entry and exit. Visitor-friendly facilities have been planned like drinking water dispenser and a central cafeteria. Going online The deer park recently got broadband connection. “Hidco chairman Debashis Sen visited us and inaugurated the online ticketing system on July 6. Our website will be ready in a week. Once we reopen, visitors can book tickets online,” said range officer Biswanath Sengupta. Tickets to Harinalaya, currently closed due to the lockdown, cost Rs 30. Green light for phase I The first phase of the proposed mini zoo will have the herbivore block where giraffe, zebra, turtle and hippopotamus will be housed as well as two aviaries and crocodile enclosures, as was reported in The Telegraph Salt Lake on January 24, 2020. The two aviaries are for pheasantry and wild flying birds. “We will need to check which species are in surplus at Alipore, Darjeeling and Siliguri zoos. We can also get some under exchange programmes with outside zoos,” said Saha. Work on five enclosures is almost over. “The master plan of the first phase has been approved by the CZA. Other than the herbivores, there will be separate water bodies for salt water crocodile and gharial. They cannot be kept together because of risk of in-fighting,” said Saha. A mixed deer enclosure is also coming up which will have hog deer, swamp deer, black buck, mouse deer and sambar. “We already have two varieties of deer — barking and spotted — totalling 32,” said Yadav. The authorities are hoping to open the mini zoo on completion of the first phase by November. The budget is Rs 4.5crore. “In future, we will start an animal breeding programme and a rescue centre. It will be part of our master plan. We will add things step by step as and when we get CZA approval,” Yadav said. The park was handed over to the West Bengal Zoo Authority on August 1, 2017 by the West Bengal Forest Development Corporation. “We got approval from the CZA to set up a mini zoo here in May 2018,” said Sengupta. The area was surveyed, keeping in mind how much space each animal would require, and a proposal was sent to the CZA regarding the mini zoo’s infrastructure in end-2018. But the pandemic caused a delay, he added. With Eco Park next door and Mothers Wax Museum across the street, visitors, the authorities are hoping, will enjoy a full day’s activity once the mini zoo opens. “This will be the most happening part of the city,” said Saha. Write in to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-43
23-07-2021||India||Road ahead more daunting, need to recalibrate priorities: Manmohan Singh on 30 yrs of liberalisation||The road ahead is even more daunting than during the 1991 economic crisis and the nation would need to recalibrate its priorities to ensure a dignified life for all Indians, said former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Friday. In a statement marking the 30th anniversary of economic liberalisation, Singh said he was deeply saddened at the devastation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the loss of millions of fellow Indians and livelihoods. Recalling that as finance minister in 1991, he ended his budget speech by quoting Victor Hugo, 'No power on Earth can stop an idea whose time has come', and said, "Thirty years later, as a nation, we must remember Robert Frost's poem -- 'But I have promises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep'." "It is not a time to rejoice and exult but to introspect and ponder. The road ahead is even more daunting than during the 1991 crisis," Singh said in the statement. "Our priorities as a nation need to be recalibrated to foremost ensure a healthy and dignified life for every single Indian." He said that on this day, 30 years ago in 1991, the Congress party ushered in significant reforms of India's economy and paved a new path for the nation's economic policy. Over the last three decades, successive governments have followed this path to catapult the nation to a USD 3 trillion economy and into the league of the world's largest economies, the former prime minister noted. More importantly, he said, nearly 300 million fellow Indians have been lifted out of poverty in this period and hundreds of millions of new jobs have been provided for the youth. Singh said the reforms process unleashed the spirit of free enterprise which has helped produce world-class companies and help India emerge as a global power in many sectors. "The economic liberalisation process in 1991 was triggered by an economic crisis that confronted our nation then, but it was not limited to crisis management. The edifice of India's economic reforms was built on the desire to prosper, the belief in our capabilities and the confidence to relinquish control of the economy by the government," he said. Singh said he was fortunate to play a role in this reform process along with several of his colleagues in the Congress party. "It gives us immense joy to look back with pride at the tremendous economic progress made by our nation in the last three decades. But I am also deeply saddened at the devastation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the loss of millions of fellow Indians," he said. The social sectors of health and education have lagged behind and not kept pace with our economic progress. Too many lives and livelihoods have been lost that should not have been, Singh lamented.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
23-07-2021||Business||Jio Platforms posts nearly 45% year-on-year jump in its net profit ||Jio Platforms on Friday posted a nearly 45 per cent year-on-year jump in its net profit for the June quarter at Rs 3,651 crore, fuelled by robust subscriber adds and a surge in data usage. Revenue from operations of Jio Platforms -- that houses India's youngest but largest telecom firm Jio and apps -- came in at Rs 18,952 crore in Q1 FY22, up 9.8 per cent over the year ago period. Jio said it remains optimistic about overall demand scenario despite challenges, and exuded confidence that it will be the first to launch full-fledged 5G services in India. “This was a tough quarter for the business because of COVID related disruptions...on-the-ground situation was not good, especially April and May both months, and even now recovery is just about beginning. “Hopefully things will keep getting better...However, we are very optimistic about overall demand scenario and our ability to service that demand,” Reliance Jio Head of Strategy Anshuman Thakur said in a post-earnings call. During the June quarter, average realisation per customer measured in terms of ARPU -- a key metric for telcom firms -- was stable Rs 138.4 per subscriber per month, against Rs 138.2 in the March quarter. The value of services in the quarter was at Rs 22,267 crore, an increase of 9.8 per cent year-on-year. “Quarterly operating revenue was Rs 18,952 crore, growth of 19 per cent adjusted for IUC, driven by continued subscriber traction in connectivity business,” the company said in a statement. Reliance Jio Infocomm's net profit for June quarter stood at Rs 3,501 crore, against Rs 2,520 crore in the same period of the previous year. Jio said the subscriber additions continued at a “healthy pace” despite the severe second wave of COVID, and the customer base surged to 440.6 million in the June quarter, with net add of 42.3 million users year-on-year. The total data traffic was 20.3 billion GB in the quarter, growing at 38.5 per cent year-on-year, while the total voice traffic logged 19.5 per cent growth. Spectrum investments have created capacity to onboard the next 200 million customers on Jio's network, the company said.      Jio has received necessary approvals and trial spectrum for initiating 5G field trials, it said, adding the converged and future-proof architecture that the company is giving shape to will enable Jio's network to quickly and seamlessly upgrade from 4G to 5G. In a detailed presentation on the Q1 scorecard, the company said JioFiber now has over 3 million connected homes with improving momentum in recent months. “Jio's optical-fiber network is physically present outside more than 12 million premises,” the presentation said. Thakur acknowledged that while there have been challenges and delay in incremental monetisation of fiber-to-the-home (FTTH) and digital platforms, the company sees a “long runway” ahead of it, both on mobility side with network capacity and devices and on FTTH and enterprise side “where demand has been extremely strong”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Reliance Retail reports increase of 79.88 per cent in tax profit at Rs 1,941 crore for first quarter||Reliance Retail on Friday reported an increase of 79.88 per cent in its pre-tax profit at Rs 1,941 crore for the first quarter ended June 2021. The retail arm of Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) had posted a pre-tax profit or EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) of Rs 1,079 crore in the April-June quarter a year ago. Revenue from operations of the organised retail segment of RIL during the quarter was at Rs 33,566 crore, up 19.04 per cent, against Rs 28,197 a year ago. While its gross revenue, which includes the value of sales and services, was up 21.90 per cent at Rs 38,547 crore in Q1/FY201-22 as against Rs 31,620 crore of the corresponding quarter of the last fiscal. "Net profit for the quarter was Rs 962 crore, higher by 123.2 per cent Y-o-Y," it added. However, sequentially, Reliance Retail gross revenue in April-June was down 18.09 per cent at Rs 38,547 crore, against Rs 47,064 crore of the January-March quarter on account of restrictions on store operations during the second wave of Covid-19. RIL Chairman and Managing Director Mukesh Ambani said: "COVID-related restrictions on store operations during the quarter impacted our retail business operations and profitability. This is a temporary phenomenon." "We remained focused on ensuring supplies of necessities, including food, grocery, health & hygiene products through a combination of online-offline channels. We stepped up our efforts in creating partnerships with small merchants and digital engagement with consumers. This is creating a newer and inclusive model of growth. I am confident that the retail business is poised to create exponential value and growth," he said. During the quarter, store expansion was constrained as the business opened 123 stores taking the total count to 12,803, it said. "Another 700+ stores in the pipeline will be commissioned as curbs are lifted," it added. The area of retail operation operated by Reliance Retail was also up 18.96 per cent at 34.5 million sq ft as compared to 29 million sq ft in the corresponding quarter. Besides, Reliance Retail also scaled up digital commerce venture and merchant partnerships, which helped it to get 20 per cent of the sales during the second wave impacted quarter. "The focus on scaling up digital commerce and merchant partnerships helped partially alleviate the loss of business due to store closures. These streams contributed a sizable 20 per cent of retail sales in the quarter," it said. Store operations were disrupted through the quarter starting from mid of April and after second week of June, there were sporadic signs of easing with continued restrictions varying across geographies. "Operating efficiency was impacted due to the restrictions across the network as stores were operating for 70 per cent, 25 per cent, 38 per cent of normal working hours during April, May and June respectively," it said adding "retail stores and digital commerce could sell only essentials for the most part of the quarter". Over the sales performance, the company said grocery was resilient, connectivity sustained its consistent performance but Consumer Electronics and Fashion & Lifestyle saw significant growth given a less constraining operating context relative to the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The new businesses such as pharma, in which the company entered after acquiring Netmeds, Reliance Retail said it "continues to expand its portfolio and saw 60 per cent growth in orders over the previous quarter. The hyperlocal capabilities were extended to over 150 stores for same-day deliveries. While Zivame delivered double-digit growth over the previous quarter despite supply-side challenges. "Urban Ladder exit daily online orders grew 2.5x over last quarter. It developed an assisted sales channel through video calls and launched a multi-brand business in furnishing and d cor across 40 sub-categories," it said. Reliance Retail has invested in online pharmacy Netmeds, online furniture retailer Urban Ladder and online lingerie retailer Zivame, stepping up its play into the fast-growing e-commerce segment. According to the company, the business remains "strongly focused" in augmenting its capabilities across channels, building its compelling proposition for customers and merchant partners and developing its product portfolio to stay on trend with emerging preferences. "Whilst the current operating environment is uncertain, we remain cautiously optimistic and committed to restoring the strong growth momentum that was seen pre-pandemic, as operating curbs are lifted," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||How Does Indus Multi Currency Forex Cards Make Travel Abroad Hassle-free?||In the 21st century, the world has transformed into a well-knit global village. More and more people are travelling abroad and exploring new destinations. If you are also planning to visit an exotic locale, an important point that you need to consider is how to carry the currency you will use there. If you haven’t quite considered the currency factor, this article has you covered. The reason is having a reliable, hassle-free, and convenient method of carrying foreign currency is a crucial part of foreign travel planning. Being the dynamic and aspirational multitasker you are, you wouldn't want to pay more than you should for a purchase, let alone wait in long queues to count cash or switch between multiple cards. This is where Forex (foreign exchange) cards seal the deal. IndusInd Multicurrency Forex Card presents an easy, safe, and cashless way of carrying and using foreign currency on your trip abroad. Read on to explore how IndusInd Bank’s multi-currency travel card can make your travel effortless. Spend More Time Discovering the World There are so many destinations to tick off your bucket list when you travel overseas. When looking to accommodate as many activities in your day, scouting for currency exchange booths or ATMs isn’t one. With its innovative features, the Indus Forex card irons out your issues in a flash. How? You can make quick vendor payments across the globe. Why, yes! You can load up to 14 currencies on your IndusInd Bank travel card, namely: Forget Worrying About Exchange Rates When you buy a forex card online or offline with IndusInd Bank, you are protected against currency fluctuations since the exchange rate doesn’t change after you load your card. Plus, you can make international transactions at restaurants, stores, ferry rides, hotels, shopping malls, airports, and petrol pumps through your travel card at zero extra charges. Spend At Ease When you are finally fulfilling your unachieved travel goals, spur-of-the-moment purchases are never off the table. You wouldn’t want the lack of funds to stop you from chasing your next adventure or realising a sudden plan. That’s where the Indus Multi Currency Forex Card becomes your perfect travel companion. Its InstaReload feature enables you to reload your card 24x7. You can add funds up to Rs. 49,000 within minutes, twice a month. The card packs an absolute knockout punch with the following features: But that’s not it! IndusInd Bank also guarantees easy encashment once you return to India. Track Your Account On The Go With IndusForex, IndusInd Bank’s online retail forex portal, you don’t just buy a forex card online; you also track your international spending digitally. Besides, you can check your transaction history and use periodic statements to stay up to speed with your expenses. Make Payments Securely By carrying a forex card, you already do away with the troubles of keeping your cash safe during your travels. IndusInd Bank’s multi-currency travel card comes with numerous firewalls to prevent fraud, including PIN and password protection, card chip, and instant transaction alerts. Moreover, if your card ever gets stolen or lost, you can opt for immediate hot-listing, which means your card will be blocked to freeze the funds. Wrapping Up Irrespective of whether it’s a business trip or a family vacation, travel smartly with your IndusInd Forex card on your next foreign escapade. Score exciting cashbacks, discounts, and offers on your frequent travels as well. Save time by skipping ATM queues and money on currency conversions, buy Forex cards online and enjoy happy trails!||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Techila Global Services Wins The Prestigious “Salesforce Company Of The Year” Award From Asian News||Techila Global Services, a noted Salesforce development company was awarded as the “Salesforce Company Of The Year” by Asian News, a leading online news portal. The company was awarded for its seamless Salesforce development services and the reputation it managed to garner in the IT industry. On getting this recognition, Techila Global Services joins the ranks of some of the most trusted Salesforce implementation companies in the country catering to clients across the globe. According to Asian News, “Techila Global Services is a highly pro-active Salesforce development company that keeps updating itself to be in sync with the latest technological requirements. What sets the company apart from its peers is the fact that it undertakes thorough research and prepares an execution plan that is unique to the clients it caters to. This adds to the personalized nature of its services, resulting in happier and more satisfied clients.” Techila Global Services made the cut as the winner owing to its focus on helping smaller businesses adopt Salesforce. The company was successful in busting the myth that Salesforce is limited to large-scale enterprises that are willing to automate complicated business processes. Techila Global Services made a mark for itself by customizing Salesforce according to the specific requirements of its clients, providing them with exactly what they want. Another aspect that impressed the AsianNews.in jury was the employee-centric nature of the Salesforce development company. While IT companies across the board pushed their employees to work more in order to compensate for the COVID doldrums, Techila Global Services encouraged its remote employees not to take any work-related calls/emails beyond the dedicated work hours. Moreover, the company recently rolled out Salesforce job opportunities for young graduates, IT professionals wanting to switch to Salesforce, and the professionals who lost their job during the pandemic. This initiative to aid the employment drive in the country served as a feather in the company’s cap, making it win the prestigious award. Chitiz Agarwal, the founder and CEO of Techilaservices.com believes that this win would inspire IT companies in the country to be more employee-centric in nature. He says, “We are extremely grateful and humbled to have received this honor. This reinstates our faith in the fact that it is important to have your company’s heart at the right place. Apart from all the hard work, it is important for an organization to be considerate towards its employees and cater to all their needs on a priority basis. We sincerely hope this inspires companies across the board to give utmost preference to the well-being of their employees.” About Techila Global Services Techila Global Services is a Salesforce development company and a Salesforce Consulting Partner based in Pune, Maharashtra. It provides Salesforce development, implementation, and consultation services to clients belonging to all major industries, including Finance, Real Estate, Retail, Education, Healthcare, Marketing/Sales, and E-commerce. The company was founded by Chitiz Agarwal on the 5th of August, 2012. It is composed of more than 250 employees working from different parts of the world. Techila Global Services is ISO 9001:2015 certified and is currently undergoing CMM certification.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Sensex ends 139 points higher||Equity benchmark Sensex rose 139 points on Friday following gains in ICICI Bank, ITC and SBI amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 138.59 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 52,975.80, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 32 points or 0.20 per cent to 15,856.05. ICICI Bank was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 3 per cent, followed by ITC, SBI, HCL Tech, Axis Bank, Bajaj Finserv and Tech Mahindra. On the other hand, L&T, HUL, Reliance Industries and NTPC were among the laggards. Domestic market traded range-bound but extended gains moderately on sustained rebound in financials, said Binod Modi, Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities. "Improved prospects of credit growth rebound with visible pickup in economy and comfortable valuations bode well for financials. However, it was not a broad-based rally as midcap and smallcap indices lagged as profit booking was visible in many counters," he noted. A sharp recovery in global markets along with buying on dips propelled domestic equities to see sharp rebound in the last two days, Modi added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red, while Seoul ended with gains. Equities in Europe were trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.01 per cent to USD 73.78 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Zomato shares soar with nearly 53 per cent premium on debut||Shares of fast-growing food-delivery start-up Zomato rocketed as they made their stock exchange debut, bolstering the outlook for a string of new Internet-based firms set to hit the market. Zomato shares opened at a 53 per cent premium over the issue price of Rs 76 and extended their gains to trade up as high as 82.2 per cent. The stunning trading start by Zomato, backed by Jack Ma’s Ant Group and the first of a series of Internet unicorns aiming to tap the Indian market, came after the company’s Rs 93.75 billion initial public offering (IPO) was 38 times oversubscribed. “Today is a big day for us. A new Day Zero,” said Zomato's co-founder and Chief Executive Deepinder Goyal, who kept his role in the company’s launch a secret from his teacher parents for a long time, fearful they would disapprove of the risk he was taking. “The tremendous response to our IPO gives us the confidence that the world is full of investors who appreciate the magnitude of investments we are making, and take a long-term view of our business,” Goyal wrote on the company’s website. Shares of Zomato stormed 82.2 per cent higher in early trade, giving the company a market capitalisation of about $12 billion, more than pharmaceutical giant Dr Reddy’s or food heavyweight Britannia. The company was trading at a massive 65 per cent premium to its IPO issue price on Friday afternoon. The blistering market debut came despite concerns expressed by some analysts that the loss-making firm was overvalued. Zomato lost Rs 812 crore in the last financial year. But those losses were down by 65 per cent from the previous year. Zomato’s also flipped its performance on each order to earn an average of Rs 20.5 on every order in the last financial year from a loss of Rs 30.5 in the previous financial year, thanks to better efficiency Zomato’s performance is seen as a barometer of investor appetite for the country’s fast-multiplying unicorns – start-ups that have a value of at least $1 billion. (According to Bloomberg, India is spawning unicorns at the rate of three a month). In fact, while many businesses hit rock-bottom during the devastating Covid-19 second wave, India added 11 new unicorns, bringing its total to 48. Only the US and China have more unicorns. Other Internet-based companies being lined up for IPOs include digital payment service PayTM, hospitality company OYO, ride-hailing platform Ola and Mobikwik. Pavan Pai, who’s a founding partner of the VC firm 3one4 Capital, notes that “over a dozen companies are planning IPOs now,” Loss--making Paytm, which is also backed by China’s Ant Group is expected to seek to raise as much as $3 billion Zomato, whose other blue-chip venture-capital investors include Tiger Global and Kora, has been favoured by investors thanks to its “first-mover advantage” in the food-delivery segment that puts it “in a sweet spot as the online food-delivery market is at the cusp of evolution,” said Motilal Oswal brokerage analyst Sneha Poddar. It’s already been a blockbuster year -- in fact the busiest in 12 years -- for IPO listings on Indian exchanges with $5.6 billion raised so far from investors in the red-hot Indian share market’s defied gravity throughout the pandemic. Analysts project that the total capital raised this year from IPOs could be close to $10 billion, Zomato, which was founded in 2008, operates in 525 Indian cities and is present in 23 other countries though it says going forward it plans to focus on India. It’s now the market leader in terms of its gross order value or GOV and it plans to use the money raised to focus on organic and inorganic growth. As for investors in IPOs this year, they’re smiling all the way to the bank with their shares up by an average of 62 per cent, according to Bloomberg. Investment bankers in charge of Zomato’s IPO are also happy -- they reaped Rs 93.75 billion in fees, one of the richest payouts from an Indian initial offer, according to documents. Some analysts warn that the Indian market is hugely overvalued and that investors should be cautious about this new generation of Internet-based IPOs which are still cash-burning operations. Stock market valuation expert Aswath Damodaran, who teaches at NYU’s Stern School of Business, valued Zomato at just Rs 41 per share, way below its offer price of Rs 76 and listing price of Rs 115. “Zomato is a money-losing,cash-burning enterprise now, but it has immense market potential… and a viable business model,” Damodaran said in a blog post. Still, he added, “I would have no qualms about investing in the stock, if the price drops in the near future, with the full understanding that this is a joint wager on a company, a sector and a country.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||SC dismisses plea of telecom majors alleging errors in calculation of AGR-related dues||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the applications filed by telecom majors, including Vodafone Idea and Bharti Airtel, raising the issue of alleged errors in calculation in the figure of Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) related dues payable by them. All the miscellaneous applications are dismissed, a bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao said while pronouncing the order. The telecom companies had submitted before the apex court that arithmetical errors in the calculation be rectified and there are cases of duplication of entries. The top court had on July 19 said it would pass orders on the applications filed by the telecom majors. The top court in September last year had given a time of 10 years to telecom service providers struggling to pay Rs 93,520 crores of AGR-related dues to clear their outstanding amount to the government.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops over 100 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 100 points in early trade on Friday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and L&T amid sustained foreign fund outflow. After opening over 150 points higher, the 30-share BSE index pared all gains to trade 141.67 points or 0.27 per cent lower at 52,695.54 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty declined 42.05 points or 0.27 per cent to 15,782. L&T was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding around 1 per cent, followed by Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finance, HDFC Bank and Kotak Bank. On the other hand, HCL Tech, UltraTech Cement, Tata Steel, Titan and Maruti were among the gainers. In the previous session, Sensex ended 638.70 points or 1.22 per cent higher at 52,837.21, while Nifty surged 191.95 points or 1.23 per cent to 15,824.05. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 247.59 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. According to Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities, a sharp recovery in global markets propelled domestic equities to see sharp rebound on Thursday, while concerns over global growth due to recent rise in delta variants of coronavirus cases in different parts of the world continues to persist. "However, we continue to believe that the underlying strength of the domestic market remains intact," he said. On the global front, US equities extended gains for the third consecutive day despite weak employment data as investors focused on strong report cards of corporate earnings, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong were in the red, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.33 per cent to USD 73.55 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Centre expects to receive financial bids for Air India by September||The Centre expects to receive the financial bids for Air India by September, minister of state for civil aviation V.K. Singh informed Parliament on Thursday. The minister, however, did not disclose the names of the qualified institutional bidders (QIBs). The government, Singh said, has received “multiple” expressions of interest for the privatisation of the cash-strapped national carrier. The government also clarified that the lawsuits filed by Cairn Energy and Devas in an US court would not have any impact on Air India’s disinvestment . ‘‘Cairn Energy and Devas Multimedia have filed lawsuits in the US District Court for Southern District of New York seeking declaratory and money judgement against Air India Limited as an alter ego of the Republic of India,’’  Singh said in a written reply to the Lok Sabha. Air India is a separate corporate entity with its own management and board and so there is ‘‘no likely impact’’ of the lawsuits on its ongoing disinvestment process, the minister said. Cairn Energy and Devas Multimediare seeking $1.725 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, from India as part of lawsuits won in international arbitrations. The Centre had invited expressions of interests for Air India on January 27, 2020. The last date of submission — after multiple extensions because of the Covid-19 pandemic — of EoIs was December 14, 2020. ‘‘Multiple EoIs were received by the transaction adviser. Requests for proposal along with a draft share purchase agreement have been shared with the QIBs by the transaction adviser on March 30, 2021, for submission of the financial bids,’’ Singh stated. ‘‘The financial bids are likely to be received by September 15, 2021.’’ The Centre has not revealed the names of the QIBs as yet. After the consortium of Air India employees, backed by NRI businessman Laxmi Prasad and his New York-based Interups Fund, was disqualified, the Tata group and SpiceJet are the two buyers reportedly left in the race to buy the national carrier. Of the airline’s total debt of Rs 60,074 crore as of March 2019, the buyer would be required to absorb Rs 23,286.5 crore, while the rest would be transferred to Air India Assets Holding Ltd (AIAHL), a special purpose vehicle. Singh said the ‘‘monetisation proceeds of the non-core assets of Air India are to be used to offset the debt of Air India transferred to AIAHL.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Faceless tax assessment draws flak||The faceless assessments of income tax payers have got mired in procedural lapses leading to litigations throughout the country. The e-assessment scheme for income tax assessees was initially notified in 2019 and was later renamed to faceless assessment scheme. The scheme was subsequently codified into the Income Tax Act in 2020 through the insertion of Section 144B. The faceless mode of assessment was introduced to eliminate the interface between the assessing officer and the assessee with the use of technology and with an aim to impart transparency and accountability. According to government data disclosed in Rajya Sabha, till March 10, 2021, a total of 82,072 assessment cases have been completed in faceless manner. As part of the faceless assessment procedure, the assessment unit is required to write a draft assessment order based on all the relevant information available. The National Faceless Assessment Centre (NFAC) upon examining the draft assessment order may decide to either finalise the assessment or provide an opportunity to the taxpayer in case there is a variation which is prejudicial to the interest of the assessee. In case of the latter, a showcause notice will be issued to the assessee as to why the proposed variation in assessment should not be made. If a taxpayer has received the show-cause notice, he may furnish his response to the NFAC within the stipulated timeline. The assessment unit is required to make a revised draft assessment order and send it to NFAC after taking into account the response furnished by the taxpayer. Tax practitioners however point out that in many cases assessment has been done hurriedly without strictly following the procedures laid down in the Act which has led to filing of writs in various courts challenging the assessment orders. The Covid pandemic coupled with late issue of notices of extensions and technical glitches have further compounded the issues of faceless assessment. At a session organised by PHDCCI, Rohit Jain, partner, Vaish Associates, highlighted some of the procedural concerns. “In many cases, we are seeing that the draft assessment order and the show cause notice is not received by taxpayers. As a consequence, the important right available to the taxpayer to object to the draft assessment order and seek an opportunity of hearing is denied to taxpayers,” Jain said. The provisions of faceless assessment under Section 144B also allows taxpayers to request for a personal hearing which can be conducted through a video conference. However, there have been instances where such opportunity has been denied. Writ petitions have also been filed in instances where final assessment order has been passed before filing of reply and in cases where final assessment does not factor in the objections filed in response to show cause notice. “It is high time that the matter needs to be seriously looked into so that officers who are handling faceless assessment should work as per law and as per the principles of natural justice. Otherwise people will be losing faith in faceless assessment,”  tax advocate Narayan Jain told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-132
23-07-2021||Business||Competition Commission of India pulls up Amazon||India’s competiton regulator has accused Amazon.com Inc of concealing facts and making false submissions when it sought approval for a 2019 investment in a Future Group unit. In the letter dated June 4, the Competition Commission of India (CCI) said Amazon hid factual aspects of the transaction by not revealing its strategic interest in Future Retail when it sought approval for the 2019 deal. Future on Thursday submitted a copy of the show-cause notice before the Supreme Court. Amazon confirmed the notice but said as the matter was sub-judice “we are unable to comment on the merits or substance of any allegations at this stage”. In the Supreme Court hearing, Amazon said the Biyanis are bound by Singapore's Emergency Arbitrator (EA) award restraining its Future Retail Ltd from proceeding with the Rs 24,713 crore deal with Reliance Retail. Senior advocate Gopal Subramanium who argued for Amazon said that the EA had rightly held the group of companies doctrine is applicable in the case and the Future group company cannot take the plea that the award was not enforceable as it was not party to the arbitral proceedings or the agreements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||Business||Naveen Patnaik inaugurates Tata tea packaging unit at Gopalpur Industrial Park||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday inaugurated a tea packaging unit of Tata Consumer Products Limited at Gopalpur Industrial Park in Ganjam district. The plant has been commissioned in a span of 18 months with an investment of Rs 100 crore. The unit is expected to provide employment to more than 900 people in the district of Ganjam. “It will be developed as the largest tea packaging plant in the country,” a press release issued by the chief minister’s office said. At present, the unit has a production capacity of 15 million kg tea which will be ramped up to 50 million kg. The unit will cater to the needs of  Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamilnadu, Telangana and central India. It will be operated by Amalgamated Plantations Private Limited, an associate of TCPL, the second-largest tea producer in India. Patnaik said the Tata group has been playing a vital role in the industrial development of Odisha, adding that the state has been successful in mobilising investments in diverse sectors such as petro chemical, food processing, apparel and garment. Tata Steel managing director T.V. Narendran said Tata Steel has invested over Rs 60,000 crore in Odisha in the last five years. He added that Tata Steel has invested Rs 500 crore for infrastructure development of the Gopalpur special economic zone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||Business||Bajaj Auto net profits more than double during June quarter||Net profits at Bajaj Auto more than doubled during the first quarter ended June 2021 as the company gained from strong export growth even as the domestic markets were impacted by lockdowns in various states. Bajaj Auto posted a standalone net profit of Rs 1,061.18 crore during the quarter under review compared with Rs 528.04 crore in the April-June period of the previous year. Revenues grew to Rs 7,386.04 crore from Rs 3,079.24 crore in the year-ago period. In a separate announcement, Bajaj Auto said that it will be foraying into the electric vehicle (EV) space. The board of directors  has approved the incorporation of a wholly owned subsidiary to help the company venture into the manufacturing of electric and hybrid vehicles in the two, three and light four-wheeler categories. UltraTech Cement Aditya Birla group firm UltraTech Cement Ltd on Thursday reported an over two-fold jump in its consolidated net profit to Rs 1,700 crore in the first quarter ended June 2021, helped by volume growth and increased operational efficiencies. The leading cement producer had posted a net profit of Rs 793.08 crore in the April-June quarter a year ago. Its revenue from operations was up 54.21 per cent to Rs 11,829.84 crore against Rs 7,671.05 crore in the a year ago. Mphasis numbers IT firm Mphasis on Thursday reported a 23.4 per cent increase in consolidated net profit at Rs 339.6 crore in the April-June 2021 quarter. The company’s net profit stood at Rs 275.1 crore in the year-ago period. Mphasis said in a regulatory filing. Revenue from operations grew 17.5 per cent to Rs 2,690.8 crore in the reported quarter from Rs 2,288.2 crore in the year-ago period, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||Business||Hindustan Unilever posts standalone net profit of Rs 2,061 crore||Hindustan Unilever (HUL) has missed Street estimates for the quarter ended June 30, 2021 as rising raw material costs hit margins. The FMCG giant posted a standalone net profit of Rs 2,061 crore against Rs 1,881 crore a year ago — a rise of 9.56 per cent. Analysts were expecting HUL to post a net profit of around Rs 2,200 crore. During the period, the company reported an underlying volume growth of 9 per cent, which was lower than the 16 per cent growth seen in the preceding three months. In the year-ago period, it had seen a contraction of 7 per cent. The quarter saw sales coming in at Rs 11,730 crore compared with Rs 10,406 crore in the corresponding previous period — a rise of 12.72 per cent. However, the company faced inflationary pressures that saw palm oil rates rising to record levels even as tea and crude prices remained firm. This saw its EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) falling by 110 basis points to 24 per cent during the quarter. “The second wave of Covid-19 brought upon us a severe humanitarian crisis… Looking forward, we remain cautiously optimistic about the demand recovery. Our focus firmly remains behind delivering volume led competitive growth and margins in a healthy range,’’ said Sanjiv Mehta, chairman and managing director, HUL. Unilever view Unilever on Thursday said the second wave of the pandemic and subsequent restrictions in India impacted its sales in the country. The operating environment across its markets in H1 (January-June) has seen some improvements, but broadly it remains “volatile”, the company said in its post earning statement for the first half.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||Business||Centre allows 100% FDI in BPCL privatisation||The government has sweetened the BPCL privatisation offer by tweaking the foreign direct investment policy to allow 100 per cent ownership of a state-owned refinery by global players through the  automatic route. The cabinet has approved the proposal to allow 100 per cent foreign direct investment in state-run refineries in which a strategic stake sale is announced, officials said. Mining-to-oil conglomerate Vedanta and US-based private equity firms Apollo Global and I Squared Capital’s arm Think Gas are in the race to buy the government’s stake in BPCL. The government at present allows 49 per cent FDI through the automatic route in petroleum refining PSUs, while permitting 100 per cent FDI through the automatic route in the private sector. The officials clarified the limit will stay at 49 per cent for refiners not lined up for asset sales. The winning bidder for the government’s 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL will have to make an open offer to buy an additional 26 per cent stake from other shareholders at the same price according to the takeover rules. The Centre has approved the sale of its entire 52.98 per cent shareholding in BPCL, along with the transfer of management control to a strategic buyer. Specialty steel incentives The cabinet also approved a Rs 6,322-crore production linked incentive (PLI) scheme for specialty steel. Under the scheme, valid from 2023-24 to 2027-28, eligible producers will get a 4 per cent to 12 per cent incentive on the incremental production. The government expects the scheme to add 25 million tonnes (mt) to the existing capacity and bring investments of Rs 40,000 crore. “We shall consider the scheme while deciding our next capex cycle and product-mix,’’ according to SAIL chairman Soma Mondal. T.V. Narendran, CEO & MD, Tata Steel, said the PLI scheme “will boost investment in the high grade steel sector and drive global competitiveness of the Indian manufacturers. The scheme will provide an added advantage to our future plans where value-added products will be a major focus”. “Most of the imports into India are in the value-added and specialty segment. The PLI scheme will boost manufacturing capacities by Indian mills in this segment and MSMEs will be able to source from them directly. JSPL will definitely register for this scheme,” V.R. Sharma, MD of  JSPL, said. Bhaskar Chatterjee, secretary-general of the Indian Steel Association, said: “This scheme will play a pivotal role in enabling growth by promoting investments for the steel industry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||Business||Reserve Bank of India plan for central bank digital currency||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is drawing up a plan for a central bank digital currency and examining use cases that can be implemented with little or no disruption, deputy-governor T. Rabi Sankar said on Thursday. However, legal changes would be necessary as the present provisions have been made keeping in mind currency in a physical form under the RBI Act, 1934. Moreover, consequential amendments would be required in the Coinage Act, Foreign Exchange Management Act (Fema) and Information Technology Act. “These are some of the things that.. we are looking at internally,” he said. Sankar was speaking at a webinar on central bank digital currency (CBDC). According to the RBI deputy governor, CBDC is a legal tender issued by a central bank in a digital form. It is the same as a fiat currency and exchangeable one-to-one with the fiat currency. Only its form is different. “It is important to understand what a CBDC is not. CBDC is a digital or virtual currency but it is not comparable to the private virtual currencies that have mushroomed over the last decade. Private virtual currencies sit at substantial odds to the historical concept of money,’’ he said. Sankar said many central banks in the world were working on their own digital currency to protect consumers from the “frightening level of volatility’’ seen in some of the virtual currencies that have no sovereign backing. A few countries have also moved to the testing stage, he noted. In India, a high-level inter-ministerial committee of the finance ministry has delved into the policy and legal issues and  recommended the introduction of CBDC. “Like other central banks, the RBI has been exploring the pros and cons of CBDC for quite some time,” Sankar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||Business||Pauls of Apeejay Surrendra Group sell interest in UK-based Typhoo Tea||The Pauls of Apeejay Surrendra Group have sold their interest in the 120-year old UK-based Typhoo Tea which was the first to launch ready-packaged tea in the world. The group, which acquired the storied British tea brand 16 years ago, has sold its stake to a clutch of private equity players. Zetland Capital, a private equity firm in London, has become the majority shareholder of the Merseyside, Liverpool-based company which has been battling heavy losses in the past few years that have exacerbated during the pandemic. The Apeejay group has interests in real estate, hotels, shipping, tea plantations and logistics. It bought Typhoo from Premier Foods for £80 million in 2005. The Indian operations will remain for the time being with the Apeejay Surrendra Group which owns 17 tea gardens in Assam. Based out of Calcutta, the Pauls launched Typhoo packet teas and herbal infusions in India in 2008, building on its famed British legacy. Typhoo Tea, founded in 1903, was also the first to launch a green tea blend in the UK. It has a number of other brands in its portfolio, including Glengettie, Melrose’s, instant tea brand Lift, organic brand Heath & Heather, and speciality tea brand Ridgways of London. Confirming the transaction, Karan Paul, chairman of Apeejay Surrendra Group, told The Telegraph: “We have exited from Typhoo UK Ltd. However, the licence to sell teas under the Typhoo brand in India remains with us for the foreseeable future. It is going to be business as usual here.” He refused to divulge the terms of the transaction. Industry sources said Typhoo Tea has been steeped in losses and the sale will mean that the Apeejay group will no longer have to stump up money at regular intervals to support the British venture. The Pauls decided to exit Typhoo Tea when it became apparent that they would have to make a very significant cash infusion into Typhoo Tea. In a statement, Des Kingsley, CEO at Typhoo Tea Ltd, said: “This deal marks a new era in the ownership of Typhoo Tea. It has secured major investment that will enable us to re-assert our brands both in the UK and internationally to deliver profitable growth.” Ahmed Hamdani, founder and chief Investment officer at Zetland Capital, added: “We are delighted to support Des and the rest of the team. Our partnership will enable investment at an important time for the company and we are confident that Typhoo can regain its reputation as one of Britain’s most loved brands and drive innovation in the sector.” Recent struggle Typhoo Tea’s troubles began after its strategy to ramp up sales at its private label business floundered badly. The prolonged uncertainty over Brexit also weighed heavy because of rising material sourcing costs and the wild fluctuations in the dollar which was used to purchase teas, amplifying currency risks. A new executive leadership team was put in place in 2019 and the company was forced to change its strategy, after acknowledging that the 12-month period prior to it had been a ‘watershed’ in Typhoo’s history. Net loss at Typhoo Tea Ltd surged by almost 50 per cent as on March 31, 2019 (see chart). The accounts since that date have yet to be prepared and filed. While preparing the accounts for the year ended March 2019, the directors made an assumption that the company would be able to meet all the liabilities, including loan instalments by April 30, 2021. There was a breach of covenants on the loan facility for the year ended March 31, 2019 but the company had met all repayments and interest payments on time. Moreover, Apeejay Tea (Panama) had signed a letter of support to provide all support to keep Typhoo afloat as a going concern for 12 months since the date on which the directors signed off on the annual accounts. However, the directors had warned that “whilst there is confidence that a solution to re-finance will be achieved, this could be impacted by events outside the firm’s control”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-133
23-07-2021||India||Can't be speculated that Delta variant by itself can give rise to third wave of Covid-19: Govt||The Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been shown to be more transmissible than other variants of concern, however, it cannot be speculated that this variant by itself can give rise to a third wave of COVID-19 in the country, Lok Sabha was informed on Friday.  The surge in cases is also dependent on available susceptible population, including a host of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical interventions like vaccination, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar said in a written reply.  The SARS-CoV-2 being an RNA virus is prone to mutations, the ministry said, underlining that laboratories undertake genetic analysis of circulating virus to detect such changes which develop naturally and continuously and may have significant public health implications.  The Delta variant was first detected in India on genomic sequencing of samples in October 2020. This variant is the dominant lineage for new cases across India currently and remains the most rapidly rising lineage globally.  "Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 has been shown to be more transmissible than other variants of concern. However, it cannot be speculated that this variant by itself can give rise to third wave of COVID-19 in the country since the surge in cases is also dependent on available susceptible population including host of pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical interventions including vaccination," the minister said.  The government of India under the INSACOG network of laboratories is also undertaking genomic sequencing of positive samples. Information on genome sequencing for mutant variants of SARS-CoV-2 is regularly shared with the states.  The issue of mutant variants is also flagged through regular formal communications to all states and UTs.  The MoHFW has alerted all the states and UTs to keep a watch on any unusual surge in COVID-19 cases from districts in which the delta-plus variant was detected as well as from other districts.  States and UTs have been advised to keep strict surveillance in the districts reporting new variants of concern and take up stringent public health measures, Pawar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
23-07-2021||India||Amit Shah to chair meeting of northeastern chief ministers||Union Home Minister Amit Shah is arriving in Shillong on two days visit Saturday to chair a meeting with the Chief Ministers of eight Northeastern states in which interstate border issues might be taken up, officials said. In addition, Mr Shah has some official engagements in Meghalaya during his stay. Officials said Friday that Mr Shah will be chairing a closed-door meeting with the Chief Ministers, Chief Secretaries and police chiefs of all the Northeastern states on Saturday, where among other issues, the chief ministers are likely to discuss the interstate boundary issues plaguing the region. Northeastern states include Assam, Meghalaya, Tripura, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. Assam has boundary conflicts with Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Nagaland and Mizoram. Giving detail of Mr Shah's program, the officials said he will inaugurate the Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT) at Mawiong in the outskirts of Shillong and the Cryogenic Plant at the New Shillong Township. The union minister is also scheduled to visit Sohra (erstwhile Cherrapunji) on Sunday to inaugurate an afforestation project, to inaugurate the Greater Sohra Water Supply Scheme and he is scheduled to pay a visit to the Ramakrishna Mission Ashram there. Sohra is about 65 km South of Shillong and on a clear sunny day, one can get a full view of the plains of Bangladesh. The home minister has scheduled a 30 minutes meeting with the leaders of civil organisations where he is expected to give a patient hearing to their grievances, a senior official said. The organisations are all prepared to apprise the union home minister on various issues of the state which included the need to implement the inner Llne permit (ILP), inter-state border disputes, inclusion of Khasi language in the Eighth Schedule and amendment to the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution of India, sources close to the organisations said. Security has been beefed up here ahead of the visit of the union home minister, officials said. Police and paramilitary forces have been directed to stay alert, keep a strict vigil and intensify patrolling in the city, especially in the vicinity of the venue and the roads leading to the ISBT and New Shillong Township as Mr Shah is scheduled to inaugurate both the projects, they said. A mock drill to facilitate smooth movement of the union minister cavalcade from the helipad to the venue was also undertaken since Thursday as part of the security arrangements. All markets and business establishments here have been ordered shut on Saturday and Sunday by the district administration despite the lockdown being relaxed to avoid any law and order issues, a senior home department official told PTI. He said all necessary measures are being done in coordination with the state police, central agencies, and the paramilitary forces in all the places the minister is scheduled to visit during his two day-visit to the state beginning Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
23-07-2021||India||Around 1,000 homes damaged, hundreds evacuated in flood-hit Goa||One person died, around 1,000 houses were damaged and hundreds of people evacuated from low-lying parts inundated due to heavy rains and overflowing of rivers as Goa on Friday reeled under one of the worst floods in nearly 40 years, the state government said. Chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters here that the floods had badly hit talukas of Sattari, Bicholim, Ponda, Dharbandora, Bardez and Pernem, while other areas also suffered damage. He said there was a report of a woman drowning in Dharbandora taluka but a confirmation on the exact cause of the death was awaited. The chief minister visited certain affected areas in Bicholim taluka in the afternoon to monitor rescue and relief operations. He said government-run schools have been converted into temporary shelter homes to accommodate people evacuated from flooded areas. “This is one of the worst floods since 1982. Properties worth crores of rupees have been damaged,” Sawant said. The chief minister said teams of the disaster management cell swung into action on Friday and evacuated several people who were stranded at different locations. He said in Pernem taluka (North Goa), the Chapora river was flowing above the danger mark due to which water had entered low-lying areas damaging 88 houses, while eight persons were evacuated. The Chapora river also caused devastation in Bardez taluka where 167 homes were damaged and nine people evacuated, Sawant said. He said in Bicholim taluka, Valvanti and Chapora rivers were overflowing due to which 164 houses were damaged, while 40 people rescued. Sattari was one of the worst hit talukas where 130 houses were damaged while 65 people had to be rescued as Valvanti and Mahadayi rivers crossed their danger levels, the CM said. He said in Ponda taluka, several people in Waghurme village were stranded in their submerged homes and attempts were on to rescue them. Health Minister Vishwajit Rane was personally monitoring the evacuation process. In South Goa's Salcette taluka, the Kushavati river was flowing above the danger level, damaging 18 houses, Sawant said. In Dharbandora taluka in South Goa, 135 houses were damaged and 150 people evacuated, he said. In Canacona, the Talpona river was overflowing due to which 60 homes were damaged, the chief minister said. The coastal state has been experiencing heavy rains over the past few days. On Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a warning that a circulation in the Bay of Bengal is likely to trigger low-pressure area that will cause more rainfall in Goa. Till Wednesday, the coastal state had received 1,998.3 mm rainfall during the ongoing monsoon season as against the average of 1,612.7 mm for the corresponding period. The state fisheries department has asked fishermen not to venture out into the sea due to gusty winds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
23-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra's custody extended, police record Shilpa Shetty's statement in porn case||A court in Mumbai on Friday extended till July 27 the police custody of businessman Raj Kundra and his associate Ryan Thorpe in a case related to alleged production and distribution of pornographic films through apps.  The crime branch of Mumbai Police also recorded the statement of Kundra's wife and actor Shilpa Shetty in connection with the case.  Seeking his further custody, the police claimed that Kundra had plans to sell 119 adult films to a person for a sum of USD 1.2 million. Separately, an investigation officer said that the police also wanted to probe alleged transfer of funds from a South Africa-based sports betting firm into Kundra's bank account.  Kundra was arrested on July 19 by the police under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act.  He, along with Thorpe, was produced before the magistrate after their earlier remand expired on Friday. Seeking the duo's further custody, the police told the court that the probe found that Kundra set up Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd, which, through London-based Kenrin Pvt Ltd, bought the Hot Shots app to upload "objectionable videos" on social media. Kundra's phone contained WhasApp chats regarding Kenrin and its economic transactions. These conversations also revealed that he had discussed selling 119 adult films to a person for USD 1.2 million, police said.  They wanted to probe if this deal went through and the videos were transferred, the remand plea said.  Searches at the accused's office led to the seizure of 51 obscene videos, the police said.  An employee who handled accounts of Hot Shots told investigators that between August 2019 and November 2020 it earned a net profit of GBP 4,000 to 10,000 per month, police said, adding that Kundra's company Viaan Industries was involved in the maintenance of the app.  Viaan's employees told the police that the app was removed from Google Play in June 2020 and the Apple app store in November as it had obscene content, the remand plea said.  Thorpe allegedly directed the employees to remove all data related to the Hot Shots app after a case was registered in February this year, so IPC sections related to `destruction of evidence' have been added to the case, the police said.  The police also wanted to record the statements of the women who were allegedly lured and forced into acting in porn films by the accused, the application said.  During the day, the police recorded Shilpa Shetty's statement in the case at her residence. They also seized a laptop from the house. As per police, Shetty was a director of Kundra's firm for some time.  Kundra on Friday moved the Bombay High Court, seeking quashing of the lower court's order remanding him in police custody. He claimed that the alleged porn videos in question did not contain any sexually explicit scenes. The petition is yet to be heard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
23-07-2021||India||Bharat Biotech ends agreement with Brazilian partners after graft allegations||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it terminated the Memorandum of Understanding entered with Precisa Medicamentos and Envixia Pharmaceuticals LL.C for its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin for the Brazilian market.  The termination of the MoU came after the deal with the Brazilian government for supply of 20 million doses of the vaccine landed in controversy and attracted investigation by authorities in that country.  Precisa Medicamentos is Bharat Biotech's partner in Brazil, providing assistance, guidance and support with regulatory submissions, licensure, distribution, insurance and conduct of phase III clinical trials, among others.  "The Company has terminated the said MOU with immediate effect. Notwithstanding such termination, Bharat Biotech will continue to work diligently with ANVISA, the Brazilian drug regulatory body to complete the regulatory approval process for Covaxin," it said.  Bharat Biotech is pursuing approvals in various countries as per legal requirements applicable in each country, it said.  Bharat Biotech signed a MoU with Precisa Medicamentos and Envixia Pharmaceuticals LL.C on November 20 for the purpose of introducing Covaxin in the territory of Brazil.  The global pricing of the vaccine has been set between USD 15-20 and accordingly, the jab was offered to the Government of Brazil at the rate of USD 15 per dose, Bharat Biotech said.  It is further stated that the company has not received any advance payments from, nor has it supplied any vaccines to the Ministry of Health in Brazil, the company said.  The vaccine maker stressed that all its actions, including its global dealings, are done in accordance with local laws and the company employs and follows the highest standards of ethics, integrity and compliance at all times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
23-07-2021||India||Covid: India expects to vaccinate all above 18 by end of year||The pace of COVID-19 vaccination across India is amongst the fastest in the world and in view of the evolving nature of the pandemic, it is expected that all beneficiaries aged 18 years and above will be vaccinated by December 2021, the Lok Sabha was informed on Friday. Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya, in a written reply, said while there have been instances of vaccine wastage in states and Union territories (UTs), but extra doses have also been extracted from a given vial according to the Co-WIN portal. "The vaccine doses wasted and maximum possible doses extracted beyond the labelled quantity are taken into account to arrive at vaccine wastage figures for a state," he noted. The minister was responding to a question on whether the states/UTs are not keeping up the pace of the vaccination and wasting the doses. "Between May 1, 2021 to July 13, 2021, a total of 2.49 lakh doses were wasted, while 41.12 lakh extra doses were extracted beyond the labelled quantity," he said. Mandaviya underlined that regular review meetings are held with states and UTs to review all aspects of the vaccination drive, including vaccine wastage, and they are advised to keep the wastage to the minimum. Regular advice in this regard is also communicated to them through regular letters from the Ministry of Health, he said. Asked if the government has decided to administer the COVID-19 vaccine to the entire population free of cost on priority basis and if so, the target fixed to administer the doses, the health minister said according to Revised Guidelines for Implementation of National COVID Vaccination Program, which came into effect from June 21, all citizens aged 18 years and above, irrespective of their income status, are entitled to free vaccination at all government vaccination centres. The COVID-19 vaccination is an ongoing and dynamic process, which is being guided by the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) on the basis of concurrent scientific evidence. "In view of the dynamic and evolving nature of COVID-19 pandemic, no fixed timeline at present can be indicated for the completion of the vaccination drive, however, it is expected that all beneficiaries aged 18 years and above will be vaccinated by December 2021," he said. Mandaviya further informed that in accordance with the 'Revised Guidelines for Implementation of National COVID Vaccination Program', the Centre is procuring 75 per cent of the vaccines being produced by vaccine manufacturers in the country. These vaccines are provided free of cost to states/UTs on the basis of their pro rata target population, consumption pattern and vaccine wastage. As on July 20, 2021, a total of 34.83 crore doses have been supplied free of cost by the Government of India to states and UTs, he told the House. Two vaccines, namely Covishield manufactured by the Serum Institute of India and Covaxin manufactured by Bharat Biotech, that have been granted permission for restricted use in emergency situation by the national regulator are being procured by the central government for free supply to states/UTs, the minister said. Apart from these two vaccines, Sputnik V marketed in India by Dr Reddy's Laboratories and Moderna vaccine have also received permission for restricted use in emergency situation by the national regulator. Sputnik V is being used in private hospitals for Covid vaccination, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Centre: There has been no vaccine shortage, we provided free jabs to states, UTs||There has been no shortage of vaccines and the Government of India has been supplying the jabs to states and Union Territories for free to be given to prioritized beneficiaries as recommended by NEGVAC, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed the Lok Sabha on Friday. "Advance visibility of vaccine allocation -- total doses that would be available for states and UTs -- are provided 15 days in advance to enable them to plan for acceleration of vaccination coverage while being cognizant of the available vaccines," she said in a written reply. Asked whether the government is aware that many inoculation sites got closed down due to non-availability of vaccines there, Pawar said, "There has been no shortage of vaccines and the Government of India has been providing free supply of vaccines to states and UTs for administration to prioritised beneficiaries as recommended by NEGVAC (National Empowered Group on Vaccine Administration against Covid-19)." On whether the government is aware that less than 10 per cent of Indians have got single dose of Covid vaccine despite India being the world's leading vaccine manufacturer, the minister said as of July 20, around 34.5 per cent of the estimated population aged 18 years and above has received at least one dose of Covid-19 vaccine. "As of July 20, 2021, a total of 32.64 crore first doses and 8.55 crore second doses have been administered across the country. A total of 2.15 lakh Covid-19 Vaccination Centres have been operational across the country," Pawar said. "The Government of India has taken many steps to augment the domestic manufacturing capacity of Covid-19 vaccines. These include support to M/s Bharat Biotech and three Public Sector Enterprises under 'Mission CovidSuraksha-the Indian Covid-19 Vaccine Development Mission', technology transfer of Covaxin production, financial assistance to one of the domestic vaccine manufacturers for 'at-risk manufacturing', advance payment against the supply orders placed with M/s Serum Institute of India and M/s Bharat Biotech, and streamlining of regulatory norms for approval of vaccines," the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Heavy rains batter west coast, several reported dead||Heavy rainfall battered the west coast on Friday, strongly affecting Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka, with the IMD predicting more showers in the area over the next 24 hours. In Maharashtra, 36 people died due to landslides near a village in the coastal Raigad district of Maharashtra, police said on Friday. The incident occurred near Talai village in Mahad tehsil on Thursday evening, they said. Around 30 houses were also damaged. The search and rescue operation is on by the NDRF teams, personnel of the local disaster management cell, police and district administration. In Mumbai, four people died when a building and seven others suffered injuries after a single-storey house collapsed in Shivaji Nagar area of Govandi in eastern Mumbai early on Friday, a civic official said. The incident occurred at plot number 3 near Bombay City Hospital around 5 am, he said. "On being alerted about it, seven fire engines, one rescue van of the fire brigade, and personnel of the police as well as other agencies reached the spot and launched a search and rescue operation," the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. So far, four persons have lost their lives in the incident and seven others were injured, he said. A fire brigade official said that 15 people have been pulled out of the debris so far and the operation is still underway. Karnataka battered by heavy rains Heavy rains in various parts of Karnataka over the past 24 hours have claimed three lives, led to landslides in eight places and evacuation of about 9,000 people, while the government has sounded a red alert in seven districts. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who reviewed the flood situation with top officials on Friday, directed all district in charge ministers and MLAs to oversee relief work in their areas. He said the government would extend all necessary support to relief and rescue efforts and assist farmers who suffered losses due to the untimely rain and hailstorms. Dr Manoj Rajan, Commissioner, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority said parts of Belagavi, Chikkamagaluru, Dharward, Haveri, Shivamogga and Uttara Kannada are facing the brunt of floods due to incessant rains over the past few days. The rivers Krishna, Cauvery, Tungabhadra, Bhima, Kapila (Kabini) and many others in Malnad and coastal Karnataka are in spate, said the KSDMA officer. Details shared by him showed that 131 villages in 18 Taluks are badly hit, affecting 16,213 people. While three people lost their lives, two are missing. The rains damaged 21 houses completely and 804 houses partially. Sixty five bridges, 10 schools and a primary health centre were damaged, while 291.03 km of roads were washed away. So far, 8,733 people have been evacuated to safety. The state has opened 80 relief camps where 4,964 people are staying. Landslides were reported in eight places, including Virajpet in Kodagu district and Arabail Ghat in Uttara Kannada district. A red alert has been sounded in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan and Kodagu districts for the next 24 hours in view of a possible heavy to extremely heavy rainfall and an orange alert, in Belagavi and Dharwad, the officer said. The rains have also led to filling up of most of the reservoirs in Karnataka, including Almatti, Bhadra, KRS, Kabini, Harangi, Hemavathi, Narayanapura, Malaprabha and Ghataprabha, he said. Flood-like situation in Goa Several parts of Goa, including Sattari and Bicholim tehsils in north and Dharbandora in south, are reeling under a flood-like situation, where a large number of houses got inundated as the water level of some rivers rose following heavy rains over the past few days, officials said on Friday. However, no loss of human life has been reported so far due to it, they said. At least 100 houses in Sattari tehsil have been under water since Thursday night as the water level of the Mahadayi river increased due to incessant rains that has been lashing the state since over a week now, a senior official said. There were no fatalities, but flood-like situation exists. Those people whose houses have gone completely under water have shifted to safer places on their own, he said. Almost half of Velus village located near Valpoi town in Sattari, is inundated, while several other villages were cut off as roads and culverts are under water, eyewitnesses said. Valpoi MLA and state minister Vishwajit Rane said on Twitter, Due to continuous and heavy rainfall, Mhadei (Mahadayi) has been overflowing. Water has entered different parts of Valpoi. Necessary directions have been issued to the collectors to have the Disaster Management team stationed at Sattari & Usgao. Water has entered their houses causing a lot of damage. It is very important for us to ensure our people's safety. With the intervention of the Disaster Management Team, they will be shifted to safer locations, he added. Near Sankhalim town in Bicholim tehsil, Valvanti and Sakhali rivers are overflowing and have crossed the danger level, officials said. People residing in and around Harvalem village in Bicholim have been asked to be on alert as flood-like situation prevails there, they added. Similar situation is seen in and around Mollem village in South Goa's Dharbandora tehsil. Official sources said that Sangod village in Mollem is facing a flood-like situation, where water has entered to the houses and roads are flooded. Modi condoles Maharashtra deaths Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday condoled the loss of lives in a landslide in Maharashtra's coastal Raigad district and announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh for the next of kin of the deceased. Modi said the situation in Maharashtra due to heavy rains is being closely monitored and assistance is being provided to the affected. Thirty-six people were killed in a landslide near a village in coastal Raigad district of Maharashtra, police said on Friday. The incident occurred near Talai village in Mahad tehsil on Thursday evening. "Anguished by the loss of lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra. My condolences to the bereaved families. I wish the injured a speedy recovery. The situation in Maharashtra due to heavy rains is being closely monitored and assistance is being provided to the affected," the prime minister said. Prime Minisgter Modi has announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each from Prime Minister's National Relief Fund (PMNRF) for the next of kin of those who lost their lives due to a landslide in Raigad, Maharashtra, according to a tweet by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO). The PMO said Rs 50,000 would be given to the injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Farmers discuss agri laws at second day of Kisan Sansad||The 'Kisan Sansad, being held at Jantar Mantar near Parliament where the Monsoon Session is underway, entered its second day on Friday. Paramilitary forces and police personnel have been deployed at the site with heavy barricading at the entrance to avoid any kind of untoward incident. The protest by the farmers was peaceful. The farmers started 'kisan sansad' (farmers' parliament) with speaker Hardev Arshi, deputy speaker Jagtar Singh Bajwa and the agriculture minister. The sansad had a one-hour question hour where questions were thrown at the agriculture minister who tried his best to defend the Centre's new agriculture laws. The minister told the sansad how amid the raging Covid pandemic, farmers were requested to head back to their homes and get themselves vaccinated. Every time the minister failed to give a satisfactory response, the members shamed him, raised their hands and objected to his answers. Bajwa, while addressing the media, said, "The agriculture minister failed to answer questions following which members of the sansad shamed the minister leading to disruption. "The question raised was when the prime minister himself has stressed on the fact that there was MSP, it is still there and it will continue to be there then why is there an issue to make it a law (kanoon). If all the three agri laws are made for the farmers, then why not cancel them and make them again by consulting the farmers on it." Arshi said the kisan parliament was adjourned for a brief period and Friday's proceedings were similar to the way the actual Parliament functions. "In the question hour, we raised questions and the agriculture minister could not respond to the queries and continued to misguide the house," he said. A group of 200 farmers reached Jantar Mantar in central Delhi on Thursday to protest against the Centre's three contentious farm laws as the Monsoon session of Parliament was underway. Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal has given special permission for the demonstration by a maximum of 200 farmers at Jantar Mantar, a few metres away from the Parliament Complex, till August 9.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra moves HC on cases against him, says films don't contain explicit acts||Businessman Raj Kundra on Friday challenged before the Bombay High Court his arrest in a case of alleged production and distribution of pornographic films through apps, saying these videos might be described as "lascivious" but do not show "explicit sexual acts". Kundra (45), the husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested on July 19 by Mumbai Police. A magistrate's court remanded him in police custody till July 27. Meanwhile, a team of Mumbai Police has reached the actor's Juhu house to question her in the case, India Today reported. Kundra's petition sought quashing of the lower court's order. The magistrate's order sending him in police custody violated the law as serving a notice under section 41A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (before arrest) is mandatory, especially in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, it said. As per section 41A, the police may, in cases where arrest is not warranted, issue summons to the accused person and record his or her statement. The material which the police claim to be pornographic did not depict direct explicit sexual acts and sexual intercourse but shows material in the form of short movies which are lascivious or appeal to the prurient interest of persons at best , Kundra's plea contended. Hence section 67A of the Information Technology Act (publishing sexually explicit content) cannot be invoked, and at the most it would attract section 67 (publishing lascivious content), it said. On July 19, 2021, the police carried out a search at his office and requested him to go to the police station to record statement, Kundra said. "The respondent (police) arrested the petitioner in the police station where he was called under the garb of recording his statement, the plea alleged. After his arrest Kundra was asked to sign a notice issued under section 41A of CrPC which he refused to do, it claimed. Further, the sections under which he is booked do not prescribe a sentence of more than seven years in jail, so his arrest, without prior notice under section 41 A, "is completely illegal", the petition said. When the First Information Report (FIR) was registered in February 2021, he was not even named as accused, Kundra said, adding that a charge sheet was filed in the case in April and several other accused are now out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||PU introduces New Vocational Education Courses at  Lakshadweep Islands to benefit students ,VC Prof. Gurmeet Singh says||The Union Territory of Lakshadweep Administration proposed to introduce three years Under Graduate and one year Diploma Programmes from the upcoming Academic Year 2021-2022 with the affiliation of Pondicherry University. Accordingly, based on the proposal, on behalf of Pondicherry University, NOC has been issued to Lakshadweep Administration for affiliation of New three years Under Graduate Vocational courses in Tourism & Service Industry & Soft Ware Development and one year Diploma course in Catering and Hospitality at the proposed new Vocational Degree College at Kadmat Island, Lakshadweep and one year Diploma courses in  Marine Engineering, Electrical and Electronics Engineering and Mechanical Engineering to be introduced at Minicoy Islands, Lakshadweep from the current Academic Year 2021-2022.  All these courses will have an intake of 30 seats each. Professor Gurmeet Singh, Vice Chancellor, Pondicherry University was the Chief Guest and presented No Objection Certificates to Shri Vijendra Singh Rawat, IAS, Secretary, Department of Technical Education & Skill Development, Union Territory Administration of Lakshadweep Administration taken at the policy level by the University for affiliation of  such Vocational UG and Diploma Courses at Lakshadweep Islands by the Administration. On this ceremony after issuing the NOC to the Officials concerned, Professor Gurmeet Singh, Vice Chancellor said it is gratifying that Pondicherry University continues to be one of the leading Universities in the World in the rankings particularly on Research activities. PU, a NAAC – A ranked accredited Central University, also ranked among the top 1000 Universities in the QS World University Ranking 2022 and NIRF Central University Ranking - 9. He also said after independence, first time in India, Pondicherry University has introduced such new Vocational Courses for the welfare of Tribal Students. He also appealed the youth residing such Islands to make use of the educational opportunities offered by the University. This is great step towards the development of the Lakshadweep lslands which need a great deal of attention on Higher Education as well as Job oriented courses. This mile stone achievement which is the land mark improvement in the Educational Scenario of Minicoy and Kadmat Islands has been possible because of the able leadership and vision of Professor Gurmeet Singh, VC, PU. On this special occasion, Dr. S. Balakrishnan, Director, Studies, Educational Innovation & Rural Reconstruction, Professor Chandra Sekhara Rao, Dean, College Development Council, Dr Chithra, Registrar, and Shri Rajkumar, Nodal Officer for Andaman and Nicobar Islands Centre of Pondicherry University and Professor Sivararadje, Pondicherry Technical University, Government of Puducherry were also present.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Karnataka HC quashes notice to Twitter MD seeking his presence at UP||The Karnataka High Court on Friday quashed the notice issued to Twitter India Managing Director Manish Maheshwari by Uttar Pradesh police, seeking his personal appearance as part of its probe into a communally sensitive video uploaded by a user on Twitter platform, saying it was issued by malafide. The single bench of Justice G Narendar said that the notice under Section 41(A) CrPC should be treated as Section under 160 of CrPC, allowing Ghaziabad police to question Maheshwari through virtual mode, at his office or his residential address in Bengaluru. Maintaining that the provisions of the statute under Section 41(A) CrPC should not be permitted to become "tools of harassment", Justice Narendar said Ghaziabad police did not place any material which would demonstrate even the prima facie involvement of the petitioner, though the hearing has been going on for the past several days. "In the background of the fact that section 41(a) notice was issued by malafide, the writ petition (filed by Maheshwari seeking quashing) is maintainable. Accordingly, the notice under section Annexure A notice shall be read as section 160 of the CrPC," the court said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Centre using agencies as coercive tools to curb press freedom: Editors Guild||The Editors Guild of India on Friday said it is worried that government agencies are being used as a "coercive tool" to suppress free and independent journalism. Its remarks come after the Income Tax Department's raids on Thursday across several states against prominent media group Dainik Bhaskar as well as Uttar Pradesh-based TV channel Bharat Samachar for alleged tax evasion. "The Editors Guild of India (EGI) is concerned about the income tax raids on July 22 at the offices of country's leading newspaper group Dainik Bhaskar as well as a Lucknow-based independent news channel Bharat Samachar," it said in a statement. "They come against the backdrop of in-depth reporting on the (Covid-19) pandemic by Dainik Bhaskar, which brought to the fore the gross mismanagement by government authorities and the immense loss of human lives," the guild said. It claimed that in a webinar hosted by it recently, Dainik Bhaskar's national editor Om Gaur had stated that their advertisements from government departments have been cut down after recent critical coverage of state authorities. "He had also written an Op-Ed in the New York Times, headlined 'The Ganges is Returning the Dead. It Does Not Lie'," the EGI noted. It said, "The EGI is therefore concerned that government agencies are being used as a coercive tool to suppress free and independent journalism. This is all the more disturbing given the recent media reports on the widespread surveillance of journalists and civil society activists using the Pegasus software." On raids by the tax department on Bharat Samachar, the guild said that it is one of the few channels in Uttar Pradesh that has been asking difficult questions to the state government with respect to the pandemic's management. "Notwithstanding the merits of the case, the timing of these raids is concerning given the recent critical coverage by both the organisations," the EGI said. In February, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had conducted raids at the office of NewsClick.in, which had been at the forefront of reporting on the farmers agitation and the anti-CAA protests, it noted. The raids against Dainik Bhaskar, which has a presence in 12 states and runs newspapers as well as operates radio stations, web portals and mobile phone apps, started around 5:30 am on Thursday and were going on till late in the evening. They were taking place in 30 locations in different states. The premises of Bharat Samachar and its promoters and staffers were raided in Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Only 22 heritage trees had to be relocated because of Central Vista, says govt||Only 22 heritage trees had to be relocated because of the Central Vista Avenue redevelopment project, the government informed Parliament on Friday. The redevelopment project of the Central Vista -- the power corridor of the country -- includes the revamping of the three-km-long Rajpath from the Rashtrapati Bhavan to India Gate. It also envisages a new triangular Parliament building, a Common Central Secretariat and new residences for the prime minister and the vice president. Responding to a question in Lok Sabha on the relocation of trees to the Badarpur Eco-Park, Union Environment Minister Bhupender Yadav said according to information received from the Central Public Works Department, "Only 22 number of trees have been relocated from the Central Vista Avenue to the eco-park, Badarpur, and there is no other proposal to relocate trees from the Central Vista Avenue to Badarpur". He said there is a proposal to plant 10 saplings for every tree uprooted or removed, and the compensatory plantation will be done at the Badarpur Eco-Park, Badarpur. On another query on census of trees, Yadav said, "As per available information, no tree census has been conducted in the recent past." "However, the Forest Survey of India (FSI) carries out sample plot based regular inventory of trees in forests and outside forests in the country under its National Forest Inventory Programme," he said. On the basis of data collected growing stock -- stems and volume of wood -- estimates are generated at the national and state levels, he told Lok Sabha in a written response. To a question about the survival rates of relocated trees and details of existing and ongoing research that supports relocation, Yadav said the Indian Council for Forestry Research and Education (ICFRE), Dehradun, had conducted a study on tree translocation in India last year and it has submitted a report to the ministry. "There is no further ongoing study under the ICFRE at present in this regard," he said. The Centre had earlier rubbished reports that several jamun trees, nearly 100 years old, could be uprooted as a part of the Central Vista project, and had claimed that the overall green cover will increase. In May, the Union housing and urban affairs ministry had said that only a few trees will be transplanted as part of the project. The environment ministry has already granted clearance for expansion and renovation of the existing Parliament building, which is a part of the Rs 13,450 crore Central Vista redevelopment project. The construction of the prime minister's residence under the ambitious project will be completed by December 2022, the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) had informed a central government appointed expert panel, which has given its nod to the project. The CPWD, the project developer, informed the expert appraisal committee (EAC) that the expansion of Parliament building and construction of new Parliament building will be done by November 2022 and prime minister's residence will be constructed by December 2022.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Bharat Biotech commits to supply 500 million Covaxin doses to Centre||Bharat Biotech on Friday said it has committed to supply over 500 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to the Centre under the countrywide immunisation programme. Speaking at a virtual conference organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry, Suchitra Ella, joint Managing Director of the city-based vaccine maker, said the company's facilities in four cities - Hyderabad, Bengaluru, Pune and Ankaleshwar - are currently producing Covaxin. "In a nutshell if I have to tell you, this is the journey of Covaxin from April 2020 until June 2021. And it is still ongoing as we continue to manufacture, taking a commitment of more than 50 crore (500 million) of doses to be submitted to the government of India for its immunisation programme," she said narrating the journey of Covaxin. Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar had said in Parliament on Tuesday that from January to July 16, 5.45 crore (54.5 million) doses of Covaxin by Bharat Biotech and 36.01 (360 million) crore doses of Covishield have been supplied by the Serum Institute of India to the Centre. Suchitra Ella said the data of Phase 3 trials has been submitted to the Drug Controller General of India for its perusal and efficacy of the vaccine against many of the coronavirus variants was also tested. Covaxin demonstrated 77.8 per cent effectiveness against symptomatic Covid-19 and 65.2per cent protection against the B.1.617.2 Delta variant, Bharat Biotech said recently, while announcing the final analysis of the jab. It had said the Efficacy Analysis demonstrates Covaxin to be 93.4 per cent effective against severe symptomatic Covid-19 cases. The MD further said that when it comes to vaccines not only for Covid-19, India, when compared to some other countries, has more capacity to produce vaccines in large numbers. The current average monthly production capacity of Covishield by Serum Institute of India is 11 crore doses and of Covaxin by Bharat Biotech is 2.5 crore doses, the Rajya Sabha was informed on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the World Health Organisation, which is currently reviewing Bharat Biotech's application for an Emergency Use Listing (EUL) of  Covaxin, has said it is assessing the data of the jab. In an update on its website, the WHO, which began rolling data on July 6, said the date for a decision on the jab is yet "to be confirmed". Rolling data allows the WHO to start its review right away, as information continues to come in, to accelerate the overall review process. India, on the other hand, recorded 35,342 Covid-19 cases on Friday, as the tally climbed to 3,12,93,062. As many as 483 more fatalities pushed the death toll due to the viral disease to 4,19,470, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active cases has declined to 4,05,513, accounting for 1.3 per cent of the total caseload and the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.36 per cent, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. A decline of 3,881 cases was recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 16,68,561 tests to detect the infection were carried out on Thursday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 45,29,39,545, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.12 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 32 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.14 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,04,68,079, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-402
23-07-2021||India||Zomato CEO terms debut day in stock market as 'new Day Zero'||As Zomato made a stellar debut on Dalal Street, its Founder and CEO Deepinder Goyal said this was a big day for the company -- A new Day Zero. Shares of the firm listed at nearly 53 per cent premium in its debut trade against its issue price of Rs 76. With this rally, its market valuation went past the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark on BSE. Earlier in the day, he also said in a blog post, "Today is a big day for us. A new Day Zero. But we couldn't have gotten here without the incredible efforts of India's entire internet ecosystem." In the blog titled, "Letter from Deepi" he said he was a firm believer in India, and where the country will be in the future, adding that India is a tough market to operate in, but if you are building to succeed in India, you are already an exception . He believes Zomato and Swiggy are two of the best food delivery apps in the world today. "We have a long way to go before we can call ourselves world class by our customers' standards, but we are determined to get there. "Zomato's over 10 -year journey has not always been smooth. It has lived through many ups and downs something not every company has the privilege of living long enough to do," he added. "We have found ourselves managing times of crisis on different occasions in much the same way impatiently staying focused on the long term, executing relentlessly, and committing ourselves to doing the very best we can do today," Goyal said. Even in its hardest times, the company has had half of its tech/engineering team work on long-term initiatives, he added. "We are going to relentlessly focus on 10 years out and beyond, and are not going to alter our course for short term profits at the cost of long term success of the company," Goyal said. "The tremendous response to the company's IPO, gives us the confidence that the world is full of investors who appreciate the magnitude of investments we are making, and take a long term view of our business," he added. "They say it takes a village to raise a child, and Zomato is no exception," he said, noting that hundreds of people have selflessly played a part in making Zomato what it is today. He also thanked the investors who have stood by the company through thick and thin. "Jio's prolific growth has set all of us up for unprecedented scale. Flipkart, Amazon, Ola, Uber, Paytm have also over the years, collectively laid the railroads that are enabling companies like ours to build the India of the future," Goyal said. Zomato stands proudly and humbly on the shoulders of giants, and thanks everyone for giving it, and so many other startups, the opportunity to look ahead into the future, he added. "I don't know whether we will succeed or fail we will surely, like always, give it our best. But I hope that the fact that we are here, inspires millions of Indians to dream bigger than we ever have, and build something way more incredible than what we can dream of," Goyal said. In a tweet, Goyal said: "A lot of people are calling this a 'historical moment'. It is not. History is always made in hindsight. Never in the present. Back to work." Goyal also retweeted a tweet of Info Edge (India) founder Sanjeev Bikhchandani, "Congratulations and very well done team Zomato and Deepinder. Great things take time to build. Thank you for making us look like smart investors."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Navjot Sidhu takes charge as Punjab Congress president||Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday took over as the new chief of the Punjab Congress at an event held here, which was attended by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, with whom he was at loggerheads in the recent past. The new working presidents of the Punjab Congress -- Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra -- also assumed charge at the event at the party's state headquarters here in the presence of a huge number of Congress workers and supporters. Senior Congress leader and AICC in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat, former chief minister Rajinder Kaur Bhattal, senior leaders Partap Singh Bajwa and Lal Singh were also present among others. In his address, Sidhu said, "All Congress workers in Punjab have become the party's state unit chief today. There is no difference between a leader and a worker." He said the workers are the soul of the party, which derives power from them. The cricketer-turned-politician, who takes over the state Congress chief's post from Sunil Jakhar, said he will have love for juniors and respect for elders. "Punjab will win, Punjabis will win," he said. Ahead of taking charge of the state Congress, Sidhu met Singh at the Punjab Bhawan here. The chief minister and the Amritsar (East) MLA were seen sitting next to each other at the Congress headquarters ahead of the latter taking charge of the party's state unit. According to a Congress leader, the meeting between Sidhu and Singh earlier at the Punjab Bhawan was "cordial". Speaking to reporters outside the Punjab Bhawan, Congress MLA Pargat Singh said Sidhu met the chief minister over tea in the presence of Rawat. The two leaders sat next to each other and the meeting between them was cordial, he added. Senior Congress leaders Manish Tewari, Partap Singh Bajwa and Lal Singh were also present. This was the first time in nearly four months that Sidhu and Singh met each other. The chief minister's media adviser tweeted pictures of the two leaders having a chat. Singh had invited Congress leaders for tea at the Punjab Bhawan. Sidhu came from Patiala and went to the Punjab Bhawan shortly before Singh's arrival. Ministers, Congress MLAs and other senior party leaders were also present at the Punjab Bhawan. Nagra and Gilzian, two of the four newly-appointed working presidents of the state Congress, had on Thursday extended a formal invitation to the chief minister at his farmhouse in Mohali's Siswan for the installation ceremony. The invitation letter was signed by over 55 legislators. In an apparent bid to bury the differences with the chief minister, Sidhu had separately requested Singh to come for the installation ceremony and said he had "no personal agenda". Sidhu and Singh were at loggerheads for some time, with the Amritsar (East) MLA recently attacking the chief minister over desecration cases. Singh had earlier opposed Sidhu's appointment as the state Congress chief and said he would not meet him until the cricketer-turned-politician apologised for his "derogatory" tweets against him. On Thursday, after the Congress leaders met the chief minister, the latter's media adviser had tweeted, "Punjab CM @capt_amarinder has invited all @INCPunjab MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10 am on Friday. They will all then go to Punjab Congress Bhawan together from there for the installation of the new PPCC team." Congress president Sonia Gandhi appointed Sidhu as the new chief of the party's Punjab unit on Sunday, notwithstanding the strong opposition from Singh. She also appointed four working presidents in the Punjab Congress to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the state Assembly polls next year. On Wednesday, several legislators backing Sidhu had said there was no need for him to tender an apology to the chief minister. Tensions between Singh and Sidhu flared up in April after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a probe report on the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident. Sidhu attacked the chief minister through his tweets over the alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police-firing incidents. The Amritsar legislator had resigned as a state minister in 2019 after he was divested of his local bodies portfolio. Sidhu had switched sides from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to the Congress before the 2017 state Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||At least 36 dead in Raigad due to rain-triggered landslides||Thirty-six people were killed in a landslide near a village in coastal Raigad district of Maharashtra, police said on Friday. The incident occurred near Talai village in Mahad tehsil on Thursday evening, they said. "Thirty-six bodies have been recovered from the landslide spot so far," a senior police official said. The search and rescue operation is on by the NDRF teams, personnel of the local disaster management cell, police and district administration, he said. Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhary said the landslide incident was reported late Thursday evening. "But since the roads leading to the spot were blocked due to the floods and the sludge, the rescue teams found it difficult to reach the site," she said. "The operation resumed today morning and the bodies were recovered by afternoon," she added. According to officials, there are around 30 houses in the village, which were completely damaged due to the incident. Four dead in Mumbai building collapse Four persons were killed and seven others suffered injuries after a single-storey house collapsed in Shivaji Nagar area of Govandi in eastern Mumbai early on Friday, a civic official said. The incident occurred at plot number 3 near Bombay City Hospital around 5 am, he said. "On being alerted about it, seven fire engines, one rescue van of the fire brigade, and personnel of the police as well as other agencies reached the spot and launched a search and rescue operation," the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. So far, four persons have lost their lives in the incident and seven others were injured, he said. After the incident, the injured were rushed to two hospitals - Ghatkopar-based Rajawadi Hospital and Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital in Sion, the official said. However, doctors at the Rajawadi Hospital declared two of them brought dead. They were identified as Neha Parvez Shaikh (35) and Mokar Zabir Shaikh, (80). A woman, Shamshad Shaikh (45), who was admitted to that hospital in a critical condition, died during treatment later, he added. "Meanwhile, a 22-year-old man, identified as Farin Shaikh, was pulled out from under the rubble and was taken to Rajawadi Hospital, where doctors declared him dead before admission, the BMC official said. A fire brigade official said that 15 people have been pulled out of the debris so far and the operation is still underway. The injured persons are undergoing treatment and their condition is stable, he said. IMD predicts heavy rainfall for Maharashtra The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Friday issued a red alert for six districts of Maharashtra which have been already pounded by heavy rains, forecasting "extremely heavy" rainfall and recommending preventive actions. The alert was issued for the next 24 hours for the districts of Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg in coastal Konkan and also for Pune, Satara and Kolhapur in Western Maharashtra. Extremely heavy rainfall is "very likely" at isolated places in ghat (hilly/upland) areas, an IMD official said. "Very likely" denotes 51 to 75 per cent probability of occurrence, he added. The forecast for Satara is "most likely" which means a probability of more than 75 per cent, he said. A rainfall above 204.4 mm in 24 hours is considered as extremely heavy. The forecast also included red alert for Ratnagiri and Satara for Saturday. Intensity of showers will drastically come down from Sunday onward, the IMD said. Mahabaleshwar in Satara district, one of Maharashtra's most well-patronised hill stations, has received 594.4 millimetres of rainfall in a 24-hour period ending at 8:30 am on Friday, which an IMD official said may be the highest ever recorded there. Mahabaleshwar, some 260 kilometres from here, got 482 mm of rainfall on Wednesday and 461 on Thursday, data from the India Meteorological Department showed. "Mahabaleshwar received 594.4 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours. This is probably the highest ever rainfall recorded in the hill station," Dr Jayant Sarkar, head of the IMD's Regional Meteorological Centre told PTI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||ICSE, ISC results to be announced tomorrow||The CISCE will announce results for class 10 and 12 on July 24, board Chief Executive and Secretary Gerry Arathoon said on Friday. "The results of the class 10 (ICSE) and class 12 (ISC) examinations will be declared on Saturday, July 24 at 3 PM. The results will be made available on the website of the Council and through SMS," said Arathoon. "The Tabulation Registers will be made available for Schools through the CAREERS Portal. The schools can access the results by logging into the CAREERS Portal of the Council using the Principal's login ID and password. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) had cancelled the exams for both the classes this year in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19. The result will be announced on basis of an alternate assessment policy decided by the board. Arathoon informed that unlike previous years option of rechecking of answer scripts will not be available this year as the candidates have been awarded "imputed marks". However, a dispute resolution mechanism will be in place for correction of calculation errors, if any. "In the event a candidate has objections regarding computation of marks in the result, she or he may make a written application to the school, stating the objection in detail along with reasons thereof. "Schools will be required to review all such applications, and only upon being satisfied with the contentions made therein, forward the same to the board along with your comments and remarks endorsing the contentions made and documents supporting the opinion regarding the computation of marks," he said. The CISCE will review the request, the supporting documents and the principal's remarks and convey its decision to the School concerned in writing. "In case the result will need to be altered, the CISCE will notify the Head of the School concerned. This dispute resolution mechanism is only for the correction of calculation errors," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Tilak Nagar market in Delhi closed for Covid protocol violations||Several markets in the Tilak Nagar area have been closed by the sub-divisional magistrate till July 27 following violations of Covid protocols, officials said on Friday. Jitender Singh, the sub-divisional magistrate of Patel Nagar, on Thursday ordered the closure of Tilak Nagar markets comprising Mall road, main market, Mangal Bazar road, old market and fruit market area following reports of shopkeepers and customers not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. "It was reported that general public/shopkeepers of the market are not adhering to health protocol which may accelerate the Covid positivity rate in multiple ways and the market may be the hotspot in future for spreading COVID-19," the order said. It also noted that an additional report was received from the SHO of Tilak Nagar that a physical inspection on July 22 revealed that the "DDMA guidelines/covid protocol was not followed in Tilak Nagar markets", and it was recommended that the markets be closed "for at least three to five days to avoid the spread of the virus again". The markets have been ordered to remain shut with effect from July 23 to July 27, in "overall imminent public interest". Delhi was under a complete lockdown from April 19 to May 30 in view of the second wave of the pandemic. Phased unlock of the city started as the COVID-19 situation improved. Markets were allowed to reopen on June 7. However, repeated incidents of Covid protocol violation have led to temporary closing down of several market areas across the city, including those in Laxmi Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, Janpath, Kamla Nagar and Sarojini Nagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha adjourned for the day amid Opposition uproar||The Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day on Friday after Opposition members continued to raise slogans against the Government on various issues. As the House reassembled at 12 noon, Kirit Solanki, who was in the Chair, asked protesting members to take their respective seats. During the brief period for which the House functioned, resolutions were passed to appoint and elect new members in various Parliamentary panels as some of the members have become Ministers in the recent reshuffle of the Union Council of Ministers. As Opposition uproar continued, Solanki said that such behaviour does not suit senior elected members of the House and adjourned the proceedings for the day. Opposition members have been protesting over various issues for the fourth straight sitting of the Monsoon session. Similar scenes were witnessed when the House met in the morning, forcing Speaker Om Birla to adjourn the House till 12 noon. The Lok Sabha will meet on July 26 after a routine weekend break.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Health of Kalyan Singh critical, informs hospital||The health condition of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh is critical and he is on life support, the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGIMS) said on Friday. He is under close monitoring of senior doctors of critical care medicine (CCM), cardiology, nephrology, neurology and endocrinology departments, the statement said. "Former UP chief minister and former governor of Rajasthan Kalyan Singh ji's health status is critical. He is on life saving support system (ventilator)," a release issued by the hospital said. Director of the institute Prof R K Dhiman is also keeping a close watch on all the aspects related to his health, it added. The 89-year-old BJP veteran was admitted to the ICU of the hospital in the evening of July 4 due to an infection and reduced consciousness level. Earlier, he was undergoing treatment at Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Shantanu Sen suspended from Rajya Sabha for remaining part of monsoon session||TMC MP Shantanu Sen was suspended from the Rajya Sabha on Friday for the remaining period of the monsoon session after a motion moved by the government was passed by the House. Soon after the obituary references and laying of papers, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V Muraleedharan moved a motion for Sen's suspension after the Trinamool Congress (TMC) member snatched papers from Information Technology Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw and tore those in the House on Thursday. The motion was passed by a voice vote and Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu asked Sen to leave the House. The TMC members protested and raised objection to the manner in which the motion was brought without listing it in the day's business. TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Ray raised the issue of Sen being threatened by a minister, but the chairman said it happened after the House was adjourned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Rahul demands SC appointed probe into Pegasus issue||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah used the Pegasus spyware against India and its institutions, and "the only word for this is treason", Congress leader Rahul Gandhi alleged on Friday. Gandhi demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the matter. Addressing reporters at Vijay Chowk, he also demanded the resignation of the home minister. He said all his phones have been tapped and his friends were informed by intelligence people that this is being done. "I am not a 'potential target'. My phone is tapped, it is clearly tapped. Not only this phone but all my phones are also tapped," he told reporters, as reported by ndtv.com, while the Opposition party members shouted slogans against the Pegasus snooping controversy. "Pegasus is classified by the Israeli state as a weapon and that weapon is supposed to be used against terrorists. The prime minister and the home minister have used this weapon against the Indian state and our institutions. They have used it politically, they have used it in Karnataka..," he told reporters. "The only word for this is treason, he said. The matter has to be investigated," the former Congress president said. "A judicial inquiry monitored by the Supreme Court should be conducted and the home minister must resign," he told reporters. Gandhi claimed he had been told by security personnel that his conversations were monitored. "I get phone calls from IB (Intelligence Bureau) people who tap my phone. They say your phone is being tapped. My security people tell me they have to debrief what I say. I am in no pretensions that I am tapped," he said, according to NDTV. "I am not afraid. I don't get intimidated. In this country, if you are corrupt and a thief, you will be afraid. If you are neither of those, you have nothing to be afraid of," the senior leader added. "The main question is that has the government not paid for this? Can you buy Pegasus? Can I buy Pegasus? Only a government can buy Pegasus. The Prime Minister's signature, or at least the Home Minister's signature, is needed for it. The military of a nation cannot buy Pegasus," Reacting to his remarks, the BJP asked Gandhi to submit his phone for investigation if he believes it was tapped and asserted that no one's phone has been tapped illegally by the Modi government. BJP spokesperson Rajyavardhan Rathore told reporters that the Congress is determined to stall Parliament for one reason or another after being rejected twice by people in Lok Sabha polls of 2014 and 2019. Rathore said everybody has the right to what they want in a democracy. "Gandhi should submit his phone to probe agency, and investigation will take place as per the Indian Penal Code (IPC)," he said. "The Congress cannot accept the country's development and has been stalling Parliament's functioning often one one pretext or another," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||Sidhu meets Amarinder at Punjab Bhawan before taking charge as state Congress chief||Ahead of taking charge of the state Congress, Navjot Singh Sidhu met Chief Minister Amarinder Singh at the Punjab Bhawan here on Friday. According to a Congress leader, the meeting between Sidhu and Singh, who have been at loggerheads with each other for some time, was "cordial". Speaking to reporters outside the Punjab Bhawan, Congress MLA Pargat Singh said Sidhu met the chief minister over tea in the presence of AICC in-charge of Punjab affairs Harish Rawat. The two leaders sat next to each other and the meeting between them was cordial, he added. Senior Congress leaders Manish Tewari, Partap Singh Bajwa and Lal Singh were also present. This was the first time in nearly four months that Sidhu and Singh met each other. The chief minister's media adviser tweeted pictures of the two leaders having a chat. The Congress leaders will head to another venue where Sidhu will assume charge as the party's new state unit chief. Four working presidents of the Punjab Congress will also assume charge at the ceremony at the party's state headquarters here. Singh, who reached here from his farmhouse in Siswan, had invited party leaders for tea at the Punjab Bhawan. Sidhu came from Patiala and went to the Punjab Bhawan shortly before Singh's arrival. Media was not allowed entry inside the Punjab Bhawan. Ministers, Congress MLAs and other senior party leaders were also present at the Punjab Bhawan. Kuljit Singh Nagra and Sangat Singh Gilzian, two of the four newly-appointed working presidents of the state Congress, had on Thursday extended a formal invite to the chief minister at his farmhouse in Mohali's Siswan for the installation ceremony. The invitation letter was signed by over 55 legislators. In an apparent bid to bury the differences with the chief minister, Sidhu had separately requested Singh to come for the installation ceremony and said he had "no personal agenda". Sidhu and Singh have been at loggerheads for some time, with the Amritsar (East) MLA recently attacking the chief minister over desecration cases. Singh had earlier opposed Sidhu's appointment as the state Congress chief and said he would not meet him until the cricketer-turned-politician apologised for his "derogatory" tweets against him. On Thursday, after the Congress leaders met the chief minister, the latter's media adviser had tweeted, "Punjab CM @capt_amarinder has invited all @INCPunjab MLAs, MPs and senior party functionaries at Punjab Bhawan for tea at 10 am on Friday. They will all then go to Punjab Congress Bhawan together from there for the installation of the new PPCC team." Congress president Sonia Gandhi appointed Sidhu as the new president of the party's Punjab unit on Sunday, notwithstanding the strong opposition from Singh. She also appointed four working presidents in the Punjab Congress -- Sangat Singh Gilzian, Sukhwinder Singh Danny, Pawan Goel and Kuljit Singh Nagra -- to assist Sidhu in the run-up to the state Assembly polls next year. On Wednesday, several legislators backing Sidhu had said there was no need for him to tender an apology to the chief minister. Tensions between Singh and Sidhu flared up in April after the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashed a probe report into the 2015 Kotkapura police firing incident. Sidhu attacked the chief minister through his tweets over the issue of alleged delay in justice in the 2015 sacrilege and subsequent police-firing incidents. The Amritsar legislator had resigned as a state minister in 2019 after he was divested of his local bodies portfolio. Sidhu had switched sides from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to the Congress before the 2017 state Assembly polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-403
23-07-2021||India||India logs over 35,000 fresh Covid cases, 483 casualties in a day||With a single-day rise of 35,342 cases, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 3,12,93,062 on Friday, while 483 more fatalities pushed the death toll due to the viral disease to 4,19,470, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active cases has declined to 4,05,513, accounting for 1.3 per cent of the total caseload and the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.36 per cent, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. A decline of 3,881 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. Also, 16,68,561 tests to detect the infection were carried out on Thursday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 45,29,39,545, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.12 per cent. It has been less than three per cent for 32 consecutive days, the ministry said. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.14 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,04,68,079, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far in the country has reached 42.34 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40-lakh mark on September 5 and 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 487 new fatalities include 122 from Kerala, and 120 from Maharashtra. A total of 4,19,470 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,31,038 from Maharashtra, 36,293 from Karnataka, 33,838 from Tamil Nadu, 25,040 from Delhi, 22,743 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,040 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||J&K police shoots down drone carrying IED material ||The Jammu and Kashmir police averted a cross-border terror plot by shooting down a drone carrying improvised explosive device (IED) material weighing five kg in the border belt of Jammu district on Friday, officials said. Following information about a drone flying over the border belt of Kanachak along the International Border (IB), a quick reaction team (QRT) of the police swung into action and shot it down using anti-drone strategy in the early hours, they added. "At about 1 am, the drone made a low flight to release the payload (IED), when it was shot down," Additional Director General of police (ADGP) Mukesh Singh told reporters here. He said the drone was carrying a payload of five-kg IED material in a semi-assembled state and only wires had to be connected to it to trigger a blast. According to a preliminary analysis, the flying object was a hexa m-copter with six wings and had a GPS device and a flight controller, the officer said. "A possible IED blast has been prevented," he added. There is a one-digit difference in the serial number of this drone and the drone shot down in Kathua last year, which points towards the fact that terrorist organisations across the border such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) have acquired flight controllers and are sending drones with arms and IEDs to the Indian side, the ADGP said. He said the drone shot down on Friday was an assembled one made up of equipment from China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. Another interesting information is that the string used to drop the payload from the drone was similar to the one found from the crater site of the Jammu Air Force station, which confirms that a drone was used to drop an IED at the airport, the officer said. According to the ADGP, the drone used in Kathua had entered 30 kilometres inside the border and the distance travelled by such flying objects depends on the weight of the payload. The drones that dropped consignments of AK-47 rifles earlier in the border areas had a range of 0-12 kilometres from the border. The recoveries of weapons dropped from drones in the border areas over the last one-and-a-half years included 16 AK-47 rifles, four M4 US rifles, 24 pistols, 15 grenades and 18 IEDs, he said, adding that currency notes were also seized. Replying to a question, the officer said the IED material was well packed and someone had to pick it up from the Indian side and trigger a blast. "We waited for the person, but nobody came," he added. The ADGP said the JeM and the LeT are using drones for terror attacks and sending weapons to their operatives on the Indian side of the border. This information was obtained from those arrested in connection with around 24-25 such drone sorties in the last one-and-a-half years, he added. According to the officials, the drone was flying seven to eight kilometres inside the border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Several rivers in spate after heavy rains in Goa||Several parts of Goa, including Sattari and Bicholim tehsils in north and Dharbandora in south, are reeling under a flood-like situation, where a large number of houses got inundated as the water level of some rivers rose following heavy rains over the past few days, officials said on Friday. However, no loss of human life has been reported so far due to it, they said. At least 100 houses in Sattari tehsil have been under water since Thursday night as the water level of the Mahadayi river increased due to incessant rains that has been lashing the state since over a week now, a senior official said. There were no fatalities, but flood-like situation exists. Those people whose houses have gone completely under water have shifted to safer places on their own, he said. Almost half of Velus village located near Valpoi town in Sattari, is inundated, while several other villages were cut off as roads and culverts are under water, eyewitnesses said. Valpoi MLA and state minister Vishwajit Rane said on Twitter, Due to continuous and heavy rainfall, Mhadei (Mahadayi) has been overflowing. Water has entered different parts of Valpoi. Necessary directions have been issued to the collectors to have the Disaster Management team stationed at Sattari & Usgao. Water has entered their houses causing a lot of damage. It is very important for us to ensure our people's safety. With the intervention of the Disaster Management Team, they will be shifted to safer locations, he added. Near Sankhalim town in Bicholim tehsil, Valvanti and Sakhali rivers are overflowing and have crossed the danger level, officials said. People residing in and around Harvalem village in Bicholim have been asked to be on alert as flood-like situation prevails there, they added. Similar situation is seen in and around Mollem village in South Goa's Dharbandora tehsil. Official sources said that Sangod village in Mollem is facing a flood-like situation, where water has entered to the houses and roads are flooded. On Thursday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had issued a warning that a circulation in the Bay of Bengal is likely to trigger low-pressure area that will cause more rainfall in Goa. Till Wednesday, the coastal state had received 1,998.3 mm rainfall during the ongoing monsoon season as against the average of 1,612.7 mm for the corresponding period. The state fisheries department has already issued a warning to local fishermen, asking them not to venture out into the sea due to gusty winds.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Modi pays tributes to Tilak, Azad on birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid rich tributes to noted freedom fighters Bal Gangadhar Tilak and Chandra Shekhar Azad on their birth anniversary on Friday and recalled their contributions to the country. Modi tweeted that Tilak was a firm believer in Indian values and ethos, and his views on education and women empowerment continue to motivate several people. He was an institution builder, nurturing many top-quality institutions that have done pioneering work over the years, the prime minister said. He said, "I bow to the great Lokmanya Tilak on his Jayanti. His thoughts and principles are more relevant than ever before in the present circumstances, when 130 crore Indians have decided to build an Aatmanirbhar Bharat that is economically prosperous and socially progressive." Fondly remembering the revolutionary freedom fighter Azad, Modi said he was a valiant son of "Bharat Mata" and a remarkable man. "During the prime of his youth he immersed himself in freeing India from the clutches of imperialism. He was also a futuristic thinker, and dreamt of a strong and just India," he said. Associated with a string of revolutionary incidents to target the colonial British regime, Azad had vowed never to be captured by police and remain "azad" (free). After being surrounded by police following an encounter, he shot himself and died at an young age of 24 years in 1931. Born in 1856, Tilak was a pioneering leader of the Indian freedom movement and his concept of "swaraj" (self-rule) caught people's imagination.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Two militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Baramulla||Two militants were killed in an overnight encounter with security forces in the Sopore area of Jammu and Kashmir's Baramulla district, police said on Friday. The security forces launched a cordon-and-search operation in the Warpora area of Sopore on Thursday, following information about the presence of ultras there, a police official said. "During the house-to-house search, the location of the terrorists was established and they were asked to surrender. However, they refused the offer," the official said. He said the search operation turned into an encounter after the militants started firing towards the positions of the security forces, which was retaliated. "Two militants were neutralised in the operation, which was carried out without any collateral damage," the official said. Inspector General of Police, Kashmir zone Vijay Kumar congratulated the security forces for the successful operation. "One of killed #terrorist Fayaz War was involved in several attacks & #killings of civilians/ SFs. He was last #perpetrator of #violences in #NorthKashmir," Kumar was quoted as saying in the official Twitter handle of the Jammu and Kashmir police. Security forces have killed 80 militants in the valley since the beginning of this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Anil Ambani and ADA group official's numbers on list||The phone numbers of Anil Ambani and another official of his ADA Group were in 2018 added to the list of potential phone numbers to be hacked through the Pegasus spyware, The Wire news website reported on Thursday night. The mere inclusion of a number on the list does not imply that the smart phone linked to it was hacked. For that to be established, the holder of the number has to allow the phone to be put through a digital forensic examination. The two numbers were added to the list in the year the Rafale deal ran into rough weather, with former French President Francois Hollande claiming that France had had no say in the choice of an Anil Ambani company as the offset partner and that it was an Indian government decision, The Wire reported. In a related report, The Wire said that hours after Alok Verma was removed as CBI chief on October 23, 2018, an unidentified Indian agency known to be a user of the Pegasus spyware had made a note of three telephone numbers registered in his name. The personal phone numbers of his wife, daughter and son-in-law too were eventually placed on the list, making it a total of eight numbers from the family. The numbers of two other senior CBI officers, Rakesh Asthana and A.K. Sharma, were added to the database soon after Verma’s was, the report said. Verma and his family ceased to be people of interest after he retired.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Santanu Sen snatches govt statement from IT minister, tears it amid uproar in Parliament||The Pegasus snooping row turned physical in Parliament on Thursday when Trinamul MP Santanu Sen snatched and tore the government’s statement on the controversy that was being read out by information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw in the Rajya Sabha. Vaishnaw’s readout did not offer anything new from what he had read out in the Lok Sabha earlier this week, and Trinamul was not alone in protesting the government’s effort to tamp down the controversy with a statement. Sen later alleged that after the proceedings were hurriedly adjourned for the day, Union petroleum minister Hardeep Singh Puri misbehaved with him and verbally abused him. Sources said the government was planning to initiate disciplinary action against Sen for his behaviour. According to the sources, the government is likely to move a motion seeking the suspension of Sen for the remainder of the session, invoking Rule 256 of the Rajya Sabha. The MP had also thrown pieces of paper into the Well of the House, which was also frowned upon by presiding officer Harivansh before he adjourned the session. Asked why the Opposition had disrupted the proceedings instead of hearing the minister out and exercising its right to seek clarifications, Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien said: “We want a structured discussion in Parliament on this issue. Structured discussion is not reading out a statement.” He added that the Pegasus scandal was way beyond the brief of the IT minister and that “the Prime Minister and the home minister must come and answer”. While part of Trinamul’s combative stance stems from its recent electoral victory, in the case of the Pegasus controversy there is the added angle of party general secretary Abhishek Banerjee’s phone number being on the list of potential targets for hacking. Trinamul made it clear that the party would settle for nothing less than Prime Minister Narendra Modi or home minister Amit Shah addressing the matter, referring to their alleged track record on surveillance. “Let the Prime Minister and the home minister respond... otherwise we are very clear this protest will continue till August 13 (the last day of the monsoon session),” O’Brien said. Surveillance using military-grade spyware that the Israeli firm NSO Group claims is sold only to governments can be authorised only by the Union home ministry. In addition, recently appointed IT minister Vaishnaw was himself a potential target of snooping through the Pegasus spyware. The Telegraph sent a message to Puri for his response to the allegations levelled against him by Sen. Sources close to Puri claimed the allegations were “laughable”, saying it was Sen who had snatched the papers from the IT minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Farmers hold Kisan Parliament at Jantar Mantar ||Protesting farmers on Thursday finally managed to bring their agitation to the vicinity of Parliament after two aborted attempts over the past six months. The farmers held a Kisan Parliament at Jantar Mantar while the Opposition parties tried to raise the issue in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. Junior foreign minister Meenakshi Lekhi described the farmers as “hooligans” while reacting to allegations that the protesters roughed up a cameraperson at Jantar Mantar. “Phir aap un logon ko kisan bol rahe hain. Mawali hain woh (Again you’re calling them farmers. They are hooligans),” Lekhi told reporters. In reply to another question, the newly appointed minister said: “Stop calling them farmers. They are not farmers.… A farmer doesn’t have time to come to Jantar Mantar and protest. They are working in their farms.” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh demanded Lekhi’s immediate resignation for her intemperate comments on the farmers. Given the BJP’s “brazen” attempts to “stifle” all voices of dissent and protest, the fact that it had failed to break the spirit of the farmers was clearly rankling, Amarinder said. The government has no right to “malign” and “defame” the farmers, the chief minister added. In both Houses, members of various Opposition parties submitted notices for suspension of regular business to discuss the farmers’ demand for repeal of the three contentious farm laws. In the Rajya Sabha, such notices were submitted by the CPM’s Elamaram Kareem and the CPI’s Binoy Viswam, while the Congress’s Manickam Tagore did so in the Lok Sabha. They also held protests within the Parliament complex, holding banners that were not permitted in the legislative chambers. While the Congress held a protest in the morning, the Left parties along with the DMK and the RJD organised a dharna around noon. The Trinamul Congress is said to have raised the issue at the business advisory committee meeting and demanded repeal of the three laws. Between the Pegasus controversy and the farmers’ agitation, no business could be taken up in either House all day as proceedings were adjourned repeatedly in the face of disruptions. Outside, the farmers held their own “parliament” under the banner of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM) at Jantar Mantar with a tight security cordon around them. Some MPs visited the site where the Kisan Panchayat was held but no one was allowed to use the SKM platform to address the gathering in keeping with the farmers’ policy not to allow any political party to hijack their agenda. According to Yogendra Yadav of Jai Kisan Andolan, farmers have issued a “people’s whip” to the parliamentarians to raise their movement continuously in Parliament during the ongoing monsoon session. “The Kisan Panchayat is our effort to keep a watch on the MPs and ensure that they bow to the people’s whip.” Only 200 farmers proceeded to Jantar Mantar and everyone was issued an identity card by the SKM as a precaution against any mischief making and to avoid a repeat of the tractor rally fiasco on January 26 that had almost derailed the movement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Income-tax officials raid offices of Dainik Bhaskar & Bharat Samachar||Income-tax officials on Thursday raided across five states the offices of the Dainik Bhaskar, one of the country’s largest Hindi newspaper groups that has been at the forefront of reporting on the Narendra Modi government’s Covid mismanagement and the Pegasus snooping controversy. Income-tax raids took place also on the Lucknow headquarters of the news channel Bharat Samachar, which has highlighted the Yogi Adityanath government’s Covid failures, as well as the home of its editor Brajesh Mishra and the homes and offices of its promoters. The raids that began at 7am were still continuing at most of the Dainik Bhaskar offices at 10pm, while those on Bharat Samachar wound up around 8.30pm. Sources in the income-tax department claimed that the two media houses had been raided for suspected tax evasion. Late on Thursday night, the tax department tweeted that the searches were confined to financial affairs and not linked to editorial content. Dainik Bhaskar, the Bhopal-headquartered newspaper whose sister publication Divya Bhaskar is widely read in Gujarat, remained defiant through the day and ran a social media campaign, saying “the government was afraid of our journalism” and tweeting screenshots of some of the newspaper’s reports on Covid. It posted a series of tweets in Hindi that said: “I am independent because I am Bhaskar. What shall rule Bhaskar is the readers’ will. Dainik Bhaskar is independent and will always keep on raising its voice in the interests of democracy. “The government has got scared of true journalism. The income-tax raids on the Bhaskar group are for presenting the actual figures of Covid-related deaths and the dumping of bodies in the Ganga.” Dainik Bhaskar’s national editor Om Gaur told The Telegraph: “I think the (Dainik Bhaskar) raid is the outcome of our aggressive reporting during the second wave of Covid. Unlike some other media outlets, we highlighted the true picture and reported how people died for lack of oxygen and hospital beds.” Gaur added: “We will not be scared at these intimidating tactics. We are accountable to our readers and will continue to stand with the truth.” An opinion piece by Gaur on the Covid deaths was published in The New York Times last month under the headline, “The Ganges is returning the dead. It does not lie”. It said India’s holiest river had become an exhibit for the Modi administration’s failure. Congress veteran Kapil Sibal used an expression made popular by home minister Amit Shah to put the raid in perspective, tweeting: “Bhaskar Group published two days ago scathing piece on phone tapping and snooping and also referred to a past incident in Gujarat.... IT raids in Ahmedabad, Bhopal etc.... Aap chronology samajhiye!” On Monday, the newspaper had in an article said that phone-tapping controversies were not new for Prime Minister Modi or Shah. It cited allegations about the tapping of BJP politicians’ and bureaucrats’ phones in Gujarat 15 years ago, when Modi was chief minister of the state. On Thursday, clicking on the headline — which said “Then Gujarat, now the Centre” — did not lead to the article on the newspaper’s website. A link to the article provided in a tweet by the newspaper too had gone dead. The Dainik Bhaskar newspaper had in April-May splashed pictures of mass cremations on its front pages, reported on the bodies floating in the Ganga and challenged the official pandemic death figures. Dainik Bhaskar has also stood out among Hindi newspapers by reporting extensively on the allegations that the government used the Israeli spyware Pegasus to tap the phones of politicians, journalists, rights activists and others. At least 100 income-tax sleuths raided Dainik Bhaskar’s offices in Bhopal and Indore (Madhya Pradesh), Jaipur (Rajasthan), Mumbai (Maharashtra), Delhi and Ahmedabad (Gujarat), an editor with the group said. The newspaper said tax officials had raided the homes of several group employees too and confiscated the mobile phones of staff present in the offices. Income-tax officials also conducted raids across Uttar Pradesh on people they said were promoters of Bharat Samachar. Among them were Haraiya MLA Ajay Singh of the BJP and liquor contractor Om Prakash Jaiswal. While the raid was on, the channel ran scrolls saying it would continue showing the “truth” and would “neither bow nor fear”. The Press Club of India said it “deplores such acts of intimidation by the government through enforcement agencies to deter the independent media from discharging their duty to serve the society”. This is the second time this year that government agencies have raided media establishments over claims of economic offences. In February, the Enforcement Directorate had searched the office of the NewsClick news portal in Delhi for 37 hours, and also raided the home of its editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha. NewsClick, an investigative news site that faces a Rs 100-crore defamation suit from the Adani group, has extensively covered the protests against the new citizenship regime and the farmers’ movement. In 2017, the CBI had raided the office of the NDTV news channel and the home of its top executives Prannoy Roy and Radhika Roy. Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee tweeted: “The attack on journalists & media houses is yet another brutal attempt to stifle democracy. #Dainikbhaskar bravely reported the way @narendramodi ji mishandled the entire #Covid crisis and led the country to its most horrifying days amid a raging pandemic.” She added: “I strongly condemn this vindictive act that aims to suppress voices that bring out the truth. It’s a grave violation that undermines the very principles of democracy. Urging everyone in the media to stay strong. Together we shall never let the autocratic forces succeed!” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said Dainik Bhaskar was “paying the price” for exposing the government’s "monumental mismanagement" of the pandemic. “An undeclared emergency as Arun Shourie has said — this is a Modified Emergency,” he tweeted. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted: “The message is clear — those who speak against the BJP government will not be spared.... Everyone should raise their voice against it. These raids should be stopped immediately and the media allowed to work freely.” Snoop probe Several journalists’ bodies — the Press Club of India, Editors Guild of India, Press Association, Delhi Union of Journalists, India Women’s Press Corps — and media organisations met on Thursday and demanded a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry into the Pegasus controversy. “The use of the Pegasus spyware to snoop on Indian citizens and groups endangers Indian sovereignty and it is necessary that the Government of India should intervene decisively and clarify how and why this was done,” a joint statement issued after the meeting said. Additional reporting by Piyush Srivastava in Lucknow||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa goes soft on exit, to follow BJP’s decision on his future||Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday dropped the first hint that he could be on his way out and that he would abide by the BJP’s decision on his future. The veteran leader also urged religious leaders and party workers not to kick up a storm over whatever decision is taken on July 25. Emerging from a temple where he conducted a ritual in the morning, Yediyurappa, 78, told reporters that he would go by what the party leadership announces on Sunday. “I will start my work on July 26 based on what the national leadership would say on July 25. There is a special programme to commemorate two years (of Yediyurappa’s current tenure) on July 26. After that I will go by what the national leadership says,” he said. This was a departure from the Lingayat strongman’s assertions so far that he would remain in power for the rest of his term. Even his die-hard supporters that include pontiffs of Lingayat mutts have been throwing their weight behind the biggest leader from the community. Yediyurappa also made it clear that he would continue to work for the party. “It is my duty to strengthen the party and bring it back to power.” In view of the possibility of massive disapproval of any move to remove him, Yediyurappa urged religious leaders and BJP workers to desist from creating any issues. But Lingayat seers continued to flow to his office in Bangalore, urging him to stay on and warning the BJP that it would pay a heavy price if he was replaced. “All the pontiffs and party workers should cooperate and not create any issue. No one should issue any statements on my behalf from today,” Yediyurappa said, repeating a message he had tweeted late on Wednesday. He acknowledged the fact that the BJP had allowed him to continue in office even after he crossed 75. While the BJP generally does not allow those above 75 to remain in electoral politics, the party had been left with no choice on Yediyurappa’s continuance when he engineered the defections of 17 lawmakers of the Janata Dal Secular-Congress coalition in 2019 to regain power. His age is one of the factors for the party to take a call on his exit. But it was the sustained rebellion against Yediyurappa that harangued the BJP and made his replacement inevitable. Although Yediyurappa and his supporters tried hard to ensure that he stays in office till the 2023 Karnataka elections, the party could not ignore the mounting dissidence. A leaked audio clip purportedly featuring the voice of state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel sparked the latest round of developments in what seems to be the endgame for Yediyurappa who has been a force to reckon with for over two decades. While Kateel denied any role in the audio clip, a male voice resembling his is heard saying he has three alternative names for the chief minister’s post. BJP national general secretary Arun Singh, the party’s Karnataka in-charge, said on Thursday when asked in Delhi about a possible leadership change: “My namaskar (greetings) to you all. We will sit together someday and discuss. We will also sit together and have tea.” Once the final word on Yediyurappa’s future is said, the BJP would have the massive task of placating dominant communities in picking a successor. A section of the Lingayat pontiffs has insisted that only a person from their community should succeed Yediyurappa. But party sources confirmed there were other options. The BJP could look at an alternative outside the two dominant communities, the Lingayats and the Vokkaligas. The names that are doing the rounds in this category are Union minister for coal, mines and parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi and Karnataka Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, both of whom are RSS favourites and Brahmins. The two Lingayat names being spoken about are Aravind Bellad and Murugesh Nirani, while deputy chief minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan is an option from the Vokkaliga community that has thus far stood by the Congress and the JDS. Since one of the major grouses in the BJP against Yediyurappa is said to be his “soft” approach on minority communities, the BJP also has a hardliner in national general secretary C.T. Ravi on the list of probables. Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday appointed Ganesh Godiyal as the Uttarakhand party unit president and former chief minister Harish Rawat as the chairman of the campaign committee. The appointment of Rawat indicates he will be the face of the party and the probable chief ministerial candidate in the election-bound hill state. All the election-related committees were also announced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-404
23-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Meenakshi Lekhi calls global investigative report ‘fake’||Newly appointed junior external affairs minister Meenakshi Lekhi on Thursday called the global investigative report on snooping through the Pegasus software “fake” and claimed that Amnesty International had “denied the list” of targets, an assertion the rights watchdog categorically dismissed. Amnesty, which had obtained the list of more than 50,000 cellphone numbers along with the Paris-based journalism nonprofit Forbidden Stories and shared it with 16 news organisations, said in a statement that “false rumours” were being pushed on social media to distract from the unlawful snooping of journalists, activists, politicians and others. “Amnesty International categorically stands by the findings of the Pegasus Project, and the data is irrefutably linked to potential targets of (the Israeli) NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware,” the organisation said. “The false rumours being pushed on social media are intended to distract from the widespread unlawful targeting of journalists and others that the Pegasus Project has revealed,” the statement added. Earlier, addressing her first media conference at the BJP headquarters after becoming a minister, Lekhi had said: “The fact is that this story, which is floating around about Pegasus is a fake story. The fact is also that Amnesty has denied the list, which is circulating.” “The list that is being circulated is not an actual list and it’s only indicative of something,” she added. On whether the government had purchased the Israeli spyware Pegasus, Lekhi said such things were “classified documents” and they couldn’t be revealed. “We have to deal with terrorists and Leftists. Will I tell you which software I’m using? This is a classified document,” she replied. Although she didn’t state the basis of her claim regarding Amnesty’s “denial” of the list, it appeared she had fallen for the rumours on social media to authoritatively claim that a fake story was being pushed to malign India. “From yellow pages to yellow journalism is what we have seen in this story. Some list is crafted, created and circulated and the story goes around the fake list,” Lekhi said, claiming that the names had been picked from some publicly available telephone directory. Lekhi, who also holds the culture portfolio, slammed the Opposition for protesting against the snooping charges. She said the spyware had been used in 10 countries and asked whether the Opposition in those nations had behaved the way the government’s rivals were in India. She alleged a conspiracy behind this. “If 10 countries used the spyware... I don’t know what spyware is used but if the spyware is used by those 10 countries, have the other countries’ Opposition behaved the way our Opposition has?” she asked. “This is not a story but a non-starter across the globe because it’s based on a concocted and fabricated list,” she said. The minister said the story called for “forgery and defamation”. Asked why the government didn’t order a probe to expose the fake list, Lekhi said: “Why should the government waste its resources and energy?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
23-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Public interest plea moved in Supreme Court||A public interest plea has been moved in the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored special investigation team probe into alleged government snooping on Indian citizens through the Israeli spyware Pegasus, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the CBI named as respondents. An advocate, Manohar Lal Sharma, moved the petition on Thursday pleading that not only was the alleged surveillance a violation of citizens’ fundamental right to privacy, but the use of foreign spyware to snoop on Indians posed a threat to national security. “Privacy is not about the wish to hide, as is often asserted. It is about having a space of one’s own where our thoughts and being are not the instrument of someone else’s purposes. It is an essential component of dignity and agency,” the petition says. “Pegasus is a chilling software. It is not just eavesdropping on conversations; it can be used to access the entire digital imprint of your life. It renders helpless not just the owner of the phone hacked but everyone who is in contact with them.” Sharma has argued that the alleged use of Pegasus for spying on Indians violates Articles 266(3), 267(2) and 283(2) of the Constitution, according to which the government cannot appropriate the country’s consolidated or contingency funds without legislative approval. This implies that if the apex court admits the petition, the purported source of funds for the alleged purchase of the spyware may come under the scanner. Sharma has also argued that any snooping on citizens’ personal data violates Sections 65, 66 and 72 of the Information Technology Act — which deal with data privacy and misuse — read with Section 3 of the Official Secrets Act. His petition asks whether the Constitution allows a Prime Minister and his ministers to snoop on Indian citizens for their “vested political interest”. It seeks the prosecution of those responsible under the IT Act and Official Secrets Act as well as Indian Penal Code Sections 408, 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servants) and 120B (criminal conspiracy). Sharma says he was compelled to petition the Supreme Court because his representation to the CBI for the registration of an FIR against the officials concerned had brought no response. His petition says the national security implications of the alleged spying are enormous at a time the explosive growth of surveillance technology vendors has become a global security and human rights problem. It says Pegasus is not just a surveillance tool but a “cyber-weapon being unleashed on the Indian polity”. “Even if authorised (which is doubtful), the use of Pegasus poses a national security risk,” it adds. Sharma has said the cause of action had arisen as far back as November 28, 2019, when Modi and his ministers had failed to reply in the Lok Sabha to Congress members Digvijaya Singh and Jairam Ramesh who had asked whether the government had bought the Pegasus software. Sharma says a “fresh cause of action arose” on July 20 this year when, in the Rajya Sabha, the IT minister failed to reply to Opposition members’ questions about the purchase of Pegasus and its use “in India against the Opposition leaders, human right(s) activist(s) and political rivals” before and after the 2019 general election. “It’s an amount of admission, serious violation of Art(icles) 21 (life and liberty including privacy), 266(3), 267(2) and 283(2) of the Constitution of India read with serious financial and personal injury to the citizens of India,” the petition says. “The Pegasus scandal is a matter of grave concern and a serious attack upon Indian democracy, judiciary and (the) country’s security. The widespread and unaccountable use of surveillance is morally disfiguring.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
23-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi reacts to I-T raids on Dainik Bhaskar group||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Thursday that truth written with ink on paper was enough to frighten a weak government, reacting to the income tax raids on the Dainik Bhaskar group of newspapers. The Opposition party said the raids on one of the largest Hindi daily groups, which had widely reported on the government’s mismanagement of the second wave of the pandemic, was part of the Narendra Modi dispensation’s attempts to create an “era of fear” through tyranny and despotism. “Kagaz par syahi se sach likhna ek kamzor sarkar ko darane ke liye kafi hain (To write the truth on paper with ink is enough to scare a weak government),” Rahul tweeted. The Congress insisted that it was not about targeting “Group A or B” as the issues involved were more fundamental to India’s democracy — the freedom of media and the draconian nature of the government. The party said the Centre was trying to crush democratic freedom and rights in every sphere of life, as manifested in the clampdown on the Opposition in Parliament, the attitude towards the farmers’ protest, the refusal to investigate wrongdoings and the persistent attacks on the media. Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath said a project was being ruthlessly executed to control the media. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot said: “The Modi government cannot tolerate even an iota of criticism. Due to its fascist mentality, the BJP doesn’t want to see the truth in a democratic set-up. By indulging in such actions and gagging the media, the Modi government wants to convey the message that if the media doesn’t become godi media, then its voice will be suppressed.” Congress veteran Digvijaya Singh predicted worse attacks on the media as the political opposition to the Modi government builds up. In several tweets, he wondered why people were shocked as this was the BJP’s governance model. “They succeeded in Gujarat by curbing opposition, but at the national level it may not be that easy. I have been warning about Modi’s style of governance from day one. They have only CBI-ED. And this is just the beginning. They would become more vindictive as opposition grows nationally. All should get together to condemn it and fight the Modi-Shah duo at every level,” Digvijaya said. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said: “It is not about one particular group. The fundamental issues are freedom of press and the draconian nature of the government. Today they went for A, tomorrow they will go for B. We are least concerned whether it is ‘A’ or ‘B’ or ‘C’. “You are all journalists, you know that it is the freedom of expression that matters much more. The issue is why are central agencies being misused to attack all institutions. We can use any adjective — totalitarian, autocratic, despotic, tyrannical… the main issue is of course the anti-democratic mindset.” Recalling that the Dainik Bhaskar had published a series of critical reports on the government’s handling of Covid and its editor had written an article about bodies floating in the Ganga in The New York Times, Singhvi said: “There are several examples of attempts to create an era of fear. An Uttar Pradesh television channel, Bharat Samachar, was also raided today. Their reporting has also been critical of the Yogi (Adityanath) government. “In January 2021, the Enforcement Directorate raided (the web portal) NewsClick’s New Delhi office, as well as the homes of its editor-in-chief, Prabir Purkayastha, one other editor, and two members of its management.” Calling upon every section of society to rise against this attack on the media, the Congress leader added: “After filing a case against online news platform The Wire and several others over tweets linked to the assault of a Muslim man in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad, the state police have filed another case against the news website — this time in Barabanki. “On October 11, 2018, a few income tax officials conducted a 22-hour raid at the office of news portal Quint. In June 2017, the CBI raided the home of NDTV promoter Prannoy Roy on the charges of tax evasion.” Delhi police on Thursday obstructed Congress MPs Pratap Singh Bajwa and Deepender Hooda when they were talking to reporters outside Parliament about the farmers’ struggle. The police told them to seek permission from the higher authorities before briefing the media. Outraged, the MPs moved a privilege motion in the Rajya Sabha against Delhi police for trying to curb their freedom of expression.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
23-07-2021||India||Covid-19: High death rate remains a cause of concern for Odisha govt||High Covid-19 death rate in Odisha remains a cause of concern for the state government even though the number of positive cases is on the decline. The state recorded 67 more deaths due to the pandemic in the last 24 hours taking the total death toll in the state to 5,308. Health and family welfare department, however, clarified that the daily list of deaths does not reflect the fatalities occurring on a particular day. They also reflect past deaths with figures being released following the completion of the audit process. Opposition parties have accused the government of suppressing the actual number of Covid deaths in the state and demanded a white paper on the issue. The pandemic situation is particularly worrisome in districts such as Khurda under which the state capital falls. Of the 67 new deaths reported in the state during the last 24 hours Khurda accounted for 20, including 13 from the capital city of Bhubaneswar. This was followed by 8 deaths in Balasore, 7 in Bargarh, 6 in Nabarangpur, 5 each in Angul, Puri and Rayagada, 4 in Dhenkanal, 2 each in Kandhamal and Mayurbhanj and one each in Kalahandi, Kendrapara and Nuapada districts. With this, the Covid toll in Khurda district has reached 977 deaths followed by Sundargarh (458), Ganjam (424), Puri (317), Cuttack (315), Bargarh (268), Angul (211), Kalahandi (194), Mayurbhanj (193), Balasore (170), Rayagada (157), Sambalpur (154), Nayagarh (141), Jharsuguda (137), Kendrapara (119), Dhenkanal (106) and Keonjhar (100). On the other hand as many as 1948 more persons tested positive for Covid-19 during the last 24 hours in the state. Test positivity rate (TPR) in the state, which tested 79,372 samples in the last 24 hours, stood at 2.45 per cent. Khurda district registered the highest number of 480 fresh infections, followed by Cuttack (279) and Jajpur (115). High caseload in some areas of the state also continues to bother the central government, which had sent a two-member expert team to Odisha a few weeks ago to study the situation. The state government has stepped up precautionary measures with enhanced vigil on the Odisha-Chhattisgarh border as cases in the neighbouring state are once again on the increase. Meanwhile, the Orissa High Court will hear a petition on the alleged under counting of Covid-19 deaths in Odisha on July 28. Vaccination drives in the state are also being ramped up to contain the spread of the disease. “The vaccination programme in Odisha is quite successful. The wastage of vaccine is almost nil in Odisha,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare department, P.K. Mohapatra.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
23-07-2021||India||Farmer dies of poisoning three days after NIA quiz on terror suspicions||A 28-year-old farmer from a Meerut village died of apparent poisoning under mysterious circumstances three days after his latest questioning by the National Investigation Agency on terror suspicions. Paramjeet “Mangal” Singh of village Doodhli Khadar died in the early hours of Thursday at a local hospital that had found him lying unconscious on its premises on Wednesday night. His father Ajit Singh said that while releasing Mangal after questioning him on Monday, the NIA had given him “two days” to confess to being an active member of the banned Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF). “My son was first picked up from home by the NIA and Meerut police on July 11 and released after three-four hours of interrogation. Later, the NIA summoned him to its Chandigarh office on July 19 (Monday),” Ajit told reporters. “I went with him to Chandigarh. He was questioned from 2pm to 7pm. The NIA personnel told me to ask him to speak the truth. When I told them he had nothing to do with the KLF, they said he had two days to confess.” Ajit added: “We returned home on Tuesday. Paramjeet went out the same evening and didn’t return that night or the following night.” He said he didn’t file a missing persons report with the police because he felt scared after Mangal’s questioning. “I received a call around 2am (on Thursday) from a hospital saying my son had been admitted in a critical condition. He died later in the night,” Ajit said. He said the doctors told him Mangal had suffered “trauma”, and that the police later said he had consumed some sort of poison. Ajit said the NIA had told him a youth named Gagandeep whom it had arrested early this month had confessed to supplying arms to the KLF and named Mangal as a member of the outfit. The father suggested this was an act of personal revenge, alleging Mangal had a few months ago beaten up Gagandeep for trying to molest a girl at a wedding in Meerut. “My son seemed tense and didn’t talk to his wife or anybody else in the family after returning from Chandigarh. He left home without saying where he was going. All I know is that he was a family man and had been very happy before the ordeal,” Ajit said. Meerut superintendent of police (rural) Keshav Kumar said Mangal’s body had been handed over to his family after a post-mortem but his organs had been preserved for the sake of the investigation. “Prima facie, it appears he had consumed some kind of poison,” he said. Kumar said the NIA had found and seized Rs 9 lakh from Ajit’s home. Ajit said: “I have shown the NIA documents proving I had got the money after selling a plot of land.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
23-07-2021||India||Govt seeks more time to provide details on sale of electoral bonds||The government has sought more time to provide details on the sale of electoral bonds although RTI documents suggest the information is available. “The government seeks more time to furnish the replies,” the finance ministry said in a written reply on Tuesday to questions posed by Trinamul Congress MP Santanu Sen in the Rajya Sabha. The details sought included phase-wise and denomination-wise bonds printed and sold and those remaining unsold since their inception in 2018, details of bonds encashed during the 15th and 16th phases of their sale, the commission earned by the State Bank of India from their sale till date, and the expenditure incurred on their printing. Electoral bonds are sold in 10-day phases, and the 17th tranche was issued earlier this month. RTI activists have accessed from the department of economic affairs in the finance ministry most of the details sought by the Trinamul MP, barring the party-wise break-up of the beneficiaries of the bonds. Commodore (retd) Lokesh Batra has said he has got much of the information sought by Sen from the department of economic affairs using the RTI route. He shared the documents with The Telegraph and wondered why the finance ministry had been economical with the facts in Parliament, to which the government is accountable. On May 24 this year, the department of economic affairs had provided Batra branch-wise details of the number of electoral bonds sold and redeemed in the 16th phase between April 1 and 10, along with the bank commission. A similar document was provided by the department to Batra on January 27 in response to an RTI query on the 15th tranche of the bonds. Similar details about all phases, including the bank commission, have been provided by the department since the bonds were introduced in 2018. The government has, however, not shared through RTI the details of the amount each party received through the bonds. This information has usually been gleaned out of the audit reports of individual political parties. Even the break-up of the bonds — issued in denominations of Rs 1,000, Rs 10,000, Rs 100,000, Rs 10,00,000 and Rs 1,00,00,000 — are available with the government because the SBI had provided the details to RTI activists. On March 19, the department of economic affairs provided details of the total amount, including the GST charged by the SBI to the government as commission for the sale of electoral bonds in 15 phases, the total number of electoral bonds printed till then and the cost of printing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-405
23-07-2021||West Bengal||TMC condemns suspension of Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen||The Trinamul Congress on Friday condemned the suspension of its Rajya Sabha member Santanu Sen, alleging that the order was "malicious and arbitrary". Sen was on Friday suspended from the Rajya Sabha for the remaining period of the Monsoon session for snatching and tearing the statement of IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on the Pegasus row, as Upper House Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu dubbed Sen's action as an "assault on the country's parliamentary democracy". "We consider Sen's suspension as malicious and arbitrary. We condemn it. The order was without any justification and has no provision in law," TMC RS member and party's chief whip Sukhendu Shekhar Ray said in a press conference. Referring to the recent ruckus in Parliament, the TMC leader alleged that some BJP leaders belong to the same group that was responsible for "killings in Gujarat". "Why was a BJP leader denied entry into the US? In West Bengal too, they brought anti-social elements. A party which indulges in violence from day one and has a history of butchering people with an attitude of might should not lecture others," he said. The TMC MP, however, did not name anyone. "They will suspend us and the people will suspend them," Ray said. He further alleged that Union minister Hardeep Puri was abusive towards Sen, a charge denied by the minister. Derek O'Brien said his party will soon provide evidence that the minister heckled Sen. "After the cameras went off yesterday, certain incidents took place inside the Rajya Sabha. If Sukhendu Shekhar Ray or any TMC MP tells you what happened, you might think they are biased. "Over the next few days, we will convene a press conference where we will give you non-TMC witnesses to the incident, he claimed. Meanwhile, a party leader said TMC's Mahua Moitra has given a privilege notice against IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw over the Pegasus issue, alleging that the minister had lied to the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata made TMC parliamentary party's chairperson||TMC MPs have unanimously chosen party supremo Mamata Banerjee, who is also the chief minister of Bengal, as the chairperson of its parliamentary party. Announcing this at a press conference in Delhi, Rajya Sabha member Derek O'Brien said she has been the guiding force behind the TMC parliamentary party for a long time. "We are just formalising a reality. Our chairperson is a seven-time Member of Parliament. She has the vision to guide the parliamentary party. She has the experience and insight. She was anyway guiding us," he said. The decision has been taken both at a conceptual and tactical level, the Trinamul Congress (TMC) leader said. "She has been a call away always. We feel more empowered," O'Brien said. He also said that all TMC MPs unanimously chose Mamata as their leader. Mamata is not a member of parliament. CM to scan replies Amid reports that her government's departments do not send answers to parliamentary questions on time, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has decided to scan and approve all such replies filed by additional chief secretaries, principal secretaries among others before they are submitted, a senior official said. Chief Secretary HK Dwivedi, in a message, has directed the secretaries to send him the replies, which then would be forwarded to the CM for a final nod, the official said on Friday. "It has come to the government's notice that replies to the parliamentary questions are not always processed in time. Henceforth, the additional chief secretaries, joint secretaries, secretaries have been asked to submit their replies to the chief secretary. "He will then forward them to the competent authority, that is the chief minister, for approval," he stated. Meanwhile, a retired IAS officer, who had served as the chief secretary of the state, told PTI that it is "possibly the first time a chief minister will be going through the replies of ACS or other secretaries meant to be submitted to Parliament. This can also be a politically-driven decision". According to another former bureaucrat, the move was an "unprecedented" one. "In my 29 years of service, I have not come across such a move. This has never been the practice so far... Quite unusual, I must say," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal reports 793 new Covid-19 cases, 13 deaths||Bengal on Thursday logged 966 Covid-19 recoveries, 793 new infections and 13 deaths, recording a drop in its total number of active cases for the 32nd day on the trot. The state’s total active cases fell by 186 to 12,205 on Thursday, which was also the 18th straight day of less than 1,000 new infections in a day detected since the second wave. Bengal’s recovery rate is currently at its all-time high of 98.01 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.33. Calcutta logged 57 new cases and four deaths. “The next important milestones we have set our sights on are a recovery rate of over 98.5 and fewer than 10,000 active cases,” said a minister. With Calcutta and North 24-Parganas, the two districts worst hit in the second wave, logging 57 and 92 new infections, Thursday was also the 15th consecutive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new cases. Twenty-one districts reported double-digit figures while Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.81 per cent on Thursday. Of the 13 deaths, four were reported from Calcutta and three from North 24-Parganas. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Thursday, while Jalapiguri, Nadia, East Midnapore and South 24-Parganas reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.21 lakh Covid-19 cases in all since the first was detected in March last year. It includes 14.9 1 lakh recoveries and 18,040 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Crackdown on Covid rule flout at tourist spots in Bengal||Administrations in several districts across the state are keeping a close watch on tourists and hotels and even cracking the whip on those violating directives that mandate carrying RT-PCR negative reports or complete vaccination certificates while visiting tourist spots. Hoteliers in some districts have been told to maintain separate registers for reports and certificates. Officials at tourist places like Digha, Santiniketan and Purulia have directed hoteliers not to allow anyone to check in if they do not have a document to certify complete vaccination or report of a negative RT-PCR test done 72 hours prior to the journey. The administration in East Midnapore’s popular sea resort Digha has been cracking the whip on tourists arriving without proper documents and went to the extent of sealing a hotel for not adhering to the directive. The administration has also sent back thousands of tourists over the past few days for not possessing the necessary documents. The strict action has ruffled the feathers of hoteliers in Digha as around 10 per cent of the 600-odd hotels in Digha and Shankarpur had to be shut down in the past few days because of low footfall. “People are opting for a day tour instead of staying at our hotels to avoid hazards over protocol. This is hitting us hard financially,” said Bipradas Chakraborty, the joint secretary of the Digha-Shankarpur Hoteliers’ Association. In Bolpur, senior police officers headed by additional superintendent of police Surajit Kumar Dey held a meeting with hoteliers where he directed them to maintain a separate registrar to write down Covid-related information and documents of tourists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Dainik Bhaskar raids a dangerous game of autocracy: Mamata||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday mounted a scathing offensive on the BJP over the income tax raids in Dainik Bhaskar offices, calling it an attack on free press before expressing her solidarity with the media organisation and the journalist fraternity at large. The Bengal chief minister, who issued a stern statement on Twitter against the IT raids earlier in the day, broached the subject herself at a news conference in the afternoon. “Today, what has been happening with Dainik Bhaskar since the morning, the way journalists and others in the media house are being bulldozed in the name of income tax raids, I totally condemn this…. Keep fighting, the whole nation is with you,” said Mamata. Dainik Bhaskar is a Hindi daily newspaper, ranked among the top dailies in the world in terms of circulation. “When the Parliament is in session and such a big scandal is unearthed, it is the duty of the Prime Minister, the Union home minister, to stand on the floor of the House and give a statement, to give information to the countrymen. Instead of doing so, they are now bulldozing the people who are raising their voice. Dainik Bhaskar, for instance…. A dangerous game of autocracy,” Mamata said. The Trinamul Congress chief, who had rained fire on the BJP and its government at the Centre over the Pegasus controversy on Wednesday, accused the saffron camp on Thursday of being shameless. “Two-three days ago, the Pegasus revelations… and today, they went to the Dainik Bhaskar offices. The reason? They (Dainik Bhaskar) had been reporting boldly, fearlessly… when the Uttar Pradesh government was throwing countless bodies (of Covid-19 victims) into the Ganga, they reported it first. They were also very critical of the Pegasus issue,” she said, urging everybody to join forces against such acts, to close the ranks against the BJP in good time. The chief minister once again showed how she has taped up the cameras of her iPhone after the Pegasus-related revelations as no one was safe now. Holding aloft her phone for all to see, she said: “This phone, the plaster… their mouths should be plastered, those doing it. This is my symbolic protest.” “Of what use are these phones now? Will people get justice?” she asked, going on to reiterate how the conversations in a key strategy meeting of her party — comprising herself, poll consultant Prashant Kishor, and senior leaders Subrata Bakshi and Abhishek Banerjee — before the Assembly election had allegedly been recorded through the Pegasus spyware on Kishor’s phone. “What is the point of keeping the phone anymore anyway? It should either be put into the freezer — we use it for work, don’t we — so that it goes permanently to sleep in the cold. Or get rid of it forever, perform the last rites of the phone,” she said. “Can the world run like this, or should it? If people’s voices are silenced, what is left to live with?” she asked. Mamata said if all fundamentals of democracy were weakened, there would be nothing left of it. “Without a government, nobody can purchase these types of instruments from Israel. The government of India purchased this. To capture the democratic rights of the people, all their rights… even judges, who are giving justice to the people.” She once again asserted that the alleged Pegasus scandal was bigger than the Watergate scandal in the US, involving the administration of President Richard Nixon from 1972 to 1974, which led to his resignation. “The Pegasus scandal is larger than the Watergate scandal, more than a Super-Super-Super Emergency…. Such Hitler-esque methods of ruling by fear, how long can this possibly go on?” she asked. “The media is scared and intimidated. They (BJP) have captured the judiciary with this (hacking). Leaders of political parties not allowed to speak. Nobody is allowed to speak. Every impartial institution in this nation has been politicised. Every agency has been turned into a variant of Pegasus. A to Z, various kinds of Pegasus have been created,” she added. “They don’t even trust their own officers, their own ministers. Even many in the RSS had their phones hacked.” In a tweet earlier in the day, Mamata said: “The attack on journalists & media houses is yet another BRUTAL attempt to stifle democracy. #DainikBhaskar bravely reported the way @narendramodi ji mishandled the entire #COVID crisis and led the country to its most horrifying days amid a raging pandemic. (1/2).” She added: “I strongly condemn this vindictive act that aims to suppress voices that bring out the TRUTH. It's a grave violation that undermines the very principles of democracy. Urging everyone in the Media to stay strong. Together we shall never let the autocratic forces succeed! (2/2).”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal centralises auction of sand quarries amid complaints||The Bengal government on Thursday decided to put in place a centralised system for the auction of sand quarries amid complaints that local politicians were controlling the auction system, hurting the state’s interest. “The cabinet approved a new sand mining policy. Under the new system, auction of sand quarries will be done by the West Bengal Mineral Development and Trading Corporation (that functions under the industry department) instead of district magistrates,” said chief minister Mamata Banerjee after a cabinet meeting at Nabanna. So far, districts controlled the sand auction process. “Some goons are lifting sand, stones and coal illegally. Even if sand quarries are auctioned for five years, complaints are coming up that areas outside the auctioned area are dug, leaving an impact on the environment,” Mamata said. An insider explained the problems. “As sand in excess of what’s permitted is lifted, the state loses revenue. The illegal digging is impacting river embankments. Moreover, battles over the spoils from the sand quarries have led to intra-party clashes causing embarrassment for the ruling party,” said a bureaucrat. The process will now be monitored by the chief secretary and the home secretary. Sources explained how local powerful leaders were currently controlling the sand trade in the districts. "The auction is done by the DMs and the leaders often prevent businessmen from outside from taking part in the auction. They try to push traders close to them to secure the deal through auction and control the entire mining process,” said a source. “As they (the leaders) are very powerful, the district authorities often are helpless.” Officials said that with centralised auction, interested businessmen from anywhere could take part in the process and that would generate more revenue for the state. “Local leaders can wield influence on district authorities but not on the chief secretary and home secretary,” added a source. Sources also said this would help the ruling party ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. “As the wings of the local leaders will be clipped, intra party fighting over the spoils of mining would reduce. This could give an edge to the ruling party ahead of 2024 Lok Sabha polls as it would like to win maximum number of seats in the 2024 polls to oust the BJP from Delhi," said another source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Both Dilip and Suvendu post Peary Chand Mitra's wrong photograph||Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh and the party’s Nandigram MLA Suvendu Adhikari, paying their respects on Thursday on social media to the pioneer of Bengali novels Peary Chand Mitra on his 207th birth anniversary, posted the picture of acclaimed fantasy-fiction author Dakshinaranjan Mitra Majumdar instead. The same mistake by the duo who have hardly seen eye to eye since Adhikari’s star rise in the party became a talking point. “Finally, Dilipda and Suvendu are on the same page...They made the same mistake,” said a BJP insider. “I pay my tributes to the first novelist of Bengali literature, Peary Chand Mitra, on his birthday,” Ghosh wrote on his Facebook page. Adhikari tweeted: “My tributes to the author who introduced Bengali prose. Famously known by his pseudo name; Tekchand Thakur, fondly remembering Peary Chand Mitra on his birth anniversary.” Netizens commented that the posts had  Dakshinaranjan Mitra Majumdar’s picture, which was later removed. This joins the list of BJP blunders such as Union home minister garlanding a tribal statue and calling it that of  freedom fighter Birsa Munda, BJP national party chief J.P. Nadda referring to Swami Vivekananda as Vivekananda Thakur, Ghosh crediting Iswarchandra Vidyasagar with penning Sahaj Paath, and the Bengal BJP’s Twitter handle posting Visva-Bharati as Rabindranath Tagore’s birthplace and attributing the statement to Nadda. Ghosh told this paper that it was done from the office and did not come to his notice. “It was an uncommon picture,” he added. Adhikari did not take calls from this paper. Bengal BJP spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya took this paper’s call but refused to comment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata announces women’s cash scheme launch on September 1||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said Lakshmir Bhandar, a scheme she had promised the women of Bengal ahead of Assembly polls, would be launched on September 1, her announcement marking the formal start of one of the state’s biggest direct benefit transfer schemes. “We had promised the Lakshmir Bhandar scheme ahead of the elections. The beneficiaries will start getting money under the scheme from September 1,” said the chief minister after a cabinet meeting at Nabanna on Thursday. Under the scheme, women aged between 25 and 60 years from families under general castes would get Rs 500 and women from SC and ST families Rs 1,000 a month. Only working women with jobs of a permanent nature and pensioners would be exempt. The state government has primarily estimated 1.6 crore beneficiaries. A sum of Rs 12,000 crore would be spent for the project annually. “We will launch the Duare Sarkar programme from August 16 and it will continue till September 15. All eligible beneficiaries for Lakshmir Bhandar scheme can register their names under it through Duare Sarkar camps,” Mamata said. Bureaucrats contacted by this paper said the scheme was “unique” but also costly for a state with strained finances. “In a situation when income opportunities for a large section of the rural populace have shrunk in the past one-and-a-half years, the money will definitely boost the rural economy. Direct cash benefit schemes always create more demand in rural areas. The MGNREGS has already given a boost to the economy even in remote areas,” said a source. Other officials, however, expressed scepticism on whether the state government would manage to strike a balance between development and welfare schemes, considering the state's strained financial condition amid the ongoing pandemic. “The scheme (Lakshmir Bhandar) will require Rs 12,000 crore a year, equivalent to annual budgets of three large departments--PWD, PHE and irrigation. I hope development projects don’t take a backseat because of this scheme,” said a bureaucrat. Departments such as PWD, PHE and irrigation have been barred from taking up new projects worth over Rs 1.5 crore. In case of other departments, schemes worth over Rs 30 lakh were not being allowed, said a senior official. However, sources in Nabanna said they expect the state’s revenue generation to go up from August with Covid curbs getting eased. “It is expected that once we start generating our own revenue of Rs 4,500 crore every month, we will be able to shoulder the burden to some extent. If the Centre clears the backlog of nearly Rs 50,000 crore under various schemes, the state will not face any major problem,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Police arrest 22 for intra-Trinamul clash on Martyrs' Day||Police on Thursday arrested 22 persons in connection with the armed clash between two rival factions of Trinamul Congress that left two persons, including an elderly woman, dead and six critically injured at Haroa in North 24-Parganas on Wednesday. Police began a murder case against 31 persons on the basis of two separate complaints lodged by the victims’ family members with Haroa police. Prime accused and Trinamul’s local area committee president Jaggeshwar Pramanik is absconding. Those arrested were produced before the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Basirhat and sent to 10 days of police custody. The incident has come as a major embarrassment to Trinamul as it happened on Martyrs' Day and goes against chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s call to Trinamul workers to work together in public interest. Party insiders claimed the incident was a fallout of a feud between warring factions led by Trinamul youth wing leader Tapan Roy and Pramanik over the control of Mohonpur gram panchayat. “We can't accept such barbaric acts. The party does not support this. We have categorically told the police to nab the culprits,” said district chief of Trinamul’s North 24-Parganas unit Jyotipriya Mullick. Basirhat police district SP Joby Thomas K. said: “Most of the accused have been arrested. We are in search of the rest. A big police team with combat force personnel has been deployed in the area.” Trinamul supporter Laxmi Bala, 75, was killed when she fell down while trying to flee from the spot and got trampled upon. Sanjib Jana, 35, died on the spot when a bullet hit him. Among the six critically injured persons, three had suffered bullet injuries and are still fighting for their lives at RG Kar Medical College Hospital in Calcutta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Kalimpong Trinamul functionary files written complaints with top leaders against Shanta Chhetri||A senior Kalimpong Trinamul functionary, considered a flag-bearer of the party in the district, has filed written complaints with top leaders, including party supremo Mamata Banerjee, against Rajya Sabha member Shanta Chhetri. Trinamul leader Chawang Bhutia has accused Chhetri, who is also the party’s district president in Kalimpong, of nepotism and corruption. “She (Chhetri) is from Kurseong and is an outsider in our district. Ever since she has been made the district president, she is running the party on her own and never consults others who are with Trinamul for almost a decade now. During the past few months, she made some changes in important posts and has such people who are new and lack mass support,” Bhutia, who is in Calcutta currently, said over phone. According to Bhutia, in 2012, he had opened the Kalimpong unit of Trinamul (it was not a separate district then) and was its president. In 2014, he was the president of the Trinamul (hill) committee. Party insiders said Bhutia and Chhetri had differences ever since the latter was made the party president of Kalimpong district. “But things took an ugly turn recently, as Chhetri removed him from the post of the district Youth Trinamul president. Bhutia has been claiming that his removal was made without the consent of state leaders,” said a party leader. Bhutia, who sent letters to party supremo Mamata Banerjee, party’s national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee and to Trinamul leaders Subrata Bakshi and Aroop Biswas, said Chhetri has no authority to remove him. “She can’t make such a decision as I am the founder of Trinamul’s branch committee and have struggled for years against the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha. We also have information that she has indulged in corruption and furnished all details to the state leaders,” said the disgruntled Trinamul leader. The new youth Trinamul president of Kalimpong, Bhutia said, joined the party only a year ago. “All other leaders of the youth wing, who put efforts to build the party's base in Kalimpong, are against this decision,” he said. Chhetri, when contacted, was brief in her reaction. “I have been appointed as Trinamul head in Kalimpong by top leaders of the party. Whatever changes I made in the district were with consent from appropriate quarters.  I prefer not to comment on some other issues that the Trinamul leader (Bhutia) has raised,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Shock whiff in jumbo death in Jalpaiguri ||A wild tusker was found dead at Sholodanga village near the Bodaganj forest range of Baikunthapur forest division in Jalpaiguri on Thursday. After preliminary probe, the foresters have opined that it was a normal death. “It seems that the elephant died of natural causes. We can confirm the cause of death only after an autopsy,” said Hari Krishnan, the divisional forest officer of Baikunthapur. However, a section of locals suspect that the jumbo might have got electrocuted as electric wires were found dangling near the spot. A section of villagers said some locals had been laying power cables in an illegal manner in their fields and plantations to thwart wild boars and elephants from entering the hamlet. “Some electric wires were found dangling from a jackfruit tree near the spot where the jumbo carcass was spotted. We believe the foresters will find out whether the animal has died of electrocution,” said Parimal Roy, a villager.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC allows Bengal govt to file affidavit on NHRC report||Calcutta High Court on Thursday allowed the Bengal government to file an affidavit against a report submitted by a committee set up by the National Human Rights Commission on violence following the counting of votes on May 2. When the case came up for hearing before a five-judge bench of the high court on Thursday, advocate-general Kishore Datta said the state government wanted to file an affidavit against the NHRC panel’s report, which the court granted. The bench allowed the government time till Monday for filing the affidavit and fixed July 28 for hearing the case again. In response to an earlier order by the court, the NHRC chairman had constituted an eight-member committee to visit the houses of alleged post-poll violence victims. In the report submitted by the panel to the court, the government was accused of inaction and some Trinamul leaders, including a minister, were blamed for the violence. The government and Trinamul dismissed the allegations and said the report was politically motivated. Reacting to the report, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said: “They (BJP) have no shame. The mother of a thief shouts the most…. “Post-poll violence”, kichhu hoyni ekhaney (nothing happened here)! A handful of sporadic incidents, under the Election Commission of India… pre-poll, not post-poll. I am not going to say anything as the case is sub judice. Let the court decide.” Seeking to refute charges of the post-poll violence, Mamata added: “The law and order machinery had been under the commission till May 3. On May 4, the governor gave me as a caretaker the control, but I had no police at my disposal. Because everything had been changed by the commission, from the blocks to the districts. On May 5, I took the oath in the morning, after that, I undertook a total change of the set-up of the police and civil administration across the state, which could control all of Bengal.” During the hearing on Thursday, Priyanka Tibrewal, the counsel appearing for petitioners seeking a CBI probe into the post-poll violence cases, said: “My clients have sought CBI investigation into each incident of violence. After hearing the matter on July 28, the bench could decide whether the cases would be handed over to the central investigating agency.” Presiding judge of the division bench, Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal, said alleged rape cases would not be scanned by the court as the names of the victims could not be made public. These cases would be directly handed over for probe to the investigating agency that the court would decide on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||New principal for Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya in Bankura||The school managing committee of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya suspended its principal Kamar Kumar Rajoria and replaced him with the principal of another central school on Wednesday. J.K. Mahapatra, the principal of JNV in Durgapur, has been given the additional charge to run the school. Rajoria had been arrested in connection with a child trafficking case. “The principal has been under temporary suspension and a police probe is on. So, the principal has been replaced by another person. The principal of JNV Durgapur will be in additional charge of the school shortly,” said K Radhika Aiyar, the Bankura district magistrate and deputy commissioner of the JNV Bankura’s school management committee. Sources said the district had already sent a complete report to the state government on the incident of child trafficking, which would be sent to the Union ministry of education. Aiyar said they had received a directive from the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights to continue campaigns in other schools of Bankura against child trafficking. The police had arrested Rajoria and eight others and rescued five children, including three girls, who were allegedly being trafficked. The police said the woman, who claimed to be the mother of the five children, had sold the babies for around Rs 2 lakh. Senior police officers said they suspected the existence of a child trafficking racket in the incident. “We will conduct a vigil on the immovable properties of the arrested people. We will take details of call records to investigate whether the racket is connected beyond the state,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the Bankura police chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Virus Research & Diagnostic Laboratory set up on experimental basis at super specialty hospital in Jalpaiguri||A Virus Research & Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) has come up on an experimental basis at the super specialty hospital here. Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal, said the first batch of eight swab samples of suspected Covid-19 patients were collected at the new lab. “The swab samples and RT-PCR reports have been sent to the regional centre of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) at Bhubaneswar for verification. After we receive an approval from the ICMR, RTPCR will be carried out at the lab here and reports will also be issued from the facility. We are expecting the approval within the next two-three days,” Roy added. At least 800 samples can be tested in a day at the laboratory in Jalpaiguri. Until now, samples from the district were sent to the NBMCH and it would take at least two days to get the reports. Once the new VRDL becomes operational, the load on the laboratory at North Bengal Medical College and Hospital (NBMCH) – the oldest such lab in north Bengal – would considerably reduce, said the health official. “In due course, the number of tests can be increased. We are all apprehensive of a third wave of the pandemic when there might be a spike in Covid cases. At that time, this lab would largely help us for an early diagnosis of samples,” the officer on special duty added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-162
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Tea garden employees robbed of Rs 26 lakh at gunpoint near Siliguri||A group of armed burglars held three employees of a tea estate at gunpoint on the outskirts of Siliguri on Thursday afternoon and decamped with around Rs 26 lakh that was to be disbursed as wages among workers. Sources said three employees of the Thanjhora tea estate located in Kharibari block of Siliguri subdivision had drawn the cash from a bank in Siliguri. “The trio were intercepted by the miscreants while returning to the garden with the cash. The amount was supposed to be paid as wages to the tea workers,” said a source. Sumit Ghosh, secretary of north Bengal branch of Tea Association of India (TAI), said: “An SUV intercepted the vehicle ferrying the trio to the estate at a locality under Kharibari police station of Darjeeling district. A man, who was donning a fatigue and carrying a firearm, came out of it and asked the driver to get down and fired blanks. Meanwhile, another four-five youths on bikes reached the spot. They held the garden employees and the driver at gunpoint and decamped with the cash that was in a trunk.” Thanjhora tea estate is a member-garden of the association. In recent years, this is the first such incident of cash loot that has been reported from the Terai tea belt. “The incident has left us worried. Managers from a number of other gardens have called us expressing concern as in most tea estates wages are disbursed in cash,” Ghosh said. Later in the evening, the authorities of Thanjhora tea estate visited Kharibari police station and spoke with senior police officers. The police have started an investigation into the incident and launched search to nab the burglars, said sources.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Two Trinamul women’s wing members attacked in Cooch Behar, finger at BJP||Suchismita Deb Sharma, the district president of Trinamul women’s wing, and her party colleague Parbati Chanda were beaten up by a group of suspected BJP supporters on the outskirts of Cooch Behar town on Thursday. Suchismita and Parbati have suffered serious injuries and are being treated at the MJN Medical College & Hospital. Some people have been detained for interrogation. BJP leaders, however, have denied the charges. Around 10am, Suchismita, along with some party supporters, went to Panigram, a village near Ghughumari close to the district headquarters, after getting information that on Wednesday, which was the Trinamul’s Martyrs’ Day event, BJP supporters had allegedly resorted to violence. “When I reached the place, a group of BJP supporters assembled and started attacking us. When they started beating some of our women supporters, I intervened and they attacked me. I suffered injuries in my head and right hand. The police should take immediate steps and arrest all those involved in the incident,” Suchismita, also a member of the Zilla Parishad, said. “Since 2019 (Lok Sabha elections, in which BJP won in Cooch Behar), BJP workers have unleashed a reign of terror here and do not allow us to hold party functions. Yesterday (Tuesday) too, they lobbed bombs and ransacked homes of our workers,” she added. The news of the attack spread across the district, prompting Trinamul supporters to block roads in a number of locations in protest. A delegation of Trinamul leaders have filed a complaint with Kotwali police. Police from Kotwali police station also pacified the protesters at the roadblocks. Suchismita and Parbati were brought to the medical college and hospital. Later, Malati Rava, the district BJP president, went to the hospital and met Suchismita to enquire about her health. Rava, however, brushed aside the assault charges. “It is not BJP but some Trinamul workers who indulge in violence at Panigram regularly. Many supporters of our party have been attacked and their houses ransacked. Whatever happened today is the fallout of inner differences among Trinamul lobbies,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
23-07-2021||West Bengal||Youth hacked to death in tea garden in Alipurduar district||A 35-year-old man was hacked to death by unidentified persons in a tea garden in the Madarihat-Birpara block of Alipurduar district on Thursday morning. Senior police officers have visited the spot and are in search of the attackers who escaped after the crime. A police picket has been raised in the area. According to police sources, Boke Bhai Lama, the victim, was a resident of Lankapara tea estate. He was associated with the transportation of dolomite and other minor minerals from different locations. When Lama came out of his house in the garden around 11am, five men intercepted him. They were carrying sharp weapons and hacked him several times. When the businessman collapsed, the attackers fled. Sunity Tamang, his wife, raised an alert and soon, tea workers and their families arrived. The victim was the brother-in-law of Sanjay Lama, the Trinamul Congress president of Madarihat-Birpara block. “We have no idea why he was attacked. The police should arrest all the accused,” said Sanjay. The Lankapara plantation has been closed for years. Kuntal Banerjee, the additional superintendent of police of Jaigaon, said: “We suspect the deceased man had a business-related dispute with some others. His wife has filed a complaint with us and named all the five persons. We are in search of them.” Youth murdered Yarul Sheikh, 20, a resident of Uttar Lakkhipur village under Englishbazar police station of Malda, was stabbed to death by a group of youths on Wednesday. Sources said Sheikh had been to a market at Nagrai with some friends to attend a fair that was organised on the occasion of IdulZoha. At the fair, he had an altercation with some youths, one of whom took out a dagger and attacked him. Sheikh died on the way to Malda Medical College and Hospital. Police said all the five accused youths had been identified and searches were on to round them up. Additional reporting by Soumya De Sarkar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-163
23-07-2021||North East||Wife of Manipur journalist held for dung post seeks his release||The wife of a Manipur journalist who is in detention under the National Security Act since May 17 for a Facebook post criticising the promotion of cow dung and urine as cure for Covid-19 has appealed to the high court chief justice seeking his immediate release. Elangbam Ranjita, the wife of Kishorchandra Wangkhem, on Thursday emailed a “letter petition” to the Chief Justice of Manipur High Court and “his puisne judges” seeking the release of her husband, citing the Supreme Court verdict on Monday ordering the freeing of political activist Erendro Leichombam, who too had been detained under the NSA on similar charges at the central jail in Sajiwa. Ranjita’s application mentioned that she had formally requested the Manipur government on Tuesday to release Kishorchandra and also revoke the NSA charges “in the interest of justice”, just as the BJP dispensation had done in Erendro’s case. Ordering the release of Erendro by 5pm on Monday, Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah of the Supreme Court had observed that the “continued detention of the petitioner” would “amount to a violation of the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution”. A person can be detained for up to 12 months under the NSA. Both the activist and the journalist were arrested on May 13 by Imphal West police on the basis of separate FIRs filed by BJP general secretary P. Premananda Meitei and vice-president Usham Deben for their Facebook posts following the death of the Manipur BJP president, Prof. Saikhom Tikendra Singh, due to Covid. Kishorchandra’s post in Meitei language had said: “Cow dung and cow urine didn’t work. Unreasonably argumentative and unpleasant. Tomorrow I will eat fish.” Erendro’s post in English had said: “The cure for Corona is not cow dung & cow urine. The cure is science & common sense. Professor ji RIP.” Ranjita’s application said Kishorchandra had “never” acted in any manner “prejudicial” to the security of the State and to the maintenance of public order. His Facebook post “was a very sincere expression for not agreeing with the unscientific treatment of the said present corona(virus) pandemic where even the scientific tests are being done on an experimental basis”, her application said. “The said caption was not aimed to hurt the feeling of anyone or any group but rather my (Kishorchandra’s) disagreement with the treatment by using cow dung and cow urine which has no scientific basis,” Ranjita said. She cited the release of Erendro by the apex court and also her plea to the state government to free her husband as both were detained on similar grounds. “As such I have approached the concerned home department (chief secretary) of Manipur and the district magistrate… on 21-07-2021 for revoking the NSA slapped against my husband in as much as all the allegations, sections whatsoever are similar to each other,” Ranjita stated, adding there had been no response from the government yet. Erendro’s father Raghumani Singh had challenged his detention and also sought contempt action against the Imphal West district magistrate, Manipur chief secretary and the director general of police. Singh had cited the April 20 Supreme Court ruling that citizens shall not be slapped with criminal cases or arrested for airing their views on social media on issues related to Covid-19. The court is looking into the compensation appeal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
23-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Pegasus snoopgate, Prithvi Shaw should stay focussed, death by lightning||Grave threat Sir — The term, ‘Pegasus’, is gaining wide currency in India’s political discourse (“Big brothers”, July 23). The latest startling revelation that Pegasus, a penetrative, powerful and sophisticated software developed by Israel’s NSO Group, was allegedly used to snoop on people for questionable reasons shows that the Narendra Modi government does not believe that spying on citizens is unethical or antithetical to democratic practice. The government’s rebuttal that the allegation of hacking by the private company is without substance is belied by forensic evidence of Pegasus infections. The government is now trying to hide behind the all-too-familiar ‘international conspiracy’ theory. The statement of the Union home minister, Amit Shah, that the complaint was being brought about by ‘disruptors’ to show India in a bad light and to derail the country’s development trajectory was unconvincing. India is ‘defamed’ on the international stage more by the act of snooping than by its disclosure. In this digital era, hacking smartphones and other devices for political ends is nothing short of weaponizing technology. Illegal snooping or surveillance is a cybercrime; it invades privacy, infringes on civil liberties and threatens personal security. It can also give undue advantage to the ruling party in the electoral game. The question of utmost importance is whether the prime minister, Narendra Modi, was aware of this large-scale snooping. He owes the nation an honest answer, and is expected to take steps to get to the bottom of the ‘snoopgate’ controversy rocking the country. Modi needs to do more than just hit out at the Congress. He should accede to the demand for a probe by a joint parliamentary committee or a sitting Supreme Court judge. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — While accusations of cybercrimes are looming large against China in the international sphere, another frightening news afloat is that an Israeli spyware, Pegasus, is being used to snoop on journalists, politicians, activists and even students across over 50 countries. The findings of a consortium of 16 media organizations reportedly bolster accusations that not just autocratic regimes but democratic governments, including India, have used this spyware. Science and technology, meant to improve the lives of people and provide them with a peaceful life, are misused by the powers that be for selfish objectives. It is an attack on the democratic foundation of the country. Nations must come together to defeat the evil designs of cyber criminals. Seetharam Basaani,Hanamkonda Sir — Hitting the headlines, the Pegasus case has rocked Parliament proceedings. It is now being insinuated that the fall of the Janata Dal (Secular)-Congress government in Karnataka was made possible by tapping the phones of important leaders. This is a matter of concern. Surveillance, to some degree, may appear to have  become a necessary evil, especially in the aftermath of the 9/11 attack, in order to prevent terrorism. But its misuse by most governments to spy their opponents must be condemned. This is an infringement of the privacy of an individual, and a transgression of the rights to privacy and to personal liberty guaranteed under the Constitution. In the present case, phones of journalists and activists were reportedly tapped. This raises questions about whether existing laws offer protection or redressal to those whose privacy has been invaded, and if these laws need a revisit. Sravana Ramachandran,Chennai Stay focused Sir — The opener of the Indian men’s cricket team sent to Sri Lanka, Prithvi Shaw, has earned praise from the former Australian cricketer, Greg Chappell, for his form. This is good news. But Shaw should not get carried away with these accolades. As the coach of the national team, Chappell was reportedly full of praise for Irfan Pathan’s batting. The latter eventually lost the edge in his bowling and went on to lose his place in the national team. Likewise, after scoring a six off the first ball he faced in a one-day international, Ishan Kishan boasted that he had told everyone that he would hit his first ball for a six. Had the ball come from someone like Lasith Malinga or Mitchell Starc, he could have been bowled out for a golden duck. He was able to score a half-century only because of several dropped catches by inexperienced Sri Lankan players. Young players should therefore keep their heads down and play according to the merit of each ball. N.V. Krishnan,Chennai  Bolt from the blue Sir — Death by lightning has become more frequent than ever. A recent study has found that the number of lightning strikes in India between April 2020 and March 2021 increased by 34 per cent compared to previous years. Experts found a link between this spike and climate change. This is not a bolt from the blue. Scientists have been warning about this for a while. A 2015 study by California University had said that a global rise in temperature by 1 degree Celsius would increase the frequency of lightning strikes by at least 12 per cent. Perhaps getting struck by lightning will finally alert people about the perils of climate change. Radhika Gupta,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
23-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Game on||Another game, after the one in Bengal in which the Trinamul Congress trounced the Bharatiya Janata Party, is now afoot. This one has the nation — not Bengal — as the turf. In the course of her Martyrs’ Day address, Mamata Banerjee — several leaders of the Opposition were all ears — reiterated the need for forging unity among like-minded parties to take the battle to the BJP in the forthcoming general elections. Ms Banerjee’s appeal is based on practical, not ideological, considerations. Individual parties in the Opposition — the Congress is an example — have failed to take Narendra Modi and his party to task notwithstanding their numerous policy failures. Ms Banerjee believes that there is strength in numbers: a United Opposition can, she hopes, pose a more potent political threat to the BJP that is well-entrenched electorally. The other point about a concerted effort is equally pragmatic. Ms Banerjee is aware that the biggest danger to Opposition unity is the contradictory pulls and pressures within its ranks. That calls for a planned, coordinated approach. Yet, stitching up a national alliance is easier said than done. This is because the Opposition, a fragmented coalition of parties with pockets of influence, is confronted with several problems. Parliamentary elections are increasingly turning personality-oriented. The Opposition must, therefore, find a leader of stature to take on Mr Modi who, in spite of his blunders, commands a formidable following. It will be interesting to see whether the Opposition can cobble up such a consensus candidate. Ms Banerjee, interestingly, desisted from throwing her hat into the ring. The dilemma about mutual, state-level antipathy between many of the partners of the alliance, if there were to be one, needs to be addressed too. Would the electorate be accommodating of a coalition of proverbial strange bedfellows? The BJP would undoubtedly exploit these chinks in the Opposition armour. A possible counter-strategy would be for the Opposition to highlight bread and butter issues that affect the lives of the people. An unchecked pandemic, a devastated economy, encroachment on India’s territorial sovereignty, spiralling prices of fuel and other essentials — each of these issues would have been enough to corner any elected government. Mr Modi is blessed to have an Opposition that has not been able to capitalize on these thus far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
23-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Tax whip||These are rather taxing times for the media fraternity. As if thinning revenue streams on account of a faltering economy lashed by the pandemic are not enough, media companies are having to contend with another contagion: the tax man. Tax raids, to cite one example, have taken place on the media group, Dainik Bhaskar, that has been accused of evading taxes. No institution, including media companies, can be immune to the law of the land. The accusations against Dainik Bhaskar must be investigated fairly and in a transparent manner to establish the truth. What is worrying, however, is a broader pattern that has been synonymous with the political ascendancy of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Those opposed to the policies of the Narendra Modi dispensation, be they leaders of the Opposition, media organizations, dissenters or activists, seem to be particularly vulnerable to visitations from the income tax department. This has raised the apprehension of the Centre using the IT department as a stick to beat the media — a critical media — with. There are whispers that Dainik Bhaskar’s coverage of the Centre’s mismanagement of the Covid-19 crisis may have made it visible on the tax radar. If the allegation of such targeted discrimination is true, it would torpedo the Centre’s periodic homilies on its commitment to uphold the freedom of the press. There is evidence to suggest that the pledge may, indeed, be hollow. Under Mr Modi’s watch, India has witnessed a precipitous slide on the World Press Freedom Index: it ranked a lowly142 among 180 countries this year. The reasons are not far to seek. The BJP has a formidable arsenal to tame the media. In spite of the Supreme Court’s observation that members of the fourth estate are entitled to protection against sedition, this archaic legal provision — a relic of colonial law — has often been weaponized to intimidate those who retain the courage to speak truth to power. Physical attacks against journalists are not new either; Mr Modi’s India now has the dubious distinction of being one of the most dangerous places for journalists to work in, according to Reporters Without Borders. Perhaps the most potent among these gags to stifle the media with is pressure — covert or overt — on public and corporate advertisers to choke revenue, the lifeline of the media. At the heart of the problem lies the regime’s barely concealed condescension for contrarian — independent — opinion. Unfortunately for Mr Modi, pliant institutions — the media included — only dull the sheen of Indian democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
23-07-2021||Opinion||Green gold||We keep buying smarter phones or better laptops, but what happens to our scrapped devices? Well, when the top athletes of the world contest in Tokyo, they would essentially be fighting for some recycled mobile phone or laptop. The organizing committee conducted the Tokyo 2020 Medal Project to collect small electronic devices from all over Japan to produce the Olympic and Paralympic medals. Under the theme, “Be better, together — for the planet and the people”, the Tokyo Olympics are set to be the most sustainable and environment-friendly Games ever. About 32 kilogrammes of gold, 3,500 kg of silver and 2,200 kg of bronze, the metals required to manufacture the approximately 5,000 gold, silver and bronze medals, have been extracted from 78,985 tonnes of used devices collected between April 2017 and March 2019 from wards, cities, towns, villages and 6.21 million used mobile phones collected by NTT DoCoMo shops across Japan, all contributed by people. Efforts towards sustainability, which will be part of the legacy of the pandemic-hit Tokyo Games, do not stop there. Uniforms for the Olympic torch relay were partially produced from recycled plastic bottles, and the victory ceremony podiums are being made from recycled household and marine plastic waste — around 45 tonnes of household plastic was contributed to create the 100 podiums. But how serious is the problem of electronic waste. Waste from equipment like general consumer electronics, computers, laptops, tablets, mobile phones, white goods and industrial grade electronics is hazardous owing to the presence of deadly chemicals and metals; long-term exposure to these substances causes serious health risks. How big is the threat? According to a report by the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of India, 44.7 million metric tonnes of e-waste was generated worldwide in 2016; the amount is expected to grow at a 3.15 per cent compound annual growth rate. The United Nations University compared the weight of 2016’s e-waste to “nine Great Pyramids of Giza” or “4,500 Eiffel Towers”. It is estimated that by 2021, global e-waste will have risen to 52.2 MMT. The increased digital dependence owing to the pandemic would result in more e-waste. India, China, the United States of America, Japan, and Germany are the top five e-waste generating countries. India’s e-waste was estimated to increase to 5.2 MMT by 2020 from 2 MMT in 2016, mostly because of economic growth and changing consumption patterns. Computer equipment account for almost 70 per cent of this e-waste, followed by phones (12 per cent), electrical equipment (8 per cent), medical equipment (7 per cent), and household items. China, Peru, Ghana, Nigeria, India, and Pakistan are also the biggest recipients of e-waste from industrialized countries. However, a meagre 1.5 per cent of the total e-waste generated in India is recycled through an institutional process, and most of the e-waste gets channelized into the unorganized sector where low-cost, rudimentary methods are used to recover valuable material. The remaining parts are thrown into rivers and drains, or disposed of in solid waste dumps. Burning of e-waste generates toxic fumes, while its disposal in water bodies degrades soil and water quality. Development and implementation of low-cost and environment-friendly recycling and disposal infrastructure are a must. In 2017, scientists at IIT Madras came up with a novel technique where e-waste can be used as a resource not only to treat waste water but also to generate electricity simultaneously. The world’s first microfactory for converting e-waste into reusable materials has been opened in Australia. South Korea managed to recycle 21 per cent of its 0.8 MMT of e-waste. Effective collaboration with the industry is needed. One needs more and more innovative ideas. But for the time being, Japan gets a gold medal for sustainability.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
23-07-2021||Opinion||Fiction over fact||A moment of crisis is often seen as a call to realism, a summons to the moment of truth. But crisis in recent times has been more a pretext for fictions, a strengthening of stereotypes. The first site for such fictions, which serve as quick myths, is the Indian State. In this Olympiad of death we call Covid, the Indian State was portrayed as reasonably competent. Between lockdown as legend and the myth of statistics, it was seen as a functioning, not as a failed, State. Its ignorance of the tragedy of the informal economy was totally ignored. The fact that Covid created the second biggest migration after the Partition is hardly cited. The fact that these migrants became non-citizens and companions in narrative to the Rohingya refugee was rarely recognized. In fact, the dualism of formal and informal economies has become one of the great tragedies of this decade, creating a genocide whose memory is erased. Whether it is State, media or academia, they all cling to the idea that they are catering to the middle class. The margins, the nomads and the migrants disappear in these narratives. What we are fed is the happy narrative, that Narendra Modi is in power and ‘all’s right with the world’. Within this world, classifications become the legitimations for genocide and indifference. But what is more intriguing beyond the taken for granted of policy and sociology is the active fictions that a section of the media tries to create. This Pollyanna class always looks for the happy story as the human interest story. It tries to use the narrative of media icing to create more seductive fictions. One of the most successful of these has been the construct one labels the ‘Post Truth Family’. The Post Truth Family is a new, saccharine construct built on old dualisms. Modern industrialism is basically built on the three oppositions of the informal/formal, public/private, office/home. In a gendered sense, men generally went to work and the housewife stayed at home. Covid has frozen certain dualisms. While it ignored the informal economy and its travails, it played up the hyphenation of office and home. The home became a place for office work and breathed a certain conviviality. Years ago, Nirad C. Chaudhuri observed acutely that Indian couples are divorced and don’t know it. Consigning the acuteness of Chaudhuri to the dustbin, the media invented a new sociological simulacrum. A simulacrum in communication theory is an imitation of the real which feels more real than the real. There is something seductive about it as a construct. The Post Truth Family is a classic example. The narrative begins with two quick tactical steps. In the first, the migrant family in its nomadic temporary state is swept aside. Citizenship and respectability belong to the middle-class office goer. The newspaper supplements literally create a new leisure class around this phenomenon. Husband and wife work happily to create and share leisure time. In a reversal of the old home science, husband and wife cook together as a recipe for conviviality. The Covid city brings the two genders together by bridging office and home and by creating leisure as a cultural way of being together. The impersonality of work is wished away at leisure as children join parents in rediscovering the family. To the home as play, one adds a spell of tourism to express the joy of togetherness. What advertising does as a construct, Bollywood has to replay as a more convincing myth. Bollywood replays the Covid crisis as being resolved by conspicuous consumption and conspicuous sexuality. The film star’s body is emblematic of that as young couples play out the myth of Maldives. But mere romance is not enough. It is an expected icing to domesticity. One sees relationships which would normally be frowned upon than being given legitimacy. The independent woman provides a resilience to this aspect of sexuality. Whether it is Disha Patani or Malaika Arora, the new woman comes out strongly. A touch of liberty and liberation is provided by these narratives to the Sunday supplement. This Post Truth Family in private space creates conviviality which as togetherness, an intimacy, is the opposite of the official policy of social distancing. It is claimed that the successful Indian State glues families together in such a way that no Covid crisis can tear them apart. Advertisements add a final touch. The amount of property advertisements, the epidemic dream of the ideal dream house, erases any sense of the homeless migrant. The sense of paradise is intensified with Bollywood stars buying new homes, serving as a model for the aspirational class. In fact, Covid has now become a form of urban cleansing, setting the stage for Modi’s aspirational era. To add a sinister touch, the old are now constructed not as a family cycle but as a dispensable part of the family. In the industrial lingo of today, they are obsolescent. When one hears about the varieties of anxiety, one realizes the need for an oral history project of its own. We substitute social science as management and talk overtly of spiritual techniques and hand books of anxiety management. Social science, like the State, has stopped listening, or even understanding, that silence speaks in many voices and has to be listened to. Whole domains of life have been silenced, the varieties of violence inside the family have been ignored, because of cost benefit models of violence. Once you flatten the family and the State, it is easy to capture the intermediate spaces. Amit Shah is set up as exhibit A to add machismo to the cooperatives. Cooperatives will be treated like cadre and lose the nuances of work they created. Cooperatives are a unique blend of family and work. Everyone is involved in different ways. Children learn to work as they grow up. In that sense, the cooperative hinges on a different kind of pedagogy. To treat it as industry destroys the diversity of work. All this is done in the name of normalcy, rechristened as the new normalcy. There is nothing more Orwellian than the word, normal, in this regime. It allows a moral imperative which permits you to ignore dissent, suffering, distress. New normal is the language of policy whitewash signalling everything is fine. The sadness is that as a middle class we believe in such fictions. Shiv Visvanathan is an academic associated with Compost Heap, a network pursuing alternative imaginations||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-63
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Pegasus shows Modi govt's true colours, says Hemant||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has said  that the Pegasus snooping controversy is testimony to the Narendra Modi-led government’s sustained attempts at violating the privacy of individuals enshrined in the Constitutional. Talking to reporters at  Project Building on Saturday evening, Hemant  said, “The uproar across the nation over illegal spying by the Modi government is justified and natural as people’s right to privacy has been challenged once again. Whatever is happening in the country, if you ask me, I genuinely don’t know which way  our country is headed  under this regime.” On the IT raids on the  Dainik Bhaskar Group on Thursday in various cities, the chief minister said, “I am of the view that all  constitutional institutions of the country are now only working as weapons of the Union government.” Hemant,  who is the executive president of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) that is leading an alliance government along with Congress and RJD in the state, has been one of the most vocal critics of  the Modi regime. He has criticized and blocked the Centre's  attempts to allow commercial mining blocks in the country,   questioned the government on the alleged mishandling of the Covid-19 pandemic since its outbreak last year, and trained guns against the three contentious farm laws.h His party, the  JMM, has also criticised the Union government over its response to deaths of Covid-19 patients due to oxygen scarcity in the ongoing monsoon session of  Parliament while the Centre has maintained that no casualties occurred due to O2 scarcity. Calling the Centre’s response as a farce, JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattarcharjee said, “When it comes to taking credit of giving rations, vaccines and the like,  Modiji merrily puts his photograph in hoardings across the country. But it hides behind concocted data and interpretations when the time comes to own up for  failures." Taking a dig at ICMR and the Union health ministry, which has been regularly issuing circulars since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, he said, “Everyone knows that when the pandemic Act is in force, all matters related to its handling is governed and directed by the Centre. ICMR, and the health ministry has been regularly issuing protocols right from identifying Covid victims to its hospitalization to medication and even burial/cremation. Has it ever issued protocols to identify the cause of death? NO. "But now the Centre claims that states haven’t given data and is blaming the latter stating health is a state subject. JMM has been demanding audit of all the deaths in the country. Why is Modi government running away from it?,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Parents' group asks Hemant to reopen schools ||Ranchi: Members of a parents's organisation met chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday and urged him to consider reopening schools in the wake of a fall in fresh Covid cases, citing a crisis among lakhs of people dependent on educational institutions for their livlihood. After the meeting, Private Schools and Children's Welfare Association (PSCWA) president Alok Dubey said, “We have urged the state government to work out a dynamic mechanism to reopen schools now so that classes can be regularized. One can initially begin with senior classes. We have also proposed that every school must ensure that before being allowed to reopen, all their staff is duly vaccinated.” (Our Correspondent) Bokaro: A major fire broke out in the Blast Furnace-2 of Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), a unit of Steel Authority of India Limited, after a torpedo ladle carrying hot metal got punctured. Hot metal of 1300 degree celsius leaked out of the torpedo shooting up fire at the spot. The flames rose so high that they engulfed the entire torpedo. About half a dozen fire tenders took about two hours to douse the flames. Senior officials of the BSL plant reached the spot. Fortunately, no casualty has been reported. The incident took place when the locomotive was ferrying hot metal-laden torpedoes to Steel Melting Shop (SMS). Due to this incident the production of Blast Furnace-II has also been affected. The movement of locomotives from the blast furnace to SMS remained affected for several hours. The damage assessment in the incident is yet to be done. Chief of communication, BSL, Manikant Dhan said, "At about 8.40am, due to a leakage in the Torpedo Ladle in Blast Furnace-2, hot metal spilled over on the tracks and caught fire. No personnel were affected in this incident." "The fire tenders were immediately pressed into service and in about one and a half hours, the flames were completely doused. A portion of the cables in the cable gallery was affected by the fire. Normal operations resumed within two hours of the incident," he added. The BSL plant is seeing a rise in accidents in the past few months. Recently a contract worker fell in a ladle having hot metal. Earlier, two employees sustained burn injuries with the radiation of hot metal that spills from the ladle at Steel Melting Shop (SMS)-2. (Our Correspondent) Jamshedpur: Seven youths were caught with 94 packets of "brown sugar" from near drum factory under Adityapur thana area in the adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district about five km from here on Friday. Of those arrested, six were from Ranchi and had come to Adityapur for procuring the narcotic drug from a local with links to the peddlers' network. Those arrested were identified as Sunny Verma, Vishal Kumar, Nitesh Jha, Saheed Akhtar, Abhishek Singh, Sunny Tirkey and Mohammed Tahir, all in their twenties. According to Seraikela-Kharsawan district superintendent of police, Anand Prakash, till recently the brown sugar sale racket was confined to Adityapur Muslim Bustee only, but now it has spread to new localities in Adityapur and also in several parts of the steel city. "When youngsters from Ranchi can come here for the drugs, the network of the drug-peddlers must have spread upto Ranchi," said the superintendent of police, adding that they will work to dismantle the network soon. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: Cricketers and other citizens of Dhanbad on Friday congregated at Jealgora Cricket stadium to wish success to the India team representing the nation in Tokyo Olympics. The special programme was organised by Jealgora Cricket Academy, one of the oldest cricket clubs, in association with Jharia based social organisation Youth Concept. Besides waving of tricolour to cheer for Indian team, more than a dozen saplings were also planted to spread the green message. “The country has high expectations from the players who went to Tokyo Olympic and we wish them all success in different sporting events,” said Abdul Karim Ansari, patron of Jealgora Cricket Club. Ritam Dey, a level I coach of BCCI, present during the occasion said, “As four players of our own state, including three girls are part of Indian contingent this time to the Olympic games being held in Tokyo, we expect better results for the team.” Shamil Kaul, one of the under-14 team player of Jealgora Cricket Club girls team said, “It’s time for the Indian team to prove that who we are and what we area since the Indian team has the hunger to perform and hunger to achieve goal we are confident our players will come out of the game with flying colours.” (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: The traffic wing of the district police on Friday stripped four-wheelers off the VIP plates in a special drive along with the helmet-checking at Sakchi locality of the steel city. As the act of intercepting VIP cars and stripping the number plates was a tough job, deputy superintendent of police (Traffic) Babban Singh was himself present during the drive which continued for two hours from 11 am. During the drive, the traffic cops caught two cars which were found fitted with VIP plates that were stripped off and the car drivers were penalised. On one of the VIP plates that was removed was inscribed "Ex-police inspector" whereas on the other VIP plate was a symbol of Trinamul Congress beside the designation "district general secretary." The senior traffic cops said they had earlier carried out awareness campaign about the drive against those using VIP plates. "We have started the drive against the vehicles using VIP plates because during a traffic drive such vehicles would easily skip the checking points even if the drivers would violate the seatbelt norms, attracting wrath from other car owners, "said the traffic DSP, adding that the special drive will continue. Hundreds of four-wheelers can be seen on the roads with VIP plates, sporting designation of the political parties they belong to. Owners of such vehicles also tend to use tinted glass without paying heed to the traffic rules. (Kumud Jenamani)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Two steel city lakes to resume angling next week||Angling in the steel city is all set to resume next week after it was suspended for over a year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The activity will resume at Beldih lake (near Dhatkidih) and Bara lake (near Sidhgora). The aquatic population at all the lakes had ample time to grow since angling was suspended. The Catlas at the lakes weigh between 40-50 kg. Ruis and mirgals weigh around 35-40 kg. The Jamshedpur Angling Club (JAC) has requested Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Limited (TSUISL) to give permission for resuming the activity. The company is the custodian of city lakes. "The company had asked us to submit a letter for granting permission. We have already submitted the same. We are sure to get the necessary nod for resuming angling from next week," said JAC general secretary Sukumar Ghoshal. According to him, angling would resume at Beldih and Bara lakes only as Jayanti Sarovar in Jubilee Park will still remain out of bounds. "It's good that angling is going to resume at other water bodies at least. The members were very keen about it," Ghoshal added. He said the Club would celebrate Bharat Ratna JRD Tata's birth anniversary on July 29 in a symbolic manner. "We host an annual angling competition to mark the occasion. However, we won't conduct the competition this year too. We'll celebrate the day by garlanding the photo of the great man near the Beldih lake," Ghoshal said. The angling competition, which witnesses participants from Calcutta, Kharagpur and Bhubaneswar among other cities, was a non-starter last year due to the pandemic. Jayanti Sarovar is the usual venue for the competition. Though the landmark Jubilee Park has re-opened for morning and evening walkers but TSIUSL has still kept the Jayanti Sarovar out of bounds for anglers. It is not clear when JAC would be permitted to use it for angling. "I am looking forward to testing my patience at Beldih lake. Very happy that angling will resume next week. Fish stock is very impressive. Hope I'll be able to net a big one," said Md. Sarfaraz, a Club member. Other members also expressed happiness more so because of fish stock at both Beldih and Bara lakes. Most of them have already kept their fishing rods ready and would also prepare the bait in a day or two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand High Court orders Dhanbad MLA's jail shift||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday instructed the Dhanbad jail administration to ensure that former Dhanbad MLA Sanjeev Singh is returned from Dumka Central Jail to Dhanbad Divisional Jail within two weeks. The instruction was given by a high court bench of Justice S.K. Dwivedi while pronouncing judgment on the petition of Sanjeev Singh. Sanjeev Singh was arrested by Dhanbad Police on April 11 in connection with the murder of former Deputy Mayor Niraj Singh of March 21, 2017. On April 20, 2017 Singh was also shifted to Birsa Munda jail of Ranchi for security reasons owing to enmity with various local gangs and was brought to Dhanbad Divisional Jail on February 28, 2018 after a protracted legal battle. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Md Javed, lawyer of Sanjeev Singh, said that the order has vindicated their stand on the issue that the transfer of Singh to Dumka Central Jail was uncalled for and unjustified. The bench simultaneously rejected the criminal petition filed by Dhanbad jail administration against the lower court order of February 25 to return Sanjeev Singh to Dhanbad divisional jail. Dhanbad Jail administration on February 21, shifted Sanjeev Singh from Dhanbad divisional jail to Dumka Central Jail on security grounds. Sanjeev Singh through his lawyer Md Javed filed two petitions on February 22 in Dhanbad court including one seeking show cause notice against Dhanbad jail Superintendent Ajay Kumar for transferring him in haste and other seeking immediate transfer back of Sanjeev Singh to Dhanbad jail. The Dhanbad court of Additional District and Session judge, Ravi Ranjan ordered the transfer back of Sanjeev Singh while hearing the petition of February 25 but the Dhanbad Jail administration on March 20 moved a criminal petition in Jharkhand High Court against the lower court order of transfer back of Sanjeev Singh. Meanwhile, Sanjeev Singh through his lawyer also filed a petition in high court in April demanding his transfer back. The high court completed the hearing on both the petitions on July 5 and reserved its order which was passed on Friday. The transfer of Sanjeev Singh to Dumka Central Jail also witnessed political connotations as BJP leaders of the district led by his wife Ragini Singh and others comprising of Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha and district president of BJP Chandrashekhar Singh staged a day-long dharna on February 23 opposing the transfer to Dumka Central Jail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant unveils projects worth Rs 84cr to spruce up Ranchi and its outskirts||Chief minister Hemant Soren laid the foundation stone for a slew of urban projects, worth over Rs 84 crore, for various wards of Ranchi on Saturday, directing officials to ensure their timely completion to provide the state capital with a much-needed facelift. As many as 45 projects, across the length and breadth of the capital, covering both Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) and Ranchi Regional Development Authority (RRDA) limits, will now be initiated. These include lanes, drains, beautification of some roundabouts and installation of street lights, among others. The projects also include renovation of some of the historical and landmark sites of the capital. For instance, Ranchi Lake (Bada Talab) will be cleaned up and beautified, the dilapidated Jaipal Singh Stadium in the heart of the city in Kutchery will be given a facelift, the Rock Garden at Kanke Road will be renovated with a new entrance and Morabadi ground will be equipped with a new sound system. Hemant appealed to residents to keep the city neat and clean and act as gatekeepers of society by highlighting wrongs. “Ranchi being the capital of the state must look like one. My government is working towards this mission so that people coming to this city are in awe of the place. At the same time, residents here will have access to proper facilities,” he said. “Earlier, this place used to be the summer capital because of its pleasant weather, and greenery. Over the years, it has lost that identity. Everyone must work together to restore the city’s green lungs by planting saplings wherever they can. I have already directed officials to do so on all empty government land,” he said. Hemant spoke of how unplanned development, coupled with increasing population, had led to urban chaos. "Many localities are such that even two-wheelers can’t enter, let alone an ambulance," he said and appealed to owners of plots in the city to voluntarily part with at least 5 ft space (gift deed)  to the government so that such problems can be addressed. Friday's function was held at Jaipal Singh Stadium. Among the others present were MLAs C.P. Singh (Ranchi), Naveen Jaiswal (Hatia) and officials of the state urban development department, RMC and RRDA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharia social worker promotes dance among his students||Jharia based private tutor Pinaki Roy, engaged in providing free education to more than 200 coal picker children, has recently constituted a professional dance troupe called Nrirtyanna with 20 of his students. The 49-year-old tutor has arranged for their training and other gadgets like music system to help them become self dependent with the income earned through dance performances. The troupe is led by 19-year-old Suman Kumari, daughter of a private security guard of Kendua and a beneficiary of Pinaki Roy’s education programme. She has started uploading their dance videos on Youtube and other social media platforms to garner followers. “I learnt dancing, watching television etc and have not received any formal training but the encouragement given by Pinaki Roy sir propelled us to train others of my locality,” said Kumari, a student of History honours at SSLNT women’s college. “All our dances are based on inspirational songs, classical or dances based on patriotic songs etc,”she said. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Roy, an alumnus of Vishva Bharati University, said,“During the teachers day programme last year, Suman hesitatingly sought my permission to stage a dance which I readily gave and got stunned with their astounding performance.” “The idea of developing a professional dance troupe of these children suddenly clicked in my mind for which some honing of their skill and gadgets were required,” said Roy and added he arranged a music system and dresses for dance performances for these children through his contacts. Notably, Roy who acts as a guide and translator for foreign visitors to Jharia also sought their help to fund for the dance troupe. “Gradually a troupe of around 20 children was formed all of whom carry out regular practice at their respective places from 11am to 1pm from Monday to Friday while on Saturday –Sunday training by Suman Kumari is conducted at my place,” said Roy and added that they are seeking sponsors for troupe which has been constituted with the aim of breaking the traditional stereotypes in the society besides making these children self dependent. “While carrying out the dance practice, these children also have to continue regular work of coal picking to support their family income as all of them belong to an extremely backward section of the society,” said Roy. “I will also try to seek the support of my alma mater Vishva Bharati University for their dance training,” said Roy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Students, activists form human chain to demand justice for Stan Swamy||Braving heavy rain, over 50 people comprising activists, intellectuals, students and representatives of civil rights groups came together at Albert Ekka Chowk here  on Friday to form a human chain to protest against the “injustice” meted out to Father Stan Swamy, the Jesuit priest who died in judicial custody in Mumbai early this month after being denied bail on health grounds. Holding placards and banners, the protestors termed Stan’s death "institutional murder" and demanded the anullment of UAPA to stop unending attacks on the right to dissent by the ruling regime. Prominent social and tribal activist Dayamani Barla, who was in the gathering,  said that the event was part of a national campaign to seek justice for Swamy being pu together by over 100 organisations. “The way an 84-year-old person, who worked all his life for the cause of the poor and tribals, was arrested by NIA and later treated in jail, despite his age and his ailments, speaks volumes of the way the Centre disregarded human rights violations of people who have been critical of its anti-people policies. Despite this, Stan Swamy continued to fight till his last breath. But several like him, who were embroiled in false cases for political reasons, are continuing to face the  ire of draconian laws like UAPA. We demand the repeal of UAPA and the release of rights activists and innocent people jailed in sedition cases,” she said over phone. A delegation of rights activists is scheduled to submit a memorandum to Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais on Saturday, said an activist associated with Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha (JJM). Siraj Datta of JJM said, "Our memorandum will place half a dozen demands before the governor. We demand justice for Stan Swamy, repeal of UAPA, sedition act and other draconian laws, the release all political prisoners, restoration of the right to bail, accountability for filing false cases and compensation to victims, immediate withdrawal of pathalgadi cases and end of police repression in Jharkhand,” he said. Swamy was arrested in October last year by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the violence in Bhima Koregaon in 2018 and was booked under UAPA for alleged links with Maoists. He was among a dozen other human rights activists across the country arrested by the NIA in the case causing global uproar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Fresh case in Ranchi takes black fungus tally to 101 in Jharkhand  ||One more case of Covid-induced mucormycosis surfaced in the state capital Thursday, taking the black fungus tally in Ranchi to 38 and that in Jharkhand to 101, latest data released by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) highlighted. However, the deadly fungal infection did not cause fresh casualties on Thursday. As per government data, the state has so far reported 101 confirmed and 59 suspected cases of black fungus. While 98 patients have recovered from the infection, at least 30 could not survive, IDSP data reveals. While mucormycosis cases rose, the state reported a drop in active cases of Covid-19 on Thursday. As per the daily Covid-19 bulletin released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 32 Covid recoveries against 22 cases brought the active caseload in Jharkhand down to 305. None of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike in cases, while Deoghar reported the highest spike of five cases. At least seven recoveries against three cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 69, while eight recoveries against one fresh case brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum down to 24, the NHM stated in its bulletin. At least 13 Jharkhand districts – West Singhbhum, Sahebganj, Pakur, Lohardaga, Latehar, Khunti, Jamtara, Hazaribag, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases.  As per government data, there were no active cases of the viral infection in Giridih and Garhwa. The state on Thursday tested swab samples of 64,119 residents and 0.03 per cent of them were found to be Covid positive. Of the over 3.46 lakh residents who have been infected by coronavirus in the state so far, at least 98.43 per cent have recovered and 1.47 per cent have died. Jharkhand reported zero Covid casualties on Thursday and the toll remained 5122. Meanwhile, the doubling rate of cases in the state jumped to 6520.47 days, which is about eight times higher than the national doubling rate of 780 days. Jharkhand on Thursday vaccinated around 65,000 residents against Covid-19. As per data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the first dose of vaccine was administered to at least 43,452 residents, while the second jab was administered to 21,346 beneficiaries. Around 40,000 of the total beneficiaries vaccinated on the day were younger than 45 years. As per NHM data released on Thursday evening, the state had 1,44,280 vaccine doses in stock. So far, Jharkhand has received 84,82,450 vaccine doses from the Centre and utilized 84,72,387 of them. Besides Covishield and Covaxin doses supplied from the Centre, some private hospitals have also procured Sputnik V vaccine and administered them to locals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||HC raps Jharkhand hospital for death of patient ||The Jharkhand High Court castigated the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on Thursday while hearing a case on the death of a woman patient of black fungus due to medical negligence and called for an investigation. A division bench of Chief Justice Dr Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad noted that while doctors had done an excellent job while treating Covid-19 patients since the outbreak of the pandemic, there have been several instances of apathy and inadequate treatment of patients. The case pertains to Usha Devi, a black fungus patient who died early this month apparently due to delays in much-needed surgery at RIMS despite being in the hospital for over a month. Her children  wrote to  chief minister Hemant Soren and the chief Justice, seeking their intervention. Ultimately, the court took cognizance after which her surgery was conducted at RIMS, but within days she died. “Many times attendants of patients live in the dark over the line of treatment and progress of the health condition of the  patient as hospitals tend to not inform them properly. The doctors must understand that they are Covid warriors fighting the virus and not their patients,” the bench opined. The court also asked RIMS director Kameshwar Prasad to explain the reasons behind  her death. The director told the court that Usha Devu's operation went well but that she succumbed  due to post-surgery complications. Lashing out at RIMS for delaying her surgery in the first place, the court ordered the director to hold an inquiry and furnish a report via an affidavit. As on date, 101 confirmed cases of black fungus have been reported in the state while 59 are classified as suspected. As many as 98 have been discharged while 30 people have died, as per a health department bulletin issued on Thursday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Freelance journalist on potential snoop list to move Supreme Court||Rupesh Kumar Singh, a freelance journalist based in Jharkhand whose phone number and the numbers of his two family members figure in the leaked list of potential targets of surveillance by the Israeli firm NSO Group’s Pegasus spyware, has decided to move the Supreme Court against the Centre for alleged breach of privacy. The list of the potential Indian targets of a snooping operation that deploys Pegasus spyware accessible only to government agencies includes 40 journalists. Rupesh, 35, who is based in Ramgarh, over 50km from state capital Ranchi, is already in talks with a senior Supreme Court advocate on filing the petition. “I am waiting to see if any journalist group from Jharkhand will take up my cause. If not, then I will file a petition on my own as the right to privacy of mine, my wife and my sister-in-law, which the Supreme Court has termed as a fundamental right under Article 21 of the Constitution, has been breached,” alleged Rupesh, who was released in December 2019, after spending six months in a Bihar jail on “fabricated” charges of being a Maoist. Rupesh, who has been contributing articles since 2014 for Hindi magazines and news portals like Media Vigil, Gauri Lankesh News, The Wire and Janchowk, among others, has already had a discussion about his petition with Colin Gonsalves, a senior Supreme Court advocate and founder of the Human Rights Law Network (HRLN). “I am being targeted by the Union government for my reports on violence by security forces against Adivasis. This happened more after my report about a tribal man, Motilal Baskey, of Giridih district, whom the security forces claimed to be a Maoist carrying a reward of Rs 10 lakh. He was killed by the CRPF in an encounter in June 2017. But when I started investigating, I found that Baskey was a porter ferrying pilgrims to the Parasnath Hills. There was a massive protest on the issue by Opposition party leaders (Raghubar Das-led BJP government was in power in 2017), including current chief minister Hemant Soren and now BJP leader Babulal Marandi (who was then the JVM chief),” said Rupesh, a native of Bhagalpur in Bihar. The allegation about innocent tribals being killed by security forces was also raised in the Lok Sabha by JMM MP and former chief minister Shibu Soren and in the Rajya Sabha by JMM parliamentarian Sanjiv Kumar. “I continued to write on the displacement of tribals, suppression of tribal rights and their arrest on false charges after branding them Maoists. I think all these reports made me the target not merely of surveillance by Pegasus software but also led to my arrest in June 2019 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) after security forces planted gelatin sticks and detonators in front of my eyes in my car,” Rupesh alleged. He was released on bail in December 2019 from the Gaya jail after Bihar police failed to file a chargesheet in the case even after the stipulated 180 days lapsed since the filing of the complaint. Rupesh said he had noticed signs that his phone was being tapped. “In 2018, whenever I called my sources to tell them that I am reaching the spot to meet them, some people used to reach there before me and ask my sources what was the reason of my visit. Apart from this, whenever I picked up my phone there would be a beeping sound. I then decided to go by my gut feeling and started using my phone less. It is likely that during this time my wife and later her sister’s phones were also put under surveillance,” he alleged. In June 2019, around 10 men claiming to be Intelligence Bureau officials halted their vehicle and took him, his friend Mithilesh Kumar Singh (a Ramgarh civil court lawyer) and the driver under detention while they were travelling to Aurangabad in Bihar. “We had parked the car and gone to relieve ourselves in Hazaribagh. When we returned we saw the men who caught and blindfolded us. While they put me in their SUV, my driver and friend were kept in our car which was driven by the IB personnel. When they removed our blindfolds, we found that we had reached Gaya in Bihar. The IB men talked in an Andhra accent and the entire operation was done without the knowledge of Jharkhand police,” claimed Rupesh. On the way, the IB personnel allegedly threatened and even coaxed Rupesh to stop his “negative journalism” and instead help the security forces to locate the top rebel leaders, he said. When he refused to relent, he saw the IB personnel calling Gaya police after allegedly placing gelatin sticks and detonators in their car, Rupesh said. He said that when he was lodged in jail, his wife’s car, which used to be parked outside their house in Bokaro, was found to be fitted with a GPS device, a chip and a camera right underneath the steering wheel. “It was noticed at the showroom by the mechanic and were removed. When I came to know about it, I had a hunch that my wife’s mobile was also under surveillance. But I was surprised to know that even her sister’s mobile was being tapped,” said Rupesh. A reporter from The Wire called him a week back to inform that the leaked database contained the phone numbers of Rupesh, his wife and his wife’s sister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
23-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: National highway blocked after 2 die in accident||Bokaro: Two persons were killed when a speeding truck first hit a bicycle rider and then a person riding a scooty near the Bari-Cooperative intersection under City police station of the district. The scooter rider has been identified as Arun Ojha, a resident of Bari Cooperative. He was working in a contract company in BSL plant and was going for duty. The cycle rider Dhananjay Kumar was also a resident of Bari Cooperative and was going to get milk. The truck was caught but its driver managed to escape. Following the incident, the local residents blocked the National Highway-23 (Bokaro-Ranchi) demanding the installation of a breaker at the spot so that such mishaps can be avoided. The agitators kept the bodies on the road and blocked it for about two hours. It was only after SDO Chas Dilip Pratap Singh Shekhawat, DSP City Kuldeep Chaudhary, Circle Officer and MLA Biranchi Narayan came to the spot and assured possible help to their demands the jam was lifted. (Our correspondent) Jamshedpur: The Dobo-Kanderbera road linking steel city's Sonari area with NH-33 in adjoining Seraikela-Kharsawan district is to be converted into a four-lane from a double-lane. Set up in 2018, the Dobo-Kanderbera road passes through the Domuhani Bridge over Subernarekha River along Sonari. As the distance to reach upto the point of Kanderbera on the NH-33 has reduced by 20km for the commuters going to Chandil, Ranchi and even for Patna route, more and more cars, buses and other commercial as well as industrial vehicles from the steel city tend to ply through the Dobo-Kanderbera road. The Road Construction Department's (RCD) Seraikela-Kharsawan division has sent a proposal to this effect to the department's state authority recently in view of increasing vehicular traffic on the Dobo-Kanderbera road. "In response to the circular, we stressed on the Dobo-Kanderbera road for converting into four-lane lane and even have sent proposal to this effect,"said Nirmal Singh, Seraikela division executive engineer, to The Telegraph Online. The executive engineer said they have mentioned in the proposal the need of converting this double road into a four-lane because the vehicular traffic movement on it has increased manifold and will continue to be so in the days to come. Elaborating on the proposal, Singh said that the seven-kms-long Dobo-Kanderbera road has not only been proposed to be four-lane, but installation of a street lamp system has also been proposed. He stated that once the proposal is granted the department will start preparing a detailed project report for it. (Kumud Jenamani) Daltonganj: The National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) Delhi has restrained Palamau tiger reserve authorities from 'releasing' an adult sambhar in the wild said sources. There are 17 sambhars in the 'Sambhar Soft Release Centre' in the Bareysarn range of the tiger reserve. The Sambhars were brought in here from the Bhagwan Birsa Zoological Park Ormanjhi in Ranchi in 2016 -17. Mukesh Kumar deputy director South division of the tiger reserve Palamau said, "The NTCA has put an embargo on 're-wilding' of the Sambhars." He said the NTCA has a point that these sambhars are of the zoo and hence they can't be released in the jungles where it will be too difficult and hazardous for them to survive the rigour of the wild living. Mukesh Kumar said, “This embargo of the NTCA has left us in a no win situation.” Sources said sambhars are the most sought after preys of the tiger after the deer but PTR has no sambhar except these 17 which are in the soft release center in the Bareysarn range of the Palamau tiger reserve. These sambhars are beyond the preying of the carnivores as their enclosure is well walled and wired where big animal like elephant or treacherous hyena or jackal or faster leopard can't afford to get in as this enclosure is under 24x7 watch of the trackers here round the year. Snakes are exceptions. (Our correspondent) Dhanbad: Pramod Agarwal, chairman of Coal India Limited, who was on a two-day trip to Dhanbad on Thursday visited Block-2 of BCCL in Baghmara block and inspected the ongoing construction of Madhuban Coal Washery of five MT capacity. He held a detailed discussion on the site with the functional directors of M/S HEC Limited, entrusted with the task of developing the plant on behalf of BCCL, and instructed them to complete the project on time which has already been delayed. “Though the washery project is delayed but we expect that the testing work from the washery would begin from September and finally the production is likely to begin from December this year,” he said. The project worth Rs 3.28 crore was also kept as top priority during the second term of Narendra Modi government with a deadline of September 2019 but could not be completed till date due to several procedural hurdles. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-96
