24-07-2021||Calcutta||Family, fun and social call||Birla High School alumni conducted Yaas Relief Camp Sunderbans 2021 with a visit to the cyclone-affected areas to provide help to the inhabitants. A team of four, led by Sachin Saraff, vice-president of the alumni association, visited Dhulki and Sonagaon in Gosaba with food, clothes, medicines and other necessities. The team provided essentials to around 300 families of the two villages. Vijaynagar High School principal Sukumar Paira helped the association in the endeavour. The alumni members funded the initiative themselves. “The BHS alumni have long association with Gosaba island in the Sunderbans — from reconstructing school to distributing food in the earlier pandemic. On learning about the destruction from Yaas, the alumni members visited the island carrying daily necessities such as clothes, mosquito nets and food. They also carried two pumps to drain out salty sea water from ponds, so that drinking water is available to villagers and the water borne diseases can be prevented,” said the alumni president Atul Churiwal. Heritage Academy High School recently organised a relief camp at a cyclone-hit village in Kakdwip block. They provided essentials to 300 families of Meer-er-thhek where the Yaas cyclone left many homeless. Parents and teachers, along with the school authorities, contributed to the initiative. The non-teaching staff members helped assemble the provision packets, along with a few student volunteers from the senior section. “We, as a school, have a social responsibility towards the affected people and want to reach out to as many of them as we can. We shared with our students about this initiative in the online classes, and many wanted to join in and help. However, as the Covid protocols were in place, we could allow only a few students to come to the school and help,” said administrator Sourya Sadhan Bose. BD Memorial recently organised a virtual visit to Alipore Zoo for its students to commemorate the World Family Day. The children, along with their grandparents, visited the zoo online with a view to rekindling the age-old bond between grandparents and grandchildren. They got to know about different animals through pictures and videos. They loved the visual walk through the zoo while staying safe at home. The students made a reflection of their visit through beautiful posters and inspiring quotes on their experience at the zoo. “Since children are now learning about animals and the environment around them, we thought of taking this initiative. It would help increase their cognitive abilities. It was an eye opener for them as they got to know about so many species. Since they are doing all the activities at home, we thought of involving grandparents and celebrating World Family Day too,” said director Suman Sood. The Blue Umbrella, Born Free and Battleship Potemkin — students of classes IX to XII got to enjoy such box office favourites at Cinema Paradiso, a virtual film festival organised by all the four branches of Apeejay Schools recently. Named after the award-winning Italian movie, the festival was a celebration of youth, friendship and everlasting magic of movies. Timeless classics from different genres and periods were screened to develop a holistic perspective among children. The festival kicked off with the animation film Coco, and next came Born Free and a string of other hits. Stanley Ka Dabba was also a popular choice. The students discussed the film and their learning experiences from them as part of an open discussion on the last day. “The film festival hosted by Apeejay schools in Calcutta, Bhubaneswar and Haldia helped to unleash the skills and the imagination of young children. In our schools, we give students the opportunity, technology and resources to create and innovate. The film festival was a step in that direction. It also helped to build empathy and understanding among the students,” said Apeejay schools chief executive officer Kiranjit Singh Pannu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||Lawyers’ petition on acting chief justice court||A large number of members of the Calcutta High Court Bar Association on Friday placed a joint petition before the executive committee seeking an immediate decision to boycott the courtroom of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal for his alleged “unethical activities”, which, according to them, were tarnishing the image of the “oldest high court of the country”. The decision was taken at an extraordinary meeting of the association. Although most members of the association were present at the meeting that lasted for over two hours, the general secretary of the lawyers’ body did not turn up. The meeting resolved that the future course of action would be decided on July 27 and Friday’s discussion communicated to Justice Bindal for his consideration. Tussle between the lawyers and the acting chief justice had started after the latter on May 17 had taken up the CBI’s prayer regarding the arrest |of four leaders accused in the Narada case instead of sending it to a single judge bench. “Moreover, the acting chief justice unethically set up a fivejudge bench after the brother judge of his division bench had differed with him on the issue of granting bail to the four leaders. According to convention, a third judge of the court is usually involved in disposing of a case if two judges of a division bench have two different views on a matter,” a senior lawyer of the court said. Most lawyers present at the meeting on Friday were in favour of boycotting the acting chief justice’s court immediately. However, such a decision was avoided as senior member of the association, Arunava Ghosh, advised them to give Justice Bindal time to consider their grievances before embarking on the boycott path. The members asked |executive committee member Ritzu Ghoshal to intimate Justice Bindal about their decision. The meeting also urged the acting chief justice to resume physical hearing of cases in the court immediately as many lawyers did not have proper infrastructure to fight their cases virtually.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||Howrah’s ‘golden’ ball souvenir from Tokyo||A tense final was drawing to a close at Komazawa hockey field in Tokyo that afternoon in 1964. Several members of the Indian Olympic contingent as well as Indian expatriates working in Japan were in the stands as India led the defending champions Pakistan 1-0. When the final whistle blew, two men jumped from the stands, ran to collect the ball from the field and hid themselves. Lakshmi Kanta Das’s face still lights up recalling the moments. The weightlifter had participated in the Tokyo Games, his second consecutive Olympic appearance after Rome in 1960. And this ball is the trophy that he brought back to Howrah. “Sometime later, (wrestler) Maruti Mane and I emerged from our hiding place. I gingerly entered the warm-up room and got the winning team to autograph the ball.” His second daughter Arundhuti brings the ball out from the cupboard, encased in a glass box. “Our Liluah workshop manager got the box made for me. Everyone here was stunned that I could bring the match ball back. You can still make out the captain (Charanjit Singh)’s signature," says the former Eastern Railway employee. Das was reminiscing about Tokyo 1964 on a day the Olympic flame was lit to mark the opening of Tokyo 2020. At 81, Das’s memory is fading like the other autographs on the ball which caught fungus since and had to be cleaned, thus smudging the pen marks. Yet he remembers enough. ““It would often rain in Tokyo. So we were given umbrellas. When India got the gold (the only medal from that Games), we whirled the umbrellas over our heads in ecstasy. Pakistan had beaten us in Rome four years back and this was revenge. Mine broke right there. A picture of us celebrating was carried in the Indian newspapers. In the evening, the maharaja of Mysore, who was part of our contingent, brought a crate of wine to celebrate in the Games Village.” Royalty was routine presence in Indian Olympic squads, either as participant in sports like shooting or as officials. “The Patiala maharaj’s son was there too. They got invited to the Emperor’s box.” Emperor Hirohito had inaugurated the Games, he recalled, just as his grandson Emperor Naruhito was doing right then at the inauguration playing out on TV as Tokyo became the first Asian city to host the Olympics twice. The 1964 edition was also about Japan’s regeneration after the bombing. "We were given a tour of Hiroshima, Nagasaki and Mt Fujiyama. The bus went right to the top level of the volcano,” Das says. The weightlifting contingent was housed with gymnasts at the Games Village. “I also got friendly with the wrestlers — Malwa, Bishambhar and Maruti. I saw their events and took their autographs.” The main venue of this edition will be the same National Stadium that had hosted the Games in 1964 too but will be a completely new-look one. “Even in our time, the organisation was immaculate, even better than in Rome. Each of us had been assigned a college student as interpreter. They were all so disciplined!” The 11-time national champion, who received the Arjuna Award in 1962, is aware of Mirabai Chanu being the only lifter from India at these Games. “She is a medal prospect," he says confidently. But mention Covid-19 looming over the Games and his face falls. “The standard of competition had suffered in 1980 because of the US and China’s boycott of the Moscow Games. It would be a shame if top players do not take part because of Covid,” says the stocky octogenarian, shaking his head in dismay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal records highest number of lightning strikes in 2020: Report ||Bengal recorded the highest number of lightning strikes from cloud to ground per square kilometre in India in 2020, according to a recent report. South Asia Lightning Report 2020, prepared by Earth Networks, says Bengal received 9,40,958 lightning strikes from cloud to ground last year — about 11 per square kilometre. The entire Bengal delta, spanning across West Bengal and Bangladesh, has become a hotspot for lightning strikes, says the report prepared by the US-headquartered Earth Networks, which operates the world’s largest hyper-local weather network. Bangladesh recorded the highest proportion of lightning strikes on ground — 37.1 per cent — in south Asia. The lightning strikes that were counted comprised intra-cloud fireworks as well as cloud to ground bolts, which can cause fatality. In India, Jharkhand comes second with 10 lightning strikes per square kilometre. Odisha, Chhattisgarh,Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh recorded between four and eight strikes per square kilometre. In the overall lightning strikes category, Bengal stands fifth with close to 3 million strikes. Tamil Nadu tops the list with close to 6 million strikes. Earth Networks developed the data based on their extensive network that constantly monitors lightning strikes through thousands of sensors. “For all of 2020, Earth Networks… detected 39,549,444 lightning pulses in India, of which 12,022,402 were dangerous cloud-to-ground strikes…. Lightning (strikes) increased by 22.6 per cent (in 2020) compared to 2019,” the report states. The rise is even more striking if one considers the period from April 2020 to March 2021. “During the period, 18.5 million lightning strikes were recorded in India, which was a 34 per cent rise from the 13.8 million strikes between April 2019 and March 2020,” reads an analysis of a report prepared by the ministry of earth sciences, India Meteorological Department and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM), among other agencies. The analysis was done by the Delhi-based environment think tank Center for Science and Environment. The IMD report points out that the number of lightning strikes has doubled in Bengal during the period from April 2020 to March 2021, compared with the same period the year before. “It’s a fact that the number of lightning strikes has increased in our state recently. Though many had succumbed to lightning attacks, the number is much less compared to many states despite Bengal receiving more lightning pulses,” said state disaster management minister Javed Ahmed Khan. The IMD report says that 37 people were killed in the state, and 1,700 across the country, by lightning strikes between April 2020 and March 2021. “Climate change, particularly warming, is contributing considerably to the rise of lightning strikes by enhancing heat and moisture, which are key components for lightning,” said Sunil D. Pawar, an expert in atmospheric electricity at the IITM. “Heat waves cater to more thunderstorms, which in turn trigger more lightning strikes,” said K.J. Ramesh, a former director general of the IMD.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||Kasba cops ask men in shorts to return in trousers to get complaint registered||Two men who had gone to report a theft at Kasba police station wearing shorts were asked to go home and return in trousers to get their complaint registered. When one of them reported the incident on Calcutta police’s Facebook page and Twitter handle, he got a response asking him whether he would go to office in shorts. Barnik Datta, 33, from Picnic Garden Road, and his friend Avishek De Biswas, 31, from Deshapriya Park, had gone to Kasba police station on July 17 to report a theft at the Datta family’s temple. “We went to the police station wearing shorts. At the entrance, a policeman who was not in uniform stopped us and said we should change to trousers before entering the police station,” Datta, who works as a consultant in a start-up, told The Telegraph on Friday. “I still entered the police station and requested the duty officer to accept our complaint. But he, too, said there were women in the police station and we should be wearing full pants.” Dutta and De Biswas left the police station. Datta, who lives nearby, returned in an hour wearing trousers to get his complaint registered. Told about the incident, several IPS officers, serving and retired, said there could be several types of circumstances under which a person had to visit a police station. Former Calcutta police commissioner Prasun Mukherjee told this newspaper: “This (imposing a dress code on a complainant) could be (a reflection of) an inherent mentality of members of the uniformed force…. This could be an individual’s opinion.... To my knowledge there is no written order that defines the dress code of a visitor to the police station. There are dress codes only for the uniformed forces.” De Biswas and Datta said their intention to highlight the matter was “not to complain” but to seek clarification on the dress code, if any, for a visitor to a police station. Later on Friday, deputy commissioner (south suburban division) Rashid Munir Khan told this newspaper: “We have started an inquiry in the matter as there is no such dress code. The constable who said this (at the police station) has been identified. It appears that he said this out of ignorance. We will initiate a departmental inquiry against him.” Datta said: “Once I came back wearing full pants, I received extreme cooperation from the police. I must mention that, too.” De Biswas, who said he was an actor, had posted a query on the Calcutta police Facebook page and Twitter handle asking whether there was a dress code for people visiting police stations. “@CPKolkata @KolkataPolice please clarify if it’s mandatory to wear full pants to visit a Police Station and file a complaint of theft. I was just rejected entry by Kasba P.S because I was in my gym shorts. It is necessary to dress up to report any emergency?” De Biswas had tweeted on July 17. De Biswas said he received a response from the Calcutta police Twitter handle: “Would you go to your office in shorts”. “I was shocked to see the response as what I wear to my office was not the police’s lookout at all,” De Biswas said. As he posted screenshots of this conversation on social media, the matter apparently caught the attention of senior officers. Datta and De Biswas both received a call from Kasba police on Friday and were asked to visit the police station, where a senior officer told them that there was a mistake. An hour later, they were re-summoned to meet an officer of the rank of assistant commissioner, who had started an inquiry into the matter. Police on Friday arrested Dibakar Das alias Tridib for his alleged involvement in the murder of Subhrajit Dutta in Birati. Cops tracked him down based on CCTV footage. Dutta, 39, had been shot dead on Wednesday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||State transport department bans beacons, flasher eligibility restricted||The state transport department issued a notification on Friday that bans beacons and allows flashers only on top of vehicles engaged in emergency and disaster management. The notification is in line with a 2017 central government notification that abolished beacons and suggested the use of multi-colour red, blue and white flashers. Beacons are of one colour — red or blue — and are dome-shaped, while flashers are of multiple colours. Friday’s notification said that the order is based on the “provisions laid down in para 3 of the notification No. SO 1374(E) dated May 1, 2017 issued by the ministry of road transport and highways, government of India”. The new notification changes the way police have been prosecuting violators for unauthorised beacon use. A senior police officer said: “This means beacons are completely off and whoever is eligible will have to put the red-white-blue flasher, as are already attached to all escort vehicles.” The notification had no mention of the eligibility for light-fitted cars of central government officers in the state. Before Friday’s list, the state had last issued a list of ranks eligible for beacons in 2014. Friday’s list for flasher eligibility does not include a number of posts — such as governor, leader of opposition in the Assembly, high court judges and mayor of Calcutta — which were earlier entitled to beacons. The new notification mentions 14 categories of emergency and disaster management authorities allowed to use flashers while on duty: ⚫ Ministers / ministers of state of the Bengal government ⚫ State chief secretary ⚫ Additional chief secretary, principal secretary, secretary in charge of the departments of the state government ⚫ Divisional commissioners in their respective jurisdictions ⚫ Director generals / additional director generals of police of the state police ⚫ Director general of fire services in the state ⚫ Commissioner of state excise and commissioner of the commercial taxes in state ⚫ Inspector generals / deputy inspector generals of police in their respective zones and ranges in the state ⚫ District magistrates in Bengal in their respective districts ⚫ Municipal commissioners in their respective jurisdiction ⚫ Commissioners / additional commissioners / joint commissioners /deputy commissioners of police in Bengal in their respective jurisdiction ⚫ Sub-divisional officers / sub-divisional police officers in Bengal in their respective jurisdictions ⚫ All police patrol cars, escort vehicles and fire tenders. The 2017 notification by the Centre had said: “...the vehicles on office duty may be allowed to use multi-coloured red, blue and white light on the top, namely — a) the duties relating to control of fire; b) the duties by police, defence forces or parliamentary forces for maintenance of law and order; c) the duties relating to management of natural disasters including nuclear disaster, chemical disaster and biological disaster.” The Centre's notification had also mentioned the distribution of a sticker each to the eligible government officers with watermark and hologram of the respective transport department. However, the state transport department officials said on Friday they were yet to finalise the stickers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||JU’s science faculty wants to sieve candidates seeking admission in undergraduate courses||Jadavpur University’s faculty of science has proposed a mechanism to screen candidates seeking admission to undergraduate courses. The admission committee of the science faculty council had resolved last week that “20 per cent weightage be given to online group discussion/viva-voce to select” undergraduate candidates. In its resolution, the committee has also stated the “university must be allowed a bit of autonomy to select quality candidates with natural inclination and inclination to study a particular subject in a coveted seat in the nationally and internationally renowned departments”. Teachers of the science faculty have requested vice-chancellor Suranjan Das to speak to the higher education department about implementing the admission methodology. When contacted, Das declined to comment. Sources in the university said the VC had forwarded the resolution to the department. The committee met three days after the higher education department had on July 13 instructed the state-aided colleges and universities to screen students for admission to undergraduate courses solely on the basis of plus-II marks. The resolution says: “In case of selection, 80% weightage be given to the marks obtained in the previous examinations passed and 20% weightage be given to online group discussion/viva voce to select candidates from a long list of candidates who had got same numbers in the subjects of the previous examinations passed.” The head of a department, who attended the meeting, said in a year when the school-leaving examinations could not be conducted because of the Covid pandemic, it was imperative that some screening was done to select candidates. “It is not that we are showing any disregard to the board marks. All we want is that an online group discussion or viva voce be allowed. Apart from enabling us to choose students if scores are tied, it will help us determine whether a candidate has it in him or her to study a particular subject,” he said. The science departments have been over the years admitting students solely on the basis of marks in the plus-II board exams. At least three departments — physics, chemistry and mathematics — have been demanding since 2018 that plus-II marks as well as admission test scores be considered while screening students. A general deterioration in the quality of students gaining entry on the strength of their board examination performance has prompted the three departments to make the demand. Partha Pratim Roy, an invitee to the admission committee of the science faculty, said they were fearing a further decline in standards if students were selected solely on the basis of plus-II marks in a year when the board examinations could not be held. “Institutions like Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira will screen students for admission through an online viva voce after shortlisting them based on board marks. So, JU, an autonomous institution, must be given a free hand to choose bright students,” said Roy, a former student of Vidyamandira. JU teachers had on Tuesday written to education minister Bratya Basu saying his department’s instruction on the admission criteria of undergraduate students “goes directly against the autonomy of universities”. Assessment through an admission test “is vital for determining whether or not a candidate ought to take up a particular field of study at the higher levels,” they argued. Asked why the science faculty did not push for an online screening mechanism last year, Roy said the plus-II exams in most of the papers were held. “Besides, over the past one-and-a-half years, the university has gained expertise in holding classes and exams on online platforms. So holding an online viva won’t pose any hindrance.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||Navy bans use of drones within 3km of all naval installations in Bengal||The navy has prohibited the use of drones within 3km of the perimeter of all naval installations in Bengal. “All individuals or civil agencies are prohibited from flying any such non-conventional aerial objects, drones and UAVs within these zones,” read an order issued by the naval-officer-in charge of Bengal. The places in the state where naval installations are located include Calcutta, Barrackpore and Diamond Harbour. Officers of the eastern naval command said the order meant that in Calcutta no drones would be allowed to fly over or around Fort William, second Hooghly bridge and Hastings, which is home to the naval base, INS Netaji Subhas. Though Fort William is an army installation, it figures on the list of no-fly zones because it is within 3km of Hastings. “The order comes into immediate effect and all state and central agencies concerned in Bengal have been given copies of the directive,” said an officer of the eastern naval command. “If any unmanned aerial vehicle is found to violate the directive, the naval installation can confiscate or destroy it without prior approval.” Since the twin blasts at the Jammu airbase on June 27, which are suspected to have been carried out by drones, intelligence agencies have been instructing naval commands to step up surveillance to thwart any suspected attack using UAVs. Naval officers said a clearance from the security office of the navy at Hastings had to be obtained a week in advance before flying UAVs or drones in the areas where those were banned. In March 2019, CISF personnel at Victoria Memorial had arrested a Chinese national for flying a drone over the monument.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
24-07-2021||Calcutta||ICSE and ISC results on Saturday; scores on website||The ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) 2021 results will be declared on Saturday at 3pm. “The results of the ICSE & ISC Year 2021 Examinations will be made available on the website of the council and through SMS,” reads a notification issued by Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), which conducts the two exams. Individual candidates can access the results on the council’s website — www.cisce.org. On the website, a candidate has to click on the link — Results 2021 — and select ICSE or ISC and enter his/her unique identification number, index number and CAPTCHA as shown on the screen. They can also get their results through text messages. For receiving the result through text messaging, a candidate has to type ICSE or ISC and then the unique identification number and send the message to 09248082883. The council expects a huge rush when thousands of students will try to access the results. “We have taken all precautions so that there are not any glitches or breakdown. We have enough servers to handle the load,” Arathoon told The Telegraph. The council said schools could access the results by logging into the Careers portal of the council using the principal’s login ID and password. The ICSE and ISC exams both were cancelled because of a renewed surge in Covid cases across the country. “Recheck of answer scripts is not applicable for the ICSE/ISC Year 2021 Examinations as the candidates have been awarded imputed marks,” reads the statement issued by Arathoon. The council said if a candidate had objections regarding “computation of marks in the result”, she/he might send a written application to the school, stating the objection in detail along with reasons. “You (the school) are required to review all such applications, and only upon being satisfied with the contentions made therein, forward the same to the CISCE along with your comments/remarks endorsing the contentions made and documents supporting the opinion regarding the computation of marks,” Arathoon’s statement reads. The applications have to be forwarded, from the head of the school’s official email address, to the council by August 1. The “dispute resolution mechanism” is only for the correction of calculation errors, the council said. “The CISCE will review the request, supporting documents and the head of school’s comments/remarks and convey its decision to the concerned school, in writing. In case the result will need to be altered, the CISCE will notify the head of the school concerned,” the council statement says. In a circular to the school heads on Friday, the CISCE said candidates who would be eligible to appear for compartment and improvement exams would have to register with the council between July 26 and August 1. The candidates have to contact the head of their school, the council said. The compartment and improvement exams will be conducted in August or September, depending on the pandemic situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
24-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta High Court proposes measures for safety of women and transgender people||The division bench of acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Arijit Banerjee of Calcutta High Court asked the state transport authorities on Friday to consider if CCTV cameras could be fitted in every mode of passenger transport across the state. The bench also expressed the need to display emergency numbers for women and transgender persons to lodge complaints if they face any trouble while travelling. The bench also held that if needed, the existing motor vehicles rules should be amended to implement the actions. Since the Motor Vehicles Act, based on which the motor vehicles rules have been formulated, is a central act, the bench has made the Centre's additional solicitor general party to the case and directed him to ask the Union government to assist the state in amending the law. The order followed a PIL seeking an order directing the state to set up closed circuit cameras inside public vehicles. Several lawyers wondered whether the order could be implemented. “I doubt whether closed circuit TV cameras can be fitted in taxis and app cabs. Privacy of passengers would be hampered,” said advocate Rabishankar Chattopadhyay. The bench has asked both the state and the Centre to come with a decision on the issue on August 12.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-41
24-07-2021||Business||Why Zomato’s red-hot market debut is a pathbreaker for Indian start-ups||Here’s a question for every retail investor who bought shares in food delivery company Zomato’s IPO: The shares of India’s first Internet unicorn to list on the stock market rocketed 82 per cent from their Rs 76 offer price after trading began Friday so should people have made a quick killing and sold within hours? Or was it better to hang on to the shares of the first Internet start-up to list on the Indian market? “If you sold the first day, you may regret selling too early when it possibly rises 150 per cent six months later,” says Pranav Pai, founding partner, 3one4 Capital, who adds: “Zomato is not an ‘I will buy today, I will flip tomorrow’ story. Investors are saying, ‘I am buying your five-year story, your 10-year story. I am buying a company that is likely to inevitably grow.’ Of course, there’ll be crashes, there will be corrections. But this is a fundamentally solid story.” Aswath Damodaran, a professor at New York’s Stern Business School and known as a ‘valuation guru,’ meanwhile, is more sceptical about what he sees as loss-making Zomato’s “expensive” valuation. He considers Zomato to be a strong company but he puts its value per share at around Rs 41. He says: “I think it is hubris to dismiss those who invested in Zomato at 72 INR per share or higher as speculators or ill-informed. That said, I think that at a 70-75 INR per share price, the stock looks overvalued to me.” The company ended its first day of trading at Rs 126, up 66 per cent from its IPO price, giving it a market capitalisation of Rs 980 billion or $13 billion. As a test of investor appetite for more Indian IPOs of loss-making Internet start-ups, Zomato passed with flying colours. At the same time, Damodaran reckons an investment in Zomato, which incidentally is backed by Chinese billionaire Jack Ma’s Ant Group, is “a joint wager on a company, a sector and a country.” Elaborating, he explains he believes Zomato is a good company and that India’s food-delivery sector can only grow. But beyond that, buying into Zomato is also a bet on India doing well as a country and as a market. One thing that’s important to underline: Zomato’s red-hot market debut could be a pathbreaker for Indian start-ups. Pai and others believe it fundamentally changes in a positive way the outlook for the ambitious start-ups waiting in the wings to stage their own IPOs. Already, at least 12 companies are lined up for investors to take a stake in. First off the block is expected to be financial services giant PayTM, valued at $15 billion even before its IPO (the valuation could go higher). Others are already well-known companies including Flipkart; Nykaa, India’s leading fashion and beauty online store; and PolicyBazaar, an online insurance marketplace. PolicyBazaar’s aiming for a Rs 6,500 crore valuation. Most analysts view these as strong companies with a great future ahead. Three winners Friday’s Zomato listing created three immediate winners. First, there’s Zomato co-founder and CEO, Deepinder Goyal, who has a 4.7 per cent stake in the company and is now worth around $650 million. He also has a further 368 million stock options. Then, behind-the-scenes, there’s Sanjeev Bikhchandani, one of the silent lynchpins of the Indian start-up eco-system. Bikhchandani’s Info Edge had an 18 per cent stake in Zomato and has invested around $162 million in it. It’s not clear exactly how much he has sold but he still has a large stake in the company. “Great things take time to build. Thank you for making us look like smart investors,” Bikhchandani tweeted to Goyal soon after Zomato’s market debut. Bikhchandani’s also a primary backer of PolicyBazaar which is getting its prospectus ready and could be looking at a December listing. Info Edge has also set up an investment fund with Singapore’s Temasek that will initially have around Rs 375 crore. Pai praises Bikhchandani unreservedly: “He is one of the guys who has taken a long 25-year view of India. And he has delivered even though it has been hard for him. I would say this is his biggest win.” Uber happy too Finally, one surprise winner is Uber. The US company sold Uber Eats, its Indian food delivery subsidiary to Zomato in January 2020, for around Rs 13.76 billion when it was leaving the country. Happily for Uber, it was an all-stock deal that gave the company a 9.19 per cent stake in Zomato. Now, that’s worth Rs 90.84 billion. The Zomato listing also ends a fierce debate that has been raging amongst Indian venture capitalists and banks. Should Indian start-ups like Zomato list in India or should they head to New York’s Nasdaq? Were Indian investors too unsophisticated for companies that were racking up huge losses and whose profit payday lay far in the future? Pai reckons that the Zomato listing has conclusively ended that argument. Bikhchandani agrees: “Zomato has shown that a start-up does not need to domicile or list overseas to succeed.” What’s more, Pai argues, this gives Indian investors a chance to buy companies they’re familiar with. “These are products we use every day. Now we can be part of the growth story. We are using Zomato to get food delivered home. We are using PayTM for our bill payments. This is similar to how Facebook, Google, Snapchat, and more became iconic stocks in the US”. Viable business model While “Zomato is a money-losing, cash-burning enterprise now,” Damodaran says it has “immense market potential and is on track to delivering on a viable business model. Damodaran expects Zomato to face “plenty of challenges on that path” and he adds that he “would have no qualms about investing in the stock if the price drops in the near future.” Zomato lost Rs 812 crore in the last financial year. But those losses were down by 65 per cent from the previous year. Zomato’s also flipped its performance on each order to earn an average of Rs 20.5 on every order in the last financial year from a loss of Rs 30.5 in the previous financial year, thanks to better efficiency. At another level, the Zomato listing is extremely good news for the venture capitalists and the financial sector money players who’ve invested heavily in India’s start-up sector. India has been minting unicorns – companies with a valuation of over $1 billion -- at a furious pace and now has around 48, which puts it in third place behind the US and China. New unicorns were making their appearance at the rate of about three a month even at peak pandemic times. Capital market boom Money has been pouring into these Indian start-ups even though none of them have been able to go public. That meant that the only way to get out at a profit was to sell onwards. In Flipkart, for instance, Walmart came along and bought everyone out. But the Zomato IPO and the slew of IPOs slated dramatically changes the picture. Once exits via IPOs start happening, that will free a great deal of cash which will start hunting for new good buys. Pai points out that big Indian players like Tata, Reliance, Mahindra and Wipro are looking to make sizeable investments. Also, he says, “Large funds are now coming back to the market to invest in the early stage.” He adds: “It’s a clear shift to maturity and I think that is a huge sign of positive evolution for the whole ecosystem.” He’s convinced that the start-ups will trigger a boom in the Indian capital markets over the coming decade. Pai notes that if 10 companies manage a valuation of Rs 50,000 crore each, that will add Rs 5 lakh crore to the stock markets. Also, he adds, many traditional investors from Mumbai and middle India stayed away from the Zomato launch. He’s convinced they’ll now be rethinking their positions. Many investment houses may also look at larger allocations for the start-up sector. Outlook positive Longer term, whether Zomato's share price continues to gain ground will depend on how the company's profitability plays out, analysts say. Its market share has consistently risen and it’s a market leader in terms of gross order. "With economics of scale starting to play out, the losses have reduced substantially," says Sneha Poddar, research analyst at Motilal Oswal Financial Services. "Predicting the growth trajectory at this juncture is a little tricky, but it’s a good bet from a long-term perspective,” she adds. Jyoti Roy, equity strategist at Angel Broking, recommends that short-term investors looking for listing gains "can exit the stock while long-term investors can book partial profits." One investor who has made a fast profit already was headhunter Dony Kuriakose who tweeted: “Richly priced”? That’s rich! I just made 50k in an opening punt on it and got out.” He added: “Nope, I’m not ordering in. Heh heh.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
24-07-2021||Business||Reliance Industries net profit drops 7.92 per cent in Q1||Reliance Industries (RIL) on Friday reported a net profit of Rs 13,806 crore for the first quarter ended June 30 — a sequential fall of 7.92 per cent as its businesses felt the impact of the second Covid wave. Its numbers were largely in line with estimates as analysts had anticipated a subdued April-June period with retail and telecom dragging an otherwise good performance from its oil-to-chemicals business (O2C). However, compared with the previous year, the net profit represented a rise of 4.2 per cent after exceptional items. Net profit attributable to shareholders stood at Rs 12,273 crore, a decline of 7.21 per cent over Rs 13,227 crore in the preceding three months. In the same period of the previous year, this number stood at Rs 13,233 crore. Brokerages such as BofA Securities had expected RIL to report a profit of Rs 13,075.4 crore while a Bloomberg consensus estimate put this at Rs 11,889 crore. During the quarter, RIL reported revenues of Rs 144,372 crore against Rs 91,238 crore in the corresponding period of the previous year and Rs 154,896 crore in the preceding three months. Jio Platforms Ltd (Jio), its digital and telecom subsidiary, posted a 45 per cent growth in net profits at Rs 3,651 crore against Rs 2,519 crore a year ago even as its value of services rose 9.8 per cent to Rs 22,267 crore (Rs 20,277 crore). The average revenue per user (ARPU) stood at Rs 138.4 per subscriber per month during the period — largely stable from Rs 138.2 in the preceding quarter. The O2C business saw a 75 per cent rise in revenues to Rs 103,212 crore against Rs 58,906 crore in the first quarter of last year and a segment EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation) of Rs 12,231 crore — a 49.8 per cent growth over the previous year. RIL said the rise in the topline was primarily on account of a sharp increase in product prices on the back of higher crude prices. The retail business was hit by the second wave of the pandemic, though its numbers were better than those projected by some analysts. Revenue declined to Rs 33,566 crore from Rs 41,296 crore in the January-March period, though it was higher than Rs 28,197 crore in the previous year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
24-07-2021||Business||Supreme Court dismisses pleas of telecom majors alleging errors in calculation of AGR-related dues||The Supreme Court on Friday dismissed the applications filed by Vodafone Idea, Bharti Airtel and Tata Teleservices seeking the rectification of the alleged errors in the calculation of adjusted gross revenue (AGR) related dues payable by them. “All the miscellaneous applications are dismissed,” a bench headed by Justice L. Nageswara Rao said while pronouncing the order. The telecom companies had submitted before the apex court that arithmetical errors in the calculation be rectified and there were cases of duplication of entries. The top court in September last year had given 10 years to the operators struggling to pay Rs 93,520 crore of AGR related dues to clear their outstanding amount to the government. Telecom stocks plunged after the verdict was announced: Vodafone Idea fell 9.62 per cent to Rs 8.36 on the BSE, while Tata Teleservices fell 4.92 per cent to Rs 37.65. Bharti Airtel surprisingly rose 0.38 per cent to Rs 548.55. Vodafone health The verdict is expected to adversely hit Vodafone Idea (Vi), with some analysts fearing the company could face a “financial crisis”. Banks with an exposure to the joint venture would also feel the pinch. The operators would now have to explore funding options, including the monetisation of assets and a tariff hike. Vodafone Idea is reportedly set to mobilise $3 billion from Apollo Global. In a recent note, Deepti Chaturvedi of CLSA said in the absence of any relief, Vodafone Idea’s obligations will drive it to a “financial crisis”. The telecom player needs to have average revenue per user (ARPU) of around Rs 170, which is a huge 40 per cent higher than ARPU of 2020-21. “This in turn will accelerate and mandate multiple tariff hikes or compel shutdown in absence of relief on AGR dues. Besides AGR, Vodafone Idea also has annual spectrum payments of Rs 16,000 crore ($2.2 billion) in 2022-23, Chaturvedi said. 5G auctions The government plans to refer all issues relating to 5G spectrum auction to regulator Trai, minister of state for communications Devusinh Chauhan told the Rajya Sabha on Friday. The move is expected to speed up 5G auctions. DoT officials said they could refer all issues to the regulator, including the review of the base price and the radio waves to be allocated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
24-07-2021||Business||Zomato shares close nearly 66 per cent higher over issue price||Food delivery platform Zomato made a lip-smacking debut on the stock exchanges on Friday with its shares ending nearly 66 per cent higher over the issue price and its market valuation crossing the Rs 1-lakh-crore mark during intra-day trading. The scintillating show on the opening day is a reflection of investor appetite for technology companies even if they are loss making. This could encourage others to tap the primary market. Zomato’s initial public offering (IPO) was subscribed over 38 times and it had come in the price band of Rs 72-76 per share. On the BSE, its shares opened at Rs 115, a huge gain of 51.31 per cent against the issue price of Rs 76. It then hit a high of Rs 138 that saw its market capitalisation go past the Rs 1-lakh-crore-mark. The counter, however, gave up some of its gains to close at Rs 125.85 — a premium of almost 66 per cent to the issue price, giving it a market capitalisation of Rs 98,731.59 crore. Zomato is now among the top 50 companies on the BSE in terms of market capitalisation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
24-07-2021||Business||Auction for new 10-year govt bond devolves as bidders consider RBI’s cut-off yield inadequate||The auction for the new 10-year old government bond (6.10 per cent 2031 bond) devolved on the primary dealers as the bidders considered the RBI’s cut-off yield of 6.15 per cent inadequate. Against the notified sum of Rs 14,000 crore for the 6.10 per cent 2031 bond, the RBI accepted bids worth Rs 2,855.55 crore, leading to the devolvement of 11,144.145 crore on the primary dealers. Bond prices — which are inversely related to their yields — have come under pressure in recent weeks because of inflation fears as crude oil prices have remained firm. The benchmark 2030 paper paper on Friday closed at 6.23 per cent. The central bank had earlier tried to cap it at around 6 per cent. However, on July 9, it had fixed a coupon of 6.10 per cent for the new 2031 paper, indicating some tolerance for higher yields. The other two papers that figured in the auction included the 4.26 per cent GS 2023 and the 6.76 per cent 2061 bond for an amount of Rs 3,000 crore and Rs 9,000 crore, respectively. The RBI fixed a cut-off yield of 4.25 per cent for GS 2023 and accepted bids of Rs 3,750 crore. In GS 2061 paper, it fixed a cut-off of 7.19 per cent and accepted bids of Rs 11,259 crore. Retail inflation in June at 6.26 per cent was above the central bank’s tolerance band for the second straight month, having ticked off at 6.3 per cent in May.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
24-07-2021||Business||Nasscom opposes ban on flash sales by e-commerce platforms||Nasscom has opposed the ban on flash sales by e-commerce platforms in the draft rules proposed earlier this month by the ministry of consumer affairs, arguing that the restrictions on these entities should be proportionate to the underlying risks. Offering its suggestions to the proposed amendments in the Consumer Protection (e-Commerce) Rules, the industry forum said the fallback liability on marketplace e-commerce entities arising from mis-selling by vendors or botched transactions should be  limited to “ensuring timely refund if the consumer has already paid for such goods and services”. It called for the need to strike a balance between the compulsions of ensuring consumer protection and the need to weed out ambiguities in the rules and onerous obligations on e-commerce players in order to foster trust in the digital marketplace. The rules should “focus on strengthening consumer protection, ensuring that the obligations are proportionate to the underlying risks and are unambiguous”. The draft e-commerce rules released by the government on June 21 propose to ban fraudulent flash sales and mis-selling of goods and services on e-commerce platforms. Appointments of chief compliance officer/grievance redressal officer are among the key amendments proposed under the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020. Nasccom said the fallback liability should be limited to the extent of ensuring timely refund to consumers if the consumer has already paid for such goods or services. There should be an obligation on the seller not to mis-sell — and it provides a definition of mis-selling. The government also needs to remove the provision under proposed Rule 6(7) that bars marketplace entities from offering any goods or services to registered sellers. The obligation ought to be removed as this is not an unfair trade practice per se.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
24-07-2021||India||Erotica is not porn: Shilpa Shetty defends husband Raj Kundra||Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty told police that she had no idea about the content of the `Hot Shots' app through which her husband Raj Kundra allegedly distributed pornographic films, sources said on Saturday. Kundra, a city-based businessman, was arrested by the Mumbai police on July 19 for alleged production of pornographic films and their dissemination through apps. In her statement given to the police on Friday, Shetty said she did not know about the content of the app, nor did she interfere in her husband's business, police sources said. She was not linked to the app business in any way, the actor said, as per the sources. She also told police that she had resigned from the post of director of Kundra's firm Viaan Industries. The police seized a laptop from Kundra's house during search on Friday and also recovered some bank statements, sources said. According to police sources, Shilpa Shetty said it was another accused - London-based Pradeep Bakshi, Kundra's brother-in-law - who was involved with the app. She also stressed the difference between 'erotica' and 'pornography', and said Kundra was not involved in producing pornographic content, reports ndtv.com. On Friday Kundra was sent to police custody till July 27. Police said they had seized 48 TB worth of images and videos, most of which is adult content. Police also said they had a record of transactions - from an account in Yes Bank registered to Kundra to one in the United Bank of Africa. They suspect money from sale of pornographic content was used for online betting. Rs 7.5 crore has been seized so far, reports ndtv.com. During Friday's hearing his lawyer, Abad Ponda, had objected to classifying the seized content as 'pornography'. Ponda said the content could not come under Section 67 of the IT Act - for which bail is not allowed - as similar material is available on OTT platforms like Netflix. It can be covered only under Section 292 of the Indian Penal Code - which deals with "lascivious" material, he said, adding "no further custody is needed". Kundra has denied any wrongdoing, and has also named Pradeep Bakshi as the key figure. However, police have said Kundra was kept updated on the finances of the app, and allegedly also set up a WhatsApp group to discuss the production, distribution and selling of content. Kundra has approached the Bombay High Court to challenge his arrest and dismiss the lower court's order on extending police custody on that distinction. His petition also claims he was arrested after being summoned to the police station "under the garb of recording his statement". The police say Raj Kundra, 45, is a "key conspirator" in the case, and that they had sufficient evidence against him; this includes pornographic clips and emails found in his office. The case was registered February 4 after a woman told the police she had been forced to take part in a porn film after being promised an acting job, a police officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
24-07-2021||India||Dainik Bhaskar: Tax evasion of Rs 700 cr spread over a period of six years found during raids||A CBDT statement alleged that media group, Dainik Bhaskar, has more than 100 companies including the holding and subsidiary companies and that they have been operating several companies in the names of their employees that have been used for booking "bogus" expenses and routing of funds.  "During the search, several of the employees, whose names were used as shareholders and directors, have admitted that they were not aware of such companies and had given their Aadhaar card and digital signature to the employer in good faith.  "Some were found to be relatives, who had willingly and knowingly signed the papers but had no knowledge or control of the business activities of the companies, in which they were supposed to be directors and shareholders," the CBDT claimed.  Such companies, it alleged, have been used for multiple purposes like "booking bogus expenses" and "siphoning off" the profits from listed companies, routing of funds so siphoned into their closely held companies to make investments, making of circular transactions etc.  "The nature of such bogus expenditures booked vary from supply of manpower, transport, logistics and civil works and fictitious trade payables.  "The quantum of income escapement using this modus operandi, detected so far, amounts to Rs 700 crore spread over a period of six years," it claimed.  However, the quantum may be more as the group has used multiple layers and investigations are being carried out to unravel the entire money trail, it added.  The statement said the tax department is probing the violation of certain sections of the Companies Act and Clause 49 of the Listing Agreement prescribed by SEBI for listed companies in this case.  "Application of Benami Transaction Prohibition Act will also be examined," it said. The CBDT claimed to have detected "fictitious transactions" of Rs 2,200 crore after the Income Tax Department carried out multi-city raids against the Dainik Bhaskar media group early this week. It said the searches that were launched on July 22 in nine cities like Bhopal, Indore, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Noida and some others are "continuing and further investigations are in progress." "The voluminous material found during the search operations is being examined," the CBDT statement issued here said. "Cyclical trading and transfer of funds among group companies engaged in unrelated businesses to the tune of Rs 2,200 crore has been found. The enquiries have confirmed that these have been fictitious transactions without any actual movement or delivery of goods. The tax effect and violation of other laws are being examined," the statement alleged. While the statement did not name the group, official sources identified it to be the Bhopal headquartered Dainik Bhaskar group which is involved in various business sectors like media, power, textiles and real estate with a group turnover of more than Rs 6,000 crore per annum.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
24-07-2021||India||Lt Governor overturns Delhi govt's decision to appoint its choice of lawyers for farmer protest cases||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has overturned the Delhi Cabinet's decision to appoint a panel of lawyers of its choice to argue cases related to the farmers' agitation, the AAP government said on Saturday and wondered what was the need of an elected dispensation if everything has to be done through the "Centre via L-G".  Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the lieutenant governor (L-G) has invoked his special powers granted under the Constitution and referred the matter to the President.  Addressing a virtual press conference, he said that in the interim, Baijal has approved a panel of 11 law officers chosen by the Delhi Police to argue the cases.  In a tweet in Hindi, Chief Minister Arvind Kerjiwal said, "Overturning the Cabinet's decisions in such a way is an insult to Delhiites. The people of Delhi formed the AAP (Aam Aadmi Party) government with a historic majority and defeated the BJP."  "Let the BJP run the country and let the AAP run Delhi. Such interference in everyday work is an insult to the people of Delhi. The BJP should respect democracy," he said.  Earlier this month, the Kejriwal-led Cabinet had taken a decision that lawyers chosen by the Delhi government will fight cases of violence during the farmers' tractor rally on January 26 this year, rejecting the Delhi Police's panel of lawyers.  "But, today, the L-G has changed it. The Constitution has given him (L-G) the right that in case of a disagreement with the elected government, he can send the matter to the Centre and the President of India for reference," the deputy chief minister said during the press conference.  However, the L-G is to intervene in issues of the city government only in "exceptional circumstances" and not in every other matter, Sisodia said.  "What is the need of an elected government in Delhi if everything has to be done through Centre via LG," he asked.  The Constitution has given a right to the elected government to appoint its lawyers, Sisodia said, adding that also, the Supreme Court has properly explained that an elected government has the power to choose its lawyers.  According to Sisodia, the L-G has said that "I (L-G) have referred the matter to the Centre for decision of the President of India".  "In exercise of the powers conferred in provisions of Article 239A of the Constitution, I (LG) hereby direct that 11 law officers, advocates as suggested by the Delhi Police....be appointed," Sisodia said, quoting the L-G's communication.  Questioning the central government, he sought to know what is the Centre's intent behind rejecting the panel of lawyers decided by the Delhi government.  "The central government is afraid that the panel of lawyers appointed by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will expose the conspiracy led by the central government against the farmers in court," Sisodia said.  Earlier in the day, sources in the L-G office had said it has been recommended that the 11 special public prosecutors in Republic Day violence-related cases and three others in northeast Delhi riots cases, proposed by the Delhi Police be immediately appointed in view of the gravity of the two matters.  This is the first time the L-G has reserved any matter for consideration of the President, owing to the difference of opinion with the Kejriwal dispensation, since the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021, came into force in April, they said.  Sisodia alleged that the constitutional rights of the elected Delhi government are continuously being violated by the Centre through the L-G and all the decisions of the Delhi government are being obstructed.  He also said that the Constitutional Bench of the Supreme Court, including five senior judges, had clearly stated in its order that the lieutenant governor of Delhi has only two powers.  "Either the L-G can agree with the decision of the elected government and act accordingly, and if the LG disagrees, then he may send his disagreement to the President. The Supreme Court had also said in its order that the lieutenant governor has been given the power to refer a matter to the President only in extraordinary circumstances and not in every case," the deputy chief minister added.  In April, however, Delhi's lieutenant governor became the effective in-charge of the national capital with the Centre notifying a new law making it clear that the elected government will now have to seek the opinion of the L-G before any executive decision.  The Union Home Ministry's notification giving effect to the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 came into effect from April 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
24-07-2021||India||India’s cumulative Covid vaccination coverages crosses 43 crore||India's cumulative COVID-19 vaccination coverage has achieved the landmark milestone of 43 crore with nearly 46 lakh vaccine doses administered on Saturday, the Union health ministry said. The 22,80,435 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 2,72,190 vaccine doses given as second dose in the age group 18-44 years on Saturday. "India's cumulative Covid-19 vaccination coverage has achieved the landmark milestone of 43,26,05,567 with nearly 45,74,298 vaccine doses administered on Saturday," the health ministry said in a statement. Cumulatively, 13,77,91,932 persons in the age group 18-44 years across 37 states or union territories have received their first dose and 60,46,308 have received their second dose since the start of Phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Three states namely Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 1 crore cumulative doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. Also, Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid vaccine, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
24-07-2021||India||Fire at farmers’ protest site on Singhu border||A tent was damaged as a fire broke out at the farmers' protest site on the Delhi's Singhu border on Saturday, police said. No loss of life was reported in this incident, a police official said. However, the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of farmer unions spearheading the stir against the Centre's farm laws, said two tents were damaged in the incident. However, the spirit of the farmers is unaffected, the body said. Meanwhile, Jamhuri Kisan Sabha general secretary Kulwant Singh said no person was injured in the incident but things were damaged. Sukhwinder Singh, a protester, suspected that it was someone's doing. Rain stopped around 5 pm and the fire in the first tent broke out around 5.30 pm. Later, another tent, which was around 100 metres away, caught fire. We suspect that someone has come here and done this thing, he said. Farmers have been camping at Delhi borders since November last year, demanding the repeal of the Centre's three contentious farm laws and a new law to guarantee minimum support price for crops. However, the government has maintained that the laws are pro-farmer. Several rounds of talks between farmers and the government have failed to break the deadlock over the farm laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
24-07-2021||India||India lodges strong protest on drone activities at meeting with Pakistan||India on Saturday lodged a strong protest over drone activities by Pakistan in the Jammu area during a sector commander-level meeting between the Border Security Force and the Pakistan Rangers, officials said. "It was the first sector commander-level meeting between the two border guarding forces after the declaration of ceasefire agreement by DGMOs (in February)," a BSF spokesperson said. The meeting was held at the request of Pakistan Rangers at the International Border (IB) in the Suchetgarh area and it was decided to re-energise instant communication between field commanders, whenever required, to resolve operational matters, the spokesperson said. Commanders of both the border guarding forces discussed various issues with the main emphasis by the BSF delegation on Pakistani drone activities, terrorist activities and digging of tunnels from across the border and other issues related to border management, he said. A very strong protest was lodged by BSF delegates regarding drone activities by Pakistan authorities in the Jammu area, the officials said. At the same time, both sides expressed their commitment to maintaining peace and harmony at the IB, they said. "The meeting was held in a cordial, positive and constructive atmosphere and both sides agreed on an expeditious implementation of the decisions taken in the earlier DG-level talks and committed to each other to maintain peace and harmony at the IB," the spokesperson said. The BSF delegation was led by DIG Surjit Singh and the Pakistan Rangers delegation was headed by Brigadier Murad Hussain, sector commander of Sialkot. The Jammu and Kashmir Police on Friday shot down a drone carrying improvised explosive device (IED) material weighing five kilograms in the border belt of Jammu district. Additional Director General of police (ADGP) Mukesh Singh had said terrorist outfits across the border such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) were using drones for attacks and sending weapons to their operatives on the Indian side of the border. Drones were used on June 27 to drop explosives at the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu airport, causing minor injuries to its two personnel. Following the terror attack, several border districts have banned or put restrictions on the use of drones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||Delhi Metro, buses at full capacity, theatres at 50 per cent occupancy from Monday||The Delhi Metro and public buses in the city will operate at full seating capacity while cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes will open with 50 per cent occupancy from Monday, according to the DDMA's latest unlock guidelines issued on Saturday. The city witnessed an unprecedented surge of cases and deaths during the second wave of coronavirus in April and May. The situation seems to have been improving over the past few weeks, allowing the government to reopen the city in a phased manner. The latest unlock guidelines by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said the Delhi Metro, the city's lifeline, will be allowed to operate with 100 per cent seating capacity from Monday but no standing passenger will be allowed. Cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes will be allowed to open with 50 percent seating capacity from July 26, while business-to-business (B2B) exhibitions will also be allowed, but only with business visitors, the guidelines said. The order also directed that number of people allowed at marriage functions and last rites will be raised to 100 from Monday. Spas can also open from July 26 but their all employees have to be fully vaccinated or undergo RT-PCR test fortnightly, the DDMA said. Delhi faced a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a large number of lives daily. The rapid rise in the number of cases led to a shortage of medical oxygen at various city hospitals. On April 20, the city had reported a record 28,395 cases. On April 22, the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. At 448, the highest number of deaths was reported on May 3.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||Rainfall intensity to decrease over west coast in next 24 hours, says IMD||The India Meteorology Department (IMD) on Saturday said rainfall intensity along the west coast is expected to decrease over the next 24 hours, in a much-needed relief to rain-battered Maharashtra and Goa. Rainfall activity will increase over the north Indian plains and hills from July 25, it said. "Further reduction in rainfall intensity is very likely along the west coast, including Konkan, Goa and adjoining interior Maharashtra, during the next 24 hours," the IMD said. "Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls (are) very likely to continue over west coast, including Maharashtra, on July 24 and isolated heavy falls thereafter," it said. Extremely heavy rains have killed scores of people in Maharashtra over the past few days, submerging several areas and damaging property. The IMD said scattered to fairly widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely to continue over Gujarat till July and reduce thereafter. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are likely to continue over east Rajasthan till July 26 and reduce thereafter. In north India, rainfall activity is likely to increase over northwest India from July 25. "Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls (are) likely over Uttarakhand during July 25-28; Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and West Uttar Pradesh during July 26-28, and Punjab and east Uttar Pradesh on July 27 and 28," the IMD said. Isolated extremely heavy falls are also likely over Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on July 27 and 28, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||BJP top brass has not spoken to me about succedding Yediyurappa, says Pralhad Joshi||Union Minister for Coal, Mines and Parliamentary Affairs Pralhad Joshi on Saturday said the BJP top leadership has not spoken to him about succeeding Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, whose exit seems imminent, and it is only the media that is discussing the matter. As Yediyurappa had announced that he would abide by the party's top brass instruction on July 25, Joshi said he has no clue whether the central leadership has asked him to resign. "No one has spoken to me about it (succeeding Yediyurappa). It's only the media, which is discussing it. As no one has spoken to me, there is no need to react to it," Joshi told reporters. Asked what if he is made the chief minister, the Union Minister quipped, "I never answer hypothetical questions with ifs and buts... I don't want to answer such questions." To a question, Joshi said he would not react because he was not aware that the chief minister had been asked to resign. He emphasised that the supreme leaders Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah apart from the BJP leadership led by party president J P Nadda would decide. "There is no high command in the BJP but national leadership. We got different leaderships from time to time. There was Rajnath Singh, after which Nitin Gadkari came, who was succeeded by Amit Shah and now J P Nadda is there. In the present situation, we have supreme leaders in Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. They will decide," Joshi said. He declined to comment on seers of the dominant Lingayat community warning the BJP that it would be ruined if Lingayat strongman Yediyurappa is removed from the post. The 58-year-old Joshi has been Dharwad MP since 2004. He had also served as the BJPs state unit president from July 2012 to January 2016. With Yediyurappa dropping a strong hint that his exit as chief minister was on the cards, speculation is rife that Joshi would take on the mantle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||Millions sleep well at night due to technologies like Pegasus, says NSO||Amidst the raging controversy over its surveillance software Pegasus, Israeli cybersecurity company NSO Group has defended itself by saying that millions of people around the world sleep well at night and walk in the streets safely due to such technologies available with intelligence and law enforcement agencies. The company also stated that it does not operate the technology nor does it have access to the data collected by its clients. The alleged use of the Pegasus software to spy on journalists, human rights defenders, politicians and others in a number of countries, including India, has triggered concerns over issues relating to privacy. Politicians, rights activists and journalists were among those targeted with phone spyware sold to various governments by the Israeli firm, according to an international media consortium. "Millions of people around the world are sleeping well at night, and safely walking in the streets, thanks to Pegasus and similar technologies which help intelligence agencies and law enforcement agencies around the world to prevent and investigate crime, terrorism, and pedophilia rings that are hiding under the umbrella of end-to-End encryption apps," a spokesperson for NSO said. NSO, together with many of the other cyber intelligence companies in the world, provides cyber intelligence tools for governments because law enforcement agencies around the world are in the dark and there's no regulatory solution that allows them to monitor malicious acts on instant messaging and social media", the company said. On the controversy around its snooping software that has rocked the world, the spokesperson asserted that "NSO does not operate the technology, nor do we have visibility to the data collected". "We are doing our best to help creating a safer worl,." it said. NSO in a written response to PTI in October 2019, when the issue first came to the limelight with reports of misuse in India, had said that it considers "any other use of our products than to prevent serious crime and terrorism a misuse, which is contractually prohibited". "We take action if we detect any misuse. This technology is rooted in the protection of human rights including the right to life, security and bodily integrity and that's why we have sought alignment with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, to make sure our products are respecting all fundamental human rights," it said which is a stand its executives still maintain. Without confirming, or denying, if the software was sold to India, the company had said that its "products are licensed to government intelligence and law enforcement agencies for the sole purpose of preventing and investigating terror and serious crime". "To protect the ongoing public safety missions of its agency customers and given significant legal and contractual constraints, NSO Group is not able to disclose who is or is not a client or discuss specific uses of its technology," the written statement had said. Amidst the latest controversy, Israel has established a committee to review the allegations of misuse of the NSO group's surveillance software and hinted at a possible "review of the whole matter of giving licences". The defence establishment appointed a review committee made up of a number of bodies," lawmaker Ram Ben-Barak, the head of Knesset's Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, told Army Radio on Thursday. When they finish their review, we'll demand to see the results and assess whether we need to make corrections," Ben-Barak, who earlier was the former deputy head of Israel's Mossad spy agency, added. Israel's priority was to review this whole matter of giving licenses , he stressed. NSO''s chief executive, Shalev Hulio, welcomed the move, telling Army Radio that he would be very pleased if there were an investigation so that we'd be able to clear our name . Hulio claimed that there was an effort to smear the whole Israeli cyber industry". Ben-Barak noted that Pegasus had helped expose many terror cells , but if it was misused or sold to irresponsible bodies, this is something we need to check".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||CISCE declares ICSE, ISC results||The CISCE on Saturday announced results for classes 10 and 12, with class 10 girls and boys achieving the same pass percentage. In the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) class 12 results girls outshone boys by a margin on 0.2 per cent. The board said that like last year, there will be no merit list this time too in view of the exceptional circumstances in which results have been prepared. The CISCE had cancelled exams for both classes this year in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19. The results has been prepared on an alternate assessment policy decided by the board. "In class 10, girls and boys have achieved a pass percentage of 99.98 per cent. In class 12, the pass percentage of girls is 99.86 per cent while that of boys is 99.66 per cent," CISCE Chief Executive and Secretary Gerry Arathoon said. He informed that unlike previous years option of rechecking of answer scripts will not be available this year as candidates have been awarded "imputed marks". However, a dispute resolution mechanism will be in place for correction of calculation errors, if any, Arathoon said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||India likely to start vaccinating children by September, says AIIMS chief||Children are likely to get their vaccines by September, AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria said on Saturday, explaining that it will be a significant move to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission. "I think Zydus has already done the trials and they're waiting for the emergency authorisation. The Bharat Biotech's Covaxin trials should be over by August or September, and by that time we should get approval. Pfizer vaccine has been already approved by the FDA (US regulator - Food and Drug Administration)," Guleria told ndtv.com "Hopefully, by September, we should start vaccinating children, and that will be a big boost as far as breaking the chain of transmission is concerned," the expert added. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far in the country has reached 42.78 crore, while the Centre hopes to inoculate all citizens above 18 by December 2021. However, India is yet to clear a vaccine for children amid a growing concern of a possible third wave affecting them. Meanwhile, the European Medicines Agency has recommended authorising Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 12 to 17, the first time the shot has been authorized for people under 18. "We need to get our own vaccines too - that's why both Bharat Biotech and Zydus are important. Getting the Pfizer vaccine will also be helpful, as there is enough data to suggest it's safe... but we can't be sure if we will get required numbers. We will hopefully have more than one vaccine for children by September,"  Guleria said on Saturday. Taling about a Lancet study, which says that "living with 11-17 year olds increases the risk of infection by 18-30 per cent", the AIIMS chief said, "It's an important issue. Vulnerable people - the elderly or those having illnesses - are at an increased risk of getting the infection (in such cases). That's one of the reasons why people are worried about children going to schools... they may get a mild infection but they may pass it to their grandparents. We need more data but this is something that has been shown even with influenza." Talking about a serosurvey that revealed two-third of the Indian population has developed antibdies, Guleria said it is even the younger population has developed immunity. "What is encouraging is the serosurvey this time also looked at the younger population also. There was a lot of worries that children may be vulnerable in the third wave. The survey suggested that even children may have got the infection, and to some extent, they're protected," he explained. India can hope to reopen its schools fully by the end of this year as children get vaccinated, the AIIMS chief further said. "I personally feel, in a graded manner, physical classes should start. A lot of children who don't have access to online classes are suffering. By October, November or end of the year, when children start getting vaccinated, we should be in a position that schools open fully," he told ndtv.com.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||At least 76 dead in Maharashtra floods,  Raigad worst-affected||At least 76 people died, 38 others injured and 59 are missing after many areas in Maharashtra were hit by floods and landslides triggered by heavy rains, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday. Raigad district seems the worst-affected by the rain fury where 47 people lost their lives, including 37 in the landslide at Taliye village on Thursday, according to the state disaster management department. Speaking to reporters in Pune, Pawar said 90,000 people were evacuated to safety so far from nine districts, hit by heavy rains over the last four days. Parts of the Raigad and Ratnagiri districts in the coastal Konkan region and Kolhapur district in western Maharashtra have been worst affected by the floods. Besides that, heavy rains have been pounding parts of the Satara district. Pawar said 21 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been working with 14 teams of the Army, the Coast Guard and others in the rain-ravaged districts. Besides, four teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have also joined the evacuation operations. As per a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) earlier in the day, 76 people died and 38 others were injured in the floods that ravaged parts of the state while 30 people went missing. A senior official of the state disaster management department told PTI on Friday that as many as 129 people have died in rain-related incidents, including multiple landslides, in Maharashtra over the two previous days. The CMO statement said that as per the information received from the Relief and Rehabilitation Department, nearly 90,000 people have been evacuated. Seventy-five animals have perished, it added. According to Pawar, 23 areas in the Pune district are landslide-prone including five areas in Ambegaon, two in Maval, two in Khed, three in Bhor, besides one area each in Mulshi, Junnar, and Velha. In these areas also many people have lost their lives," he added. "A total of 76 people have lost their lives due to heavy rains till Saturday morning (in Maharashtra). These include 47 in Raigad, six in Satara, four in Mumbai and nearby areas, one in Pune, 11 in Ratnagiri, five in Kolhapur, and two in Sindhudurg. 53 people are missing in Raigad, four in Satara and two in Thane till Saturday morning, the deputy CM said. Pawar said the state government has announced an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh each to the kin of the victims killed in floods and landslides while the Central government has announced Rs 2 lakh each. Speaking about the rescue operations, Pawar said 90,000 people have been relocated from the affected areas (in nine districts) and the flood-prone areas. "21 teams of NDRF have been working along with 14 teams of the Army, the Coast Guard and others. Four teams of the SDRF have also joined the operations, he said. Earlier in the day, five bodies were recovered from the landslide site at Ambeghar village in Satara district, an official had said. The district administration had said that at least 16 people are feared trapped in the landslide at this village located in Patan tehsil as four to five houses were buried under the debris. Pawar also said the government has decided to distribute ration kits in these affected areas. Usually a ration kit includes wheat, rice, pulses, and kerosene. But considering the restrictions to get wheat flour in this scenario, the government has decided to give rice, pulses, and kerosene in ration kits, which will help people prepare khichdi as a meal. Along with this, we are appealing social organisations to come forward to run Shivbhojan thali centres in the affected areas, Pawar said. The deputy CM further said the Maharashtra government is coordinating with its Karnataka counterpart to ensure flood relief for the people (in Kolhapur district) by releasing water (from Almatti dam).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||Brazil suspends Covaxin trial after termination of agreement ||Brazil has suspended the clinical studies of Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin following termination of the company's agreement with its partner there, the South American Country's health regulator said. Bharat Biotech on Friday announced cancellation of the MoU it signed with Precisa Medicamentos and Envixia Pharmaceuticals LL.C for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin for the Brazilian market. The termination of the pact comes after the deal with the Brazilian government for supply of 20 million doses of the vaccine landed in controversy and attracted investigation by authorities in that country. "In The Coordination of Clinical Research at Anvisa (Copec/GGMED) determined this Friday (23/7) the precautionary suspension of clinical studies of the Covaxin vaccine in Brazil The suspension was carried out as a result of a statement from the Indian company Bharat Biotech Limited International, sent to Anvisa on Friday (23/7)," Anvisa, the Brazilian health regulator said on Friday. Precisa Medicamentos was Bharat Biotech's partner in Brazil, providing assistance, guidance and support with regulatory submissions, licensure, distribution, insurance and conduct of phase III clinical trials, among others. "Anvisa received this Friday (23/7) a statement from the company Bharat Biotech, via e-mail, informing that Precise Comercializao de Medicamentos Ltda. is no longer authorized to represent Bharat in Brazil," the Brazilian regulator said. There are two processes of the company related to the regularisation of Covaxin in Brazil- an application for authorisation for emergency use and a protocol for conducting clinical research in that country. Based on the communication made by Bharat Biotech, Anvisa will reassess the processes underway at the Agency and adopt the relevant measures, it said. The clinical trials of Covaxin in Brazil did not commence. On February 26, Bharat Biotech Ltd had said it signed an agreement with the Brazilian government for the supply of 20 million doses of Covaxin during the second and third quarters of 2021. Following the graft allegations and subsequent inquiry by the authorities, the Brazilian government had earlier suspended Covaxin's order temporarily. Bharat Biotech will continue to work diligently with Anvisa, the Brazilian drug regulatory body to complete the regulatory approval process for Covaxin, Bharat Biotech said on Friday while announcing the termination of its pact with its Brazilian partners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||CBI raids multiple locations in Jammu and Kashmir, New Delhi in gun license scam||The CBI on Saturday started searches at 40 locations in Jammu and Kashmir, and in the national capital in connection with cases related to alleged irregularities in the issuance of thousands of arms licences to non-residents on forged documents, officials said. The search operation is spread across Jammu, Srinagar, Udhampur, Rajouri, Anantnag, Baramulla and Delhi at the official and residential premises of public servants, including IAS officers, around 20 gun houses among others in an ongoing investigation of a case related to arms licence racket, CBI Spokesperson said in a statement. Premises of at least two IAS officers -- Shahid Iqbal Choudhary and Niraj Kumar -- are being searched, officials said. The CBI had in December 2019 carried out searches at over a dozen locations in Srinagar, Jammu, Gurgaon and Noida on the premises of the then district collectors and magistrates of Kupwara, Baramulla, Udhampur, Kishtwar, Shopian, Rajouri, Doda, Pulwama, and several other places. The searches were carried out in connection with a probe into two cases pertaining to alleged issuance of around two lakh arms licences from different districts of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir by their collectors and magistrates. It is alleged that arms licences were issued in lieu of illegal gratification. It is alleged that then public servants in cahoots with other accused issued arms licences to non-residents of state in violation of rules and received illegal gratification. The Rajasthan ATS had unearthed the scandal in 2017 and had arrested over 50 people for their alleged involvement in the illegal issuance of arms licences. According to the ATS, over 3,000 permits were granted allegedly in the name of Army personnel. Based on ATS findings, then Jammu and Kashmir Governor N N Vohra had handed over the matter to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-399
24-07-2021||India||India records over 39,000 fresh Covid cases, 546 casualties in a day||India's tally of COVID-19 infections rose by 39,097 in a day to reach 3,13,32,159, while 546 more people succumbed to the viral disease during the same period taking the death toll to 4,20,016 on Saturday, according to Union Health Ministry data. The number of active cases in the country has increased to 4,08,977, accounting for 1.34 per cent of the total caseload while the national COVID-19 recovery rate stood at 97.35 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 3,464 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a day. Also, 16,31,266 tests to detect COVID-19 were carried out on Friday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 45,45,70,811, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.40 per cent. It has remained below 3 per cent for 33 days in a row. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.22 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 3,05,03,166, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far in the country has reached 42.78 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40-lakh mark on September 5, and 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20, and the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore Covid cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 546 new fatalities include 167 from Maharashtra and 132 from Kerala. A total of 4,20,016 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 1,31,205 in Maharashtra, 36,323 in Karnataka, 33,862 in Tamil Nadu, 25,041 in Delhi, 22,748 in Uttar Pradesh and 18,056 in West Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Gujarat: Seven dead in explosion caused by LPG cylinder leakage||Seven persons have succumbed to the burn injuries after leakage of gas from an LPG cylinder triggered fire and explosion inside a room on the outskirts of Gujarat's Ahmedabad city, police have said. The incident took place on Tuesday night (July 20), but the victims - labourers and their family members - died over the last couple of days during treatment, said S S Gameti, sub-inspector of Aslali police station in Ahmedabad rural on Friday. Besides men, the deceased included children and women, he added. "Some labourers working in a factory and their family members were sleeping in a small room when gas from their LPG cylinder started leaking on the night of July 20. When their neighbour knocked on their door to alert them, a labourer got up and switched on the light, which caused an explosion due to concentration of gas," Gameti said. "Ten persons were sleeping there at that time and all of them received severe burn injuries as fire engulfed the room. While three persons died during their treatment on Thursday, four others succumbed to the injuries at a hospital on Friday, he said. Three persons are undergoing treatment, the official added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Pan India agitations protesting 'institutional murder' of Fr Stan||Human rights activists, civil society groups, mass organisations and trade union members staged agitations in Jharkhand, Delhi and other parts of the country on Friday in protest against the “institutional murder” of Father Stan Swamy. More than 70 people, including academics such as the development economist Jean Dreze, students and representatives of trade unions and the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, braved the rain to form a 1km human chain on the Main Road near the Albert Ekka Chowk in Ranchi. The protests are part of a series of public observances called by rights groups, trade unions, Christian organisations, Left parties and their student and youth wings over the next five weeks to protest against the government’s treatment of Father Stan and push for a more humane policing and justice system. The 84-year-old, ailing Jesuit  and tribal rights activist from Ranchi had died in custody in Mumbai while waiting for bail nine months after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested him in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. “(Friday’s protests in Jharkhand were) part of the national campaign called by more than 120 organisations,” PUCL organisational secretary Arvind Avinash said. “A delegation will be submitting a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind through Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais with a charter of demands.” The demands include the repeal of “draconian” legislation such as the anti-terror law UAPA, the sedition law and the National Security Act; the release of all political prisoners; fixing accountability on law-enforcement and investigative agencies for filing false cases; and compensation for victims of false cases and police atrocities. Another demand is the immediate withdrawal by the Jharkhand government of all the cases lodged against Father Stan and others in connection with the Pathalgadi tribal rights movement. “There were agitations in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Delhi and other states on Friday demanding justice for Father Stan and calling on the judiciary to restore dignity to Father Stan and give him justice at least in death,” PUCL national general secretary Kavita Srivastava told The Telegraph from Jaipur. She said the month-long campaign would witness an agitation on August 9 to mark World Indigenous Day and the launch of the Quit India Movement of 1942. On August 15, a pledge would be taken to defend democracy and the Constitution with a countrywide reading of the Preamble. “There are also plans for a countrywide mass hunger strike between August 15 and 27,” Srivastava said. “There will be a nationwide protest on August 28, too, as it is the day when five people in the Bhima Koregaon (Elgaar Parishad) case were arrested three years ago. There are plans to end the campaign with a candlelight vigil for all jailed comrades (political prisoners).” The Jesuit Conference of India has called on its followers and friends to mark July 28 as National Justice Day in memory of Father Stan, and invited people irrespective of religious identity to join in paying homage to the priest. Civil society groups will hold a candlelight march across Jharkhand on August 15 to protest the Centre’s crackdown on dissent. Several Left groups held protests in Delhi on Friday on the sidelines of the Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar. Prasenjeet Kumar, working general secretary of the CPIML Liberation’s All India Students Association, said: “The new revelations about the Pegasus spyware have brought into common knowledge the kind of surveillance and repression Indian people are being subjected to. Governments are colluding in order to oppress people.” He added: “The death of Father Stan Swamy is another example of how inhuman the RSS-BJP regime is. We demand an independent inquiry and immediate release of all political prisoners.” The other participants in Delhi included CPM student arm SFI, the CPIML’s Liberation and Red Star factions and their fronts, several Far-Left student groups, and the National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations. “Mass movements are built by the masses. No matter how many leaders are taken political prisoner by the central government, many more will come from the masses and take their place,” SFI Delhi state committee member Varkey Parakkal told the gathering. The New Trade Union Initiative (NTUI) too held meetings and protests across the country on Friday. “All trade unions, irrespective of political affiliations, and all organisations of farmers, women, students, and communities that are discriminated against besides democratic rights organisations joined our daylong protests across the country in memory of the fearless Father Stan,” NTUI general secretary Gautam Mody said. “The objective was to defend our democracy, workers’ right to strike, our right to dissent and, above all, the idea of a plural and progressive India.” In Bombay High Court, a judge who praised Father Stan’s work withdrew his oral observations in response to a law officer’s request. PTI quoted additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA at the hearing of a plea challenging the denial of bail to the Jesuit, told Justice S.S. Shinde: “We have all condoled the death of Mr Swamy, but any personal comments or private comments coming from the judges or any law officer, especially in the open court, are normally being twisted by the press and social media.” Justice Shinde, who heard the case along with Justice N.J. Jamadar, said: “If you want, I take my words back. Our endeavour is to stay fair and balanced always. That should be the end of the matter.” Father Stan’s counsel Mihir Desai asked the court to monitor the mandatory magisterial probe into the custody death that is yet to begin. The NIA opposed this on the ground that as the priest was dead, the appeals on his bail stood abated and this is where the hearing should end. The court asked Desai for a written submission and adjourned the matter till August 4. The bail plea of lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj, a co-accused of Father Stan, too was adjourned to August 2 by the same bench after the Maharashtra government and the NIA argued she shouldn’t be granted default bail on a technicality. Bharadwaj’s lawyer had sought bail on the ground that the prosecution had erred by getting an additional sessions judge, and not the designated special judge of an NIA court, to take cognisance of her chargesheet. Additional reporting by PTI from Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Rahul fires shots at Modi and Shah on Pegasus scandal||Rahul Gandhi on Friday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah had committed “treason” by using the Israeli spyware Pegasus against the Indian State and the country’s people. The Congress leader demanded an investigation specifically to look into the Prime Minister’s role in the matter, and argued that none apart from the Prime Minister and the home minister can authorise the use of Pegasus in India. “Pegasus is classified as a weapon. It is called a spying software, but Pegasus is classified by the Israeli state as a weapon and that weapon is supposed to be used against terrorists. The Prime Minister and the home minister have used this weapon against the Indian State and against our institutions,” Rahul said. “They have used it politically. They have used it in Karnataka. They have used it to scuttle probes, they have used it against the Supreme Court — they have used it against all the institutions of this country.” Rahul added: “The only word for this is ‘treason’. There is no other word for this and this has to be investigated and the home minister has to resign. An inquiry monitored by the Supreme Court should be held against the Prime Minister.” The Congress alleges the spyware was used to facilitate the toppling of its coalition government in Karnataka through defections. It has highlighted that a judgment by an apex court bench headed by then Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi had saved the defectors from disqualification and that Gogoi was made a Rajya Sabha member soon after retirement. According to the Pegasus exposé, a woman Supreme Court employee who had complained of sexual harassment by Justice Gogoi was put on surveillance along with her family. Asked why he was accusing the Prime Minister, Rahul said: “Are you allowed to buy Pegasus? Can I buy Pegasus? Pegasus has to be authorised by the nation-state. The file has to be signed by the Prime Minister, or perhaps the home minister. Pegasus cannot be sold to the military of a country; it is sold to the government of the country. Please read the contract.” Asked whether he thought the Indian government had bought Pegasus, Rahul appeared to resort to sarcasm. “The government says it has no knowledge of Pegasus use. If it (spying on Indians) has not been by the Indian government, then some other government is doing it. Maybe the Japanese government, the Israeli government have done it. The Russian government did it, Uganda did it,” he said. “Because, only a government can buy Pegasus. Even then there should be an inquiry. Why is the Prime Minister not saying that ‘People have been spied upon and I will order an enquiry?’ Why is the government only saying, ‘We have not done it?’” Asked about a businessman’s name being on the purported list of potential phone-tapping targets, Rahul said: “I have said very clearly that there has been theft in Rafale. None of you people supported me. This is the truth — for whatever reason, none of you supported me — but the truth has a way of coming out.” Rahul said: “There is an inquiry in France and you will see, the Prime Minister himself is responsible for corruption in Rafale. You can’t buy everybody. You might think you can buy everybody; the Prime Minister might think he can suppress everybody, (that) he might buy everybody. He can’t.” The Wire news website, part of the media collaboration that investigated the possible Pegasus targets worldwide, on Thursday reported that the phone numbers of Anil Ambani and another official of his ADA Group were added to the list of potential targets in 2018. This was the year when the Rafale controversy deepened, with former French President Francois Hollande claiming that France had had no say in the choice of an Anil Ambani company as the offset partner and that it was an Indian government decision. Rahul said: “Why are you not asking about the CBI director’s phone being tapped? Why are you asking me about Anil Ambani?” The Wire has said that hours after Alok Verma was removed as CBI director on October 23, 2018, in a hush-hush midnight operation, an unidentified Indian agency known to be a user of the Pegasus spyware had made a note of three telephone numbers registered in his name. The personal phone numbers of Verma’s wife, daughter and son-in-law too were eventually placed on the list, making it a total of eight numbers from the family, The Wire said. The Congress has alleged that Verma was removed in such haste because he had started making inquiries about possible corruption in the Rafale deal. “The real question is, why at the last minute — when the CBI director was about to file an FIR — why was his phone tapped and why was he blackmailed, that’s the real question,” Rahul said. “Who did it, that’s the question. The issue is not whether Anil Ambani’s phone was tapped. The issue is, the entire Indian State is under attack.” Asked about his own phone being a potential target, Rahul said: “No, no, it is not a potential target, my phone is tapped. It is clearly tapped, so it is not a potential target.” He said every single phone he was using was being tapped. “And let me tell you another thing, I get phone calls from IB (Intelligence Bureau) people who tapped my phone. They call me up and say, ‘Please, beware that I am tapping your phone’,” Rahul said. “By the way, my security people tell me that they have to debrief what I say, they have to report to their seniors everything I say. So, I am under no (illusion) that I am not tapped.” Asked if he feared the surveillance, he said: “I don’t get intimidated by these things. I am an open book. Doesn’t make any difference to me. “It is simple — if you are corrupt, if you are a thief, you will be scared. If you are not corrupt, you won’t fear Modi. You will laugh.” To another question about his phones being tapped, Rahul said: “Three-four times it has happened that my friends have been informed and told to convey to me that my phone is being tapped.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Congress questions govt's security wing budget boost ||The Congress on Friday asked the government whether the massive increase in the budgetary allocation for the National Security Council secretariat, from Rs 26 crore during UPA rule to Rs 333 crore in 2017-18, was meant for purchasing the Pegasus spyware. The Narendra Modi government is yet to answer whether it has bought the Israeli spyware in the first place. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “The National Security Council secretariat is largely concerned with administration and co-ordination. The UPA government had in 2011-12 allocated Rs 17.43 crore. This amount marginally increased to Rs 20.33 crore in 2012-13 and further to Rs 26.06 crore in 2013-14.” Khera added: “In the year 2014-15 when the Modi-led government came to power, the amount of grant to the National Security Council secretariat had increased to Rs 44.46 crore. It came down to Rs 33 crore in 2016-17. But in 2017-18, a new sub-head was added to the National Security Council secretariat called ‘Cyber Security Research and Development’. The grant jumped to Rs 333 crore. Interestingly, the snooping using Pegasus allegedly began the same year.” The Congress spokesperson continued: “What explains (the huge) increase in the allotment of grants to the secretariat? Was this grant to the secretariat used to purchase Pegasus?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Congress-JDS turncoats seek refuge in the face of Yediyurappa exit||The likely exit of B.S. Yediyurappa from the Karnataka chief minister’s office has sent heartbeats racing among the Congress-JDS turncoats who helped the BJP veteran return to power two years ago as his successor would have to heed to the rising demand for cabinet berths from the ruling party’s old-timers. Some of the 17 defectors met Yediyurappa on Thursday evening in a sign that they were trying to lobby to retain their places in the cabinet that had come as reward for pulling down the Janata Dal Secular-Congress coalition government. Among them were health minister K. Sudhakar, agriculture minister B.C. Patil, municipal administration minister M.T.B. Nagaraj, excise minister K. Gopaliah, labour minister Shivaram Hebbar and urban development minister B. Basavaraj. Sources close to some of the ministers said the meeting lasted for more than 30 minutes and they discussed their future. “It was Yediyurappa who had inducted them into the cabinet. Naturally they are seen as his loyalists and hence the apprehension about having to make way for others once a new chief minister takes over,” said a BJP functionary who declined to be named. He, however, added it was unlikely that all the defectors would be replaced immediately. “There is a good chance that new faces and youngsters would be inducted into the new cabinet. But that won’t be at the cost of those who helped us form the government. No chief minister can replace all of them at one go,” the functionary told The Telegraph. Nagaraj told reporters that they only discussed “pending projects and transfers” and that there was nothing more to the meeting. But he expressed willingness to resign if the party asked him to. The 17 lawmakers — 14 from the Congress and three from the JDS — had switched to the BJP in an operation engineered by Yediyurappa, who had flown most of them to Mumbai and sequestered them in a hotel till the coast was clear for him to take over after H.D. Kumaraswamy resigned as chief minister on July 23, 2019. Then Assembly Speaker Ramesh Kumar had disqualified the 17 MLAs, forcing them to contest on BJP tickets. Yediyurappa eventually kept his promise by inducting most of them into the cabinet against stiff opposition from BJP old-timers who had to be passed over. With a change of guard imminent in Karnataka, at least some of the defectors may have to be replaced to accommodate aspirants from among the BJP old-timers. “Since we can’t afford to risk a rebellion, our leaders will be careful enough not to antagonise them (the defectors). I think only three or four of them will be replaced with new faces,” said another BJP source from coastal Karnataka. State Congress president D.K. Shivakumar has been claiming that several BJP lawmakers, especially from Yediyurappa’s Lingayat community, were in touch with his party for possible defection. The BJP functionary rubbished such claims. “He (Shivakumar) can say what he wants. Not a single BJP MLA will leave us,” he said. Amid speculation that the 14 lawmakers who had left the Congress in 2019 were in touch with their old party, leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramaiah on Friday denied there was any plan to absorb the deserters. “Who is saying they are coming back (to the Congress)? I had made it clear on the floor of the House that none of them would be taken back,” he said. In the Assembly of 224 seats, the BJP has 119 members, the Congress 68, the JDS 32, the Bahujan Samaj Party one and two Independents who back the ruling party. There are two vacancies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Wait for regular VCs lengthens for JNU and nine central universities ||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) is among 10 central varsities whose wait for regular vice-chancellors will be prolonged further as they don’t feature among the 12 institutions to which President Ram Nath Kovind has appointed VCs. The universities that have got VCs are North Eastern Hill University, Guru Ghasidas University, Maulana Azad National Urdu University, Manipur University and central universities in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Hyderabad and Bihar. In a written reply in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday, education minister Dharmendra Pradhan said that posts of VCs were vacant in 22 central universities. JNU, Banaras Hindu University (BHU) and Delhi University (DU) are among the central varsities that do not have regular VCs. Prof. M. Jagadesh Kumar is serving as the in-charge VC of JNU after he completed his tenure in January this year, while Prof. V.K. Shukla is the in-charge VC of BHU after Prof. Rakesh Bhatnagar completed his tenure in March. Prof. P.C. Joshi is the in-charge VC of DU since October last year after Prof. Yogesh Tyagi was suspended. In response to a question by Indian Union Muslim League leader Abdul Wahab about the reasons for the delay in the appointment of VCs, particularly that of JNU, Pradhan said the incidence and filling up of vice-chancellor vacancies was a continuous process. “The process of appointment of vice-chancellor in a central university is a time-consuming exercise which involves getting executive council/court’s nomination(s) of the concerned central university, constitution of search-cum-selection committee, advertisement of posts, scrutiny of applications, interaction with the shortlisted candidates, getting vigilance clearances, approval of the competent authority, etc, hence, no time-frame can be indicated,” Pradhan said in his written reply. A retired bureaucrat said the appointment of VCs and directors in IITs and other centrally funded institutions usually took around six months. “There is no rule prescribed for the time limit on the appointment of VCs and directors. But in practice, the process takes about six months. The advertisement is issued six months prior to the completion of the tenure of the incumbent VC,” the retired official said. An official in the education ministry said it had set up search-cum-selection panels for the appointment of VCs of JNU, BHU and DU. Retired bureaucrats Yogendra Narain and Hasmukh Adhia are heading the panels for JNU and BHU, respectively, while Manipur University chancellor Prof. T. Tirupati Rao is heading the panel for DU. The panels are yet to interact with candidates. The JNU Teachers’ Association has written several times to the education ministry about the “arbitrary” and “undemocratic” functioning of the varsity administration under the leadership of Kumar. A JNU teacher alleged that the varsity administration took decisions and actions to appease certain sections of the faculty and victimise others who opposed Kumar’s way of functioning. Kumar issued showcause notices to 48 faculty members in 2018 for taking part in a protest on the campus. He also stopped the pension and retirement benefits of a teacher who had been showcaused. But Delhi High Court set aside the decision. An education ministry official said it had completed the process of appointment of VCs in 15 universities that were sent to the President, who is the Visitor for all central varsities, for approval. The appointment files of Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University and Central Sanskrit University in Delhi and Dr Harisingh Gour University in Madhya Pradesh have been returned to the ministry without approval, the official said. Sources said some candidates whose names were in the search-cum-selection panels withdrew themselves from the race at the last moment. It is not clear if the ministry will initiate a fresh appointment process or ask the selection committee to suggest more names.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Punjab: Amarinder Singh attends Sidhu's installation ceremony||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday attended the programme where Navjot Singh Sidhu formally took charge as state Congress president but the orchestrated meeting couldn’t hide the frost in their relations. While the seemingly irreconcilable differences are not a secret, the party appeared contended by showcasing a charade of unity as the chief minister’s absence would have spoiled the event. Amarinder, being a seasoned player, avoided making any hostile gesture but largely remained aloof. Even Sidhu made no attempt to conceal his indifference, demonstrating that he was merely completing the formalities as part of the political exigency plan. While Amarinder had explicitly indicated that he would not meet the new state Congress chief unless he publicly tendered an apology for attacking him, the central leadership intervened to ensure the internal rift didn’t derail the political project of retaining Punjab in the elections due in February next year. Sidhu and other office-bearers had invited the chief minister to the programme in Chandigarh after a lot of behind-the-scenes reconciliation efforts and Amarinder agreed to attend without an apology. The chief minister might have altered his stand sensing the swift metamorphosis in the political climate after a majority of MLAs and ministers close to him accepted Sidhu’s leadership and many senior leaders convinced him about the futility of challenging the high command’s decision. But the political one-upmanship could not be abandoned and Amarinder extended an invite to Sidhu, MLAs and MPs to tea just before the inaugural ceremony to ensure it was Sidhu who first came to him. Sidhu came and greeted the chief minister with folded hands without any show of emotion, uttering just these few words: “How are you Sir, such a pleasure.” He tried to take a seat across the table to maintain a distance but some senior leaders insisted he sat beside the chief minister. The two leaders barely spoke to each other. Even at Sidhu’s installation at the party headquarters, the new state Congress chief and Amarinder didn’t talk even though they sat next to each other. Sidhu hugged a few leaders and cheerfully met others on the stage but the deadpan face and stiffness overtook his countenance as he took his seat next to the chief minister. Sidhu touched the feet of veterans Lal Singh and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal and greeted some other leaders with folded hands before starting his speech without even looking at Amarinder. It was clear that the new state chief didn’t intend to change the tenor of his discourse as he referred to every single issue he had been harping on for months to highlight the chief minister’s purported failures. Sidhu said: “For months now, I am hearing controversies about Sidhu becoming state chief. That’s not the issue. The issue is farmers sitting in protest outside Delhi. The issue is sacrilege, insult of our guru. The issue is drugs mafia, high electricity cost. The issue is thieves have been spared.” Sidhu knows it is better to align with the dominant sentiment of Punjab than humouring the veteran chief minister who nurtures extreme antipathy against him. By doing so, he will encroach upon the Opposition space as well, preventing the disgruntled voters from shifting to the Akali Dal and the Aam Aadmi Party. Although Sidhu declared that every ordinary party worker had become the state unit president on Friday with his elevation, it couldn’t be overstated that Amarinder, the most prominent and powerful Congressman in Punjab, remained outside the ambit of his emotional outreach. Amarinder, who recalled how his father was closely related to Sidhu’s parents, promised to work together for the benefit of the Congress. However, he pointed out that Punjab was a complex state and defended his track record by arguing that action in certain kinds of cases takes time. He was under pressure as the outgoing chief, Sunil Jakhar, too had pointed to his unfulfilled promises in a powerful and candid speech.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||TMC MP Santanu Sen suspended for rest of monsoon session ||Trinamul Congress MP Santanu Sen was on Friday suspended from the Rajya Sabha for the remainder of the monsoon session for “unruly” behaviour amid protests by leaders of his party over the Pegasus controversy. Rajya Sabha chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu approved Sen’s suspension after minister of state for parliamentary affairs V. Muraleedharan moved a motion. Sen had snatched and torn a copy of the government statement on the Pegasus snooping row from information technology minister Ashwini Vaishnaw on Thursday and thrown it towards the Chair. In his motion, Muraleedharan had said Sen’s actions had brought disrepute to the House. Trinamul leader Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said the motion had not been mentioned in the list of business for Friday. The party also did not get an opportunity to react to the motion, he added. Earlier, Naidu expressed anguish over Thursday’s incident and said the “proceedings of the House hit a new low with the papers being snatched from the minister and torn into pieces and thrown in the air”. “Such actions are a clear assault on our parliamentary democracy,” Naidu said. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said the IT minister must be available to answer the clarifications sought by members on his statement on the Pegasus controversy. Naidu assured the members that they would be given an opportunity. As Sen was present after the approval of the suspension motion, Naidu asked him to withdraw himself from the House. However, Sen kept sitting, forcing Naidu to adjourn the session for 35 minutes. When the House reassembled at noon, deputy chairman Harivansh asked Sen to leave. The MP complied. At 2.30pm, the Rajya Sabha reconvened but did not function for long. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge raised the Pegasus issue and said the government had been carrying out spying and online surveillance_ of senior politicians, judges, journalists and activists. _This has implication on the right to privacy of citizens, he said. The Congress leader wanted a discussion by suspending all other business. Deputy leader of the House Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said a discussion had already taken place as the IT minister had made a statement. Trinamul Lok Sabha MP Mahua Moitra has given a privilege notice against IT minister Vaishnaw for allegedly misleading the House on the Pegasus spyware. Attaching documents in support of her contention, Moitra said in a petition to the Lok Sabha secretary-general that the minister had misled the House by making statements that he knew to be false. Moitra said the question of privilege should be referred to the committee concerned.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Spotlight back on removal of former CBI chief in 2018||The Pegasus controversy has brought the spotlight back on the sudden removal of then CBI director Alok Verma in October 2018, which had prompted speculation that he had started enquiring about possible corruption in the Rafale deal and paid the price. On Thursday, news website The Wire reported that shortly after Verma’s ouster in a hush-hush midnight operation, an unknown Indian agency put his phones and those of his family members on the list of potential targets of Pegasus-enabled snooping. Sources in the CBI and the corridors of power had suggested after Verma’s removal that he had been benched in a panic reaction because he had made enquiries with the defence ministry on the Rafale deal and sought certain documents. The official reasons for Verma’s removal had included various charges of misconduct and corruption, such as accepting bribes and influencing investigations, most of which the Central Vigilance Commission purportedly failed to substantiate while prima facie accepting the rest on the basis of circumstantial evidence. The Wire reported that the phones of two other senior CBI officials — Rakesh Asthana and A.K. Sharma — who had been involved in a power struggle with Verma too were put on the list of potential surveillance targets. Asthana, a Gujarat-cadre IPS officer and Verma’s deputy, was considered close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He was locked in a turf war with Verma, who had registered a bribery FIR against him. Both officers, who had accused each other of taking bribes from the same businessman to provide him relief in a particular case, were benched the same night. The Modi government had appointed Sharma, another Gujarat-cadre IPS officer, and Asthana to senior CBI positions in 2015. Sharma’s name had figured in a purported sting that claimed the Gujarat police had snooped on a woman architect in 2009 at the behest of an aide to Modi, who was then chief minister. Asthana had overseen the probe into the Godhra train fire that ignited the 2002 Gujarat riots. His findings had backed then chief minister Modi’s claims of a conspiracy although the initial probe had suggested a “spontaneous attack”. Asthana and Sharma had both undermined Verma’s authority in the agency before Sharma fell out with Asthana and sided with Verma. The Wire reported that eight phones belonging to Verma’s family, including those of his wife, daughter and son-in-law, were put on the list of potential targets of snooping.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-400
24-07-2021||India||Bhubaneswar: Congress protests waterlogging issue||Odisha Congress on Friday resorted to a unique style of protest to highlight the problem of waterlogging in the capital city in the wake of torrential rains during the past 24 hours. Party workers led by Jatni MLA and former minister Suresh Kumar Routray demonstrated in the centre of the city at Master Canteen Square where they placed a huge boat on the road to attract the attention of the passers by. The party demanded that the Naveen Patnaik government, which has failed to resolve the waterlogging problem, should launch a “Mo Danga – My Boat – programme on the lines of Mo Bus (My bus — public transport bus service that runs in Bhubaneswar) Routray said: “The city has been waterlogged for the last 24 hours. Most of the areas of the city including the environs of Lingaraj temple, Chandrasekharpur, Gadkanna and other parts of the city, have been submerged following the incessant rains. No steps have been taken to resolve the issue and bring relief to the people.” Routray, who stood on the boat carrying the Congress flag, said, “The Naveen Patnaik government has introduced a number of programmes like giving umbrellas and slippers to people. It should also initiate the Mo Danga programme to help people reach their houses when the city is water-logged.” The leader warned that his party would soon gherao the office of the Bhubaneswar Development Authority, Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporations and other offices concerned with the issue if the administration failed to take longterm steps to overcome the waterlogging problem. Bhubaneswar has been experiencing intermittent rains for the last three days. The city, which won two awards in June in the India Smart City Awards contest and was adjudged the second best in the social aspects project category, has encountered the problem of severe waterlogging even in the past. Another Congress leader Biswajit Das said, “There has been no development in the city. Even the main roads get waterlogged after short spells of rain. This has been recurrent problem. The talk of smart city is just an eye-wash.” Congress leaders had procured the boat from a boat repairing shop in Mancheswar and after transporting it to the central part of the city loaded it on the truck using a crane. The boat mounted on the truck was placed on the road near the iconic warrior horse statue at Master Canteen Square, to draw maximum attention. The party office, Congress Bhavan, is located nearby. Neither the ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) nor any wing of the government, including the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation (BMC), have reacted to Congress’ charge so far.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
24-07-2021||India||Maharashtra landslides and floods kill 129 in the last 48 hours||As many as 129 people have died in rain-related incidents, including landslides, in Maharashtra in the last 48 hours, while 84,452 people under the Pune division have been shifted to safer places as heavy showers continued to wreak havoc in the state. At least 38 people were killed at Talai in Mahad tehsil of coastal Raigad district, 180km southeast of Mumbai, when a landslide flattened most of the small village, said minister Vijay Wadettiwar. Raigad district collector Nidhi Choudhary said the landslide struck on Thursday evening. “But since the roads leading to the spot were blocked due to the floods and the sludge, the rescue teams found it difficult to reach the site,” she said. “The operation resumed today (Friday) morning and the bodies were recovered by afternoon,” she added. In Mumbai, four persons were killed and seven suffered injuries after a single-storey house collapsed in Shivaji Nagar area of Govandi early on Friday, a civic official said. “Seven fire engines, one rescue van of the fire brigade and personnel of the police as well as other agencies reached the spot and launched a search and rescue operation,” the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official said. Two of those injured — Neha Parvez Shaikh, 35, and Mokar Zabir Shaikh, 80 — were declared brought dead at Rajawadi Hospital. Shamshad Shaikh, 45, who was admitted to the hospital in a critical condition, died during treatment. “A 22-year-old man, identified as Farin Shaikh, was pulled out from under the rubble and was taken to Rajawadi Hospital, where doctors declared him dead before admission,” the BMC official said. A fire brigade official said 15 people had been pulled out of the debris so far and the operation was still under way. Several people were swept away in floodwaters. The official of the state disaster management department put the death toll in various incidents in western Maharashtra’s Satara district at 27. Earlier, the district police had said 20 people were feared trapped after landslides hit eight houses in Ambeghar and Mirgaon villages in Satara’s Patan tehsil. “Two persons died in Jawali tehsil while another two died in Wai tehsil in landslides and other incidents. A woman and a man died in separate incidents of landslide and flash floods in Patan tehsil,” the official said. “Four persons were swept away by floodwaters in Jawali tehsil, of whom two were found dead. The remaining two are missing. One person from Mahabaleshwar is also missing,” he said. In Ratnagiri district, at least 10 people are feared trapped in a landslide, a senior official said on Friday. The body of a man was recovered in Chiplun city after floodwaters receded. Mahabaleshwar, one of Maharashtra’s most well-patronised hill stations, has received 594.4 millimetres of rainfall in a 24-hour period ending at 8:30am on Friday, which an IMD official said could be the highest ever recorded there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
24-07-2021||India||Kerala: Police files chargesheet in pre-poll car robbery case||Kerala police on Friday filed the chargesheet in a case related to an alleged Rs 3.5-crore, pre-poll car robbery that had led to money-laundering allegations and the questioning of several BJP politicians. While the 22 people accused in the chargesheet of plotting or participating in the April 3 highway heist are history sheeters, 19 people from the BJP and the RSS have been named as witnesses. Among them are state BJP president K. Surendran, his son K.S. Harikrishnan, state BJP organising secretary M. Ganesh and RSS worker Dharmarajan, from whom the money was allegedly stolen. Harikrishnan had allegedly called Dharmarajan on his mobile number several times on the day of the robbery. The special investigation team assigned to probe the case had questioned Surendran on July 14. A gang had allegedly waylaid a car in which Dharmarajan and his friend Shamjeer were carrying the cash in the early hours of April 3 in Kodakara, Thrissur. This was three days before the Kerala Assembly polls. Dharmarajan and Shamjeer had in their April 7 police complaint claimed to have been robbed of Rs 25 lakh, but the police say their investigations revealed the sum stolen was Rs 3.5 crore. The BJP’s political opponents say the money had been brought from outside to influence the April 6 elections. The BJP has denied any connection with the money or the robbery. The police, who claim the cash had been brought from BJP-ruled Karnataka, have in the chargesheet recommended investigations by the Enforcement Directorate and the income-tax department to identify the source of the money. The police are also expected to provide a copy of the chargesheet to the Election Commission of India. The 625-page chargesheet in the dacoity case names 219 witnesses in all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
24-07-2021||India||Price caps on digital thermometers, glucometers, BP devices, oxymeters and nebulisers||The Centre on Friday announced price caps on digital thermometers, glucometers, blood pressure measurement devices, oxymeters and nebulisers, halving the price tags on some of the devices. The National Pharmaceuticals Pricing Authority (NPPA) released the revised maximum retail prices for these five categories of medical devices that would reduce their retail costs by tens of rupees to several hundreds of rupees. But health activists have questioned the government’s inaction on these devices through the two Covid-19 waves and said the formula for the caps continued to facilitate high trade margins. The price caps will be effective from July 20. The actual difference between the earlier and revised MRPs will vary from brand to brand and device to device. An oxymeter with an earlier MRP of Rs 3,999 will have a new MRP of Rs 1,545, another oxymeter earlier priced at Rs 2,600 will need to be priced at Rs 1,950. A blood pressure monitoring device earlier priced at Rs 3,500 will have a price tag of Rs 1,375. A glucometer available earlier at Rs 1,590 will now be priced at Rs 675. A digital thermometer will now be priced Rs 249 against Rs 270 earlier. Prices won’t change for devices whose makers had already applied the formula enforced by the NPPA. The formula specifies that the MRP should be computed by adding three components — the price to the distributor, 70 per cent of price to the distributor and the goods and services tax. Health activists said the 70 per cent cap was too high and wanted the government to cap the trade margin at an earlier point in the supply chain — the landed cost or ex-factory cost — and not from the price to the distributor. “This is a strategic exercise to legitimise high margins and any relief to consumers is extremely belated,” said Malini Aisola, a coordinator for the All India Drug Action Network, a consortium of doctors and health activists monitoring pricing trends in the healthcare sector. “The NPPA did not lift a finger during the first wave, nor during the second wave,” Aisola said. The demand for some of these devices — particularly oxymeters — from consumers across the country has skyrocketed over the past year. Aisola said the revised MRPs, which continued to support high trade margins across the supply chain, provided a glimpse of the “excessive profiteering” on these devices during Covid-19. She said the formula was inadequate and “does not keep affordability at the heart of the exercise”. The NPPA, through an office memorandum on Friday, asked state drug controllers across the country to ensure that the devices were available at the revised MRPs and take action against hoarding, black-marketing or overpricing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-401
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul nominates Jawhar Sircar for Rajya Sabha bypolls||The Trinamul Congress on Saturday nominated former bureaucrat Jawhar Sircar as its candidate for the upcoming Rajya Sabha by-election in the state. The Election Commission had on July 16 said that bypoll to the Rajya Sabha seat from Bengal vacated by Dinesh Trivedi earlier this year will be held on August 9. "We are delighted to nominate Jawhar Sircar in the Upper House of Parliament," a party statement said. Sircar spent nearly 42 years in public service and was also the former CEO of Prasar Bharati, the ruling party in the state said. "His contribution to the public service shall help us serve our country even better," it said. Reacting to his nomination, Sircar said, "I was a bureaucrat. I am not a political person but I would work for development of the people and raise the issues concerning the masses in parliament," he said. The bypoll to the Rajya Sabha seat from the state will be held if the opposition BJP fields its candidate for the same, otherwise, the TMC candidate will be declared elected unopposed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Kailash Vijayvargiya reappears in front of BJP leaders for the first time after Assembly polls||Several Bengal BJP leaders were up for a “shock” on Friday afternoon when the party’s Bengal minder Kailash Vijayvargiya reappeared in front of them for the first time after the Assembly polls and conducted a virtual meeting rolling out a set of instructions for them to follow in the coming days. As Vijayvargiya, who helmed the party’s poll strategy in Bengal, had not been seen in Calcutta since the election results were out on May 2, a significant majority of the state leaders were under the impression that he would be removed for the poor show at the hustings. “We were awaiting the good news of his removal as the Bengal minder... But he reappeared and even gave us lectures on things to do,” said a state BJP functionary. “It’s shocking for most of us,” added the source. Vijayvargiya , one of the four national general secretaries of the party, had became the Bengal minder in July 2015. State leaders think he created the wrong impression that the BJP would bag more than 200 seats in the polls. Many believe his emphasis on inorganic growth of the BJP in the state was one of the reasons behind the entry of turncoats of all hues in the saffron party over the last couple of years. The strategy adopted by Vijayvargiya, multiple party sources said, not only pushed the BJP’s oldtimers on the back foot but also created a negative image of the BJP that cost it dear in the recent Assembly polls. “The fact that everyone, from Prime Minister Narendra Modi to home minister Amit Shah, believed that the party was about to get 200plus seats in the Assembly polls was based on his assessment... By making an irrational assessment, he created a bubble that finally burst,” said a BJP’s central leader while adding that he was also expecting Vijayvargiya’s exit. Since the election results came out on May 2, the factionridden Bengal unit of the BJP was unanimous only on one point as a majority of the state leaders wanted a change in the post of Bengal minder. Posters demanding his removal had appeared in several parts of Calcutta last month. The state unit’s wish, however, seems to be swatted away one more time as party sources suggested that Vijayvargiya as was likely to continue for the time being. “The central leaders know that there are reservations about Kailashji and that's why none of the state leaders were told about this meeting before... Everyone was informed that an important meeting with central leaders would be held and so all other programmes were cancelled. When people logged in, they were shocked as Kailashji was the main speaker,” said a state BJP vicepresident. The fact that the leaders were apprehensive about the reaction from the state leaders became clear as all other participants — except Vijayvargiya himself, his deputy Arvind Menon, state BJP chief Dilip Ghosh and state unit’s general secretary (organisation) Amitava Chakraborty — were kept in mute mode. A state leader told this correspondent that Vijayvargiya, in his address, didn’t mention the party’s poll debacle, the exit of his closest aide Mukul Roy — former defacto Trinamul number 2 who had joined BJP in 2017 and went back to his old political fold after becoming a BJP MLA — or the general mood of discontent in the party. “His address was as if nothing had happened and no one liked it,” said a source. Vijayvargiya, a source said, instructed the leaders to observe Guru Purnima on Saturday besides telling the state leaders to prepare properly so that the four MPs from Bengal, who have been given ministerial berths in the union government, are given a befitting welcome when they return from Delhi. “We will now have to felicitate these ministers on Kailshiji’s behest…We have also been asked to visit vaccination centres and tell people what a great job the PM is doing by providing free vaccines,” a source present at the meeting said. “ State BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu who was present at the meeting said: “Our national president JP Nadda met all state minders, chiefs and other functionaries on Thursday evening. He had given certain instructions which Kailashji passed onto us on Friday.” The last time Vijayvargiya appeared in front of the state leaders — though he didn’t speak — was on June 29 when the state unit’s executive committee meeting was held. He was seen sitting beside Nadda at Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Unsuccessful HS candidates gherao school heads, ransack campuses ||Thousands of unsuccessful Higher Secondary candidates, along with their guardians, assaulted and gheraoed school heads, ransacked campuses and blocked roads at several places in Bengal with a demand to announce them qualified in this year’s examination. The unsuccessful examinees were accompanied by a few others who claimed to have received lower marks compared to what they expected. The West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education on Thursday announced that 97.69 per cent of around eight lakh candidates had passed Class XII this year. Sources said around 20,000 students among those who appeared for the exams had failed. The agitation took place on a day when schools were asked to distribute mark-sheets. The Class XII exams couldn’t be held this year because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The council prepared the results by giving 40 per cent weightage to a student’s performance in the Class X board exams and 60 per cent to the performance in the Class XI annual exams. The combined score was added to the marks obtained in the 30-mark practical or 20-mark project paper to arrive at the final score. “It is very unfortunate that heads of hundreds of high schools across the state were not only gheraoed but manhandled by students when teachers had no role to play in the results. We have requested the higher secondary council to take examinations for those who have failed immediately. We fear about the security of our colleagues,” said Chandan Maiti, an office-bearer of the Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses. At Tiljala Girls’ High School in Calcutta, students, along with their guardians, ransacked CCTV cameras and furniture. The headmistress, Avinanda Ghosh, was not spared either. “Out of 152 candidates from my school, 56 have failed. Those students came and ransacked the schools and beat me up. I was forced to inform police about the vandalism,” said Ghosh. Headmasters of various high schools in South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly were physically assaulted or held back in school till late on Friday evening. Nivedita Nag, the headmistress of Ushangini Girls’ High School in Chandernagore, was gheroaed by unsuccessful examinees for several hours. “I am really helpless as we have nothing to do with the result. I requested the students to give a written memorandum to me but they refused,” said Nag. Nag added that 23 of 157 examinees at the school had failed this year. Rampurhat Girls’ High School students, who failed to clear the exam, also gheraoed the headmistress and accused teachers of providing average marks to them. Similar agitation was reported from South 24-Parganas, Nadia, North Dinajpur and Jalpaiguri. In districts like Nadia and North Dinajpur, students blocked roads demanding that they be declared passed as no examination had been conducted. In North Dinajpur, over 70 girls of Chopra Girls’ High School walked up to NH 27 — the principal highway that connects vast areas of north Bengal and the entire northeast with the rest of the country — and staged a road blockade.“We didn’t appear in the exams and yet we failed. How can it happen? Also, all of us are Class XII students which means, we had passed in the final exams of Class XI. If the marks have been allotted as per the results of Class XI exams, how can we fail? We want the higher secondary council to reassess our results,” said a student. A headmaster said as there was 100 per cent pass in the Madhyamik this year, many higher secondary examinees were expecting a similar result. “When some students failed, they couldn’t accept the results. Besides, many schools had turned into quarantine centres last year and students couldn’t write Class XI exams. It seems those students failed in Class XII,” said the headmaster. A senior official of the Council of Higher Secondary Education said the students had been allotted marks on the basis of a system we had worked out. “If the government asks us to conduct tests for those students who failed, we are ready for it,” said the official. The 69 unsuccessful students of Santipur Bagh Anchra High School in Nadia, along with their guardians, blocked a local road for two hours with a similar demand. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri and Avijit Sinha||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 842 new infections and 16 deaths||Bengal on Friday logged 942 Covid-19 recoveries, 842 infections and 16 deaths, recording a drop in its total of active cases for the 33rd consecutive day. The total of active cases fell by 116 to 12,089 on Friday, the 19th successive day of less than a thousand new infections detected since the onset of the second wave. Bengal now has a total of over 15.22 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was detected in March last year. It includes nearly 14.92 lakh recoveries and 18,056 deaths. The recovery rate is currently at the state’s all-time high of 98.02 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.32. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.72 per cent on Friday. With Calcutta logging 57 new infections and North 24-Parganas 87, Friday was the 16th consecutive day since the second wave struck, when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures of new infections in a day, while North and South Dinajpurs, Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Of the 16 deaths, none was reported from the city, and three from North 24-Parganas. Sixteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday, while Jalapiguri, Malda and Howrah logged just one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Primary school teacher takes up initiative to get pregnant women vaccinated||A primary school teacher in West Burdwan’s Jamuria has taken up the initiative to get pregnant women and lactating mothers, most of whom are tribals, vaccinated as part of his “responsibility” towards society. Three months ago, Deep Narayan Nayak, popularly known as “Rastar Master (Master of Streets),” conducted a survey at villages around Tilka Maji Primary School where he teaches and found that most villagers were yet to take Covid vaccines. He also found that they did not even apply for vaccination. “The villagers have a notion that people are dying after vaccinations and so they were reluctant. I counselled them, informing them about the danger of a possible third wave of Covid and convinced them to take the vaccine. Being a teacher of the local school, I have a positive influence on them and I exploited that,” said Nayak. While he registered the names of 719 pregnant women and lactating mothers in the Cowin app, Nayak contacted the local government health centre for the vaccination drive. The Centre and state government have taken up an initiative to vaccinate pregnant women and lactating mothers on a priority basis. “I applied on the Cowin app on behalf of them with documents two months ago,” said Nayak. The vaccination programme started from July 20 and on the first day 100 women from half a dozen villages were vaccinated at Akhalpur Health Centre in Jamuria. Nayak hired a bus to carry the women to the health centre and drop them back home. “I have bought them food and paracetamol tablets it they if required to treat post-vaccination effects. I am monitoring their health,” he said. “We thought that if somebody takes the vaccine they will die immediately. Rastar Master convinced us and we are thankful to him for saving our lives,” said Puja Hansda, one of the women who was vaccinated on Wednesday. Rest of the pregnant women and lactating mothers will be vaccinated in phases. “Many of the women are mothers of my students. I will take a similar initiative once vaccines for minors arrive,” he said. Nayak became to be known as “Raster Master” after he started taking informal classes under trees or on the streets since last year to beat the prolonged lockdown. He used to take classes so the students do not drop the habit of going to school and studying. He serves them books, copies and tiffin to his students. He uses his salary to meet the expenses. “I have been getting salaries without working since last year and so it is my duty to do something for the society. I am thankful to the doctors and nurses at the health centre,” said Nayak. Block medical officer of health Abinash Beshra said the initiative was good. “The teacher approached us for his initiative and we too cooperated with him. It is a good initiative,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Bankura child trafficking case: CID takes over probe||CID on Friday took over the Bankura child trafficking case in which the principal of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya has been arrested. Police officers said after nine persons were arrested and five children were rescued from the custody of the accused principal and one of  her female colleagues, the state government wanted to have a deeper probe of the incident. “The CID had taken over the case. They will do further investigation,” said Bankura police Chief Dhritiman Sarkar. On Friday, a five-member team of the CID headed by an inspector reached Bankura police station and formally took over charge of the  case. The CID sleuths interrogated five persons, including the principal of central school Kamal Kumar Rajoria, for several hours on Friday to know details about the children. Bankura police on Sunday night arrested Rajoria and seven others, including a female colleague of the principal and her banker husband, for their connection with a child racket. The principal was replaced on Thursday. Police sources said, one of the arrested persons, who worked as a middleman to sell the children, had recently bought a plot and was preparing to construct a new house. “We will take details of properties of the accused to know whether there were more children who have already been trafficked” said a police source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Tea garden robbery bares banking woes||The robbery of Rs 26 lakh meant for disbursal of wages in a tea garden on Thursday brought to fore the pathetic state of banking infrastructure in Bengal’s brew belt. A gang of robbers in an SUV and on bikes stopped some employees of the Thanjhora tea estate, opened fire in air and snatched away Rs 26 lakh from them on Thursday afternoon. The garden is in the Kharibari block of the Siliguri subdivision. A customer service point (CSP) of the State Bank of India had been opened in Thanjhora in September last year. “It might sound surprising that despite having a CSP, we have to disburse the wages in cash. The primary reason is that the CSP cannot collect and disburse such a huge amount at one go. On the other hand, the workers are reluctant to visit the nearest bank and withdraw their wages. The term ‘cashless payment’ sounds good but in reality, the situation is far different,” said Amit Roy, the manager of Thanjhora. Following the Narendra Modi government’s demonetisation exercise, some initiatives were taken to develop banking infrastructure in tea gardens, most of which are at remote locations. “Yesterday’s robbery again underscored the need to switch over to the digital payment mode in tea gardens. But there has to be a proper infrastructure. We are ready to extend all possible cooperation to the banks,” said Prabir Bhattacharjee, secretary |general, Tea Association of India. He said tea companies had to bear the risk of carrying lakhs of rupees in cash to gardens through deserted routes on one hand. On the other hand, Bhattacharjee said, they have to incur the additional expenditure of two per cent cess which the Centre levies on annual cash drawings of Rs 1 crore and above. A senior trade union leader pointed out that the Modi government might consistently advocate a cashless payment system but in Bengal’s tea belt, no major move was made to make it a reality. “There are many tea estates, both in the hills and the foothills, from where the nearest bank is 10 to 15 kilometres away. This means a worker will have to lose a day’s wage if he goes to the bank to draw the cash. Unless there is a proper banking facility in the garden, the concept of cashless payment cannot be implemented in the industry,” the trade union leader said. Police visited the Thanjhora garden on Friday and spoke to the employees who were carrying the cash. They also examined the SUV in which the employees were travelling. The police, sources said, set up checkpoints in at least five locations of Kharibari and adjoining areas and are working on some leads. “We believe the investigation is in progress in the right direction,” said Santosh Nimbalkar, the superintendent of police, Darjeeling. Additional reporting by Vivek Chhetri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Rift within Trinamul Congress widens in Kalimpong district||The rift within the Trinamul Congress widened in Kalimpong district as MP and district party president Shanta Chhetri on Friday came down heavily on her colleague Chawang Bhutia who had accused the legislator of running the organisation without consultations. Without naming Bhutia who had recently filed written complaints with the party’s central leadership against her, the MP said if anybody had brought any charges against her, he would have to prove them or face consequences. “When somebody has questioned my integrity and decades of service to people, it can’t be ignored. He will have to prove it or I will have no other option than to take legal steps,” said Chhetri. The senior Trinamul leader, who has been in politics for three decades, claimed that nobody had ever raised any such allegation against her so far. “I don’t want to indulge in the dirty games of some people, who have taken party posts as their personal property. Everybody has to follow the discipline of the party, as its posts can be acquired by dedication, hard work and discipline. It is the party that reserves the right to appoint the best person for that post without pride or prejudice. All appointments took place based on majority opinion at party meetings,” the Trinamul MP said. A few days ago, Bhutia, who claims to be one of the first torchbearers of Mamata Banerjee’s party in Kalimpong, had approached some senior party leaders in Calcutta. “The MP is running the party according to her whims and without the consent of state leaders,” he had said. On Friday, Bhutia could not be contacted. A number of phone calls made to him went unanswered. Some other Trinamul leaders of Kalimpong also came out in support of Chhetri. They said last month, committees of three organisational blocks in Kalimpong had passed resolutions that said the district youth president (Bhutia was in the post then) should be removed. “It was then that the reshuffle was done. He could not accept the decision of his removal and hence, he is raising some baseless charges against the MP,” said Suman Gurung, the district coordinator of Trinamul in Kalimpong.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
24-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP scan on John Barla land grab charge  ||The Bengal leadership of the BJP has started collecting details of the plots on which party MP and Union minister of state for minority affairs John Barla built a house and is constructing a commercial complex. BJP insiders said senior state leaders had met and spoken to their colleagues in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar districts to collect the details and gauge the political ramifications which the party might face in the region. Although Barla is the MP of Alipurduar, he hails from Lakhipara tea estate near Banarhat in Jalpaiguri district. The MP is accused of building a house on the tea garden’s land that was leased out to the company (that runs the estate) and encroaching on a plot of the state public works department at Chamurchi More in Banarhat and constructing a multistoried building there. The Jalpaiguri district administration had conducted a probe last week and found out that Barla does not own either of the plots. “Trinamul leaders, who had brought the issue to the administration’s notice, have been flagging the issue time and again. We are feeling awkward as we know the truth. That is why, we feel, the state leaders wanted to know the details of the issue from district leaders,” said a BJP leader in Jalpaiguri. On Thursday, some of them held a meeting with Bapi Goswami, the Jalpaiguri district BJP president. The state leaders have also spoken to BJP officebearers in Alipurduar over the phone, said sources. Although Goswami declined comments, the BJP insiders said the state leaders wanted to know how party supporters and people in general across the Dooars – both in Jalpaiguri and Alipurduar – were reacting to the charges against Barla. The state leaders, the sources said, are also likely to forward their findings in the form of a report to the central leadership in Delhi. “BJP functionaries in Alipurduar and Jalpaiguri have been asked to refrain from commenting on the issue in public. The party will also consult with legal experts,” a BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Youth killed at Malda village||A youth was hacked to death by a group of miscreants for protesting against eve-teasing at Krishnarajtola village in Malda district early on Friday. Family members of the 28-year-old victim Indrajit Ghosh said he had recently protested against Jadav Mandal and his associates who used to disturb women and pass lewd remarks at them in the locality. Alok Rajoria, district police chief, said two persons had been arrested in connection with the murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
24-07-2021||West Bengal||NFR plans to introduce vistadome coaches for Dooars in August||Tourists visiting north Bengal may find yet another reason to travel to the Dooars during the upcoming Durga Puja season as the Northeast Frontier Railway (NFR) is all set to introduce vistadome coaches from next month that will run along the Siliguri and Alipurduar route. “We intend to introduce vistadome coaches along the Siliguri-Alipurduar Junction route that moves through the Dooars from August this year. On Friday, a meeting was held with stakeholders of the tourism industry in north Bengal where proposals were sought from them on this new service. They have come up with some suggestions which will be discussed with senior railway officials,” said an official of the NFR. Samrat Sanyal, general secretary of the Himalayan Hospitality and Tourism Development Network (HHTDN),  proposed to launch that the new service  on Independence Day. “Initially, the railways had proposed Rs 755  as fare for the entire route (around 200 kilometres), while Rs 470 for a shorter route (from Siliguri to Malbazar),” said Sanyal. Debasis Maitra, the president of Eastern Himalayan Travel & Tour Operators Association (EHTTOA), has welcomed the initiative. “The railway authorities should see that people taking a ride in the vistadome coaches are provided with all necessary amenities. Also, newer options like selfie zones, halt points from where photos of the varying landscape can be clicked be explored to provide additional entertainment to tourists during travel,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Covaxin crunch forces halt to second dose in Bengal||The process to vaccinate people awaiting their second jab of Covaxin had to be halted in a majority of Bengal districts, including Calcutta, on Friday because of shortage of supply of the indigenous vaccine from the Centre. Sources in the health department said there were around three lakh people who were waiting for the second dose of Covaxin having completed the mandatory 28 days after the first dose. “As per report on Friday, two lakh people are waiting for the second dose and have crossed 42 days after their first dose. As per norms, the second dose of Covaxin will be given after 28 days of the first dose,” said a senior health official adding that there are nearly one lakh persons who have crossed the mandatory four weeks after the first dose. Sources said, as of Friday the central vaccine store at Bagbazar in Calcutta had only 5,000 doses of Covaxin. State health officials said the scarcity had developed over the past two months as the Centre did not supply adequate amounts of Covaxin during this period even after several requisitions from the state government. “We have no supply of Covaxin and had received only 40,000 Covaxin doses from the Centre yesterday (Thursday). Now most of the districts and health centres in Calcutta have no stock of Covaxin,” said a senior health official. Health officials in various districts said they had on average 8,000-10,000 persons who need to be vaccinated with a second dose of Covaxin. With a large number of people turning up at the health centres every day, officials fear that it might lead to a law and order situation. Sources said people in several districts staged demonstrations outside health centres on Friday and accused health officials of being responsible for the shortage of Covaxin. “People who are awaiting their second dose of Covaxin doses are visiting vaccination centres and getting involved in heating exchanges with our employees. We can understand their need but we have no option because of shortage of vaccines,” said a senior health official in East Burdwan. Chief medical officer of health, East Burdwan, Pranab Roy said the people were being told about the shortage of Covaxin. In Birbhum, there are around 8,000 people who are waiting for a second dose of Covaxin and the district had only 2,000 doses till Thursday. “The 2,000 doses of Covaxin had been distributed among all block and sub-divisional vaccination centres. Now we have to wait for the next supply,” said Jayanta Sukul, a deputy chief medical officer in Birbhum. In view of the shortage of vaccines, health officials in the districts have been told by the state government to halt the first dose of vaccination with Covaxin. “In view of the shortage in supply of the vaccine, we have already asked our employees not to administer Covaxin as the first shot,” said a health official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Irrigation department plans to regularise encroached land ||The irrigation department will soon go on a drive to identify its land parcels which were encroached upon in the past few years and regularise the construction on those plots as part of an attempt to generate funds for the cash-strapped government, said a source at Nabanna. The government plans to lease out the plots to the encroachers for 99 years and generate up to Rs 600 crore. “It has been found out that many of the plots owned by the irrigation department were encroached upon. The department will identify the plots and regularise the construction on such land. The initiative will fetch money for the struggling state coffers,” said a senior government official. According to sources, a preliminary survey has revealed that several commercial structures have been erected on the irrigation department’s land in Calcutta and its surroundings. If these construction or the ongoing activities on the plots are regularised, the state can earn more than Rs 600 crore right at the moment, a preliminary estimate has suggested. “We have found that marriage halls and even portions of hotels, warehouses and other commercial establishments have been set up on the department’s land. A detailed survey is being carried out across the state to find out the plots that have been encroached upon illegally. Preliminary reports suggest valuable plots are being used commercially in the city and its outskirts,” said a senior official of the department. The sources said it had initially been planned to take over such plots by removing the encroachments. But later on, it was decided that the plots would be given on long term lease to those who had encroached upon. “The decision was changed after it was found out that demolishing the structures is a costly exercise and the department would hardly be able to make proper use of the plots. So, regularising the encroachments would be a better idea as it would fetch money and wouldn’t do away with jobs that were created on the plots,” said a source.After identifying the plots which are being used illegally, the irrigation department will send files to the land and land reforms department to regularise the plots in favour of the encroachers. “The encroachers will be offered 99 years of lease for the plots they were using illegally. It is expected that all of them would agree to take the long-term lease as it would legalise their business,” said another official. In the case of 99 years of lease, the encroachers would have to pay 95 per cent of the current market price of the land as “salami” and they would be required to pay an annual rental of 0.3 per cent of the land’s valuation. “As valuable plots in Calcutta and its suburbs are being used commercially, the government might generate a sum of more than Rs 600 crore from the salami itself. The encroachers would be eligible to apply for bank loans against the plots also,” said a source. A section of the officials said the state government’s initiative clearly hinted that Nabanna was in a mood to utilise all possible resources to generate funds in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic. Recently, the state government has decided to sell off or lease out 1,000 acres of land of the DPL in Durgapur. “Now, it appears all other departments would look for their unused plots and try to generate funds from such land. This is a good initiative given the fact the state government is facing trouble to meet the huge expenditure under the welfare schemes,” said a bureaucrat. The move, however, would not be that easy as many of the structures have come up by filling up of waterbodies. “In such cases, we cannot grant lease to the encroachers until they create alternative waterbodies,” said a land and land reforms official. Irrigation department officials said they were waiting for the detailed list of encroached plots. “Once it comes up, it would be sent to Nabanna as the top brass of the government would take a final call on this,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
24-07-2021||West Bengal||Jalpaiguri: Rapid antigen tests for tourists amid Covid||The Jalpaiguri district administration has started conducting rapid antigen tests on tourists at different transit points. The tests, however, would be carried out only on those who didn’t receive the second dose of their Covid-19 vaccine or are not carrying RT-PCR negative test report issued within 48 hours before their travel. For the past few days, those associated with the tourism industry in the district have been urging the administration to introduce rapid antigen tests for the convenience of tourists as well as those who serve in the industry. Accordingly, Moumita Godara Basu, the district magistrate, issued a notification on Thursday, mentioning that the administration will create facilities for such rapid tests at entry points like New Mal station, the local bus stand in Malbazar, couple of locations in Matialli block (the entry point to Gorumara National Park and Chapramari Wildlife Sanctuary), at some locations in Maynaguri, in New Jalpaiguri and Jalpaiguri Road stations and also at the local bus stand in Jalpaiguri town. On Friday, samples of 16 tourists, who reached the New Mal station in different trains, were checked. The health workers present at the station issued negative certificates to them after which, they headed for the accommodations where they will stay during their trip. Rajen Pradhan, who is associated with tourism in Malbazar, said it is an effective initiative that will help the tourism industry. He pointed that on one hand, it would prevent unrestrained entry of tourists and simultaneously, it will not discourage tourists who are not fully vaccinated or do not have a RT-PCR negative report, from travelling to north Bengal. “If anybody is tested positive in the rapid test, he will be quarantined,” he said. “On the other hand, such screening of tourists will largely also ensure that all those associated with the sector, right from the staff at hotels and resorts, drivers, guides and others, do not get infected from a tourist.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-161
24-07-2021||North East||Amit Shah conducts closed-door meeting with NE CMs||A meeting between Union Home Minister Amit Shah and chief ministers of the eight northeastern states to discuss inter-state border disputes and ways to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases in the region is underway here on Saturday, an official said. All the chief ministers, chief secretaries and police chiefs of Assam, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Sikkim are attending the closed-door meeting chaired by the Union home minister that began at the State Convention Centre at Pinewood Hotel Annexe around 6 pm, he said. Shah was briefed on the inter-state border disputes that are plaguing the region for a long time, and the Covid situation in different states, the official said. Several northeastern states have inter-state border disputes. The boundary issue between Assam and Mizoram has flared up violently several times in the past few years. Some northeastern states are also reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases. Later in the evening, the Union home minister will meet leaders of civil society organisations, who are likely to raise demands for the implementation of Inner Line Permit (ILP) in Meghalaya and the inclusion of Khasi in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, the official said. After landing at Shillong airport earlier in the day, where he was received by Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K Sangma and Union minister Jitendra Singh, Shah attended a meeting of North East Space Applications Centre (NESAC). He then inaugurated an ISBT terminal at Mawiong on the city outskirts and a cryogenic plant in New Shillong Township. Shah is scheduled to visit Sohra (formerly called Cherrapunji) on Sunday to inaugurate an afforestation project and the Greater Sohra Water Supply Scheme, and also visit the Ramakrishna Mission Ashram there.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
24-07-2021||North East||Congress appoints Bhupen Bora chief of Assam unit||Congress on Saturday appointed Bhupen Bora as chief of its Assam unit, replacing party Rajya Sabha member Ripun Bora for the post. Continuing the organisational revamp in various units, a party statement said Congress president Sonia Gandhi has appointed Bhupen Bora as president of the Assam Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) and also named three working presidents -- Rana Goswami, Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha and Jakir Hussain Sikdar. The organisational changes in the state unit came weeks after the party's defeat in the assembly polls for which it entered into a grand alliance with the Badruddin Ajmal-led AIUDF and some other parties but failed to stop the BJP from coming back to power. The party appreciates the contributions of outgoing APCC president Ripun Bora, the statement said. Bhupen Bora and Rana Goswami are being relieved from their present responsibilities as All India Congress Committee secretaries, it said. In another appointment, Loken Singh was appointed interim president of the Manipur Pradesh Congress Committee with immediate effect till a full-time chief is named. Also, the party named Arya Kumar Jnanendra as chief organiser for the Odisha Pradesh Congress Seva Dal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
24-07-2021||North East||Manipur HC orders the release of Kishorchandra Wangkhem||Manipur High Court on Friday ordered the release of a journalist detained under the National Security Act since May 17 for a Facebook post criticising the promotion of cow dung and urine as cure for Covid-19. The high court agreed with the contention of journalist Kishorchandra Wangkhem’s wife that his case was the same as that of Erendro Leichombam, the political activist who was freed by the Supreme Court on Monday on the ground of protection of personal liberty after he had spent 67 days in custody over a similar Facebook post. Kishorchandra, associate editor of the news portal The Frontier Manipur, walked out of Sajiwa jail around 4.10pm. He told The Telegraph minutes later that he would continue to work for the “betterment of society” by creating awareness among the public against laws such as that on sedition and the NSA. A BJP-led coalition government is in power in Manipur. The division bench of Manipur High Court Chief Justice Sanjay Kumar and Justice Kh Nobin Singh directed Kishorchandra’s immediate release while acting on the “letter petition” emailed by the journalist’s wife, Elangbam Ranjita, to the chief justice and “his puisne judges” on Thursday seeking her husband’s release. Ranjita had based her plea on Monday’s Supreme Court verdict that ordered the release of Erendro. The committee of judges of the high court “dealing with public interest litigation, letter petitions and habeas corpus matters” directed the registration of Ranjita’s letter petition as a writ petition. It was listed for hearing on Friday. Ordering Kishorchandra’s release, the division bench said: “On the face of it, we find no distinction or difference between the case of the petitioner’s husband and that of Erendro Leichombam. Both of them put up similar Facebook posts, critical of the utility of cow dung and cow urine in treating the coronavirus.” The court added: “As they stand identically situated, we are of the opinion that the continued incarceration of the petitioner’s husband would be as much a violation of Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty) of the Constitution as it was in the case of Erendro Leichombam.” The bench cited Monday’s Supreme Court order for the immediate release of Erendro on the ground that his “continued detention would amount to violation of his right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution”. While suspending the May 17 state government order detaining Kishorchandra under Section 3(2) of the NSA till the next date of hearing (August 24), the high court, in an interim direction, also asked the BJP administration to ensure “the petitioner’s husband presently detained in the Central Jail, Sajiwa, is released forthwith and in any event, not later than 5pm today, upon his furnishing a personal release bond for a sum of Rs 1,000, if his further incarceration is not required in connection with any other case”. Both Kishorchandra and Erendro were arrested on May 13 on the basis of separate FIRs filed by senior state BJP leaders P. Premananda Meitei and vice-president Usham Deben for Facebook posts written soon after the death of Manipur BJP president Saikhom Tikendra Singh from Covid that day. They were detained under the NSA “within minutes” of getting bail. Kishorchandra’s post, written in the Meitei language, had said: “Cow dung and cow urine didn’t work. Unreasonably argumentative and unpleasant. Tomorrow I will eat fish.” Ranjita’s plea to the chief justice said her husband’s Facebook post “was a very sincere expression for not agreeing with the unscientific treatment of the said present corona pandemic where even the scientific tests are being done on an experimental basis” and was “not aimed to hurt the feeling of anyone or any group”. Kishorchandra, 41, told this newspaper he was feeling both happy and sad. “I’m happy because I’m out of jail and sad because bahut galat ho raha hai (a lot of wrong is being committed).… People are being jailed for speaking up. This is not done.” This was the second time Kishorchandra had been detained under the NSA. He had been held earlier from “November 27, 2018, to April 3, 2019, for a Facebook post critical of the BJP’s policies”, he said. On what he plans to do, Kishorchandra said: “I will continue to raise my voice against injustice. Something should be done so politicians understand that what they are doing is not good. The executive should also understand what is good and what is bad for society. I have filed a petition against the sedition law in the Supreme Court (on April 30). I am also planning to challenge the NSA in the apex court.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
24-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Meenakshi Lekhi calls farmers 'hooligans', mandatory mediation law in India, National Cousins’ Day||Bad choice Sir — It was quite shameful to hear the junior foreign minister, Meenakshi Lekhi, use the word, ‘hooligans’, in connection with the farmers who have been protesting for months against the unjust agriculture reform laws that were passed by the Union government (“Farm parliament meets amid ‘hooligans’ row”, July 23). She was speaking at a press conference when she made the comment on the alleged attack on a mediaperson during the ‘farmers’ parliament’ at Jantar Mantar. Even though she apologized later and claimed that her comments were misinterpreted, it would not be hard to believe that the Bharatiya Janata Party minister harbours frosty feelings towards the farmers who have refused thus far to allow the Centre to bulldoze them into compliance. Moreover, using objectionable language against dissenters and Opposition leaders has become a part of India’s steadily degrading political discourse; BJP ministers have a dubious record in this regard. It is entirely likely that Lekhi let her true feelings towards the farmers, who have been a thorn in the BJP’s side, show. After all, the BJP has been unable to crush their fight for their rights. Maitreyi Krishnan,Chennai Sir — Exasperated by the tenacity of the farmers in spite of all the efforts of the BJP government and sections of the media to silence them, Meenakshi Lekhi called them hooligans, thereby making a grave error. She may have apologized later, but the damage has been done and it is bound to cost the BJP and the Central government a lot of goodwill. What has been said, especially by those holding positions of power, cannot be unsaid. Anthony Henriques,Mumbai First step Sir — While speaking at the India-Singapore Mediation Summit, the Chief Justice of India, N.V. Ramana, rightly expressed the need for Parliament to enact an ‘omnibus’ law to make mediation mandatory before a case goes to court (“Civilly solved”, July 22). Doing so would ease the pressure on an already overburdened judiciary, which has several decades’ worth of a backlog of cases to handle alongside new litigation being filed every day. Mediation or arbitration through alternative dispute resolution, on the other hand, will help citizens, especially those belonging to middle-class or poorer backgrounds, by reducing their expenses and the time to be spent on the cases. Citizens go to court because they believe that the rule of law will be followed. They trust that their complaints will be heard with strict impartiality, free from political or other influences, and that they will receive a fair trial. However, unjust and violent means are often used in mediation in India. This is evident in the decision-making of khap panchayats and shalishi bodies which make a mockery of social justice. As such, a law on mandatory mediation, especially in the case of civil disputes, should have adequate limitations, keeping biases of gender, caste, religion and so on outside its scope. Jahar Saha,Calcutta Sir — A mandatory mediation law in India would be welcome if law-makers can frame it comprehensively enough to prevent its misuse. Mediations in cases where obvious power asymmetries exist should not be to the detriment of the less-powerful party. Aranya Gupta,Calcutta  Perfect mix Sir — As a person who grew up in a joint family and was surrounded by cousins, I was pleasantly surprised to learn that there is a day commemorating this unique relationship as well. Today is National Cousins’ Day, and is an apt occasion for different generations to reflect on their bonds with their cousins. For people like me, cousins are no less than one’s own siblings, as we grew up together. Younger generations who grew up in nuclear families would likely have had a different experience. It would be good for young people to consider nurturing their relationships with their cousins — it is a bond that can be a perfect mix of friendship and familial support. Subhalakshmi Basu,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
24-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Fair games||Will the Tokyo Olympics — it began on Friday — witness the breaking of the glass ceiling as well as of records? The International Olympic Committee seems to think so. On Women’s Day this year, it announced that the tournament would be the “first ever gender-balanced Olympic Games in history” with almost 49 per cent of the total number of athletes being women. Indeed, five major participating countries, including Russia, China and the United States of America, are sending more women athletes to the competition than men. The contingent from the US will have 329 women and 284 men. China’s representation of women is more than double of that of its men — 298 to 133. The push towards making the Olympics more gender-inclusive is welcome. The issue must, however, be examined beyond the lens of numbers alone. Representation and even performance in international events do not necessarily guarantee equal treatment for women athletes. The gender pay gap in sports remains staggering, with even the most successful football team in the world since 1991 — the US women’s soccer team — not making nearly as much as their male counterparts. The asymmetry is evident in the importance accorded to women sportspersons by the media as well; studies have shown that women’s sports receive the same amount of coverage now as they did in the 1980s. These disparities are even more acute in India, which has traditionally frowned upon women participating in professions considered to be the domains of men. India is sending only 56 women to the Tokyo Olympics as opposed to 71 men. This is a pity, because India’s medal tally had seen significant contributions from women in the Asiad and the Commonwealth Games. Ironically, in 2021, an Olympic year, the Union government slashed the sports budget by Rs 230.78 crore. This is likely to further reduce women sportspersons’ share of resources related to equipment, training and sponsorship. Other obstacles faced by women — social discrimination, unethical treatment, the policing of their bodies — run deep in sport and often remain unidentified. Even laws governing sports bodies and tournaments can be prejudicial. In 2014, the Indian sprinter, Dutee Chand, had her gender questioned and had to fight a ban for having high testosterone levels. These prejudices must be actively rooted out through mechanisms — inclusive, sensitized laws, parity in payment, awareness programmes to address social conservatism and so on — that enable women to shatter the gender glass ceiling. The Olympics — one of the premier sporting competitions in the world — treating women equitably could provide a momentum for broader transformations. It must be remembered that the Games are taking place during an unprecedented global health crisis. The staging of the competition, therefore, is a testament to the ferocity of the human spirit. What is needed, however, is for the fierceness of spirit to be matched with the forces of humanitarianism and empathy. If global sporting culture were to be imbued with these salutary values, the day that women athletes break the glass ceiling would, hopefully, not be far away.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
24-07-2021||Opinion||Poignant pictures by Derry Moore||My favourite photograph of Satyajit Ray, surrounded by books and newspapers, was taken at his residence in Calcutta in 1980. What I hadn’t realized was that this evocative black-and-white image was taken by the British photographer, Derry Moore. Born in 1937 into an Anglo-Irish aristocratic family and educated at Eton and Trinity College, Cambridge, the 12th Earl of Drogheda tells me he has never wanted to “trade” on his title. When I meet Moore at his home in Notting Hill, he reveals he is planning an exhibition of his equestrian photographs, including horses from the Indian presidential guard taken in 2015. That was also when he photographed Pranab Mukherjee in the Rashtrapati Bhavan. In 1976, the first of his 20 trips to India, he photographed Indira Gandhi. He met Ray in Lucknow in 1977 when the director was shooting The Chess Players. But it was not until their third meeting that Moore was satisfied with his photograph. “His films influenced me tremendously — visually.” In 1982, Moore photographed Soumitra Chatterjee in his green room in north Calcutta when the actor was doing an adaptation of Ivan Turgenev’s A Poor Gentleman — “it was the best production of the Russian play I’ve ever seen.” Taken by The Autobiography of an Unknown Indian, Moore asked to photograph Nirad C Chaudhuri in Oxford in 1988 — “I’ve just finished rereading Thy Hand, Great Anarch!” “I was rather disappointed that he wasn’t in Bengali clothes,” recalls Moore, who was rebuked “slightly” for not using his title. “The Bengali shawl creates a wonderful pediment for the head. One of the things that makes me so mad is the way people in India have abandoned Indian clothes. Now, people dress in the way that they dress all over the world — jeans and tee shirts and things.” Important lessons Amartya Sen’s memoir, Home in the World, which he told me he was thinking of writing perhaps 10 years ago, is easily the most accessible of all his books. I remember he showed me around Trinity College, Cambridge, after taking over as Master in 1998 and took me to lunch at Hall where I noted mango chutney and poppadum were available. I am especially enjoying the account of his early period in Cambridge after he arrived as an undergraduate in 1953. He had to come by sea because his family couldn’t afford the BOAC fare from Calcutta. He was due to come to the United Kingdom from the United States of America next month to speak about the book but tells me he has had to postpone the trip until October because of the pandemic. He writes about his earliest memories of Burma and how people he remembers as gentle have been turned by persistent propaganda into “violent haters” of the Rohingyas. “There is a lesson here which is peculiarly important today in formerly secular India: the religious extremists have been very dedicated — even through governmental policy — in undermining inter-community relations and in threatening the human rights of Muslim minorities.” Incidentally, his favourite dishes include tagliolini con vongole, Szechuan duck, and “of course ilish mach” — but the latter “has to be cooked in proper Dhaka style with ground mustard”. Differently served My first post-lockdown lunch at Ziani, an Italian restaurant in Chelsea, was with Theo Woodham-Smith, who does a wonderful job of promoting the arts and was the one to alert me to Derry Moore. The book she has been reading sounded so intriguing that I immediately ordered it — Garlic and Sapphires by Ruth Reichl. As the food critic of The New York Times, Reichl felt she had to be anonymous and so took to turning up in a variety of disguises, including Molly Hollis, the retired high school teacher, Chloe, the seductress, and Brenda, the downtown earth mother. Some outraged restaurant owners sought to get her fired. Her reviews revealed that she received cosseted treatment as herself and the worst table and poor service as a non-celebrity. Technological challenge One has to listen to Sam Pitroda, the tech guru to Rajiv Gandhi and Manmohan Singh, when he insists India’s EVMs can be hacked. How? “Very simple. I’ll tell you my view as a technocrat... it is not just about the equipment. It’s the entire process — the logistics of shipping the equipment, storing the equipment, handling the equipment, upgrading the equipment. This technology is 15 years old and 15-year-old technology in my field is like 100-year-old technology. If this technology is not modified every two years it is obsolete.” Sam is in Chicago, his home for 55 years, but Zoom makes it possible to talk to him about his new book, Redesign the World: A Global Call to Action. His method of testing an EVM would be drastic: “I would give it to the global hacker community and say, ‘Here it is. Hack it.’ No point in saying, ‘Oh, we did this five years ago, and nobody could hack it.’ I want it done now.” After the polls in West Bengal he is also scathing about the Election Commission: “Tell me which state has eight phases of elections? What was the need for it?” Footnote It is well known that Bill Clinton likes spicy Indian food, especially “butter chicken, sheekh kebab and Malabar fish curry”. Now there is further confirmation in Downing Street documents released by the National Archives at Kew. When he came to the UK as the US president in May 1997, he politely turned down taking tea with the Queen and dinner with the PM, Tony Blair, at Chequers. Instead, he and Hillary wanted to try out an Indian restaurant. But Blair more or less forced Clinton to have dinner at the French restaurant, Le Pont de la Tour, near Tower Bridge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
24-07-2021||Opinion||Riding high||The Pegasus scandal appears to be another milestone in the country’s descent into authoritarianism. The breadth of surveillance that has been uncovered touches almost every institution of India: Opposition parties, the media, non-governmental organizations, the judiciary and the Election Commission. Equally unsettling is its depth. Through this malware, the government gains a level of access to the private lives of citizens that would be beyond the wildest dreams of totalitarian regimes of the 20th century. Taking the reasonable assumption that the government or its agencies are involved as only the government can access the spyware, the issue at hand goes beyond a violation of privacy. A surveillance regime of this kind undermines every substantive aspect of democracy: the rule of law, free and fair elections, freedom of expression and institutional autonomy. Given the seriousness of the charges it faces, one might have expected to see a tarnished and tottering government à la the Nixon regime in the midst of Watergate. Yet, the government has reasons to be confident of surviving the scandal with minimal political damage. The Opposition has two routes towards cornering the government on this issue, both of them riddled with difficulties. The first is forging a coalition of elites to take on the government. Since all segments of the power elite, including the media, businessmen and the judiciary, have been perversely affected by the surveillance, they have the motive to actively unite behind demands for accountability and redress. It must also be remembered that the list of names released is probably only the tip of the iceberg — one leaked list, in one time period, pertaining to one surveillance tool. The actual surveillance net likely ensnares a wider cross-section of elites. However, this coalition of elites would be difficult to assemble in practice. The Supreme Court would unquestionably be interested in the name of an SC judge popping up among the list of the surveillance targets. However, if the Supreme Court decides to order a high-profile judicial enquiry, it would become embroiled in some difficult questions of its own. One of the most important stories that came out of the leaks is the snooping on the woman (and her relatives) who accused the former Chief Justice of India, Ranjan Gogoi, of sexual harassment. Perhaps more importantly, a judicial enquiry into the matter might set the Supreme Court up towards the sort of frontal conflict with the political executive that it has repeatedly shown it wishes to avoid. The media and business leaders might also be loath to confront the government. In one respect, what the Pegasus leaks represent is the portrait of an all-powerful State. The sense of fear that partly accounts for the self-censorship of the media and compliance of business houses would, therefore, only become more potent with the leaks. There would have conceivably been countless journalists, civil servants, activists and businessmen wondering over the past few days whether they too have been hacked. This paranoia has the potential to weaken more spines than it stiffens into action. In some respects, fear is an effective instrument for maintaining conformance. It has its limitations, though, as would be explained later in the article. A second route for the Opposition entails building popular support against government surveillance. This course is an even steeper climb. The political messaging against government surveillance comes up against two barriers. One, people aren’t sure how government surveillance affects their lives. As any activist flagging the surveillance potential of Aadhar or the proliferation of CCTVs in public spaces would attest to, privacy issues have little purchase among the broader public. Further, the supposed target of surveillance in this case is not even them but the elites. The second barrier is the overweening cynicism that since this is the practice common to all governments, there is nothing important in any new revelation. This cynicism is, moreover, not without basis. An RTI application filed during the UPA years revealed that, on an average, permission for 7,500 to 9,000 phone interceptions were issued every month by the home ministry under the Indian Telegraph Act. Despite the continuities with previous surveillance regimes, the Pegasus scandal is still unprecedented in some sense. This is not just because of the sweeping and high-tech nature of the surveillance, the unloading of an imported ‘cyber-weapon’ by a government against its own citizens. It is also because the ends of surveillance are purely partisan — aimed almost exclusively at opponents of the government or journalists working on stories damaging to the Bharatiya Janata Party — with little relation to any conception of national security. It is also not clear if the surveillance even passes the minimum test of formal legality since there is no legal provision allowing hacking by State agencies. However, since most political parties have been complicit in State surveillance of some sort when in power, they have trouble surmounting the question of credibility when in Opposition. The nuances of different surveillance regimes do not translate neatly into political rhetoric. A deeper malaise is the failure of the political system to nurture any intellectual tradition or political discourse connecting surveillance with the curtailment of civic and political freedoms. This is why allegations of surveillance have rarely led to any political accountability. There are two exceptions to this rule. One, the resignation of the former Karnataka chief minister, Ramakrishna Hegde, owing to charges of spying on the calls of his political adversaries. And, two, the fall of the Chandra Shekhar government after a controversy involving police surveillance of Rajiv Gandhi. But even in these cases, the fallout owed more to political machinations rather than public disgust. In the case of Hegde, the spying scandal was merely an axe used by his party rivals, such as Chandra Shekhar and Deve Gowda, to oust him from office. Likewise, the presence of two plainclothes constables outside Rajiv Gandhi’s residence was a patently absurd pretext used by the Congress to pull the plug on the Chandra Shekhar government. Therefore, the Narendra Modi government might well feel emboldened to believe that this latest scandal would soon blow over notwithstanding the usual domestic criticism and international embarrassment. However, the Pegasus scandal reveals a deeper vulnerability of the Modi government, common to many regimes with an authoritarian bent. It is the over-reliance on fear and coercion as a mechanism for ensuring the support of the elites. When Modi came to power, he had managed to generate considerable enthusiasm among large parts of the media, business, and even intellectual elites. Meanwhile, the BJP and the RSS had also for decades cultivated influential members of the Indian elite, making inroads into the constituency through the politics of persuasion. The political imagination of the BJP leadership is now restricted to electoral success underpinned by an extraordinary electoral machine. As long as the party can hold on to its popular support on the basis of majoritarian ideology and the personality cult of Modi, the elites can be bent to the leadership’s will using the fearsome power of the State. However, the reliance on fear to the exclusion of the give-and-take of politics has its limitations. The brazen use of investigative agencies against Opposition parties has not prevented the loss of key allies such as the Shiv Sena and the Shiromani Akali Dal in recent years. The remarkable centralization of the party, coupled with demands of unquestioning loyalty, has also weakened party structures. That the coercive strategy of the top leadership extends to the party itself was made starkly clear from the Pegasus leaks as BJP leaders and their aides were also the alleged targets of surveillance. The rumblings of the elites under the surface could be seen during the second wave of the pandemic. As Modi’s popular support witnessed an ebbing, institutions such as the media and the judiciary asserted their independence and took the government to task. However, the reflex of the top leadership to any political insecurity is to double down on the coercion, its primary language of governance, thus creating even more underlying resentment. This is not a recipe for long-term dominance, which requires a degree of co-option of the elite based on loyalty and common interest. As the monsoon session runs its course, the really damaging punches to the government are likely to be made over its failures on the issues of price rise, pandemic and farmers, not the issue of surveillance. Yet, it is the growing authoritarianism of the government, highlighted by the Pegasus scandal, that is at the root of what afflicts the country. Asim Ali is a political columnist and research associate with the Centre for Policy Research, Delhi||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Fruit-seller among three held for 'trying to topple' Jharkhand government||The arrest of three persons with Rs 2 lakh cash and air travel documents of a few MLAs led to whispers of a "political conspiracy" in Ranchi through Saturday with police adding to the intrigue by charging them with attempting to "destablise an elected government". While the ruling JMM, which is heading a coalition government in the state with the Congres and the RJD, accused the BJP of resorting to horse trading of MLAs, the Opposition party hit back by dismissing the allegations and ridiculing the ruling parties for creating a storm over such a meagre amount of money. Ranchi police have been scanning hotels since Thursday following a complaint filed by Congress MLA Kumar Jaimangal. In his July 22 (Thursday) complaint at Kotwali police station, he accused unidentified persons of attempting to lure MLAs of the ruling party. “I have received a tip-off about some persons and groups who are camping in different places in the city doing hawala transactions. They are also working as a part of a big political conspiracy and trying to purchase MLAs of the ruling parties to topple the government,” Jaimangal said in his  complaint. At 11pm on Friday night, the three persons were picked up along with Rs 2 lakh cash, and few documents. They haVe been identified as Abhishek Singh, Amit Singh and Nivaran Prasad Mahto. Amit and Nivaran are from Bokaro while Abhishek is from Ratu Road in Ranchi. Police have booked them under various sections of IPC, Representation of the People Act, 1951, and the Prevention of Corruption Act. Senior police officals were incommunicado. But Kamlesh Kumar, an inspector rank official at Kotwali police station who is investigating the case,  noted, “All the three arrested persons have confessed about planning a political conspiracy to topple the elected government in the state.” The JMM accused the BJP of resorting to unwanted political adventurism. Addressing a press conference, party general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharjee said, “We have learnt that police have arrested three persons on charges of trying to destablise the government. Investigations are underway, but we suspect that it could be the handiwork of te BJP to topple the government. It is in their nature to usurp power wherever they lose elections. But it won’t be successful in Jharkhand." Bhattacharjee said saffron party leaders had often theatened the state government. “If you remember, last year during the by-elections and also thereafter, BJP leaders have been openly saying that the government will change soon. But their attempts won’t succeed,” he said. Congress’s spokesperson Rakesh Sinha also blamed the BJP. “BJP has been trying to resort to horse trading for long but it won’t be successful,” he said. BJP MP from Godda Nishikant Dubey hit back. “Going by police and government’s logic, it seems that just in Rs 2 lakh, MLAs of ruling alliance can be bought. This means, chief minister’s MLAs are priced at meager Rs 10,000 each. Rate of a goat during Bakrid is even more than the state government MLAs here. Salute CM, salute to his MLAs and salute to Ranchi police,” he tweeted. Relatives of those arrested cried foul play, accusing police of booking innocent people in false cases. Nivaran's cousin Bhim Mahto said his brother was a small time fruit seller in Bokaro. “In the morning, we learnt that Nivaran was arrested from a hotel in Ranchi trying to topple the government. How can this be possible as Bokaro police picked him up from the home on Thursday night. Since then, we have been running to various police stations in Bokaro only to learn in the morning that he has been sent to Ranchi. Why is Ranchi police claiming he was arrested from a city hotel when he was picked up from Bokaro? Moreover, can a small time fruit seller topple the government?,” he said while waiting outside Kotwali police station in the evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur sporting association's football sub-committee gets new chairman||Chanakya Choudhary, vice-president (corporate services) of Tata Steel and president of Jamshedpur Sporting Association, has appointed Mukul Choudhari as chairman of the football sub-committee. JSA are organisers of the local soccer league. JSA secretary Avinash Kumar said Rohit Kumar Singh, manager (youth teams and operations,JFC) has been appointed  assistant secretary. The chairman post fell vacant following the demise of incumbent S. Zubair Alam in April this year. Choudhari, an experienced football administrator, is also the chief of sports excellence in Tata Steel. A few more changes in the JSA set up is also expected. The Association is patronised by Tata Steel. The local football league is one of the oldest sporting fixtures in the eastern zone. The league has been conducted in Jamshedpur for over seven decades now. It is played for nearly two months, with around 80 matches. As many as 44 clubs and institutions compete in the tournament held in the Premier Division, the Super Division and ‘A’ Division. The fixture could not take place last year in view of Covid-19 pandemic. Though the league is likely to meet the same fate this year too but officials are hopeful that the tournament was possible due to relaxation in Covid restrictions. “The Covid-related situation has improved and sports activities have resumed . We are hopeful about the tournament taking place. However, we don’t want to make any decision (about organising the league) in a hurry. We would like to wait  before taking any decision related to the fixture,” the JSA functionary said. Logistics involved in conducting the event, grounds, fixtures and registrations etc,  needs to be worked out first before going ahead with the tournament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Bird with fractured wing rescued by 3 youngsters ||Three young girls of an NGO Adhikari Foundation for Nature Conservation rescued and treated a Black Kite bird whose wing was badly fractured in the Jail Hata locality in Daltonganj, said sources. The bird, weighing 812 grams, looked exhausted, emaciated, stressed and shocked. Its humerus bone was split and was found grovelling in acute pain and dirt. An unidentified bird lover rang one of the girls and soon two of them, Sonali and Anishka, rushed to the location and recovered the bird. Sources said the district animal husbandry office here which runs the cattle hospital has no expertise in dealing with injuries and traumas to birds and snakes etc. The third member, Jyoti, said she phoned Dr Vishal Patel, a renowned name in rescue, treatment and rehabilitation of wildlife including the birds in the USA and a Gujarat based popular veterinary surgeon Dr Divya to know how to proceed with the treatment of the black kite. “The fracture point of the humerus bone had too many red ants further rendering the life of this bird miserable,” said Jyoti adding that red ants can't be removed with water and need to be removed by hand. Any use of water to drain out the red ants would have run the risk of water entering the lungs of the bird which would have meant instant death. Sonali and Anishka removed the red ants with painstaking efforts and, on the advice of the two doctors, fluid was transfused through subcutaneous tissues. The right fractured wing was bandaged and the black kite was fed and kept in a comfortable room. The black kite bird is making spectacular recovery and it is hoped this bird will be up on her wings in a couple of days. Sources said the girls had saved a bird cattle egret about seven or eight months ago whose one leg was amputated and after fifteen days of caring for the bird, it took to its wing with one leg in the vast space.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covaxin doses reach Jharkhand, but not enough to meet rising demand||Jharkhand received 35,570 Covaxin doses on Saturday, a delay in supply of which left several second dose beneficiaries of this Bharat Biotech-made vaccine worried, said health officials. As per government data, the state was left with barely 7,000 doses of Covaxin in stock until Saturday and several beneficiaries of the second jab of the vaccine were kept waiting for fresh supplies. “We received 35,570 Covaxin doses today (Saturday) morning. We are expecting around 70,000 more doses of this vaccine by the end of July to ensure that second dose beneficiaries are not kept waiting,” said Dr Ajit Prasad, the immunisation officer of Jharkhand. The number of Covishield doses administered in the state so far was at least six times the number of Covaxin doses, latest data with the health department highlighted. The state has administered Covaxin doses to over 13.76 lakh residents and Covishield to around 71.62 lakh beneficiaries. However, many of the almost 14 lakh residents who were administered Covaxin as their first dose struggled to find slots for the second dose of the vaccine due to poor supplies in the past week or so, health officials said. Even though the state had a limited supply of Covaxin, the demand for this vaccine has been growing among locals, primarily due to the shorter gap between the two doses as compared to Covishield. As per Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, Covaxin requires a gap of only 28 days between the two doses, while the second dose of Covishield is administered at least 84 days after the first dose. “The shorter gap between the two doses of Covaxin has led to a sudden rise in its demand. Many people are willing to wait for weeks to get this vaccine, and not go for other options available,” said a vaccination staff at Medanta Hospital in Ranchi. While the immunisation campaign against Covid-19 has been a bumpy ride in Jharkhand this month with periods of extreme crisis and surplus dose availability, the health machinery has relied heavily on the easily available Covishield vaccine to prevent the vaccination drive from coming to a standstill, officials said. Jharkhand received 5,30,430 doses of Covishield on Friday and an additional 2.61 lakh on Saturday to run the immunisation campaign for the remaining period of July, officials said. While the state received over 15 lakh doses of Covishield this month, hardly 1 lakh doses of Covaxin were supplied from the Centre. A highly-placed source involved in the immunisation drive against Covid-19 said that the health department has asked vaccination centres to prioritize administering Covaxin to second dose beneficiaries over people willing to get the first jab of the vaccine.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad criminal wanted for BJP leader's murder surrenders||Vikash Singh, a notorious criminal of Dhanbad, facing several  murder and extortion cases, surrendered in connection with the murder  of BJP Kendua mandal president Satish Singh on Saturday. Satish’s murder took place on August 19, 2020. He was a close aide of Dhanbad MLA Raj Sinha. Vikash was identified as the main conspirator in the murder and was evading arrest. Police had earlier searched several places including his house at Ambikapuram and also attached his properties. His bail application was rejected by the high court. Vikash, a resident of Ambikapuram Colony of Dhanbad, is also the main accused in the murder case of owner of Bundela Travels Sudhir Singh on October 31, 2013. Vikash Singh’s lawyer Jaya Kumar told the Chief Judicial Magistrate's court on Saturday that the bail application will be submitted later. Satish Singh, who was in real estate business and also used to deal with the private mine excavators working on behalf of BCCL, developed animosity with Vikash Singh and others in connection with money transaction due to which he was killed on August 19, 2020 in broad daylight at Vikash Nagar area of Matkuri when he was heading towards Vikash Nagar on foot after disembarking from a car. CCTV footage obtained from the site revealed that two persons arrived on bike and the pillion driver shot him in his head from point blank range and fled from the site. Police first arrested a driver of Putki Lalan Kumar Das on September 4, 2020 and later on his indication arrested four other persons on September 17, including three of Baliapur, Uttam Mahto, Baburaja Chandraprakash also known as Siddhant Singh, Gaur Rawani and Hrishikesh Paswan of Damodarpur. The arrested persons later revealed to police that the murder of Satish Singh was carried out after a dispute over some money transaction between Satish Singh and Baburaja Chandraprakash also called Siddhant Singh and Vikash Singh played the role of key conspirator in the case. Notably, Baburaja Chandraprakash and Uttam Mahto are also accused of the 36 kg gold loot and Rs 11 lakh case loot case of Muthoot Finance which took place in Asansol Benachatti Market on February 1, 2013 and the consignment was later recovered from the house of one Dasrath Mahto at Tundi. The duo were on bail following the relief provided by the Bengal court.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid-19: active cases drop below 300 in Jharkhand ||The active caseload of Covid-19 came dropped below the 300 on Friday as at least 45 Covid patients recovered on the day, while 39 fresh cases of the viral infection surfaced in Jharkhand, the National Health Mission (NHM) stated in its daily Covid-19 bulletin on Friday. The active caseload now stood at 299 in the tribal state. At least 10 districts – Chatra, Dumka, Gumla, Jamtara, Lohardaga, Pakur, Palamu, Ramgarh, Sahebganj and West Singhbhum– did not report fresh Covid cases on the day, while none of the districts reported cases in double digits, the NHM bulletin further stated. As per government data, Ranchi reported five cases against 11 recoveries, which brought the active caseload here down to 63. At least six recoveries against nine fresh cases brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum up at 27. The state on Friday tested swab samples of 61,196 residents and about 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by novel coronavirus. So far, over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand and 98.43 per cent of them have recovered. However, about 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The state did not report fresh Covid casualties for the fifth day in a row and the toll in the state remained 5122. Ranchi, as per government data, has reported 1585 Covid deaths, the highest among the districts. On the other hand, as many as 1040 residents have died of the viral infection in East Singhbhum. The doubling rate of cases in the state reached 7129.33 days against the national average of 815.44 days on Friday, while the growth rate of cases in Jharkhand was 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09, government data highlighted. The immunisation campaign against Covid-19 could not gain pace on Friday as less than 35,000 were inoculated across the state. Provisional data released by the NHM highlighted that the State managed to vaccinate 33,502 residents on the day. As per NHM data, the first dose of vaccines was administered to 25,153 residents while the second jab was administered to 8,349 beneficiaries. More than 20,633 beneficiaries in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years got jabbed on the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||Stan Swamy: Human rights activists stage agitations in Jharkhand, Delhi and other parts of the country||Human rights activists, civil society groups, mass organisations and trade union members staged agitations in Jharkhand, Delhi and other parts of the country on Friday in protest against the “institutional murder” of Father Stan Swamy. More than 70 people, including academics such as the development economist Jean Dreze, students and representatives of trade unions and the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, braved the rain to form a 1km human chain on the Main Road near the Albert Ekka Chowk in Ranchi. The protests are part of a series of public observances called by rights groups, trade unions, Christian organisations, Left parties and their student and youth wings over the next five weeks to protest against the government’s treatment of Father Stan and push for a more humane policing and justice system. The 84-year-old, ailing Jesuit  and tribal rights activist from Ranchi had died in custody in Mumbai while waiting for bail nine months after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested him in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. “(Friday’s protests in Jharkhand were) part of the national campaign called by more than 120 organisations,” PUCL organisational secretary Arvind Avinash said. “A delegation will be submitting a memorandum addressed to President Ram Nath Kovind through Jharkhand governor Ramesh Bais with a charter of demands.” The demands include the repeal of “draconian” legislation such as the anti-terror law UAPA, the sedition law and the National Security Act; the release of all political prisoners; fixing accountability on law-enforcement and investigative agencies for filing false cases; and compensation for victims of false cases and police atrocities. Another demand is the immediate withdrawal by the Jharkhand government of all the cases lodged against Father Stan and others in connection with the Pathalgadi tribal rights movement. “There were agitations in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Delhi and other states on Friday demanding justice for Father Stan and calling on the judiciary to restore dignity to Father Stan and give him justice at least in death,” PUCL national general secretary Kavita Srivastava told The Telegraph from Jaipur. She said the month-long campaign would witness an agitation on August 9 to mark World Indigenous Day and the launch of the Quit India Movement of 1942. On August 15, a pledge would be taken to defend democracy and the Constitution with a countrywide reading of the Preamble. “There are also plans for a countrywide mass hunger strike between August 15 and 27,” Srivastava said. “There will be a nationwide protest on August 28, too, as it is the day when five people in the Bhima Koregaon (Elgaar Parishad) case were arrested three years ago. There are plans to end the campaign with a candlelight vigil for all jailed comrades (political prisoners).” The Jesuit Conference of India has called on its followers and friends to mark July 28 as National Justice Day in memory of Father Stan, and invited people irrespective of religious identity to join in paying homage to the priest. Civil society groups will hold a candlelight march across Jharkhand on August 15 to protest the Centre’s crackdown on dissent. Several Left groups held protests in Delhi on Friday on the sidelines of the Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar. Prasenjeet Kumar, working general secretary of the CPIML Liberation’s All India Students Association, said: “The new revelations about the Pegasus spyware have brought into common knowledge the kind of surveillance and repression Indian people are being subjected to. Governments are colluding in order to oppress people.” He added: “The death of Father Stan Swamy is another example of how inhuman the RSS-BJP regime is. We demand an independent inquiry and immediate release of all political prisoners.” The other participants in Delhi included CPM student arm SFI, the CPIML’s Liberation and Red Star factions and their fronts, several Far-Left student groups, and the National Confederation of Human Rights Organisations. “Mass movements are built by the masses. No matter how many leaders are taken political prisoner by the central government, many more will come from the masses and take their place,” SFI Delhi state committee member Varkey Parakkal told the gathering. The New Trade Union Initiative (NTUI) too held meetings and protests across the country on Friday. “All trade unions, irrespective of political affiliations, and all organisations of farmers, women, students, and communities that are discriminated against besides democratic rights organisations joined our daylong protests across the country in memory of the fearless Father Stan,” NTUI general secretary Gautam Mody said. “The objective was to defend our democracy, workers’ right to strike, our right to dissent and, above all, the idea of a plural and progressive India.” In Bombay High Court, a judge who praised Father Stan’s work withdrew his oral observations in response to a law officer’s request. PTI quoted additional solicitor-general Anil Singh, who appeared for the NIA at the hearing of a plea challenging the denial of bail to the Jesuit, told Justice S.S. Shinde: “We have all condoled the death of Mr Swamy, but any personal comments or private comments coming from the judges or any law officer, especially in the open court, are normally being twisted by the press and social media.” Justice Shinde, who heard the case along with Justice N.J. Jamadar, said: “If you want, I take my words back. Our endeavour is to stay fair and balanced always. That should be the end of the matter.” Father Stan’s counsel Mihir Desai asked the court to monitor the mandatory magisterial probe into the custody death that is yet to begin. The NIA opposed this on the ground that as the priest was dead, the appeals on his bail stood abated and this is where the hearing should end. The court asked Desai for a written submission and adjourned the matter till August 4. The bail plea of lawyer-activist Sudha Bharadwaj, a co-accused of Father Stan, too was adjourned to August 2 by the same bench after the Maharashtra government and the NIA argued she shouldn’t be granted default bail on a technicality. Bharadwaj’s lawyer had sought bail on the ground that the prosecution had erred by getting an additional sessions judge, and not the designated special judge of an NIA court, to take cognisance of her chargesheet. Additional reporting by PTI from Mumbai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
24-07-2021||Jharkhand||BJP pat for Hemant’s new projects ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday launched a slew of urban development projects for the state capital at a function at the Jaipal Singh Stadium here. An apparently routine function became significant because Soren had three Opposition BJP leaders for company on stage who all hailed the initiative, speaking in the same tune as the chief minister. “Small things can bring in big changes,” Soren said at the launch of 45 urban development projects for Ranchi that would involve an expenditure of over Rs 84 crore. “The executing agencies must ensure the quality of work so that the developed sites look impressive and last longer,” the chief minister, who also holds the urban development department, said. He added that the erring officers would be taken to task if any lapses were found. “It’s really a good initiative that so many projects are being launched together,” Ranchi BJP legislator and former urban development minister C. P. Singh said. He added that “there should not be any compromise with the quality and quantity of work so that taxpayers’ money is utilised properly”. “Ranchi is facing tremendous pressure as more and more people from villages are coming here for earning livelihood,” Singh claimed, adding that the state capital needed proper infrastructure support for tackling the population pressure. “We can’t stop people from coming here but long-term planning would surely help address the problem,” Soren said. He said that people should also cooperate as “government programmes alone can’t change much”. “Our cities are being developed at the cost of environment and are becoming concrete jungles,” he further said, informing that his government has initiated a plantation drive for Jharkhand’s cities. “If we create problems, we should also try to create solutions,” Soren said, adding that only long-term projects could establish a sustainable system. “Ranchi must look impressive as a capital city but we all have responsibilities for maintaining it,” said Naveen Jaiswal, BJP legislator from Hatia. Sanjeev Vijayvargiya, Ranchi’s deputy mayor and a BJP leader, also appreciated that the urban developments projects were initiated. “Some more funds may be required for some of the projects but let the work begin and progress first,” he said on an optimistic note. The projects include renovation of the Jaipal Singh Stadium and Morabadi Grounds, beautification of Ranchi Lake, construction of an urban haat at Kanke Road and bio-toilet complexes at four different places in the city, besides widening of roads and construction of drains in different wards within the corporation area. The projects will be executed under the supervision of the Ranchi Regional Development Authority and Jharkhand Urban Infrastructure Development Company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-95
