25-07-2021||Calcutta||ISC board results: Anxiety over college admissions after marks glut||Schools in the city reported an unusually high number of students scoring 95 per cent or above in aggregate as the ISC (Class XII) board results were announced on Saturday. The glut in marks has left many students with stellar scores worried about finding a seat in a college of their choice in a year when admission will depend largely on board results. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations announced the results for both the ICSE (Class X) and the ISC on Saturday. The pass percentage is 99.76 in the ISC (India and abroad) among 94,011 students from 1,166 schools. In Bengal, the pass percentage is 99.63 among 26,859 candidates from 282 schools. In the ICSE, the pass percentage is 99.98 per cent (India and abroad) among 219,499 students from 2,422 schools. In Bengal, where 39,520 students from 391 schools appeared, too, the pass percentage is 99.98 per cent. Terence Ireland, principal of St James’ School, said the “gap between super performers and those in the next level” was very narrow this time. “The students are anxious about whether they would get a college or subject of their choice with so many high scorers around. (There are) many high scorers in many schools....” “Even (a margin of) 0.1 per cent or 0.2 per cent (in aggregate scores) will make a difference for the good students,” said Sujoy Biswas, principal of the Rammohan Mission High School. The council had cancelled both the ICSE and the ISC exams because of the pandemic, working out a way of marking students on the basis of past exams, project and practical work and internal assessment, normalised against their schools’ performance in recent years. “In spite of the (Covid) crisis, the CISCE has against all odds and difficult circumstances prepared and tabulated the results for the ICSE and ISC,” said Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary, CISCE. Among those who scored 95 per cent or above are 96 of 173 students from Modern High School for Girls; 56 of 139 from La Martiniere for Girls; 75 of 231 from The Heritage School; 46 of 121 from Loreto House; 16 of 124 from Calcutta Girls’ High School; 17 of 63 from the Rammohan Mission High School; 19 of 105 from the Sri Sri Academy; 20 of 168 from the MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School; 39 of 217 from La Martiniere for Boys; and 43 of 223 from St. Xavier’s Collegiate School. Several schools said the number of high scorers and the class average in the ISC seemed to have risen this year, with teachers fearing a “bottleneck” in college admission. “The colleges will have to find ways to screen the deserving candidates,” said Damayanti Mukherjee, principal of Modern High School for Girls. “So many factors were considered while calculating the (ISC) results; similarly, for college admission, other factors should be taken into consideration and not the marks alone.” Teachers said that while the number of high aggregate scorers had risen, the number of students scoring 100 or 99 in subjects like mathematics had fallen this year. “Some students would surely have scored 100 had there been a physical exam,” said Rupkatha Sarkar, principal of La Martiniere for Girls. But this year’s marks depended on two years’ performance, and a student losing a mark or two here or there got reflected in the final results, Sarkar added. Many students regretted that their Class X board marks too were considered while calculating their ISC scores. “My science and maths scores were low in the ICSE, and these were taken into account (in the calculation of ISC scores),” a humanities ISC student said. “I have scored 96 per cent but I’m not sure how many (high-scoring) students I have to contend with.” Sarkar of La Martiniere for Girls said the challenge for the students would be to fulfil the requirements of a viva or an entrance test, if held.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
25-07-2021||Calcutta||Mamata Banerjee picks Jawhar Sircar for Rajya Sabha ||Mamata Banerjee on Saturday decided to send Jawhar Sircar, a retired civil servant with 42 years of experience, to the Upper House of Parliament, a decision that is set to add to Trinamul’s firepower in the Rajya Sabha against the Narendra Modi government. “We are delighted to nominate Mr. @jawharsircar in the Upper House of the Parliament. Mr. Sircar spent nearly 42 years in public service & was also the former CEO of Prasar Bharati. His invaluable contribution to public service shall help us serve our country even better!” Trinamul said in its announcement on Twitter. The 69-year-old Sircar is a prominent member of the key section of India’s civil society firmly standing its ground against the Modi regime and its perceived machinations against the core elements of India’s ethos, such as plurality and democracy. “This intolerant, despotic regime should be firmly resisted on all fronts. This opportunity will enable me to reach out to a much wider audience and speak more forcefully against this government at the Centre,” Sircar said later in the day. “Jawharbabu has been one of the most vocal as well as the most irrepressible voices of the nation’s conscience in recent years, a thorn in the saffron ecosystem’s side. His ascent to the Rajya Sabha would be a great gain for India’s democracy,” said a Trinamul vice-president. “These are measures to turn our Upper House team second to none, in terms of quality and ability,” he added. Of the 16 Rajya Sabha seats from Bengal, two are now held by the Congress and one by the CPM. The remaining 13 are with Trinamul. Out of the 13, two Bengal Rajya Sabha vacancies — created by the resignation of Dinesh Trivedi, who left Trinamul for the BJP earlier this year, and Manas Bhuniya, who won the Assembly polls and became a minister — are to be filled via bypolls. The Trivedi vacancy Sircar would fill in an August 9 bypoll will last till the summer of 2026. Different names are doing the rounds for Bhuniya’s vacancy, but Trinamul insiders think former Union finance minister Yashwant Sinha has the edge over others. Sircar, an IAS officer of the 1975 batch, was widely respected in the UPA I and II governments at the Centre, and was known for his proximity to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, whom he reported to. Sircar retired as the Union culture secretary and then served as the chief executive officer of Prasar Bharati, before stepping down on account of differences with the Modi government at the Centre and coming out as one of its fiercest critics. A Calcutta boy, Sircar did his schooling from St. Xavier’s College and graduated in political science from the then Presidency College, before completing two master’s degrees from Calcutta University — in history and sociology. While serving as an IAS officer, Sircar studied at the Institute of Development Studies, University of Sussex, and the Queens’ College, Cambridge University. “She (Mamata) called me in the morning, informing me that I was being considered for the Rajya Sabha. She asked me if I was willing. I thought a bit and then I said I do not have any objection…. The formal announcement was made not long after that,” said Sircar, adding that he was not a political person but would do his best to work for the people, and to raise key issues that matter to the masses on the floor of the Upper House. The Bengal chief minister, a seven-time parliamentarian with several stints as a Union cabinet minister, has been close to Sircar for decades. A senior Rajya Sabha member of her party said she and Sircar share “a bond of siblings”, fondly recalling a meeting at Writers’ Buildings between Sircar, then the Union culture secretary, and Mamata, who had just come to power in Bengal in 2011. “He had dropped by to personally congratulate her in her new office. She was delighted. She kept urging him to come back to the state and helm the administration here as the chief secretary. Jawharda heartily laughed and explained to her it made no sense as he had months left to retire,” he said. “Jawharda advised her to instead try and retain Samar Ghosh — one of the most brilliant civil servants the state had ever produced — as the chief secretary for as long as possible. Which is what she did,” he added. The Rajya Sabha veteran said Mamata had immense appreciation and admiration for Sircar’s role in civil society over the past few years. He added that she was particularly grateful for how the public intellectual — along with countless others nationally — threw his weight behind her in the run-up to the Assembly elections this summer, considered widely as a “battle to save Bengal’s soul”, and — most recently — for his role amid the controversy over now retired IAS officer Alapan Bandyopadhyay’s alleged harassment by the Centre after Cyclone Yaas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
25-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal BJP plans to nominate candidate for Rajya Sabha seat to sharpen attack on Mukul ||The Bengal BJP will field a candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat — vacated by Dinesh Trivedi — for which election will be held on August 9, senior leaders said on Saturday, though state party president Dilip Ghosh refrained from a formal announcement. Though the BJP doesn’t have the numbers to win the seat, party sources said that it plans to nominate a candidate to sharpen its attack on Mukul Roy, the Trinamul leader who joined the BJP in 2017 and became the party’s national vice-president and MLA before returning to his old party last month. Technically, however, he is still a BJP MLA. Legislators cast open ballots to elect a member to the Rajya Sabha. The BJP leaders believe Roy would vote for Jawhar Sircar, nominated by Trinamul. “As an MLA has to show his ballot to the authorised agent of the party, it will be established beyond doubt that Mukulda has defected to Trinamul... It will strengthen our anti-defection case,” said a BJP source. When asked whether BJP would nominate someone for the Rajya Sabha polls, the party's state unit president Dilip Ghosh said: "We are yet to talk about it in the party. We shall announce (the plan) after we have decided." The state BJP leaders are desperate to get Roy's legislatorship cancelled since his defection. The BJP's Nandigram MLA and Bengal's leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari, who is also a Trinamul turncoat, has said he will move court against Roy if needed. The conflict was aggravated after Roy was nominated as the chairman of the Public Accounts Committee of Bengal Assembly, a post which is generally awarded to a member of the Opposition. Defending Roy's nomination, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had then said he is "a member of the BJP". "According to the rules, six of 20 PAC members are nominated by the Opposition. Mukul Roy's name was not there in the list we had submitted with the Speaker. Yet, the CM had said that he is our party member," a BJP state functionary said. "Now when Mukulda votes in favour of the Trinamul candidate in the Rajya Sabha elections, it will prove which side he is on," this source added. Sources in the Assembly, however, said that if Roy wishes to steer clear of the controversy, he may abstain from casting his vote altogether.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
25-07-2021||Calcutta||CMC launches facility to provide information on property ||The Calcutta Municipal Corporation on Saturday launched a facility to provide information on pending tax, licence fee or litigation involving a property that any prospective buyer can get from the civic body’s website. Earlier, such buyers had to engage lawyers or pay multiple visits to the CMC offices for the information. Firhad Hakim, the chairperson of CMC’s board of administrators, who launched the facility, said it would save people from the time wasted on getting such information. “People will be able to know if a property has pending property tax or unpaid licence fee or water tax...,” Hakim said. Someone interested in knowing the outstanding payments of a property has to visit the website https://www.kmcgov.in/KMCPortal/jsp/KMCPortalHome1.jsp. On the left hand side menu of the home page one would find the item “Encumbrance Certificate”, fifth from the top. A click on this item would open a page where the person who is searching the information has to provide the premises number, assessee number, ward number and name of the street on which the property is located. Many prospective house-buyers here have faced the difficulty in obtaining details about a property they plan to buy. The problem was more acute in case someone was buying a property on resale. A senior CMC official said some of the information that would now be available through a single click on a link in the CMC’s website were already available in a segregated way on the website. “The new facility has aggregated all these information and brought them into one place,” said the senior CMC official. Information on outstanding water tax was not available, the official added. Residential units in Calcutta do not have to pay any water tax to the civic body but large commercial buildings that have bulk meters and whose daily water consumption is very high have to pay tax, the senior official added. Encumbrance Certificate facility will provide information about pending property tax, water tax, licence fee and any litigation. But only court cases that are recorded with the CMC will be available. Information about court cases, if any, that was filed by the owner against CMC or vice-versa, or where CMC has been made a party will only be know. Information about ongoing court cases between two tenants or two owners will not be available. Besides, the availability of information pertaining to all tenants of a commercial building was not available before. “Earlier only information on one licence was available against that licence number. If someone is buying a commercial building, she/he would be able to know the outstanding licence fee of all the commercial units running from that building,” said the official. Civic sources said there are thousands of businesses in Calcutta that have running for years without paying the annual licence fee. The outstanding licence fee amount many business runs into tens of lakhs. Hakim said that the facility was part of the ease of doing business (EoDB) initiatives of the CMC. A protest meeting will be held at Milli-Al-Ameen College near Park Circus at 4pm on Sunday “against the institutional killing of Father Stan Swamy”. Father Felix Raj, St Xavier’s University VC, will be one of the speakers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
25-07-2021||Calcutta||Sukanta Chaudhuri now fellow of The British Academy||Sukanta Chaudhuri, professor emeritus at Jadavpur University (JU), has been elected a Fellow of The British Academy. The academy, incorporated in 1902, is a fellowship of around 1,300 of the world’s leading academics elected by peers for distinction in the humanities and social sciences. The other fellows elected this year from outside the UK include political scientist and theorist Pratap Bhanu Mehta and the US-based literary theorist and feminist critic Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak. A teacher at the JU department of English, Chaudhuri has a wide area of scholarship — thought and literature of the European Renaissance, Shakespeare and Early Modern English literature, textual studies, translation and translation studies as well as Rabindranath Tagore and digital humanities which find combined expression in the Bichitra website, a database of Tagore’s complete works. His name features on the academy’s website under the specialisation of early modern languages and literatures to 1830. “I feel privileged and reassured that my life's work on a variety of subjects has found international recognition,” he told The Telegraph. Other living India-based fellows of the academy include sociologist Andre Beteille and historian Romila Thapar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
25-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Pharmacist held for vaccine fraud in Diamond Harbour||A man who police said was a pharmacist attached with a primary health centre in Diamond Harbour has been arrested for allegedly procuring vaccines and organising small camps in people’s homes in Sonarpur to administer the liquid he claimed was Covishield vaccine. Mithun Mandal, a resident of Satjeliya in Gosaba, around 91km from the city, was arrested when he was about to hold another “camp”. Mandal lives in a rented apartment in Sonarpur. The police said two vials with “Covishield” labels were seized from him. “A sample will be sent for forensic examination to ascertain the composition of the liquid,” said a senior officer of the Baruipur police district. Mandal is a pharmacist at the Mashat primary health centre under Panchagram Rural Hospital in Diamond Harbour block, where he was in charge of the vaccination unit and officially had access to the doses, police sources said. Debasish Roy, chief medical health officer, Diamond Harbour, said: “It is a very sensitive matter. I am unable to comment as an investigation is on.” A senior health department official said that the vials found on Mandal had a serial number on them and it would be possible to match it with the stock to check their veracity. A senior officer said they had received information that Mandal had been organising small camps in people’s homes to avert the glare of the police or the administration and was administering drugs, which he claimed were vaccines, himself. “Preliminary investigation suggests that he was charging Rs 300 or Rs 400 per dose. Till now, we have information that he vaccinate at least 40 people. Most of them have got text messages from Co-Win confirming their vaccination. We are in process of verifying how he managed to do this,” said an officer of Sonarpur police station. The police said they suspect that Mandal could be stealing vials from the official stocks he received for vaccination at the primary health centre and because he is a pharmacist, he could administer them. Mandal was produced before a court on Saturday and sent to police remand for three days. The police said they were collaborating with the district health officials to prepare a list of the people who had received shots from Mandal. An officer said all of them would be examined by health officials to check if any of them have developed any adverse effects. The arrest rekindled memories of fake IAS officer Debanjan Deb who organised several illegal vaccine camps not so long ago. Deb, who had impersonated an IAS officer, had been organising fraudulent camps posing as a Calcutta Municipal Corporation officer, using drugs — which later police said, could be an antibiotic named Amikacin.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
25-07-2021||Calcutta||Don Bosco Park Circus to start a co-educational college on its campus||Don Bosco Park Circus is starting an undergraduate co-educational college on its campus from this academic session that will admit students to science, commerce and professional courses. It will be an evening college affiliated to Calcutta University. The state higher education department in last year October had given its “no objection” to the Don Bosco Educational Society to start Don Bosco College, a self-financing undergraduate institution. A notice issued by the institution says it is offering BSc honours in computer science, mathematics, physics and chemistry. It is offering honours in BCom as well. Students can apply for BBA (bachelor of business administration) and BCom (general) and BSc (general) too. Online applications can be submitted from August 2. Father Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bosco Park Circus, said they would admit students on the basis of an aspirant’s performance in plus-II and Class-X board exams. “Since the Class XII board exams could not be conducted across the boards owing to the pandemic, we would consider the Class X board results as well,” said Father Mondal. The college will offer 30 seats for each honours programme in BSc. While BCom (honours) and general will offer 100 seats each, BBA will have 60 seats. The number of seats to be offered at the BSc general programme will be announced later. Although Don Bosco is starting as an evening college, in three years it intends to launch morning and day classes as well. “We would build additional infrastructure on the same campus that houses the school, to expand the college,” Father Mondal said. Although admission in the college would be open to all, those who are passing out from the school would enjoy preference during the admission process. “When we process the applications, we will see how students from our school can be accommodated. But seats would be open to neighbouring schools as well,” said Father Bikash Mondal. St Xavier’s College, Park Street, has started accepting online applications for admission to undergraduate programmes from June 21. St Xavier’s has announced that it would give 75 per cent weightage to marks in the Class XII results and 25 per cent to the subject in which an aspirant wants to major while drawing up the merit list. Ramakrishna Mission Vidyamandira, Belur, will screen students for admission to undergraduate courses in 12 out of 15 subjects through online viva voce and marks at the plus-II and/or secondary levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
25-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid: Low footfall in mall sale season, stocks move online||Footfall is still low in the city’s malls several weeks after they resumed business. The discount season has started but that has not made much of a difference, said personnel at several stores across the malls. The state government allowed reopening of malls from June 16. Now, malls can operate with 50 per cent capacity and bars and restaurants can remain open till 8pm. Store personnel at malls are complaining about poor inventory and greater focus on online business. Mall owners are waiting for fresh guidelines from the state government lifting the restrictions and easing of transportation. Many retail stores across the big malls are also merging their online and offline business for more viability. “We would have around 10,000 pieces for a sale season at our store before the Covid pandemic. This July, we have barely 2,000 at our store,” said the store manager of a mid-level fashion brand, which has stores in several city malls. He said the procurement was the same as last year but most of the inventory was shifted to the online platform. “The order for the procurement for a season is usually placed one year earlier. It takes about a year for the products to reach the stores from the manufacturers,” said an official of a retail garment brand. However, a bulk of the procurement for 2020 could not be sold at the stores because the malls were closed because of the pandemic and even after they opened, footfall was very low, he said. “So, these unsold products had to be shifted to the online platforms. Learning from the pandemic, now, a bulk of the products have already been shifted online,” he said. “The focus at the store is only the traditional fashion items, while the innovative ones are kept aside for  selling online.” An official of an international footwear brand that has stores in several city malls said they have changed their policy and the online and offline selling have been merged. “Now, a customer can see products of our offline stores on the online platform. Earlier, only the warehouse products were accessible for online customers,” said the official. Several other retail brands, too, have adopted the strategy to boost offline store sales. Mall owners said they are not worried about the growing shift to online and are expecting the footfall to rise once the pandemic restrictions are lifted further. “Public transport is still not freely available. Also, many are still not comfortable taking public transport unless absolutely necessary. The pandemic and lack of ease of transport is boosting online sales,” said Manmohan Bagree, vice-president, South City Group that runs South City Mall. He said the mall has had 30 per cent of its pre-pandemic footfall barely a month after reopening this time. During the first wave of Covid, it had taken three months for the mall to achieve this footfall. “The mall is not only a shopping destination but also a hangout place. But because of the restrictions on restaurants, visitors don’t feel the urge to come to the mall now. We are expecting easier norms to be announced by the state government in August. Also, vaccination is playing a crucial role in increasing the confidence among people,” said Bagree. He said the discount season has started but is not as aggressive as it used to be. “The brands have procured less inventories because of the lockdown restrictions. New product launches tempt customers at offline stores.” However, Bagree feels there is no threat for the offline stores. “Online business creates aspirational buyers who can buy a brand’s products at more discounted rates. This increases brand consciousness and will compliment the offline store business, too.” Sushil Mohta, chairman, Merlin Group, which runs Acropolis Mall, said the new scenario would not threaten the existence of stores. “Online and offline businesses compliment each other. There are customers who want the look and feel of a product, particularly high-end designer wear or gadgets and accessories. Even if they buy online, they would prefer to check the product at a store,” said Mohta. He said usually, the discounts provided online are on older items, launched months ago. “Even if products are sold online, the brands want to have their presence at malls where footfall is huge. This creates brand awareness.” But for that, the footfall needs to increase. Acropolis Mall has an average footfall of 15,000 on the weekends now, compared to over 30,000 in normal times.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-40
25-07-2021||Business||Tesla CEO Elon Musk expects 'temporary relief' for EVs in India in terms of import duty relaxation||Tesla Inc is likely to set up a factory in India if successful with imported vehicles, chief executive Elon Musk said on Twitter, after the company wrote to Indian ministries seeking a big reduction in import duties on electric vehicles. The electric-car maker’s pitch to lower duties, however, is likely to face resistance from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s administration which has championed high import taxes for many industries in a bid to boost local manufacturing. “We want to do so, but import duties are the highest in the world by far of any large country,” Musk said in reply to a tweet about launching the company’s cars in India. “But we are hopeful that there will be at least a temporary tariff relief for electric vehicles,” Musk added. Other luxury auto makers in India have also lobbied the government in the past to lower taxes on imported cars but have had little success due to opposition from rivals with domestic operations. Tesla, which aims to begin sales in India this year, said in a letter to ministries and the country’s leading think-tank Niti Aayog that slashing federal taxes on imports of fully assembled electric cars to 40 per cent would be more appropriate, according to a Reuters report. That compares with current rates of 60 per cent for cars priced below $40,000 and 100 per cent for those above $40,000. “The argument is that at 40 per cent  import duty, electric cars can become more affordable but the threshold is still high enough to compel companies to manufacture locally if demand picks up,” the Reuters report quoting sources said. According to Tesla’s US website, only one model — the Model 3 Standard Range Plus — is priced below $40,000. The Indian market for premium EVs, indeed for electric cars in general, is still very much in its infancy with vehicles far too costly for the average consumer and very little charging infrastructure in place. Just 5,000 of the 2.4 million cars sold in India last year were electric and most were priced below $28,000.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
25-07-2021||Business||ICICI Bank net profit jumps 78 per cent in Q1 ||ICICI Bank on Saturday reported a 78 per cent rise in standalone net profits for the quarter ended June 2021 on the back of a sharp fall in provisions. The private sector lender posted a net profit of Rs 4,616.02 crore compared with Rs 2,599.15 crore in the same period of the previous year. During the quarter, provisions at the lender declined to Rs 2,851.69 crore against Rs 7,593.95 crore in the year-ago period. ICICI Bank said it has changed the policy on non-performing loans to make it more conservative. The change in policy resulted in higher provisions for non-performing advances amounting to Rs 1,127. The bank’s provisions would have been lower had it not implemented the new rule. Based on the current assessment of the portfolio, the bank wrote back Covid-19 provisions amounting to Rs 1,050 crore made in the earlier periods. The bank said the impact of the pandemic on credit quality and provisions is uncertain and will depend on the trajectory, progress and effectiveness of the vaccination programme. As of June 2021, the bank had restructured loans worth Rs 3,891.15 crore of 5,510 accounts of which personal loans stood at Rs 924.74 crore and corporate loans at Rs 2,956.05 crore. During the quarter, there was a slight deterioration in its asset quality with the percentage of gross non-performing assets (NPAs) to gross customer assets rising to 5.15 per cent from 4.96 per cent sequentially. It was, however, lower than 5.46 per cent in the same period of the previous year. In absolute terms, gross NPAs rose to Rs 43,148.28 crore from Rs 41,373.42 crore in the January-March period. The net interest income of the bank rose 18 per cent to Rs 10,936 crore from Rs 9,280 crore in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
25-07-2021||Business||India will continue to attract high foreign investments, says Piyush Goyal||The country will continue to attract high foreign direct investment (FDIs) in the current financial year, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said on Saturday. “This year, we are very confident that we will continue this streak of seven continuous years of historic highs in our foreign investments,” Goyal said at the CII-Horasis India Meeting webinar. He said India received highest FDI in Covid-impacted 2020 even as investment inflows shrunk globally. In 2020-21, FDI into the country grew 19 per cent to $59.63 billion. Total FDI, including equity, re-invested earnings and capital, rose 10 per cent to $81.72 billion during 2020-21 against $74.39 billion in 2019-20. Exports, too, are recording healthy growth. During July 1-21, exports crossed $22 billion and is “poised to cross $32-33 billion by the end of the month (July), which means our run rate is on track to achieve $400 billion of exports target for the first time ever”. Further, Goyal said India was in talks with 16 countries, including the UK, the EU, Australia, Canada and the UAE, for trade agreements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
25-07-2021||Business||ITC Q1 profit up 30.24 per cent, revenue rises 35.9 per cent as segments rebound||Diversified ITC Ltd reported a 30 per cent jump in profit on a 35.9 per cent growth in revenue from operations in the first quarter of this fiscal as the overall business environment improved compared with the same period last year when strict lockdown measures were in place during the first wave of Covid-19. Profit for the April-June period of 2021-22 was Rs 3,343.4 crore on a consolidated basis against Rs 2,567.07 crore in the same period of the previous fiscal. Revenue from operations were up at Rs 14,240.76 crore compared with Rs 10,478.46 crore on a like-to-like basis. However, profits slipped 12.4 per cent on a sequential basis from the January-March quarter, while revenue dropped 7.5 per cent as the company grappled with the second wave of Covid-19 during April-May, which led to sporadic lockdowns across the country. In a commentary posted on the bourses, ITC said: “Localised lockdowns and mobility restrictions imposed by states  during the second Covid wave rendered the operating environment during the quarter extremely challenging and impacted the strong recovery momentum witnessed in the recent quarters. The situation continues to improve with the progressive easing of restrictions and increased mobility from mid-June 2021.” At least one analyst dubbed ITC’s profit and EBIDTA numbers ‘‘below estimate’’ but pointed out that the overall sales are in line with expectations. Abneesh Roy of Edelweiss Securities said the volume growth of 32 per cent in cigarettes is ahead of expectations on a low base of a 40 per cent dip. “The overall PAT is below estimate,” Roy added. Cigarette volumes, which nearly reached pre-Covid levels during January-March, slid again during the last quarter, dragging down the profit before tax (PBT) to Rs 3,461.91 crore in the first quarter of FY21 from Rs 3,895.27 crore in the fourth quarter. FMCG-others, which include food, health and personal care, showed a marginal drop in PBT though revenue grew sequentially despite the disruptions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-131
25-07-2021||India||Suspense continues on possible change of guard in Karnataka||Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa kept people guessing on Sunday about his political future after dropping more than one hint that his hold on power was no longer guaranteed amid speculation about his replacement. The 78-year-old Lingayat strongman, the face of the BJP in the state in the past two decades, said this evening that he was yet to receive the "message" from the party's central leadership on whether he should continue in his post or quit. "Nothing has come till now... In the morning there is a programme to mark two years of government. I will speak about the achievements in those two years. After that, you will know the progress," he said on Sunday evening. "I have decided that I will work till the very last minute. I already said two months ago that I was ready to resign whenever I was asked to. I will say it again - until now I have got no message from the centre. As soon as it comes, if they ask me to continue I will. If not, I will resign and work for that party," he said. "I believe the information will come tonight or tomorrow morning," Yediyurappa added. Yediyurappa made a sudden visit to Delhi earlier this month where he met the Prime Minister and other senior leaders. Through days of speculation, the chief minister has said that he has not been asked to resign. On Thursday, he told reporters, "There is an event on July 26 on completion of two years of our government here. After this, I will follow whatever JP Nadda will decide". There are, however, questions on whether the 78-year-old will be asked to step down as the state battles floods. This morning, Yediyurappa left Bengaluru to fly to Belagavi, one of the flood-affected districts in the state. The torrential rain over the last few days in several districts of the state has left 10 people dead and three people missing. Yediyurappa said he has the "lone target" of toiling for the next two years and bringing the BJP back to power in Karnataka, where assembly elections are due in 2023.  He agreed with BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravis statement that everyone in the BJP is an ordinary party worker and he would abide by the partys instruction.  "He is 100 per cent right. We will not exceed the disciplinary line. We have been following it and will do so in future as well", the chief minister said.  In Panaji, BJP National President J.P. Nadda on Sunday praised Yediyurappa for his "good work".  "It is good, he has done a good job. Karnataka (government) is running smoothly. Yediyurappa is looking (managing) at things on his part," Nadda said in response to a question on Yediyurappa government completing two years in office and how he views his leadership. To a question that there seemed to be a political crisis in Karnataka, he said, "That is what you feel. We dont feel so." Indicating that Monday might be his last day in office, Yediyurappa had recently said that based on the instructions the central leaders will give him on July 25, he will begin "his work" from July 26. With nobody else in his cabinet for several days, Yediyurappa toured the rain hit districts to supervise relief operations as the only member of the cabinet. This time, he has asked his ministers to remain on the ground in their districts to supervise the rescue an Amid heightened speculations state minister Murugesh Nirani arrived in the national capital on Sunday apparently to meet BJP leaders, party sources said. People close to Nirani, however, claimed he is on a personal visit to the national capital. Nirani, the Minister for Mines, hails from the Lingayat community like Yediyurappa and is being seen as one of contenders for the chief ministerial post along with BJP general secretary CT Ravi, Home Minister in Karanataka government Basavaraj Bommai and Union minister Pralhad Joshi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
25-07-2021||India||Regional parties should form national front for 2024 Lok Sabha elections: Sukhbir Singh Badal||Regional parties should come together and form a national front to take on the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, Shriomani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Sunday and asserted that his party's story with the saffron party was over. Underlining that issues of farmers are at the core of the SAD ideology, Badal said his party can never compromise on these and, therefore, severed its decades-old alliance with the BJP and moved out of the government at the Centre over three contentious farm laws. “SAD is a farmers’ party and their issues are core of our ideology. Whatever may happen and whatever cost we may have to pay, we wouldn't let these laws be implemented in Punjab,” Badal told PTI in an interview. The Centre's three farm laws have triggered a protest by farmers. In September last year, Badal’s wife Harsimrat Kaur quit as Union minister in protest against the legislations. The protesting farmers claim these laws will do away with the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporations. Over 10 rounds of talks with the government, which has been projecting the laws as major agricultural reforms, have failed to break the deadlock between the two sides. Talking about the SAD's new alliance with the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), Badal said the alliance between the two parties is permanent and that the Akali Dal's story with the BJP was over. On the party's future course of action, Badal said that the SAD is talking to various regional parties so that they all can come on one platform before the 2024 general elections. “There is a need for regional forces to get together. Regional forces are more connected to the ground and have better understanding of the people. We have been talking to various parties. Regional parties should come together and form a front before the 2024 general elections. And I am sure before 2024 this front will emerge as very strong force,” he said. Badal further said it would be a second front rather than a third front as the main opposition Congress is no more a pan-India party. The BJP will be the new front's main target. In the upcoming assembly elections in Punjab, Badal said, farm laws will be the main issue for the Akali Dal and “if the party is voted to power, it will provide government job to a family member of all those farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing protest against the laws.” In addition, the government will provide free education to the children of the deceased farmers and pension to the parents of those who died young, Badal said. He also said the SAD will bet big on new and young faces and will try to field as many women as possible in the assembly elections slated for early next year. On a question about reports of alleged snooping on politicians, activists and journalists using Pegasus spyware, Badal termed it an attack on democracy and demanded establishment of a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) headed by an opposition MP to probe the matter. “This entire snooping episode is an attack on the Constitution, democracy and rights of the people. It is completely unethical and a JPC should be formed headed by an opposition MP to investigate it,” Badal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Seafarers' body seeks Centre's help as China 'not allowing' ships with Indian seamen||Alleging that China is “not allowing” entry of ships with Indian crew onboard, All India Seafarer & General Workers Union has sought the central government's help in saving the jobs of thousands of Indian seamen, as companies are not recruiting them for the China-bound ships. In a letter to Union minister for ports, shipping and waterways Sarbananda Sonowal, the seamen's body has “claimed that as many as 20,000 seafarers are ”home” because of this reason. “From March 2021, any ship reaching China Port and having Indian seafarers as a crew on it, China government is not allowing all those ships to enter into the port,” the union said in the letter, posted on its twitter handle. The copies of the letter have also been marked to the Ministry of external affairs and sector regulator, Directorate General of Shipping. “Because of this reason, the companies have stopped recruiting seafarers from India to join the vessel. Approximately, 20,000 seafarers are home because of this reason,” it stated. “The union (is) requesting you ... all the higher authorities (to) look into this serious issue and help us to save the job of our seafarer brothers,” the union said in the letter. According to the Union, around 80 per cent of seafarers on various ships come from India and “without them, the shipping industry will collapse and will be in big disaster.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Kargil Vijay Diwas’s eve: Bipin Rawat visits areas along LoC in Dras sector of Kargil||Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Bipin Rawat visited the areas along the Line of Control in Dras sector of Kargil district on Sunday, a day before Kargil Vijay Diwas, to review the prevailing security situation and operational preparedness, an official statement said. President Ram Nath Kovind will visit Dras on Monday on 22nd anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas to pay homage to the indomitable courage and sacrifice of the Indian armed forces during the Kargil conflict of 1999 at the Kargil War Memorial. In 2019, bad weather had prevented the president from visiting Dras to participate in Kargil Vijay Diwas, and instead, he paid tributes by laying a wreath at a war memorial at the Army's 15 Corps headquarters in Badamibagh in Srinagar. The Indian Army said on Twitter on Sunday, “General Bipin Rawat, CDS visited Dras sector along Line of Control and reviewed the prevailing security situation and operational preparedness.” “The CDS also interacted with troops and complimented them for their high morale and exhorted them to remain resolute and steadfast,” it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||800-year-old Telangana's Ramappa Temple inscribed as Unesco World Heritage Site||Unesco has conferred the  World Heritage inscription to the historic Rudreswara Temple, also known as the Ramappa Temple, at Palampet in Mulugu district of Telangana, Union minister G. Kishan Reddy said on Sunday. The Rudreswara temple was constructed in 1213 AD during the reign of the Kakatiya empire by Recharla Rudra, a general of Kakatiya king Ganapati Deva. The temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva and worshiped by devotees. The presiding deity is Ramalingeswara Swamy. It is also known as the Ramappa temple, after the sculptor who executed the work in the temple for 40 years,an official release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Indian National League splits after factions come to blows||The Indian National League (INL), a constituent of Kerala's ruling LDF, split into two irreconcilable factions following an infighting which led to a street fight between two warring groups here on Sunday. While a prominent faction headed by INL state president A P Abdul Wahab expelled general secretary Kasim Irikkoor, a rival faction led by Irikkoor hit back at them by removing Wahab from the state president's post and expelling seven secretariat members belonging to his group. The party's lone nominee in the Pinarayi Vijayan-led LDF government, Ahammad Devarkovil, is with Irikkoor. Talking to reporters here, Irikkoor announced working president B Hamsa Haji as the party's new state president.     Irikkoor claimed that his faction enjoys the full support of the INL national leadership. Both factions had held parallel meetings of their supporters before announcing their decisions. The Wahab faction alleged that Irikkoor was acting as an agent of the IUML and his intention was to create trouble for the LDF government to help the opposition in the state. Irikkoor said INL had been with the LDF since its formation in 1994 and there will be no change in its position. Earlier in the day, supporters of two warring factions came to blows in the presence of its leaders here. A scuffle broke out in front of a hotel here after a section of INL leaders led by Wahab boycotted the party's working committee meeting alleging anti-democratic actions by Irikkoor. In the previous meeting, Irikkoor had allegedly mentioned in the minutes that two senior leaders had been expelled from the party. Provoked by it, the Wahab faction raised this issue in Sunday's meeting and it triggered a war of words between the two groups following which the faction led by Wahab walked out. Police reached the spot in large numbers and used force to disperse the supporters of the groups fighting outside the hotel. Amid the melee, Devarkovil, the Minister for Ports, was escorted out of the hotel where the working committee meeting was held allegedly violating Covid-19 protocols. Dismissing allegations, party leaders claimed that the meeting was organised adhering to Covid protocols. The Indian National League was formed in 1994 after a split in the Indian Union Muslim League. The party, a member of the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front, was given a ministerial berth for the first time in the Pinarayi Vijayan-led government after the front's emphatic win in the Assembly polls held in April this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Farooq Abdullah calls for sustained Indo-Pak dialogue||National Conference (NC) president Farooq Abdullah Sunday called for a sustained and result-oriented Indo-Pak dialogue process, saying the two countries should realise they cannot win a war against each other. Addressing party functionaries at two separate meetings at Laamad and Devsar in south Kashmir's Kulgam district, the Srinagar Lok Sabha MP asked both the countries to be consistent, coherent and serious in their nascent engagement. He asked the two countries to ensure that the people of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh live a life free from "unending miseries". Stressing there is no substitute to dialogue, the NC president said the recent moves and the messages indicating a thaw in the relations between the neighbouring countries have put brakes on the escalating tensions. "For the entire chest-thumping, both the countries cannot win a war against each other. The sooner both the neighboring countries realise the ground reality the better. "The more serious, coherent and consistent both the nations are in settling all outstanding areas of disagreements, the better it will be for early return of lasting peace and stability to Jammu and Kashmir and the entire region," he said. Emphasising the need for a result-oriented dialogue between the two countries, Abdullah said it will benefit the people of Jammu and Kashmir the most. "Both the nations, I have maintained all along, have to live side by side. It is up to them, if they want to live as enemies or supportive friends and partners in development. Both countries can achieve much by joining hands in progress," he said. The former chief minister said if the ties between the two nations are to improve then they have to come out of their "shells" and narrow down their differences and source of conflict to get together on the table to work towards an environment that recognises the concept of J-K's historical individuality, uniqueness of its sociopolitical complexes and the restoration of its political dignity and historical selfhood. Lending his party's support to the peace and camaraderie between the two neighbours, he said the NC has all along been a strong votary of Indo-Pak dialogue. "There is no substitute to dialogue. But the dialogue should result in J-K centric CBMs (confidence-building measures) including the resumption of cross-LoC trade through a proper banking mechanism and doing away with the present barter system. "Such J-K centric CBMs will indeed help the two neighbouring countries solve their disagreements amicably and in an objective manner for the greater good of the people of JK, Ladakh and the entire region," he said. He also asked the party workers to draw lessons from the worrying disadvantages of disunity and impressed upon them to work towards strengthening democracy and the party. "The last person out there in Jammu, Kashmir, and Ladakh is looking up to us with sheer optimism that we will salvage the entire region from murderous manifestations of communalism, and regionalism and to catapult the people from the prevailing economic distress, and instability," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Delhi to get 5 high-mast Tricolors under AAP govt's ‘Deshbhakti budget’||The Delhi government has started implementing the schemes announced under its ‘Deshbhakti budget', with officials saying up to five high-mast Tricolours will be installed in the city by August 15. The Public Works Department (PWD) has been tasked with the project under which it will install the national flag on 100-feet high polls at 500 locations in the city. Officials said that initially they will install high-mast Tricolours at about five locations in as many constituencies as a sample exercise. "To celebrate the country's 75th Independence Day, we are planning to set up high-mast Tricolours in 4-5 assembly constituencies including New Delhi and Patparganj. We are hoping to set up these by August 15. In total, the PWD will install 500 such flags across the city," said a senior PWD official, who wished not to be named. In March this year, the Delhi government had announced its annual budget themed on patriotism and named Deshbhakti budget' under which Rs 45 crore has been set aside to install high-mast Tricolour at 500 locations across the national capital. Officials said that high-mast flags will be set up on the lines of the one at the Connaught Place in such a fashion that at least one is visible at every two-three kilometres. A PWD official said that a tender for the project has also been floated. Another senior PWD official said that initially five assembly constituencies have been identified where these flags are to be installed by August 15. These assembly constituencies include New Delhi, Patparganj, Shakurbasti, Kalkaji and Dwarka. New Delhi is Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's constituency while his deputy Manish Sisodia is elected from Patparganj. Shakurbasti is represented in the assembly by PWD minister Satyendar Jain. "The PWD has also been directed to conduct a survey and identify public places, parks, grounds, big commercial buildings complexes, big school premises, residential complexes to install high-mast Tricolours. The deadline of installing 500 Tricolours is yet to be fixed," an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh gets ‘Special 40’ squad to protect girls, women ||The Indore police in Madhya Pradesh has set up a 40-member squad to protect minor girls from sex offenders and curb crimes against women, an official said on Sunday. The 'Special 40', comprising women volunteers, will collect information for police and also be deployed in festivals, fairs and other gatherings as a safety measure, he said. "Young girls are targets of drug addicts and other criminals, especially in the slums. We want to protect minor girls and women with the help of this squad. It has women volunteers in the 20-50 age group. In additional to physical training, they are being taught legal provisions related to crimes against women," Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Prashant Choubey said. The squad, which has been given a special attire and walkie-talkie sets, will teach girls about 'bad touch, good touch" in slums and ways to prevent sexual assault, he said. Incidents of minor girls fleeing their homes and falling prey to anti-social elements have come to light recently, and this squad, if need be, will provide counseling to prevent such cases, the Additional SP said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Himachal: PM condoles loss of lives due to landslides||Prime Minister Narendra Modi Sunday expressed condolences over the death of people due to landslides in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur and said all arrangements are being made for the treatment of those injured. It is a very painful incident, Modi said and also announced an ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the next of the kin of the deceased and Rs 50,000 to the injured from the Prime Minister's National Relief Fund. Nine people were killed and three others injured in multiple incidents of landslide near Batseri on Sangla-Chitkul road in Kinnaur district Sunday, police said. Heavy boulders fell on a tempo traveller carrying 11 people, killing nine and injuring two, according to the police. In a similar incident, one person was injured in another landslide in Kinnaur district, they added. The police said they have started rescue operations and further details are awaited.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Himachal: 9 dead, 3 injured in multiple landslides||Nine people were killed and three others injured in multiple landslides in Himachal Pradesh's Kinnaur district on Sunday, police said. Multiple landslides occurred near Batseri on Sangla-Chitkul road, they added. Heavy boulders fell on a tempo traveller carrying 11 people, killing nine and injuring two, according to the police. In a similar incident, one person was injured in another landslide in Kinnaur district, they added. The police said they have started rescue operations and further details are awaited. IMD issues yellow and orange alert issued for Madhya Pradesh The Met department on Sunday issued orange and yellow alerts predicting heavy to very heavy rainfall, thunderstorms and lightning in large parts of Madhya Pradesh, which has been experiencing intermittent downpours for the last three days. Both these alerts are valid till Monday morning, India Meteorological Department's Bhopal office senior meteorologist PK Saha told PTI. Anuppur city in east MP received the highest 234.5 mm rainfall in the state in the last 24 hours ending 8.30 AM on Sunday, he said, adding Shamshabad area in Vidisha district of the west MP received 190.6 mm rainfall during the same period. The orange alert- which asks authorities to "be prepared - warning possible heavy rains and thunderstorms accompanied with lightning at isolated places has been issued for 23 districts, namely Indore, Dhar, Alirajpur, Jhabua, Khargone, Barwani, Khandwa, Burhanpur, Ujjain, Dewas, Ratlam, Shajapur, Agar-Malwa, Mandsaur, Neemuch, Hoshangabad, Betul and Harda. It (orange alert) also forecasts similar weather in Rajgarh, Guna, Sheopur, Shivpuri, and Ashoknagar districts. A yellow alert, which advises authorities to be updated on the situation, warning likely heavy rains and thunderstorms accompanied with lightning at isolated places, was issued for Chhatarpur, Tikamgarh, Balaghat, Anuppur and Narsinghpur districts. Saha said a low-pressure area was lying over the northern part of the central MP and adjoining areas, and an east-west trough was running along 25 degrees north latitude. Besides, the monsoon trough was passing through the low-pressure area over the northern part of the central MP, he said. "All these factors are causing rains in MP, " he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-395
25-07-2021||India||Centre constantly insulting farmers, must repeal laws, says Priyanka||After the Centre said it has no record of farmers who have died during the agitation at Delhi's borders against three agri laws since 2020, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Sunday alleged that the government has been constantly "insulting" the farmers and demanded that it must repeal the legislations. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar informed Parliament on Friday that the government has no record of farmers who have died during the agitation at Delhi's borders against three new farm laws since last year. "The BJP government said in Parliament that neither it made any effort to know farmers' opinion on the three black agri laws nor does it have any data on how many farmers have been martyred," Priyanka Gandhi said. Alleging that the government was looking at the issue from the prism of its "billionaire friends", the Congress general secretary said this government is "constantly insulting farmers". She made the remarks in a tweet in Hindi using a Hindi hashtag which translated to "Take back black farm laws". Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at Delhi's borders since November last year in protest against the three laws. Out of them, a small group of 200 farmers are now staging a protest at Jantar Mantar in central Delhi after getting special permission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||NIA conducts searches in four Tamil Nadu districts over Facebook posts propagating ISIS ideology||The NIA has conducted searches at six locations in four districts of Tamil Nadu in a case related to Facebook posts by an extremist advocating the ideology of the Islamic State terror group and fundamentalist organisation Hizb-Ut-Tahrir, an official said on Sunday. The searches were carried out in Thanjavur, Madurai, Theni and Tirunelveli districts at the residences of arrested accused Abdullah and his associates, the official of the NIA said. In April, a complaint was received at Theppakulam police station that Abdullah had posted incendiary messages on Facebook, instigating people on religious grounds to wage war against India and establish Khilafat, thus threatening the unity, security and sovereignty of India, the official said. The extremist advocated the ideology of the ISIS terror group and Hizb-Ut-Tahrir, the official of the premier investigation agency said. An FIR was lodged by the Tamil Nadu Police in Madurai and the case was later taken over by the NIA. During searches, 22 digital devices, including mobile phones, hard disks, memory cards, pen drives, laptops and many booklets containing incriminating materials have been recovered, the NIA official said, adding that further investigation in the case continues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Experts: Many now have better immune system to combat Covid-19||While a large number of people now have immunity against coronavirus due to previous infections or vaccination, a guarded approach is needed in terms of implementing restrictive measures to avoid a second wave-like crisis, experts said. Dr Yudhyavir Singh, who has been managing the COVID-19 ICU at AIIMS New Delhi, said it is important to lift a few restrictions to resume economic activities when cases are low. "However, one should not lower their guard Adopt a guarded approach in terms of following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and implementing restrictive measures," he said. Dr Singh added that Delhi may have already achieved herd immunity, considering the massive number of cases seen during the second wave. However, Dr Pooja Khosla, senior consultant (Department of Medicine), Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said the second wave of the coronavirus has taught us that cases can increase suddenly. "There are warning signs from different parts of the world. In India too, a small increase in cases has been recorded. Infections can increase exponentially anytime. I think one should not assume anything and make all efforts to prevent a second wave-like crisis, which was a nightmare," she said. "Opening everything is not appropriate everyone has been saying the third wave is a couple of days away," Dr Khosla added. Pragya Sharma, professor (Department of Community Medicine) at the Maulana Azad Medical College, said a third wave is a certain thing but the number of people it will infect will depend on the implementation of preventive measures and the pace of vaccination. "Even if there are breakthrough infections among vaccinated people, the severity will be less and hospitals will not be overwhelmed," she said. Sharma thinks the implementation of preventive and restrictive measures is an issue. "People either don't wear mask or don't wear it properly. Most of them use cloth mask, which doesn't serve any purpose. There is hardly any vigil being maintained in crowded areas," she said. After a devastating second wave of the coronavirus, people had started taking vaccination seriously. There would be queues at vaccination centres, but things have changed again. There is laxity on the part of the people, Dr Sharma said. "At the inoculation centre at MAMC, only around 50 people are getting vaccinated a day, while we can vaccinate around 200 people every day. Vaccines are available but people are not coming forward," she said. Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the Community Medicine department, Safdarjung Hospital, said around 80 per cent of people have immunity against the virus, either due to previous infection or due to vaccination. "The Delta variant of coronavirus was responsible for up to 60 per cent of the cases during the second wave. We haven't observed any major difference between 'Delta' and 'Delta Plus' variant. So, a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases is not expected, until a new, more infectious variant emerges," he said. Still, there is a percentage of people who have not been infected or did not develop enough antibodies despite getting vaccinated, due to various reasons. This set of people, which is almost 30 per cent of the population in Delhi, is likely to get infected. "Two cases are possible first, the virus continues to infect people slowly until heard immunity is attained, and second, a new, more infectious variant leads to an increase in cases till everyone has immunity. But it seems the third wave won't be as severe as the second," he said. With the lifting of restrictions, people from rural areas have started coming to Delhi or those who have remained isolated so far are stepping out. "If such people go to crowded places, then there is a possibility of a spike in cases," he said. There is also a possibility that a new variant bypasses the immunity achieved through vaccination and previous infection. If that happens, it will a huge problem then, Dr Kishore added. Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul has also told the Delhi government to remain watchful as the next three months are important and unlocking activities can lead to an increase in Covid-19 cases. However, a third wave of Covid-19 is unlikely to be as severe as the second wave , Dr Samiran Panda of the Indian Council of Medical Research had told the Delhi Disaster Management Authority during a meeting on July 9. He had mentioned that a substantial third wave would be plausible if any new, more infectious variant of the coronavirus emerges and escapes prior immunity in the absence of adequate lockdown measures. Dr Panda had suggested that vaccination efforts be ramped up to strongly mitigate the impact of a possible third wave. Delhi battled a brutal second wave of the pandemic that claimed a massive number of lives, with the shortage of oxygen at hospitals across the city adding to the woes. On April 20, Delhi had reported 28,395 cases, the highest in the city since the beginning of the pandemic. On April 22 the case positivity rate was 36.2 per cent, the highest so far. The highest number of 448 deaths was reported on May 3. The capital has recorded 2,369 cases of the coronavirus in the last 30 days (since June 24), 79 cases a day on an average.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Opposition has no other issue left with it, says Nadda on Pegasus row||Amid speculation about a change of guard in Karnataka, BJP president J P Nadda on Sunday ruled out any leadership crisis in the southern state and said Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has done good work. He termed as baseless the Pegasus snooping allegations, and hit out at the opposition parties over it, saying that there was no issue left with them. Talking to reporters here at the end of his two-day Goa visit, Nadda also said that the BJP would fight the Assembly elections in Goa due early next year under the leadership of Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, but added that a formal decision about it would be taken by the party's parliamentary board. On Karnataka, he said, "Yediyurappa has done good work. Karnataka is doing well. Yediyurappa is taking care of the things in his own way." When asked if there is a leadership crisis in the southern state, Nadda said, That is what you feel. We don't feel so." Nadda's remarks assume significance as they came hours after the Karnataka CM said he will take an appropriate decision, once he receives directions from the BJP high command this evening, regarding his continuation in the post. "By evening once it comes, you will also get to know about it, once it comes I will take an appropriate decision," Yediyurappa had said in Belagavi in response to a question whether the directions from the party high command in Delhi were expected today. Replying to a question over the Pegasus snooping row, Nadda said, It is baseless It is issueless. The opposition parties led by the Congress do not have any issue which they want to raise for people. That is why they raise this kind of issue." Last Sunday, an international media consortium had reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking through the Pegasus spyware of the Israeli firm NSO. However, the government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. Speaking about frequent disruptions in Parliament, Nadda said, "We are ready for all types of discussion, but Congress along with other opposition parties has become disappointed and issueless, and hence resorts to such disruptions They do not know what to do. They want to stop Parliament over issueless things. "But people know that despite all their efforts, the productivity of Parliament has broken all the records under the dynamic leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, the business has broken all the records, he added. Responding to another question, Nadda termed the Congress as a rudderless boat. "Congress party, from Delhi to Goa, is a rudderless boat and its sailor does not know which side to sail He does not know where the winds are blowing," he added. Nadda, while talking about the upcoming Goa elections, said that he was very happy over the performance of the Pramod Sawant-led government and the ruling BJP in the state. "Goa has done an all-round development under the leadership of Pramod Sawant," he said. On asked whether the party will project a fresh chief ministerial face in the next year's election, Nadda said, "We are proceeding under his (Sawant's) leadership. There is no possibility of looking at any other thing...But there is a system in the party that such announcements are done by the Parliamentary Board." Talking about the MLAs, who had switched over to the BJP from the Congress two years back, Nadda said that all the legislators have assimilated themselves "totally and fully" into the party fold. From 2017, the BJP has grown and become a formidable force in the state, he asserted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||PM must clarify whether snooping was done: P Chidambaram||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Sunday said the government should either call for a joint parliamentary committee probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations or request the Supreme Court to appoint a sitting judge to investigate the matter, and demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi make a statement in Parliament clarifying whether there had been surveillance or not. The former home minister said he was not sure that one can go to the extent of saying that the entire electoral mandate of 2019 was vitiated by the "unlawful snooping" but added that it may have "helped" the BJP to score that victory which has been "tainted" by the allegations. In an interview with PTI, Chidambaram also said a probe by a joint parliamentary committee (JPC) can be more effective than an investigation by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information Technology, asserting that the former would be more empowered by Parliament. Asked about Parliament IT panel head Shashi Tharoor's remarks that the subject is already on the mandate of my committee and a JPC is not required, Chidambaram expressed doubts whether the IT panel with a majority of BJP members will allow a full investigation into the matter. "The parliamentary committee rules are rather strict. For example they cannot take evidence openly but a JPC can be empowered by Parliament to take evidence in public view, to cross examine witnesses, and to summon documents. So I think a JPC will have far more powers than a parliamentary committee," he said. At the same time, he said he is not diminishing the role of the parliamentary committee to the extent it can probe the matter and is welcome to do so. Last Sunday, an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers, including of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking through the Pegasus spyware of the Israeli firm NSO. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. On the government's response to the allegations, Chidambaram referred to IT and Communications Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw statement in Parliament, saying he is obviously a very "clever minister" and therefore the statement has been "very cleverly worded". "He (Vaishnaw) denies that there was any unauthorised surveillance. He does not deny that there was surveillance. He does not deny that there was authorised surveillance. Surely the minister knows the difference between authorised surveillance and unauthorised surveillance," the Congress leader said. Posing questions for the government, he asked whether there was surveillance at all and whether snooping was done through Pegasus. "If Pegasus spyware was used, who acquired it? Was it acquired by the government or by one of its agencies," he asked. The Rajya Sabha member also asked the government to come clean on the amount paid to acquire the spyware. "These are simple, straightforward questions which the average citizen is asking and the minister should answer that directly. After all, France has ordered an investigation when it was revealed that President (Emmanuel) Macron's number was one of the numbers that were hacked. Israel itself has ordered an investigation by its National Security Council," he said . If two major countries can order investigation, why should India not order a probe and find answers to the four simple questions, he asked rhetorically. Chidambaram said the matter also raises issues of national security because, if the government says that it did not conduct surveillance, then the question arises who conducted the snooping. "Was it a rogue agency in India doing it without the knowledge of the government or was it a foreign agency hacking into Indian telephones without the knowledge of the government. Either way...it is a more serious matter than the government conducting the surveillance," he said. Asked about the Opposition's demand of a Supreme Court-monitored probe and whether the top court should take it up suo motu, Chidambaram said he would not want to comment on what the court may or may not do, but pointed out that there is already a public interest litigation filed by one or two persons, separately, asking it to take suo motu cognisance of the Pegasus revelations. "Be that as it may, the government should request either Parliament to constitute a JPC or the government should request the Supreme Court to spare an honourable judge to conduct the investigation," he said. Asked about Home Minister Amit Shah's assertion that the allegations were aimed at humiliating India at the world stage, Chidambaram said the home minister chose his words very carefully and did not deny that there was surveillance. "He (Shah) does not deny that a certain number of telephones in India were hacked using Pegasus software. So, in fact, rather than what the home minister said, what he did not say is more important," he said. If the home minister is unable to categorically deny that Indian telephones were infiltrated by the spyware, then obviously he must take responsibility for this "scandal" happening under his watch, Chidambaram said. Asked about the logjam in Parliament over the issue and calls from Opposition ranks that the PM should make a statement on the Pegasus issue, he said Modi should have made a statement on the first day of Parliament's Monsoon Session itself when the allegations came to the fore. "There are only a few agencies which could have done this surveillance. All the agencies are under the prime minister's control," he said. "Each minister knows only what is under his department. The PM knows what is happening under all departments. So, it is the prime minister who should come forward and say whether there was surveillance or not and if there was surveillance whether it was authorised or not," Chidambaram said. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Maha monsoon fury leaves 113 dead, 100 missing||The number of deaths due to flooding, landslides and other rain-related incidents in parts of Maharashtra reached 113 on Sunday with one more casualty reported in the last 24 hours, while 100 people were missing after the monsoon fury, the state government said. So far, 50 people have also been injured in these incidents, the government said in a statement. On Sunday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray visited Chiplun, the site of severe flooding in Ratnagiri district of the Konkan region. A group of locals stopped the CM's convoy and informed him about the problems they were facing following the rain havoc in the area. The chief minister interacted with residents, businessmen and shopkeepers, and promised them all help from the state government to restore normalcy in the area. Thackeray said they will require "central assistance for long-term mitigation measures", and added that he will tour western Maharashtra on Monday and a comprehensive data of the extent of damages will be prepared. Union MSME Minister Narayan Rane visited Taliye village in Raigad, the site of a massive landslide on Thursday, and said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has asked him to submit a report on the damage caused by the rains. Rane said damaged houses would be rebuilt under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana after suggestions are taken from local residents. Former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Leader of Opposition in the state Legislative Council Pravin Darekar accompanied Rane. In the last 24 hours, one death was reported from Pune and one person was reported missing from Thane district, the state government said. The government said 52 deaths were so far reported in Raigad, 21 in Ratnagiri, 13 in Satara, 12 in Thane, seven in Kolhapur, four in suburban Mumbai, and two each in Sindhudurg and Pune. A total of 875 villages in Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Pune were affected by the torrential rains, while 1,35,313 people were evacuated to safer places, it said. Around 2,000 people were lodged at six relief camps in Ratnagiri, the release said. A bridge on the Vashisthi river in Chiplun had earlier got damaged following heavy downpour. Thackeray, while talking to reporters after a review meeting in Chiplun, said the economy was "sluggish" because of the COVID-19 pandemic. "We will require central assistance for long-term mitigation measures. The central government has provided assistance by deploying rescue teams from defence forces," he said. The chief minister said he will tour western Maharashtra on Monday and a comprehensive data of the extent of damages will be prepared. "We will provide all assistance," he assured. Thackeray said there will be no technical difficulty in providing assistance to the affected people. Some residents of Chiplun, who had stopped Thackeray's convoy, later told reporters that they informed the chief minister that they need immediate relief, and not assurances. "We have lost everything in the flood. For the last three days, no one came to conduct the punchnama (spot inspection). Now, with the water level receding, we are clearing the debris from our homes and shops. If the officials come later and find our area clean, will they give us compensation?" asked a woman who met the CM.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Human rights issues extend beyond national perspectives, govt sources say on Blinken's remarks||Human rights and democracy are universal and extend beyond a particular national or cultural perspective, government sources here said on Sunday, a day after the US said that Secretary of State Antony Blinken will raise the issues during his upcoming visit to India. As a long-standing pluralistic society, India is open to engaging those who "now recognise" the value of diversity, the sources said. "Issues such as human rights and democracy are universal and extend beyond a particular national or cultural perspective. India is proud of its achievements in both domains and is always glad to share experiences," said a source. Blinken is scheduled to arrive in India on Tuesday on a two-day visit. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) on Friday said Blinken will meet External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. A statement by the US State Department said Blinken will also meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Dean Thompson, the Acting Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs told reporters on Saturday that Blinken will raise issues of human rights and democracy with Indian officials during the visit. "With respect to the human rights and democracy question, yes, you're right; I will tell you that we will raise it, and we will continue that conversation because we firmly believe that we have more values in common on those fronts than we don't," Thompson said. "We believe India is going to be a really important part of continuing those conversations and building strong efforts on those fronts in partnership as we go forward," Thompson said in response to a question. It will be Blinken's first visit to India after assuming charge as the US Secretary of State.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India|| Will take decision after receiving order from BJP top brass this evening: Yediyurappa on CM issue||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said he will take an appropriate decision, once he receives directions from the BJP high command this evening, regarding his continuation in the post. "By evening once it comes, you will also get to know about it, once it comes I will take an appropriate decision," Yediyurappa said in response to a question whether the directions from the party high command in Delhi were expected today. To a question on pontiffs holding a mega conclave in Bengaluru Sunday, which is seen as expressing solidarity with him, he said, "there is no need for pontiffs to hold any meet, I have confidence in PM Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP national President J P Nadda." Questioned about a Dalit Chief Minister replacing him, Yediyurappa said, "I'm not the one to decide about it, it is for the high command to decide. Let's first see what decision they will take today..." Asked whether he was satisfied with his work for two years, he said, "if you are satisfied that's enough for me." Indicating that Monday might be his last day in office, Yediyurappa had recently said that based on the instructions that the central leaders will give him on July 25, he will get on with "his work" from July 26. His government will complete two years in office on July 26. Meanwhile, scores of pontiffs are expected to participate in a "maga conclave" to be held here on Sunday, coinciding with the possible decision by the BJP central leadership on his exit. Dingaleshwar Swamiji of Balehosur mutt, who had held a press meet here on July 23 to inform about the conclave with other Swamijis, had refused to connect the event directly with the possible leadership change, but it is being widely seen as an attempt to muster support to Yediyurappa and send out a message. Yediyurappa is in flood and rain ravaged Belagavi district to review the relief and rescue operation there. Noting that he will be visiting people affected by rains and floods, the Chief Minister said after visiting some affected villages and analysing the situation there, he will be heading back to Bengaluru. "By the god's grace, rains have receded both yesterday and today and if the situation continues in the same way for the next couple of days, I'm confident that things will come under control," he said, adding that rains receding in Maharashtra is a good sign.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Afghanistan situation, Pakistan terror financing to feature at talks during Blinken visit||The implications of the withdrawal of American forces from Afghanistan and the need for sustained pressure on Pakistan on terror financing and safe havens will be part of the agenda of talks during US Secretary of State Antony Blinken's two-day maiden India visit beginning July 27, official sources said on Sunday. The discussions will also focus on deepening engagement under the framework of the Quad with the possibility of a foreign ministerial meeting of the grouping expected to take place later this year, the sources said. Both sides will also take forward the Quad vaccine initiative to enable the supply of vaccines produced in India from early 2022 to countries in the Indo-Pacific region. The sources said the visit will be an opportunity to further consolidate bilateral cooperation across a vast agenda and the areas of focus will be trade and investment, healthcare, education, digital domain, innovation and security. It will be Blinken's first visit to India after assuming charge as the US Secretary of State and the second by a high-ranking Biden administration official since it came to power in January In the defence domain, both sides are expected to explore ways to deepen collaboration, the sources said. India will also press for gradual resumption of international travel while maintaining health protocols, especially for easing the mobility of students, professionals, business travellers and for ensuring family reunions, besides humanitarian cases, they said. "The need for resilient supply chains of critical medicines and healthcare equipment is likely to come up," said a source. The two sides will exchange assessments about Indo-Pacific with a focus on Covid assistance, economic slowdown and security scenario, the sources said. On vaccines, India will continue to push for ensuring open and consistent supply chains for materials and items required for vaccine production as India ramps up the manufacturing for domestic and global supplies thereafter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Rajasthan cabinet reshuffle: No contradiction among party leaders, says Ajay Maken||AICC general secretary Ajay Maken on Sunday said there is no conflict among the party leaders in Rajasthan on the planned cabinet reshuffle and they have left the decision on the central leadership. After meeting ministers, MLAs and office bearers at the party office here, Maken said they have expressed confidence in the party high command for the reshuffle decision. Maken did not disclose any date for the cabinet expansion, but he will again be in the state capital on July 28. "I can say that there is no conflict among the party leaders and they all have left the final decision about the cabinet expansion to the party high command," he told reporters. Maken, together with AICC general secretary (organisation) K C Venugopal, arrived at the party office in Jaipur for the meeting. He said issues like inflation and the Pegasus matter were discussed. "People of the country are suffering from high inflation, many have lost jobs during the pandemic, and instead of spending money and resources for people, the central government misused the resources for snooping and spying on leaders, journalists and judiciary. This is highly condemnable," he said. To a question on the BJP's allegations against PCC chief and Education Minister Govind Singh Dotasra of influencing the interview process of the Rajasthan Administrative Services 2018 examination in favour of two relatives, Maken said Dotasra is being cornered as he had targeted RSS leader Nimbaram and the BJP. Nimbaram, the regional pracharak of the RSS, is named in an FIR registered with the Anti-Corruption Bureau in a matter related to graft, and recently, Dotasra had said that the state government would give "treatment" to the RSS leader. By saying "treatment", he apparently meant action against the leader. Maken said he would come to Jaipur on July 28 to hold discussions with MLAs on the appointment of district and block presidents of the party. Venugopal and Maken late on Saturday night held discussions on the issues of cabinet reshuffle and political appointments with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence. After Punjab, the party high command has shifted its focus to Rajasthan, where demands for Cabinet expansion and political appointments have gained momentum after reports of resentment in the camp led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who along with 18 MLAs had rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot last year. Three days back, Pilot had indicated that the Congress would take suitable steps soon to address issues raised by him. He had said that he is in touch with the party high command over the issues raised by him and hoped that the required steps would be taken soon. Pilot was sacked as the deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief in July last year after he rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot. After a one-month-long political crisis, the party high command announced to form a three-member committee to look into the issues raised by him. Last month, MLAs from the Pilot camp said that the party should fulfil the promises made to Pilot last month, following which the demand for Cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum. At present, there are 21 members in the council of ministers, including the chief minister, and nine slots are vacant. Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-396
25-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi questions Narendra Modi on Covid-19 vaccination pace||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday questioned the pace of Covid-19 vaccination, and said had the country's "Mann ki Baat" been understood, such would not have been the state. His remarks came just ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "Mann ki Baat" address to the people of the country. "Had you understood the country's 'Mann ki Baat', such would not have been the state of vaccinations," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. He used the hashtag "WhereAreVaccines" to question the government on the inoculation rate. The former Congress President also shared a video highlighting the alleged slow vaccination rate and media reports where people were not getting vaccines across the country. The video highlighted India's vaccination equation which is aimed to stop the third wave of coronavirus and the target to vaccinate 60 per cent of population with both doses by December 2021. The graph highlighted that the required vaccination rate (vaccinations per day) is 9.3 million per day (93 lakh) and the actual rate in the last seven days (average vaccinations per day) is 3.6 million per day, with a daily shortfall in the last seven days being 5.6 million per day. It also highlighted the actual vaccinations on July 24(vaccinations in previous 24 hours) at 2.3 million per day with a shortfall today of 6.9 million per day. One million is equal to 10 lakh. The Congress has been criticising the government over the slow inoculations and the vaccine policy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Modi endorses 'Nation First, Always First' mantra as India nears 75th Independence Day||Stressing on 'Nation First, Always First' mantra, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday that as the country enters its 75th year of Independence, every citizen should lead a "Bharat Jodo Andolan" in the same manner as Mahatma Gandhi had led the "Bharat Chhoro Andolan". In his monthly Mann Ki Baat radio broadcast, he noted that on the coming August 15 India will enter its 75th year of Independence and highlighted that Amrit Mahotsav is being celebrated throughout the country to mark that year. The need of the nation is to unite and work towards national progress, Modi said. "Just like Bapu (Mahatma Gandhi) led the 'Bharat Chhoro Andolan' (Quit India movement), every Indian must lead the 'Bharat Jodo Andolan (Unite India Movement)'. It is our responsibility that we do our work in such a manner that it helps in uniting our country which is full of diversities ," Modi said. "We have to move forward with Nation First, Always First," he asserted. Many programmes in connection with Amrit Mahotsav are being run, the prime minister said, adding that the Ministry of Culture has started an initiative to have maximum number of Indians sing the national anthem together. For this, a website, rashtragan.in, too has been created . "With the help of this website, you can render the national anthem and record it, thereby getting connected with the campaign. I hope you connect yourselves with this novel initiative. In the days to come, you will get to see many such campaigns and efforts," he said. The prime minister urged people to keep encouraging and supporting Indian athletes participating in the Tokyo Olympics. He called on the people to support the Indian Olympics team on social media by joining the 'Victory Punch Campaign' which has already begun. "You also share your victory punch along with your team and cheer for India," Modi said. Noting that on July 26 the nation will mark Kargil Vijay Diwas, the prime minister asked people of the country to pay tributes to those who made our nation proud in 1999. Talking about his Mann Ki Baat programme, he said it celebrates positivity and collectivity. "I am unable to take up all the inputs I receive for Mann Ki Baat but I do forward many of them to government departments concerned, he said. In the broadcast, he also cited a study done MyGov to highlight that out of those sending messages and suggestions for Mann Ki Baat close to 75 per cent are below the age of 35 years. "I view this as a very good indicator. Mann Ki Baat is a medium which has positivity, sensitivity. In Mann Ki Baat, we talk about positive things; its character is collective," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Search operations for missing people in Maharashtra rains underway||The rain intensity reduced in Maharashtra's Satara district on Sunday and authorities continued search operations for those missing after landslides, while traffic remained suspended on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway as a stretch in neighbouring Kolhapur was still inundated, officials said. The death toll in rain-related incidents at Satara in western Maharashtra rose to 28 by late Saturday evening while at least 14 people are still missing, they said. Till Saturday night, 11 bodies were recovered from Ambeghar village after a landslide there, six from Mirgaon village and four from Dhokawale village. Besides, seven people died in other rain-related incidents in Satara district, officials said. The search operation at Dhokawale was completed on Saturday night, as per the district administration and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF). Satara Superintendent of Police (SP) Ajay Kumar Bansal said, "The search operation for those missing has begun since morning. We will be able to complete the operation by noon. Since last evening, there is relief due to less or no rain which will help in speeding up the search operation." As many as 379 villages in the district were affected due to heavy rains over the last three days and more than 5,000 people were shifted to safer places, as per the local administration. In adjoining Kolhapur also, the rainfall activity ebbed and the water level of the Panchganga river at Rajaram weir came down to 52 feet, but it was still flowing above the danger mark of 43 feet, as per the district disaster cell. "The vehicular traffic remained suspended on the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway as the stretch near Shiroli village continued to be inundated, Kolhapur SP Shailesh Balkawade said. District Guardian Minister Satej Patil on Saturday said over 74,000 people were shifted to safer places from the flood-hit regions. Six teams of the NDRF and a column of the Army were carrying out rescue operations in the flood-hit areas. In neighboring Sangli district, the Krishna river at Irwin bridge was flowing at 54.5 feet, as against the danger mark of 45 feet, according to the local administration.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha MP moves Supreme Court, seeks probe into Pegasus issue||Rajya Sabha member John Brittas has moved the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored probe into reports of alleged snooping of activists, politicians, journalists and constitutional functionaries using Israeli spyware Pegasus. A massive political row has erupted after media reports claimed that Pegasus spyware was used to conduct surveillance on about 300 Indians, including ministers, political leaders, government officials and journalists. Brittas, who has filed a public interest litigation in the Supreme Court, said that recent allegations of snooping has caused concern among a large section of people in India and that snooping would have a chilling effect on free speech and expression. He has sought a court-monitored investigation into allegations of snooping using Pegasus spyware. In a statement on Sunday, Brittas, who is a CPI-M member, said that despite the very serious nature, the central government has not cared to investigate into the allegations involved in the issue but "made only a hopeful hope that the time tested processes in our country are well-established to ensure that unauthorised surveillance does not occur". "Therefore, the queries were raised in the Indian Parliament with respect to this leakage. But the government has neither denied nor admitted the snooping by the spyware," he said. Amid a row over the Pegasus spyware issue, the government had said that illegal surveillance was not possible with checks and balances in the country's laws and alleged that attempts were being made to malign the Indian democracy. On July 19, IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw told the Lok Sabha that media reports on alleged snooping published a day before the start of the Monsoon Session of Parliament "cannot be a coincidence" and stressed that there is "no substance" behind the sensationalism. However, the minister did not specify whether the Indian government was using Pegasus spyware. Brittas, on Sunday, also claimed that allegations lead to two inferences, either snooping was done by the government or by a foreign agency. If it was done by the government, then it was done in an unauthorised manner. If snooping was carried out by some foreign agency, then that is an act of external aggression and needs to be dealt in a serious manner, Brittas pointed out. The NSO, the company which owns the technology, has also "clearly rubbished the claims in the report", the minister had said. The NSO had said that the list of countries shown using Pegasus in the report was incorrect and many countries mentioned were not even the clients of the company, as per the minister's statement to the Lok Sabha on July 19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||India logs 39,742 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload declines||India added 39,742 new cases of coronavirus infection taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,13,71,901, while the death toll rose to 4,20,551 with 535 fresh fatalities, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday. The active cases have declined to 4,08,212 and comprise 1.30 per cent of the total infections and the national Covid-19 recovery rate has been recorded at 97.36 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. A decline of 765 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. As many as 17,18,756 tests were conducted on Saturday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 45,62,89,567. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.31 per cent . It has been less than three per cent for 34 consecutive days, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.24 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,05,43,138, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 43.31 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. The 535 new fatalities include 224 from Maharashtra and 98 from Kerala. A total of 4,20551 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,31,429 from Maharashtra, 36,352 from Karnataka, 33,889 from Tamil Nadu, 25,041 from Delhi, 22,749 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,064 from Bengal. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Congress high command to take final call on Rajasthan cabinet reshuffle||A final decision on the issue of cabinet reshuffle in Rajasthan has been left to the Congress high command and the expansion is likely to be held in the next few days, party sources said. AICC general secretaries KC Venugopal and Ajay Maken late on Saturday night held discussions on the issues of cabinet reshuffle and political appointments with Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot at his residence. The cabinet expansion is likely to be held in the next few days. After discussions, the leaders have left the final decision about the reshuffle to the party high command, the sources said. "The meeting lasted for nearly two-and-a-half hours during which discussion on cabinet reshuffle and political appointments were held. The final decision about the reshuffle has been left to the party high command," the sources told PTI. At present, there are 21 members in the council of ministers, including chief minister, and nine slots are vacant.Rajasthan can have a maximum of 30 ministers. After Punjab, the party high command has shifted its focus to Rajasthan, where demands for Cabinet expansion and political appointments have gained momentum after reports of resentment in the camp led by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who along with 18 MLAs had rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot last year. Three days back, Pilot had indicated that the Congress would take suitable steps soon to address issues raised by him. He had said that he is in touch with the party high command over the issues raised by him and hoped that the required steps would be taken soon. Pilot was sacked as the deputy chief minister and Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief in July last year after he rebelled against the leadership of Gehlot. After a one-month-long political crisis, the party high command announced to form a three-member committee to look into the issues raised by him. Last month, MLAs from the Pilot camp said that the party should fulfil the promises made to Pilot last month, following which the demand for Cabinet expansion and political appointments gained momentum. During the meeting on Saturday night, "It was also decided that political appointments in various boards and corporations should take place as soon as possible with discussion and consensus of elected public representatives, state office bearers and senior leaders of the party," the sources said. It was also decided that the manifesto committee of AICC will hold a meeting to review the progress in the implementation of the party manifesto of Rajasthan. The committee chairman will visit the state later this month, the sources added. PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra said that Venugopal and Maken will hold meeting with party MLAs here on Sunday. He also clarified that no meeting of the Congress Legislature Party (CLP) has been convened on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Torrential rains trigger landslides in Pune and Konkan divisions   ||The death toll from the torrential rains that battered Maharashtra’s Pune and Konkan divisions over the last three days and triggered landslides in some areas rose to 112 on Saturday, including 52 in the coastal Raigad district alone, the state government said in a release. As many as 1,35,313 people have been shifted to safer places including 78,111 in Western Maharashtra’s Sangli district followed by 40,882 in Kolhapur district.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Supreme Court ex-judges suggest reforms to avert misuse of laws||Justice Madan B. Lokur, the former Supreme Court judge, has expressed doubt whether a clause and a law dealing with sedition and terrorism would be scrapped altogether but has suggested measures to insulate them from misuse. Several former Supreme Court judges and a former high court judge on Saturday called the sedition clause and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) unconstitutional. Four former Supreme Court judges — Justices Lokur, Aftab Alam, Deepak Gupta and V. Gopala Gowda —as well as the former Patna High Court judge, Justice Anjana Prakash, were speaking at a webinar hosted by the Centre for Judicial Accountability and Reform. Justice Lokur said: “It’s nice to say that UAPA, sedition should go. But as I said, I don’t think they’re going to go. Probably, the National Security Act is now going to be used. So how do people deal with the situation? The only way is accountability. Accountability has to be in two forms; one is financial accountability where compensation has to be given. Once the courts start telling police or prosecution that you better pay Rs 5 or 10 lakh, I think they’ll probably come to their senses.” He added: “There is now… something called ‘soft torture’. We know about third and second degree methods, but you have soft torture.” Justice Lokur cited the overcrowding of jails and the lack of sanitation and proper food for juveniles as examples. “You have somebody like Hany Babu (the Delhi University teacher now lodged in a Mumbai jail) whose eye is in a very bad shape and when it appears that he might lose his eye, then he will be sent to hospital but not before that. Everybody has talked about Stan Swamy. Why could he not be given medical treatment earlier? Isn’t that torture?” Justice Alam cited National Crime Records Bureau data to show that the UAPA had been proved to harass the innocent rather than punish the guilty. He said: “In 2019, there were 2,361 UAPA cases pending trial; 113 were disposed of with conviction in 33 cases, acquittal in 64 and discharge in 16 cases. With low rates of disposal and high rates of pending, even if the case may fail, the accused may come out of incarceration after 8, or even 13 years…. The case doesn’t stand but the accused has suffered. “It’s, therefore, not incorrect to say that in UAPA, the process itself is punishment…. We must then ask whether results justify the high toll on constitutional freedom that this legal framework is based upon.” The collection of data itself was now being done to create a political narrative, Justice Alam added. “Murders arising from class, caste… such as lynching are shown as individual offences under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code…. The grouping of violent terrorist acts, which earlier accounted for a mere 3.3 per cent of total violent crimes, with non-violent speech creates a new imagination of terrorism and national security which brings the problem of terrorism centre-stage.” Justice Gowda said: “Some principles that could inform a jurisprudence that accords due deference to civil rights even within the restrictive confines of the UAPA can be culled out from certain judgments already delivered on the point by high courts and the Supreme Court. “One, operations of legislation like the UAPA, designed to deal with exceptional circumstances, must be restricted to such cases and their operation shouldn’t be blurred with ordinary legislation. Two, the word ‘terrorism’ in the UAPA must be given a specific meaning that relates to defence of India as a sovereign nation which must be distinguished from public order offences. Public order must not be coloured with seditious motives.” Justice Gupta said that even Section 124A of the IPC (sedition) should be repealed. He explained: “In my view, the only reason it was held to be constitutional was that it was held in the straitjacket of only being incitement to violence, etc. Today you have so many other laws dealing with incitement to violence, including the UAPA.” The retired judge added that the UAPA was unconstitutional as well. He said: “When Mohammed Ilyas and Irfan were acquitted by an NIA court after 12 years, people (were) acquitted in Surat after 20 years, Natasha Narwal did get bail only after her father died, Siddique Kappan’s mother died when he was in jail.... Father Stan Swamy, 84 years old, suffering from Parkinson’s disease…. I mean, are we not human? Have we lost all touch of humanity? This man requires bail even if there’s 43D or 43E (of the UAPA)… a provision which effectively takes away the power of the superior courts to grant bail, denies the power of judicial review to the accused person and, therefore, is unconstitutional.” Justice Prakash said: “It is unchallenged that the presumption of innocence shouldn’t be dislodged…. The point is, whether the SC and courts as protectors of rights do not think there’s a possibility of misuse. The HC doesn’t do anything; when they do, SC says ‘no, no’. This is absurd. What happens to the protection of civil rights?” The former Supreme Court judge, Justice A.K. Ganguly, was replaced as a speaker at the webinar after outrage on social media about the absence of a woman and the inclusion of Ganguly who faced a sexual harassment charge in 2013. Justice Prakash replaced Justice Ganguly at the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||CBI arms licence racket lens on feted senior IAS officer||A senior IAS officer who played a key role in enforcing the Centre’s writ in the wake of the scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019 and was twice honoured by Prime Minister Narendra Modi woke up on Saturday to CBI searches for alleged involvement in a multi-crore “arms licence racket”. The CBI raided around 40 locations in Jammu and Kashmir and Delhi linked to former and serving officers, including the residence of 2009-batch IAS officer Shahid Iqbal Choudhary, who has served as the deputy commissioner of Srinagar, Kathua, Udhampur and Reasi and is presently posted as secretary, tribal affairs, and chief executive officer of the J&K Youth Mission. The CBI has not named the bureaucrats subjected to searches. At least eight former deputy commissioners who have served in Jammu and Kashmir are under the CBI scanner for allegedly issuing over two lakh illegal gun licences from 2012 to 2016, suspected to be one of the biggest such rackets in the country. Even after the allegations against Choudhary had surfaced, he was posted as DC Srinagar in February 2019. In 2018, as deputy commissioner of Rajouri, he had received a national award for women’s empowerment from Modi. Three years earlier, he had been honoured with the Prime Minister’s Award for Excellence in Public Administration. In a tweet on Saturday, Choudhary confirmed the CBI “searches” at his residence but claimed the sleuths found “nothing incriminating in the ongoing arms licence probe”. He said he had issued the lowest — “0.38 per cent” — of all arms licences in Jammu and Kashmir during the four years under the scanner. “I am fully answerable to CBI for my tenure,” he said. He had angered many during his tenure as deputy commissioner of Srinagar, which coincided with the August 5, 2019, dilution of Article 370. Choudhary had led the clampdown in the capital, booking several top politicians including former chief ministers Farooq Abdullah, Mehbooba Mufti and Omar Abdullah under the stringent Public Safety Act. The grounds for detaining Omar had sounded bizarre to many. “The capacity of the subject (Omar) to influence people for any cause can be gauged from the fact that he was able to convince his electorate to come out and vote in huge numbers even during the peak of militancy and poll boycotts,” the dossier issued by Choudhary had read. Some politicians had publicly accused Choudhary of ill treatment. Two MPs — Hasnain Masoodi and Mohammad Akbar Lone — had issued a statement in September 2019 accusing the IAS officer of not even responding to their phone calls when they had tried to approach him to meet the incarcerated leadership. Last year, Choudhary had publicly backed a police officer who had been frequently booking people for online posts, saying he was behind the “purification of social media”. A CBI spokesman said on Saturday that around 40 locations were raided in Jammu, Srinagar, Udhampur, Rajouri, Anantnag, Baramulla and Delhi. These were the official and residential premises of public servants “including IAS, KAS (Kashmir Administrative Service) officers, then DM, then ADM, etc, and around 20 gun houses and dealers in an ongoing investigation of a case related to the arms licence racket.” “The CBI had registered two cases on the request of the J&K government and further notification from the government of India, and taken over the investigation of two FIRs — No. 18 of 2018 dated 17.05.2018 earlier registered at Police Station Vigilance Organisation Kashmir (VOK) and FIR No. 11 of 2018 dated 17.05.2018 of Police Station Vigilance Organisation Jammu (VOJ) — on the allegations of bulk issuance of arms licences in the erstwhile state… during the period 2012 to 2016,” the spokesman said in a statement. “It was alleged that more than 2.78 lakh arms licences were issued to non-entitled persons.” The CBI also collected documents pertaining to the issuance of the said armed licences allegedly spread over 22 districts of J&K.” The spokesman said the investigations had revealed that several district magistrates had allegedly issued illegal arms licences to ineligible persons. “It was also alleged that the persons who got these licences were not residents of the places from where the said arms licences were issued,” the spokesperson said. No officer was named in the statement. In 2020, two IAS officers, including Rajiv Ranjan, had been arrested by the CBI for allegedly issuing gun licences against payments to thousands of people. The scam was first discovered by Rajasthan’s anti-terror squad in 2017 when they arrested Ranjan’s brother and others working as conduits for gun dealers. The then PDP-BJP government of Jammu and Kashmir, it is believed, had been going slow on the matter but then governor N.N. Vohra handed the case over to the CBI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Centre to state: Provide digital access for students||The Centre has passed on to the states the onus of providing digital access for all students, disappointing some academics who said it was the Union government’s responsibility to implement its push for online education. To a question in the Rajya Sabha from Shiv Sena member Anil Desai, education minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Thursday said the states had been asked to address the issues of digital access. “Education is a subject in the concurrent list of the Constitution, and the matter relating to education pertains to central as well as the state government concerned,” Pradhan replied. “The states and UTs (Union Territories) have been advised to map the students school-wise with their individual performance. Accordingly, the state governments have been directed to act based on the situation prevailing at every place to meet the demands of all students for providing them with the digital access required for learning digitally.” The Narendra Modi government has been pushing for the digitalisation of education in a big way. Since the Covid outbreak, school and higher-education institutions have been conducting classes and exams online. However, poor Internet connectivity, erratic power supply and the lack of quality devices have left the economically disadvantaged and rural students in the lurch. David Lalrinchhana, a master’s student of the Mizo language at Mizoram University, Aizawl, said he had to move out of his home in New Ngharchhip village, Hnahthial district, in search of good Internet connectivity to take his online exams or download video lectures. “The Internet connectivity is unstable in our village. To take our exams, we sometimes have to climb to the top of a hill,” David said. Biju Dharamapalan, academic and member of an expert committee on biosciences at M.G. University, Kottayam, said only a central government initiative can help bridge the digital divide among students. “Like the midday meal programme, we need a centrally sponsored scheme to successfully implement online education across India. The scheme should provide smart phones or TV sets with DTH connections to economically backward students,” he said. Dharmapalan said the states would not have the cash to provide students with electronic devices. On the other hand, the Centre could get the public-sector electronics companies to bring out low-cost smart phones, laptops and TV sets. The Indian Academy of Sciences has released a report, “Higher education going online: The challenges in India”, edited by academics Sujin Babu and Ram Ramaswamy. “In many families, two or three students share a single smart phone. If the (central) government is serious about digital education, it must put in place a dedicated education network and ensure that economically disadvantaged students get at least a free tablet and cheap data,” Ramaswamy told this newspaper. Manoj Killedar, a teacher at the Yashwantrao Chavan Maharashtra Open University and an expert on distance education, said the government’s thrust on online education was welcome but it should be implemented properly.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-397
25-07-2021||India||Brazil’s health surveillance agency suspends permission for planned clinical trial of Covaxin||Brazil’s health surveillance agency Anvisa on Friday suspended permission for a planned clinical trial of India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech, hours after the vaccine maker cut ties with its Brazilian partner amid corruption allegations. Anvisa on Friday night announced the “precautionary suspension” of the clinical trials, linking it to Bharat Biotech’s decision to terminate its pact with Precisa Medicamentos through which it had hoped to introduce the vaccine in Brazil. The termination means the local partner “is no longer authorised to represent Bharat (Biotech) in Brazil which, in Anvisa’s assessment, makes it impossible” to carry out the clinical trial, the agency said. Covaxin has mired President Jair Bolsonaro’s government in allegations of irregularities with whistleblowers alleging the government had accepted a $15 per dose deal for 20 million doses although Covid-19 vaccines were available at lower prices. The allegations had triggered investigations by a Brazilian parliamentary commission of inquiry and the country’s comptroller general. Brazil’s health minister Marcelo Quieroga had announced on June 29 that the country would suspend the contract. Bharat Biotech and Bolsonaro have denied any wrongdoing or knowledge of irregularities. The company has said it has not received any advance payments from Brazil, nor has it supplied any vaccines to the Brazilian health ministry. Covaxin is available to the Indian government at Rs 215 ($2.8) per dose and in private hospitals in India at Rs 1,250 ($16) per dose. Bharat Biotech has said the vaccine’s global price has been set between $15 to $20 per dose. Bharat Biotech, in its statement released on Friday announcing its decision to cut ties with Precisa Medicamentos, had said that it would “continue to work diligently” with Anvisa to complete the regulatory approval process for Covaxin in Brazil. But Anvisa’s decision to suspend the clinical trial of Covaxin puts a question mark on the regulatory approval. Anvisa had on May 13 approved a clinical trial on 4,500 volunteers — 3,000 in Sao Paulo, 500 in Rio de Janeiro, 500 in Bahia and 500 in Mato Grosso. The trial had yet to start. India is mainly using Covaxin and Covishield, the AstraZeneca vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India, in its vaccination campaign, although limited supplies of Russia’s Sputnik V have also been administered to recipients. Clinical trial data have shown Covaxin as 78 per cent effective against symptomatic Covid-19 and 93 per cent effective against severe disease. Efficacy data also indicated that Covaxin offers 65 per cent protection against the highly contagious Delta coronavirus variant. Bharat Biotech has said Covaxin has received emergency use authorisation approvals in 16 countries, including India, Iran and Mexico, and is under evaluation for similar approvals in over 50 countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
25-07-2021||India||Delhi lieutenant governor grants power to cops to apprehend anyone under National Security Act||Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Saturday granted power to the police commissioner to apprehend anyone under the National Security Act, according to a notification. “In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (3) read with clause (e) of Section 2 of the National Security Act, 1980, the Lt Governor pleased to direct that during the period July 19 to October 18, the Delhi police commissioner may also exercise the powers of detaining authority under sub section (2) of the section 3 of the aforesaid Act,” said the notification issued by Baijal on Saturday. The move comes ahead of Independence Day and at a time when farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws have been holding a Kisan Sansad at Jantar Mantar. Sources in Delhi police, however, said it was a routine order and was issued periodically.“It is a routine and regular order with no connection to the farmers’ protest. Similar orders were issued in January last year during the anti-CAA protests in the capital,” a police official said. In the absence of such blanket permission, police have to seek the approval of the home department before they can slap charges under the NSA on any individual. The NSA has been widely criticised for being “draconian” because of the powers of preventive detention that it gives to the government.The NSA allows preventive detention of an individual for months if the authorities feel that they are a threat to national security and the law and order of the country. The individual also need not be informed of the charges for 10 days. The areas around Parliament are heavily guarded and additional security personnel deployed in the wake of the Kisan Sansad. Parts of the national capital are under triple-layer security cover ahead of Independence Day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
25-07-2021||India||Mob kills woman constable after death of Dalit man in custody||A mob attacked and killed a woman constable and injured several others in Jehanabad district of Bihar on Saturday following the death of a Dalit man in custody on charges of flouting the liquor ban. Local people had blocked National Highway 110 near Nehalpur under Parasbigha police station in Jehanabad in protest against the death of Govind Manjhi, who hailed from the Musahar community. Sources said Govind, a resident of Sarsa village, was arrested on July 19 in a case related to illegal liquor trade and allegedly thrashed by the police. He was later sent to jail, where his condition deteriorated. He was admitted to a government hospital in serious condition for treatment, but died early on Saturday. His family members and other people from Sarsa brought his body back from the hospital in the afternoon. They later blocked the highway and attacked a police team that reached Nehalpur. “The people blocking the road started pelting bricks and stones on our team after a man accused in a case related to flouting the liquor ban died. He was sent to judicial custody and was lodged in a jail in neighbouring Aurangabad district,” Jehanabad sub-divisional police officer Ashok Kumar Pandey said. “Our team retreated, but were chased by the mob. The woman constable seems to have been run over by a vehicle while trying to save herself. Many other police officials were injured in the incident and some of our vehicles were also damaged. We have arrested a few persons so far in connection with the incident,” he said. The deceased policewoman has been identified as Kanti Devi. She was a resident of Khagaria district. Reinforcements were rushed to Nehalpur and the police resorted to lathicharge and allegedly fired a few rounds in the air to control the situation. The injured police officials have been admitted to the district hospital for treatment. The police claimed that the protesters fired a few bullets during the clash. Jehanabad superintendent of police Deepak Ranjan rushed to Nehalpur and has been camping at the spot. “We have arrested five persons so far. We have also got video footage of the incident and other persons involved in the incident have been identified. Raids are on to nab them,” Ranjan told The Telegraph over the phone. He added that Govind was arrested in connection with the liquor trade. “Govind was kept in a jail at Daudnagar in Aurangabad district for quarantine purposes as per the protocol for the Covid-19 pandemic. The medical report will make the reason for his death clear. The Aurangabad district magistrate and superintendent of police are taking care of it,” he said. The state went dry in April 2016, when chief minister Nitish Kumar banned liquor by bringing in a prohibition law. Though some of its draconian provisions were toned down later, it has ended up vesting much of the power on the police and excise officials. The authorities have been accused of misusing their powers while the liquor ban is being flouted across the state with impunity. A nexus has been alleged between the liquor mafia, police and excise officials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
25-07-2021||India||US: Antony Blinken will raise issues related to 'human rights and democracy' with India||The US state department on Friday said secretary of state Antony Blinken would raise issues related to “human rights and democracy” with India during his visit to New Delhi next week. Blinken leaves for a two-nation tour of India and Kuwait on Monday and is expected in Delhi on Tuesday. He will be the second high-ranking official of the Joe Biden administration to visit India since the change of guard in Washington in January. In a pre-departure briefing, acting assistant secretary for South and Central Asian affairs in the state department, Dean Thompson, was asked specifically what the conversation might be on human rights since he had not mentioned it in his opening remarks. The questioner also flagged the “free pass” the Narendra Modi government had got “on a lot of the anti-Muslim legislation and actions they took”, articulating a view in certain quarters of Washington that the US was going soft on India because of other geo-strategic considerations. Thomson replied: “With respect to the human rights and democracy question, yes, you’re right; I will tell you that we will raise it, and we will continue that conversation, because we firmly believe that we have more values in common on those fronts than we don’t. And we believe India is going to be a really important part of continuing those conversations and building strong efforts on those fronts in partnership as we go forward.” Washington is to host a 2+2 ministerial dialogue with India later this year with the foreign and defence ministers of both countries in attendance. Last week at the International Religious Freedom Summit hosted in Washington, several US legislators had underscored the need for the Biden administration to do more to ensure that India abided by the foundational principles articulated in its Constitution. Thomson also made it clear that the “cosy relationship” the Modi government had with the Donald Trump administration did not have a bearing on bilateral ties. “The relationship with India is a strong one that has endured through administrations of all colours and stripes in the United States, and will continue to do so.” About Blinken’s agenda, Thomson said the two sides would discuss efforts to support just and durable peace in Afghanistan, developments in the Indo-Pacific region including the Quad vaccine partnership announced at the first summit of the grouping in March and climate change. About the Quad vaccine programme, Thompson acknowledged that the challenges India faced recently in Covid management had “created a bit of a delay in getting certain aspects of it started”, but added that the working groups had been meeting. “The plan had always been for a billion doses to roll out in 2022, and so we hope to continue to work towards that goal.” The initiative involves a jab developed in the US being manufactured in India with financial support from Washington and Japan, and Australia providing the logistics for delivery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
25-07-2021||India||Crocodile fear hits cultivation work in coastal districts of Odisha||Farmers in the coastal districts of Odisha, particularly Kendrapara, are having to contend with an unexpected guest this monsoon. Crocodiles from the Bhitarkanika National Park, spread over an area of 145sqkm, are entering their fields to prey upon fish and other aquatic animals, forcing peasants to avoid work affecting cultivation. “The wildlife sanctuary is usually inundated by the two major rivers — Brahmani and Baitarani — which are now in spate. When these rivers swell following heavy rainfall, crocodiles from Bhitarkanika enter the surrounding villages via natural nullahs and creeks. They often venture into the paddy fields. People have spotted crocodiles in their fields and are now scared of going there for farm related work,” Kendrapara district Congress president and former Rajanagar MLA Anshuman Mohanty told The Telegraph. Farmer Rakhel Patra said: “Last week, people spotted a crocodile measuring around 15 feet in one of the villages of Rajanagar block. With the help of forest officials, they drove the crocodile back to the Bhitarkanika sanctuary.” Patra admitted the farmers were living in fear. “Such is the fear of crocodiles that many farmers in the waterlogged areas prefer not to venture to their fields and skip transplantation work in several areas of Rajanagar, Rajkanika and Mahakala blocks. There have been incidents where some have lost their lives in crocodile attacks. This is the right time for transplantation of paddy and missing this period will adversely affect agricultural activities,” he said. Another villager Sudarshan Rout said: “Earlier agricultural work was hit by a deficit in rainfall and the transplantation of paddy seedlings was delayed. Now when it is raining, we are facing this new problem. A crocodile had entered a pond in our area. The fear of crocodile intrusion will certainly hit kharif cultivation.” Farmers said as river embankments are low in many areas, when the water overflows, the crocodiles find it easy to enter the natural creeks and nullahs. Rajanagar divisional forest officer, mangrove forest division (wildlife), J.D. Pati told this newspaper: “We have launched a massive awareness programme in the areas. We have constructed around 100 bathing zones for people. They have all been barricaded.” He added: “The department has identified the danger zones. Our forest officials have been deployed to drive away the crocodiles if they sneak into human habitation. Besides, the people of the area have grown up seeing crocodiles since their childhood. During the monsoon, human and animal (crocodile) conflict is being noticed in these areas. The people of this area know how to live without fear. There are nearly 1,768 crocodiles in the sanctuary and many of them are more than 15 feet in length.” “All steps are being taken to reduce the human-animal conflict and provide a conducive atmosphere to both,” said a forest official.Odisha has three species of crocodiles — saltwater, gharial and mugger — inhabiting its river system. The Bhitarkanika wildlife sanctuary houses 70 per cent of India’s estuarine or saltwater crocodiles. The conservation of this species that began in 1975 with just 96 has reached 1,768 crocodiles. The wildlife sanctuary has emerged as a major tourist attraction and provides livelihood support to more than four lakh people. The area possesses a rich and diverse ecosystem with tidal waterbodies, estuaries and a bewildering variety of flora and fauna.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-398
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata wants to meet Modi to beg for funds, says Dilip Ghosh||West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh on Sunday claimed Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, having ‘misused’ central resources, now wants to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi ‘to beg for funds with folded hands’. His remark, however, drew flak of the ruling party, which said that Ghosh should be having a "better understanding of the federal system", under which a head of the state can always meet the PM. Ghosh, while talking to reporters, also alleged that TMC members have siphoned off money from state coffers and left it near-empty. "She has misused the funds that were allocated by the Centre and now she wants to meet the PM to ask for more with folded hands as the state has gone virtually bankrupt," the senior BJP leader said when asked about Banerjee's slated visit to the national capital. West Bengal is facing a financial crisis due to large-scale corruption on the part of the Mamata Banerjee government, Ghosh maintained. Given the financial situation in the state, and the rising factionalism within the TMC camp, Didi has realised that she won't be able to run the state well ahead of 2024 Lok Sabha polls, he added. Expressing shock over the state BJP president's assertions, TMC state spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said he is known for such ignorant comments. "Does he understand about the federal set up where the head of a state can always meet the PM? Dilipda should check facts... Bengal has mopped up more revenue under the TMC rule than in the past, he noted. Echoing him, state minister and TMC MLA Chandrima Bhattacharya sought to know if the CM has whispered into the ears of the BJP leader the purpose of her visit . Banerjee had told reporters on Friday that the prime minister has granted her time for a meeting during her scheduled Delhi visit in the last week of July, but did not specify the date.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Data operator arrested for stealing Kanyashree cash||Police have arrested an outsourced computer operator of a school in South 24-Parganas for allegedly stealing Rs 8 lakh meant for Kanyashree beneficiaries. The accused, Sandip Roy, allegedly replaced the bank account numbers of the Kanyashree beneficiaries with those of his relatives while uploading personal data on the portal of the state government’s flagship scheme for girl students. Police said Sandip, who is attached to Shyamsundar Balika Vidyalaya in Joynagar, and his father Anup Roy were arrested from their residence on Friday night on the basis of a complaint lodged by the school authorities with Joynagar police. The Bengal government launched Kanyashree in 2013 in a bid to keep girls in school and prevent child marriage. Under it, girl students aged between 13 and 18 get a scholarship of Rs 1,000 every year and a one-time grant of Rs 25,000 when they turn 18. Sandip’s alleged foul play came to light after some Kanyashree beneficiaries of the school recently apprised school authorities that the cash benefit under the scheme had not been credited to their bank accounts. A probe by school authorities revealed that the bank account numbers of these students did not match with the ones registered on the Kanyashree portal. The probe revealed that the erroneous entries of beneficiary bank account numbers were made between 2017 and 2020. This made school authorities suspicious of Sandip. “It became clear to us that Sandip had a role behind the errors. An inquiry with the banks revealed that the accounts are actually linked with Sandip’s relatives. It became obvious that Sandip had deliberately replaced the bank account numbers of the students with those of his kin to fraudulently get the money,” said Swagata Mandal, headmistress of the school. “Being the computer operator Sandip handled all financial data and uploaded it to the portals. It was not a case of error but deliberate fraud to steal the money meant for beneficiaries,” she further added. Basana Laskar, a beneficiary of Kanyashree, said she was among those girls who had recently made an appeal to the school to check why the money did not reach her bank account. “I have been told that the benefit had been credited to a different account tagged against my name,” she said. An officer of Joynagar police station said that during preliminary interrogation Sandip had confessed that he had changed the bank account numbers with the help of his father. “As his father was an accomplice in the fraud, we have arrested both,” the policeman said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Council glare on ‘issues’ after higher secondary protests ||The Bengal higher secondary council on Saturday asked heads of high schools to bring to its notice issues linked to grievances of students against the higher secondary results that have triggered a backlash. The president of the higher secondary council, Mahua Das, issued a media statement that promised to look into the complaints with “due seriousness”. “Some papers and TV channels have carried stories about unsuccessful students expressing their grievances. Today the council discussed the issue with the heads of the institutions. The heads of the institutions are being requested to bring to the notice of the council issues pertaining to the grievances among the students. The council will look into the complaints with due seriousness, keeping in mind the future of the students,” the statement  said. Violent protests by unsuccessful students were reported since Friday. Around 20,000 out of 819,202 examinees did not pass HS. Das was called by chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi to Nabanna on Saturday evening. She issued the statement shortly after the meeting.  “The chief secretary wanted to know the process based on which the results were prepared and reasons behind the protests,” said a source. Amid the pandemic, the HS exams were not held and the council relied on an aggregate system to grade students. The pass percentage was 97.69. But the Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses called the HS grading system based on Class X and XI marks “faulty”.  The government last year promoted all students of Class XI to XII, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Binay accuses Anit of making personal attacks on him to influence supporters||Binay Tamang on Saturday accused Anit Thapa, his former colleague and a prominent leader in the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha faction that Tamang formed in 2017, of making personal attacks on him to influence supporters. A message from the former president of the Morcha faction on his Facebook page, which was also circulated on the Facebook pages of his supporters, stated that Thapa and his aides were telling the masses that Tamang has “lost his mind” and has gone into “depression”. “This is my special request to Anit Thapa bhai and his supporters,” stated Tamang adding that he was completely of sound mind when he tendered his resignation from the party and also that Thapa should not stoop so low as to engage in false personal allegations, some involving his family. Tamang resigned as the president and primary member of the Morcha faction on July 15. “Please don’t not tell people that I have lost my mind and that I have gone into depression,” wrote Tamang, inviting Thapa’s supporters to visit villagers at Dali, his native place, to find out the truth. “After resigning, I have been lying low but I have never imagined that one would stoop so low politically just to draw supporters,” said Tamang. Tamang’s Facebook post was a matter of much talk in the hills given the personal nature of the revelations put out on social media. After Thapa took charge of Morcha the very next day after Tamang put in his papers, most of the leaders in the Tamang faction decided to remain with Thapa. Some, however, also resigned to join the rival Morcha faction headed by Bimal Gurung. Thapa said: “In every speech that I have delivered after taking charge (of the new faction) I have reiterated that I still have utmost respect for Binay daju. I don’t want to comment further given the topics that have been raised in the post,” said Thapa. Sources said Thapa is likely to station himself in Darjeeling for a long period from Sunday. Thapa is a native of Kurseong but has decided to move his camp to Darjeeling.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Trinamul leader's body found hanging from tree in Bihar||The body of a Trinamul leader from Malda’s Harishchandrapur subdivision, Anisur Rehman, 59, was found hanging from a tree in a bordering district of Bihar on Friday. Rehman, also a brick kiln owner, was missing for six days.His family and local party leaders alleged murder. Police, awaiting his autopsy report, said they will probe all angles. On Friday, police got information about his body hanging near railway tracks of  Katihar district of Bihar, some 10km from his home. In South Dinajpur’s Hamjapur. seven Trinamul workers got injured in an intra-party clash on Friday night. All  are admitted to the super specialty hospital in Gangarampur police station. The warring factions led by Yakub Ali Khan and Liaquat Ali follow Trinamul district president Gautam Deb and state minister and former district president Biplab Mitra. Police have brought the situation under control. Both sides have blamed the other for the attack. Additional reporting by Kousik Sen in Raiganj||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Bolpur civic body deputes duo to herd stray cattle off roads||Municipality authorities in Bolpur are literally taking bulls and cows by the horn on roads. Civic authorities have hired two persons to go out and rein in stray cows from local thoroughfares after a string of minor accidents thanks to bovine loiterers in the area. The cows, who have rightful owners and are supposed to be tied or contained, are reportedly “detained” by the two catchers and kept at a cowshed in Kashipur, Bolpur, for 10 days or till the time they are claimed by their owners. “The fine will be Rs 3,000 each. We have already detained nine cows so far,” said a cow catcher. “There are at least 300 more in the area roaming aimlessly and grazing on non-pastoral land. They also get into fights on the street, which is dangerous for bikes,” said Parna Ghosh, the chairperson of the board of administrators of Bolpur municipality, explaining the move to depute catchers was prompted by a series of minor accidents reported by two-wheelers. “But we don’t know what to do with cows whose owners are not traced.” The problem with stray cows is not new here. Sources said at least 300 stray cows are seen regularly on Visva-Bharati campus and on roads of Santiniketan adjacent to the Pous Mela grounds. In July 2012, Visva-Bharati had gone for a public awareness campaign asking owners of the animals to take them back from the campus. “We made several fences to stop cows from entering campus. The only open ground was the Pous Mela ground where a boundary wall was also put up,” said a varsity official. Municipality sources said that the number of cows seemed to be increasing by the day and most grazed by day and took rest on the roads at night. “Earlier, the Pous Mela ground was open and the cows used to stay at night there. Now with the boundary wall put up, most animals have taken shelter on the road. It is now a daily routine to receive complaints regarding the cows,” said an official in Bolpur municipality, adding cows also grazed on roads inside the campus. Civic body authorities said cow catchers have been asked to try trapping the cows in groups of at least five.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Higher secondary topper Rumana Sultana now face of Kanyashree||Higher secondary topper Rumana Sultana, 18, is now the Murshidabad brand ambassador of Kanyashree, making her the first official face of the state government’s flagship scheme to encourage the education of girls. The science student from Kandi’s Raja Manindrachandra Girls’ High School, who scored 499 out of 500, is the daughter of teachers Rabiul Alam and Sultana Parveen. District officials said Rumana will appear in Kanyashree promotions and tour schools with inspirational speeches for students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
25-07-2021||West Bengal||Plan to open new North Bengal Medical College & Hospital building by 2022||A meeting of health officials was held at the North Bengal Medical College & Hospital (NBMCH) on Saturday to expedite construction work of the super-speciality building and make it operational by next year. The construction work of the block — a project approved under Pradhan Mantri Swastya Sathi Yojana with an initial fund of Rs 150 crore — was started in 2015. Once the building is functional, it would help a number of departments to augment their infrastructure and provide better treatment facilities “Today (Saturday), we held a meeting with state PWD officials and representatives of Hospital Services Consultancy Corporation Limited — the agency that has been assigned with the project. We have a target to finish the civil and allied works by March 2022. Once these works are done, we will initiate the process of installing medical equipment and develop ICUs and other facilities at the building,” said Sushanta Roy, the officer on special duty deputed by the state health department in north Bengal. The six-storied building will house different departments, including OPDs. As of now, around 80 per cent of the civil work has been done. “We hope that power connectivity and water supply will be provided by the concerned state department in another month’s time,” Roy said. In north Bengal, the NBMCH located on the outskirts of Siliguri is the largest state-run referral hospital. Apart from the region, the facility caters to patients from Bihar, Sikkim, Assam and also Nepal. According to  sources, the new block will have laboratories and testing units like CT scan, MRI, X-ray and a minor operation theatre on the ground floor. “On the first floor, it will have 21 outpatient departments (OPDs) and a 10-bedded intensive care unit (ICU). The second floor will have a 20-bed neurology ward, 22-bed neurosurgery ward, 20-bed for plastic surgery ward and a treatment room for Cardiothoracic Vascular Surgery Department (CTVS),” said an official. “The third floor will have a 22-bedded paediatric surgery ward, a cardiology ward with 20 beds, a dialysis unit with 15 beds and a nephrology ward with 52 beds. The fourth floor will house operation theatres, doctors’ rooms and another intensive care unit,” the official added. S K Bhatnagar, a representative of HSSC Limited, said they are all set to meet the target. “If issues like water and power supplies are addressed, we feel the construction work and some ancillary facilities will be ready in another seven-eight months’ time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-160
25-07-2021||North East||Shah hails Modi for the 'peace and development' in north east||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has cleared all roadblocks and taken northeast on the path to peace and development.  People of Assam have voted for the BJP for the second consecutive term as they have realised that there is no place for 'aatankwad' (insurgency) and 'andolan' (agitation) in the state", Shah asserted.  The irritants that had hindered peace and progress in the region have been removed. The journey of development that began more than five years ago must be accelerated, the Union home minister said, after launching two projects here.  Shah also said that the prime minister has always accorded priority to the northeast region, and has recently inducted five ministers from the area in his Cabinet, including former chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal.  "It is only in the BJP that a successful and Chief Minister makes way for a new one and welcomes with a pat on his back. Assam has gained in two ways - by getting a hardworking Chief Minister and a Cabinet Minister who is always there to think for the state", he said. Speaking of the various agitations that have riven Assam in the past, the home minister said perhaps no other state has suffered so much bloodshed and violence but what did they achieve - nothing. Shah also remotely laid the foundation stone of Tamulpur Medical College and Hospital, which was promised in the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) Accord.  "This is not any ordinary accord but we have included clauses which were not asked for by any of the stakeholders. The medical college and hospital at Tamulpur was not a demand by the Bodos but we have included it", he said.  Earlier, "we had planned to implement all the clauses of the Bodo Accord before the 2024 Lok Sabha polls but we have already initiated measures for the fulfilment of 90 per cent of the clauses and we hope to complete all by the 75th anniversary of independence", he added.  Accords earlier gathered dust with no government taking measures to fulfil it but the Prime Minister's initiative to take forward the accords signed with different organisations in the region has paved the way for peace and development, he claimed. Shah who offered prayers at Kamakhya Temple earlier on Sunday, also launched a new radiation therapy block in the state cancer institute at Guwahati Medical College.  He said another cancer hospital being set up by the central and state along with the Tata Trust was nearing completion and the "Chief Minister has assured me that it can be inaugurated by the Prime Minister by December this year.  The home minister ceremonially distributed financial assistance of Rs One lakh to 100 selected beneficiaries under 'Prarthana Achani' to the next of kin of those who lost their lives to Covid-19.  In Assam, 5114 persons have died due to the virus since last year.  Meanwhile, the Assam Rifles in a statement said that the Union Home Minister visited its headquarters in Shillong and interacted with jawans.  "In his first visit to the Assam Rifles, the Hon'ble Minister was briefed on operational and administrative issues of the Force by Lt Gen P C Nair, AVSM, YSM, DG Assam Rifles," it said.  "Had lunch and spent a good time interacting with our valiant @official_dgar personnel in Laitkor, Meghalaya. Assam Rifles, the Guardians of the North East, is India's oldest paramilitary force. The nation is proud of its bravery and courage," Shah tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
25-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Indirect taxes are blind to inequalities||Sir — Manoj Jha, the Rashtriya Janata Dal member of the Rajya Sabha, should be lauded for highlighting in the upper House the irony of India following an indirect tax regime in spite of having one of the largest number of people living in poverty (“Maafinama in a bereaved republic”, July 22). He rightly asked why a poor man is not as much a taxpayer as industrialists like Adani and Ambani when the former, too, pays a host of indirect taxes while buying a myriad products of daily use. Indeed, indirect taxes are blind to inequalities. This is the reason why in most modern welfare states, unlike India, direct taxes constitute the lion’s share of the total tax collection. In India, however, the poorest of the poor have to cough up the same substantial amount of indirect tax as the rich while buying anything from salt to slippers and from food to medicine. While direct taxes depend on the taxpayers’ ability to pay, indirect taxes are blind to the economic status of the taxpayers. Unsurprisingly, the latter hit the poor the hardest. Given the huge income disparity among Indians, India should rely more on direct taxes which are an equitable way to fill the State’s coffers. Sujit De,Calcutta Sir — What was more heartening than the content of Manoj Jha’s ‘maafinama’ was the fact that the tradition of debate and dialogue seems to be making a slow but sure recovery in Indian Parliament. Jha made a solid speech, which, while being scathing of the ruling dispensation, was civilized and invigorating. Mahua Moitra is another politician whose fiery speeches — always backed by solid facts — have garnered both attention and praise. Oratory is central to Brand Modi — the prime minister, Narendra Modi, is the only politician in India to use presidential teleprompters to make speeches. His second-in-command, the home minister, Amit Shah, too, is quite a rabble-rouser. One of the reasons that Mamata Banerjee trumped the two men so successfully in Bengal is that she can make good speeches that hold the public captive. It is very important for Opposition leaders to focus on their oratorial skills. Simply presenting truths to the public is not enough as the last general elections have shown. Good oratory — even when it is based on falsehoods — clearly holds more sway over the public irrespective of the content. This is the reason why the speeches of Jha and Moitra are so encouraging. They combine oratory skills with the truth — the only skill that holds out some hope for saving India’s democracy. Tarun Banerjee,Calcutta Sir — The decision of Ben & Jerry’s to not do business in the West Bank has caused a meltdown disproportionate to the effect the company will actually have. With Israel threatening legal action based on anti-Boycott, Divestment, Sanctions laws in the United States of America, the Jewish-Israeli consensus on settlements is set to shock American Jews who are generally opposed to settlements and more willing to see them evacuated than their Israeli counterparts. How disenchanted American Jews are will be revealed earlier than many thought — and we have Ben & Jerry’s to thank for that. C. Bhattacharjee, Calcutta Sir — While announcing the higher secondary results, the president of the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education, Mahua Das, mentioned that this year, a Muslim girl, Rumana Sultana, got the first rank in the board examinations. This is shocking. A student is a student; there is absolutely no logic in identifying a student’s religious background. Das’s remark provided political parties with an opportunity to communalize the issue; this has already started. Never has such a gross act of communalization happened at the school level in our state. Our secular values have been compromised. Das, perhaps unwittingly, has provided fodder to peddlers of communal narrative. Her faux pas is unpardonable. She should apologize; the state should ask her for an explanation. S. Sarkar, Berhampore||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
25-07-2021||Opinion||In my eye does it all lie||What do you see, may I ask, if you see anything at all? There is that problem these days, you know, and it is a rather pervasive one. Folks cannot see. In truth or in chicanery I cannot yet tell, but a lot many folks cannot see. Obvious things. So obvious they should be able to see them with their eyes closed. Simple things, daily things, things like the prices of oils, all sorts of oils. How risen they are, like flood levels in high spate, rising inch after inch. Like hair after hair oiling. No? Or oxygen. We cannot see. We are told there is much oxygen, too much oxygen, employ both nostrils, what has God given you two for? So much oxygen, but you can’t see oxygen? But of course you cannot see oxygen because do you not know oxygen is colourless and colourless things you cannot see? Folks cannot see; they cannot see how many folks are no longer there and they go on blaming oxygen, which they cannot see either. Can you see anything in the picture you see? The picture that is encroaching upon this workspace, gobbling the words away as if words, as if you know, words are all they can have. Words are being gobbled even as words are being written; and this picture is doing the gobbling. Can you see the picture now? Perhaps you cannot. And perhaps you cannot be blamed. You cannot see what is there to be seen, how is one to expect you to see what there is not to be seen. Right, there is no picture. As in, there is nothing in the picture. There is a frame and there is a space within that frame but that space has nothing in it. Perhaps it was taken away, wiped out. There is just the frame and the possibility of a picture, a picture past or a picture future. But the present, it is blank. Or smudged. It is not possible to see what was meant to be seen. But try. You need to see things, you need to make sense of what you see. There was an image here but it is no longer there. That is because you are being robbed of the opportunity of seeing it, and making sense of it and then comprehending things in a way that you are being prevented from doing. The picture was there. The frame came later. Understand? Look for the picture and see it for what it is. It has been removed but you may be able to find it. If only you’d end the illusion of seeing and open your eyes. The picture is there, it has just been removed. What you cannot see also exists, or may. I am here Gone nowhere So my dear Please look and take good care.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
25-07-2021||Opinion||All is fair in Olympics and war||Game is actually war with the fangs tucked in. The Olympic Games are no exception. Its Latin motto Citius, Altius, Fortius, meaning faster, higher and stronger, sounds less peace missive and more war cry. Politics is today’s battlefield, and politics is all pervasive, which basically means a sporting event of the scale of Olympics is a benign projection of actual political score-keeping. Buzz is that apart from International Olympic Committee (IOC) protocol, and notwithstanding the potential health hazard, Japan’s LDP government did not pull out of the Games with an eye on two important elections and a little matter about making a statement to the rest of South Asia. So what’s new? Adolf Hitler used the 1936 Games — under advisement of Dear Goebbels — as a propaganda event for himself and his version of an Aryan Germany. Of course, the Berlin games is credited with introducing the Olympic relay, but did you also know that that year all Jewish players — except one — were dropped? And that the first Olympic torch was made by Krupp, a German steel company that supported the Nazi regime? And when the 18 African-American members of the US contingent harvested medals aplenty, Hitler said: “The Americans ought to be ashamed of themselves for letting their medals be won by Negroes… I myself would never shake hands with one of them.” In 1948, Germany and Japan were dropped from the London Olympics given their role in World War II. One would think Britain played no part in the war. And the Soviet Union and the US played out their Cold War in the 1952 Helsinki Games. In 1948, the Communist Party Central Committee released a decree that said its objective was to “help Soviet sportsmen win world supremacy in the major sports in the immediate future”. China didn’t participate in the 1956 Melbourne Games when Taiwan was recognised by the IOC — Taiwan competed under the Formosa name. And in 2008, Taiwan threatened to boycott the Beijing Games if the Tibet situation worsened. But perhaps to date, the biggest Olympic tragedy was the killing of 11 Israeli athletes by Palestinian terrorists at the 1972 Munich Games. Police psychologist Dr Georg Sieber had predicted 26 scenarios for the Games organisers and what happened on September 5 was Scenario 21. So why was nothing done? Because the theme that year was "Carefree Games" and therefore little scope of stringent security. The murdered athletes were remembered during the opening ceremony of the Tokyo Olympics last Friday with a moment of silence, the first time in 49 years. The theme of these Games happens to be --- “Moving Forward”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
25-07-2021||Opinion||Monstrous nations||When politically mobilized majorities (or politicians acting in their name) single out minorities for oppression, writers reach for historically loaded comparisons. Marine Le Pen, Viktor Orbán, Vladimir Putin, Jair Bolsonaro, Recep Erdogan, Aung San Suu Kyi, Xi Jinping, Mahinda Rajapaksa, Bashar al-Assad, Narendra Modi, Benjamin Netanyahu have all been called fascist and this is not an exhaustive list. The appropriateness of this label is complicated by two considerations. One, can a political tendency so closely associated with the histories of Germany, Italy and Japan between the World Wars be usefully generalized to describe other polities removed in both time and space? Two, is it accurate to describe right-wing governments in internally democratic and externally peaceful countries as fascist when the signature trait of historic fascisms like Germany’s and Japan’s was genocidal, warmongering violence? To the extent that political parties call themselves fascist or admire historically fascist figures, it is reasonable to call them fascist in the same way as Mao’s (or Stalin’s) followers can be called communists. But this doesn’t really answer the first question, which asks whether a particular historical conjuncture can be usefully abstracted into a definitive template. Nor does it answer the second question, because many governments or parties that have an ideological family resemblance to Mussolini’s Fascists or Hitler’s Nazis might not slide into mass violence. When Viktor Orbán is described as fascist on account of his anti-Semitism or his hostility to homosexuality or his opposition to immigration, the term does double duty: it’s both a pejorative description and a prediction. Orbán is called a fascist because he shares the anti-minority prejudices of historic fascists; implicit in this characterization is the fear that his politics might devolve into a welter of genocidal violence. Is Orbán fascist if the violence doesn’t happen? Is fascism the institutionalization of a particular form of majoritarian bigotry or does the accuracy of that characterization depend on specific violent outcomes? Must all real fascism lead to concentration camps, ethnic cleansing or genocide or can fascism achieve a stable equilibrium in a functioning democracy? To describe a currently non-genocidal majoritarian party that plays by the rules of an electoral democracy as fascist generally implies a sequence of meanings: i. The party described as fascist has succeeded in making the persecution of minorities the basis of that country’s nationalism. ii. The democratic system that the party currently inhabits is likely to be set aside or hollowed out in the way that the National Socialists subverted the Weimar Republic. iii. If unchecked, this process will culminate in the formal isolation, disenfranchisement, even the expulsion or murder of minority citizens. Ironically, it was during the transition to civilian rule between 2012 and 2017 that Myanmar became a purely majoritarian polity through ethnic cleansing and by formally excluding Rohingyas in particular and Muslims generally from every democratic process and institution. In the run-up to elections in 2015, the military junta excluded Rohingyas from the new electoral rolls, an ironic instance of disenfranchisement as a function of democratization. Once this formal exclusion was complete, the Rohingya were corralled into internment camps. The rest is history. History teaches us that disenfranchisement and internment are often preliminaries to violent expulsion if the location and demographic distribution of the stigmatized minority permit such a purging. In the case of the Rohingya, they conspired to allow the government to do precisely that. Does this make Myanmar a fascist State? Some expert observers don’t think it does. They cite the history of Rohingya separatism and the role of the British in encouraging Rohingya settlement during colonial rule as sound historical reasons for their outsider status and the refusal of the independent Burmese State to grant them full citizenship. The fact that Rakhine Buddhists, themselves persecuted by the Burmese State, loathed the Rohingya as encroaching outsiders is sometimes offered as proof that the marginality of the Rohingya wasn’t a function of majoritarian loathing, but the reality of who they were: Bengali Muslims masquerading under a made-up name. The fact that Myanmar’s many insurgent minorities refused to make common cause with the Rohingya in their struggle against the centralizing Burmese State is also adduced as evidence of their incorrigible otherness. China’s treatment of the Uighur in Xinjiang shares some features with Myanmar’s dealings with the Rohingya. Both the Rohingya and the Uighur are demographically concentrated Muslim communities in a border region adjacent to Muslim majority nation states; Bangladesh, in the case of the Rohingya and Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan in the case of the Uighur. Their contiguity with a larger Muslim world is one reason why these Muslim minorities are seen by their nation states as a threat to their political unity. This ‘Muslim’ hinterland is seen as the source of both secessionist feeling and jihadi violence. Unlike the communal bigotry stoked and led by the monks of the Buddhist sangha that drives Myanmar’s hostility towards the Rohingya, China’s campaign to dissolve Uighur identity into a Han mainstream is powered by a secular majoritarianism, a cousin of France’s State-sponsored laicité. China, like France, wants an Islam supervised by the nation state, insulated from the extraterritorial influence of foreign Muslims. China hasn’t expelled the Uighur in the way that Myanmar brutally purged the Rohingya, but it has tried to sever their connection with their homeland in three ways: it has corralled more than a million of them in ‘re-education camps’, systematically suppressed their language and their religious institutions, and forcibly relocated and dispersed working-age Uighur to other parts of China. Is violent ethnic cleansing on a massive scale a more clear-cut symptom of fascism than mass internment, mass surveillance, the systematic stifling of religious practice, the sterilization of Uighur women, the razing of mosques and the official suppression of the Uighur’s Turkic mother tongue? This is not a question about which form of persecution is more wicked; that’s a question for people at the receiving end of State-sponsored terror to answer and they are rarely allowed to compare notes. It asks, which of these anti-minority policies suggests a nation tipping over into fascism? If fascism requires a civil society consensus that stigmatizes the minority that the State deems alien, Burma fits the bill. The non-Muslims of Rakhine, Burma’s Buddhist majority more generally, the country’s liberal intelligentsia, even its non-Buddhist minorities seem united in their indifference to, if not active distaste for, the Rohingya. This dislike might have had pre-colonial roots, but it is colonial modernity and then the modern Burmese nation state that weaponized it through constitutional exclusion (the Rohingya were not recognized as a national community in the first national Constitution), enumeration (they aren’t counted in censuses nor given the identity cards given to recognized communities) and formal disenfranchisement (when the first election was held under the new Constitution in 2015, the Rohingya were excluded from either voting or standing for elected office). If majoritarian State violence that subordinates and destroys a minority community through genocide or expulsion, without significant protest from civil society, is fascist, then Myanmar is a functionally fascist country. In the Chinese case, there is no evidence of mass killing or large-scale expulsion. The ‘domestication’ of the Uighur is remarkable for being an optional piece of social engineering. The Uighur pose no existential threat to the Chinese nation. This orchestrated atomization of a people is justified as pre-emption, as a form of abundant caution. Xinjiang is a behavioural laboratory; the Uighur are test subjects in a massive Pavlovian experiment. They are disciplined and punished and monitored in real time and in extreme close-up. Digital surveillance, internment and the political omniscience of a party State have combined to turn the Uighur into lab rats in a glass-walled habitat. Xinjiang puts the total into totalitarianism; it is 1984 read as a blueprint, not a warning. Does China’s achievement in materially transforming the lives of the majority of its people balance out Xinjiang? Where does India’s majoritarian savagery rank (if it figures at all) in this survey of actually existing fascism? How immune are Western democracies to this plague? Good questions for another day. mukulkesavan@hotmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
25-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: In mourning ||Politicians nowadays seldom regard humility as a virtue. Donald Trump could not have eaten humble pie in his worst nightmares. But if he is an extreme case, it is still the rare politician who does not baulk at apologizing to the people. It was quite routine that the prime minister of Australia, Scott Morrison, should defend his vaccine policy when criticized. But then, as infections soared, Mr Morrison had enough humility to say that he was sorry about the slow rollout of the vaccine. The political atmosphere in India has deteriorated to such an extent that such a pronouncement by the Indian prime minister is now simply unimaginable. Yet around the same time as that of Mr Morrison’s apology, an Opposition member of parliament spoke movingly, out of his own pain as he said, in apology to the citizens whose deaths the government had not even acknowledged. Manoj Jha, a Rashtriya Janata Dal member of the Rajya Sabha, used the first person plural, identifying himself as part of the government, offering no excuse as the Opposition unlike the ruling party that aggressively and habitually distinguishes itself from the Opposition at the drop of a hat. Mr Jha gave expression to the humility, decency, compassion and empathy that people hope for from the government at times of crisis, referring to those whose bodies floated down the Ganga which the government dismissed and those who in their passing left behind a living document of the government’s failures. It was a bleak irony in Mr Jha’s ‘bereaved republic’ that the Narendra Modi-led treasury benches in the Lok Sabha were in that period busy shielding themselves from accusations regarding deaths caused by inadequate oxygen supplies. The ruling party denied that the states had ‘specifically’ mentioned such deaths while asserting that health was a state subject. The incredible insensitivity that the ruling regime showed by its refusal to accept responsibility for or share in the nationwide pain that Mr Jha spoke of was again displayed in the huge billboards thanking the prime minister for free vaccines. Apart from being a manipulation of the truth — the states had been giving free vaccines to all age groups before the Centre was forced into it — this was a shameful exhibition in a ‘welfare state’, as Mr Jha’s apology suggested. The welfare state has a commitment — it cannot ‘dwarf’ its citizens by announcing free treatment or vaccines. These are not gifts from a benevolent ruler. By accepting that the government failed its citizens, Mr Jha’s apology stood out at a time when Indians expect only hubris from the ruling dispensation. It reminded Indians that arrogance, the silencing of dissent and criticism, deafening praise of the ruler, and vigilante violence are not the only features of a government. But it is too much to hope that the present government will accept its failures and mourn with the people as a first step towards humane governance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
25-07-2021||Opinion||Even AAP insiders are questioning Kejriwal's selective outrage||This past week, the Aam Aadmi Party veered away from its play-safe policy with the Delhi chief minister, Arvind Kejriwal, slamming the Centre for the income tax raids on the media outlets, Dainik Bhaskar and Bharat Samachar. After the AAP received a drubbing in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Kejriwal steered clear of direct verbal attacks on the prime minister, Narendra Modi, and gradually reinvented himself as a benign urban Hindu leader of the Hindi belt. Kejriwal and most of his party have confined themselves to speaking out on issues of immediate concern in Delhi, or in states where they wish to expand. Even when the Delhi-based website, Newsclick, and its executives were raided for five days in February, the AAP kept mum. The new-found voice, said a party source, was an indication of the level of quid pro quo the party has with Dainik Bhaskar — the world’s third largest, and India’s most circulated, newspaper. The source said, “Bhaskar carried our ads as well as content, unlike Newsclick that is mostly critical of us and gives little space to our leaders.” The AAP’s selective outrage has raised uncomfortable questions even within its fold. Questions are being asked on how different the anti-corruption party is from its competitors on civil liberties, especially free speech. Rahul Gandhi’s office has always lived under the fear of illegal surveillance, much before the world heard of the Pegasus spyware. This suspicion of being perpetually snooped on was based on two factors: one, substantive inputs from intelligence officials who were loyal to the Congress and, two, the warning by Gujarat leaders who had briefed the party’s central leadership on the alleged style of functioning of Narendra Modi and Amit Shah. Congress leaders from Gujarat gave specific inputs about businessmen being warned within hours of conversation with them. They said it was almost impossible to escape the elaborate spying networks in Gujarat. Rahul Gandhi and his close aides always preferred to talk on landlines and, if approached by any important caller on the mobile, promptly advised them to use landlines. Some of them asked for communication over email instead of text messages. There was an unwritten rule in the office to change passwords as frequently as possible, preferably every evening. Some of them often wondered why the government was more interested in the political operations in the Opposition camp than in the activities of nefarious outfits. Apart from information about political strategies, special focus was put on finding out which businessman was in touch with the Congress. Now that the Pegasus scandal has exploded, the party hopes that it will be taken to its logical conclusion through judicial intervention. But nobody has any hope of permanent relief from the problem. Nagaland was witness to a significant, if debatable, political development on Monday — the principal Opposition party, the Naga People’s Front, unanimously endorsed the ‘concept of an Opposition-less government’ and decided to become a part of the ruling People’s Democratic Alliance in the ‘larger interest of the Naga people’. This interest includes facilitating an early, amicable and inclusive solution to the stalled Naga peace process. The PDA comprises the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party and the Bharatiya Janata Party which defeated the NPF in the last assembly polls which were held in 2018. This is the second time since 2015 that the state will be having an Opposition-less assembly. The NPF headed the state government in Nagaland after eight members of the legislative assembly from the Congress switched sides. Although a formal decision by the PDA is yet to be taken, the development has drawn criticism from the Congress which does not have a single MLA in the 60-member assembly. Questions are being raised about the progress made during the first time there was an Opposition-less assembly or whether such a practice was good for a healthy democracy. But the NPF dropped another surprise when it dubbed the PDA government’s July 17 directive — it made vaccination compulsory for its employees — ‘unreasonable and dictatorial’ in nature. It is not clear whether the criticism was a pressure tactic to elicit a positive response from the PDA or a means to convey the importance of an Opposition in a democracy, but the NPF’s stand left many flummoxed. On a fine day recently, Jagadanand Singh, the Bihar unit president of Lalu Prasad’s Rashtriya Janata Dal, resigned, plunging the party into a crisis. The former minister and parliamentarian was apparently piqued because a greenhorn MLA sat in his chair at the party headquarters in Patna, that too while he was present. The incident allegedly had the support of Lalu’s eldest son, the legislator, Tej Pratap Yadav, who dislikes the veteran leader. To make matters worse, Lalu, known to be a doting father, did not chastise his son. However, all senior leaders accused Jagadanand of making a mountain out of a molehill. They reminded him of the days when Lalu would be constantly chewing paan, zarda and khaini and spitting everywhere, with drops of his spit landing on the clothes of senior leaders and IAS officers, but none of them would say anything. “Has [Jagadanand] forgotten everything and the party culture? One has to tolerate several things to remain relevant in the RJD. He has also tolerated many things,” a senior party leader said. Last heard, Lalu had not accepted the resignation. Collective leadership is the call in the Karnataka Congress with two heavyweights — the state unit chief, DK Shivakumar, and the leader of the Opposition, PC Siddaramaiah — pulling in different directions. The differences took the two leaders to Delhi where Rahul Gandhi urged them to work towards the 2023 state elections as a team. But the crux of the matter is Shivakumar’s ambition to become CM, since there is a feeling that the party stands a decent chance in the next election if internal differences in the BJP fester on. As the principal troubleshooter of the party, Shivakumar carries a lot of weight even in the high command.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-62
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Ruckus at Dhanbad vaccine centre due to Covaxin shortage ||Dhanbad: The shortage of Covaxin doses in the district led to ruckus at one of the vaccination centres at PG block of Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College of Dhanbad on Sunday morning. The beneficiaries who stood at a long queue outside the vaccination centre since the early morning at around 5 am lost patience at around 10.30 am and tried to break open the gate charging the staff including the computer operators and nurses of taking bribe to provide vaccines to other persons who were not in queue on priority basis by ignoring those who were standing in queue since the early morning. Dr Vikash Rana, District Reproductive and Child Health Officer, who was also present at the site said, “The charges of favouritism levelled against our staff are baseless and we tried to convince the trouble makers about the nitty gritty of online and offline slot booking priorities but they were not ready to listen.” He however accepted the shortage of Covaxin doses in the district and expressed hope that the situation will normalise with the arrival of more doses. “We are planning to discontinue the offline registration process due to regular hullabaloo at different centres and instead provide vaccines through online booking only for vaccination centres of Jharia, Dhanbad and Baghmara block where maximum rush is witnessed,” said Rana. Covaxin was allotted to five centres of the 76 vaccination centres of the district, including SNMMCH PG block, ISM Shopping complex, Bara Gurudwara, UPHC Kankani and UPCH Bhuli. (Praduman Choubey) Daltonganj: Around 55 saplings were planted around a nearly 20-year old pond at the Shahid Bhagat Singh locality in Daltonganj in fond memory of the legendary Tree Man and Chipko movement leader Sunderlal Bahuguna. The residents offered their 'tree tribute' to the veteran environmentalist. Fifty residents of the Shahid Bhagat Singh locality crowdfunded Rs 1,100 for it said a senior CPI leader Rajiv Kumar. Each of the 55 saplings planted here bears the name of the 'near and dear ones who have long ago gone into the eternity.' The saplings are of neem, gul mohar, ounla, peepal, kadam etc. Sources said the residents have a plan to develope and beautify the pond with a park. “We are working on it to bring in facilities like benches for the seniors to sit in the evening, a baby hammock etc,” said Kumar. “There is a three acre land in and around the pond that can be further upgraded,” said Kumar.  (Our Correspondent) Dhanbad: A group of youths on Sunday celebrated Sawan by planting saplings at different temples of coal town on the first day of the month-long festival. The group, under the banner of social organisation Youth Concept which is already carrying out plantation since over a fortnight as part of their drive, began their Sawan drive from Maa Nilkanth Vasini temple of Jharia in the morning at around 8am during which they planted five saplings of Pipal and Bar (Banyan) plants. They moved to other temples of Jharia including, Shiva Temple of Tiwari Muhalla in Chouthai Kulhi locality; Janta Shiva Temple of Chouthai Kulhi and concluded the drive with the plantation carried out at Shiva temple of Katras More in Jharia. Talking to The Telgraph Online, Akhlaque Ahmad, convenor of Youth Concept said, “We also apprised the devotees present at the temples about the significance of environmental conservation through tree plantation and provided saplings to such persons who have space at their home or surroundings for plantation.” Savita Devi, a resident of Rajbari Road locality of Jharia, who received the plants during the course of worship on first day of Sawan today at Maa Nilkanth Vasini Temple said, “We can serve the god in better manner by protecting the nature with and thus I received one Pipal and one Banyan tree each today and planted them in the courtyard of my house.” (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Steel purchases first freight train ||The steel giant Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) purchased its first goods train (rake) for the transport of iron ore. The entire train of 59 wagons costs around Rs 20crore. The company will save more than Rs 4lakh per trip by having its own freight train to transport iron ore from its Kiriburu and Meghataburu mines for its steel production. However, BSL already owned 40 railway locomotives and now for the first time purchased a goods train of 59 wagons. Chief of Communications, Manikant Dhan said that BSL has entered into an agreement with Texmaco Rail & Engineering to procure 6 rakes (Box N HL) under GPWIS (General Purpose Wagon Investment Scheme) approved by the Railways. The flag-off of the first rake procured by BSL under this agreement was done by Director-in-Charge, BSL, Amarendu Prakash. On this occasion, Executive Directors of BSL, Chief General Managers and senior officers of the Traffic Department were present. The total cost of this project of Bokaro Steel Plant is around Rs 110 crore. These rakes will be operated on the route from Kiriburu-Meghataburu to Bokaro Steel Plant. Bokaro Steel Plant will also get a 10 per cent rebate from the Railways for 15 years on the transportation of iron ore by these rakes. Accordingly, BSL is expected to get a discount of about Rs.4 lakh per freight from the Railways for the next fifteen years. Besides this, BSL will also save substantial revenue incurred on account of payment of demurrage charges to railways due to delay in loading and unloading of rakes earlier provided by Railways. The colour coding of these wagons is bottle green, being made distinctly different from the wagons of the Railways. This step by BSL will also resolve the problem of non-availability of rakes and ensure timely transportation of raw material from the mines to the plant. It is noteworthy that under this project of SAIL, 6 rakes are being procured by Bokaro Steel Plant, 4 rakes by Bhilai Steel Plant and 3 rakes by Durgapur Steel Plant. BSL has got the distinction of getting the first rake among them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||East Singhbhum to establish libraries for village students||The East Singhbhum district administration is going to set up as many as 30 libraries shortly for enhancing educational standards among students living in rural areas of the district. The proposed libraries will have books donated by steel city residents. With the intention of accumulating as many books as possible, the deputy commissioner Suraj Kumar has instructed the civic body, Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee's (JNAC) to start a campaign of old books collection and deposit them at the district development office. For this noble cause, the deputy commissioner has roped in all the government departments not only for providing logistic support but also to ensure donation of as many old books as possible. District Mineral Foundation Trust has been assigned to reconstruct or modify dilapidated government buildings for developing them into libraries. The JNAC special officer, Krishna Kumar on Sunday made the civic body's city manager, Ravi Shankar Bharti nodal officer for the old books collection campaign. "The kind of books that we intend to collect include old course books beginning from class I to class XII, books and periodicals meant for competitive exam preparation, story and poem books and reference books," said Bharti to The Telegraph Online. The city manager said the libraries will be set up in 10 of 11 blocks of the district for which they will require a huge number of books. "Hence we will have to mobilise support among the educated masses living in the city so as to come forward for this noble cause," the JNAC official said. The district administration had recently launched a campaign for making people donate their used smart phones at various police stations so that it may offer them to the poor students for carrying out their online classes during the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Training camps for special athletes to resume next month||Special athletes in Jharkhand can look forward to resume outdoor activities next month. The Special Olympics Jharkhand (SOJ) will begin organising training camps for intellectually impaired athletes (boys and girls) who were hitherto confined to their homes for over a year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. SOJ assistant area director Satbir Singh Sahota said training camps would first start in cities like Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dhanbad and Bokaro in the first week of August. "The Covid situation has now improved and stadiums have re-opened. We intend to resume the camps in Jamshedpur, Ranchi, Dhanbad and Bokaro because these cities have the required infrastructure," he added. Sahota, a former international cyclist, said they would touch rural pickets of the state in due course of time. "We will be holding counselling sessions for special athletes living in rural pockets. They have remained indoors and most would not like to resume their activities," he said, adding that the intellectually impaired need proper handling with utmost care. According to him, they would first focus on individual sports, including athletics, badminton, roller skating, swimming and cycling, before going for team events. "Though special schools across Jharkhand are yet to re-open, we would go for intellectually impaired athletes who don't go to any institutions. We are in touch with parents of such athletes. We will inform the parents (about the camp) on our Whatsapp group. Most of the parents of special athletes are keen for training to resume," Sahota, also resource person (for cycling) of Special Olympics Bharat, a national organisation which promotes intellectually impaired, added. He said basic fitness of special athletes would be evaluated before they are allowed to train. "We think most of the special athletes would be unfit since they have been staying indoors for over a year. It would be quite difficult to straightaway put them on tracks," Sahota said, adding the volunteers would be shortly informed about the training camp. The SOJ had asked the parents to keep their wards busy while at home when the Covid-related restrictions were in place earlier this year. However, most parents did not pay any heed. The special athletes wasted their time doing nothing. The SOJ, an affiliated unit of Special Olympics Bharat, wants to bring its athletes back in shape since national competitions should be resuming later this year. Special athletes from Jharkhand have won medals in national and international competitions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Marandi wants HC judge to probe 'plot to topple JMM-Cong' govt||BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi accused chief minister Hemant Soren of arresting three persons on false charges on Sunday and asked for a special investigation team under a sitting high court judge to look into allegations that they were involved in a conspiracy to topple the JMM-led state government at the behest of the BJP. Marandi also accused Jharkhand police of acting as an "agent of the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha" and advised them to do their job judiciously. Marandi's demand comes a day after police announced the arrest of three persons with cash and travel documents of a few MLAs from a city hotel. Police said the three,  identified as Abhishek Singh, Amit Singh and Nivaran Prasad Mahto, were arrested on Friday night following a complaint by  Congress’s Bermo MLA Kumar Jaimangal, alleging hawala transactions and a  political conspiracy to lure MLAs. While Nivaran is a fruit seller by profession, Amit is a contractual worker in BCCL and Abhishek runs a small-time shop. The Congress has backed ally JMM's accusations and also accused the BJP of orchestrating attempts to destabilize the government through horse trading. Reacting to the allegations of the ruling parties, Marandi told reporters in the afternoon on  Sunday, "Let there be a judicial inquiry by a high court sitting judge and an SIT be formed to probe the whole matter. We won’t demand CBI probe because JMM-Congress will then say that the agency is under the Central government. Have your own judicial probe and let the truth come out.” Marandi also the questioned police’s silence so far. “It is very surprising that immediately after the arrest, JMM holds a press conference but not police. If Ranchi police got such a major breakthrough to prevent the state government from being destabilized, shouldn’t it be their responsibility to brief the details? Three persons were booked for treason and sedition and no SP or DGP holds a press conference to highlight their achievement. Why have they gone numb?” remarked Marandi, adding that the whole affair seemed stage-managed. “Last night (Sunday) police came up with an insignificant press release announcing the arrest of three persons from a hotel in Ranchi. However, their family members have claimed that two were picked from Bokaro from their homes two days ago. So how did they land in the hotel and begin plotting after booking a room?,” he asked, demanding the release of all the three "innocent" persons.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Lone Sindri health centre in dilapidated condition ||The lone public health facility of Sindri, Community Health Centre, situated at Gaushala Bazar is lying in extremely bad shape due to lack of seating arrangements, drinking water facility and other amenities. More than 1 lakh residents of Sindri and adjoining areas have been deprived of any other medical facility since the closure of the 205-bed FCI hospital in 2003. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Narendra Bhai Joshi, a tile shop owner and social worker of Sindri said, “Such is the situation in CHC that the nurses working in the hospital are compelled to work in inhuman condition due to lack of proper ceiling fans and are even deprived of drinking water facility.” “Though, a lady doctor occasionally visits here from the Community Health Centre of Jharia at Chasnala but even nurses are not regular in duty at the centre due to lack of basic facilities at the hospital,” said Joshi. “Even proper lighting arrangement is not there at the site where Covid vaccination is being carried out causing great difficulty to the beneficiaries as well as nurses and computer operators,” elaborated Joshi and added that when complained about the state of affairs to Dr Pratima Dutta in Charge of Chasnala based Community Health Centre about absence of doctors she expressed her helplessness as appointment of doctors is not made at centre. The situation of another Health Sub Centre situated near Bara Gurudwara at Saharpura is also similar as it is deprived of doctors and other basic infrastructure. Rajkishor Sao, a road side restaurant owner of Gaushala Bazar said, “The condition of Health Centre having magnificent single storey building infrastructure comprising over 20 rooms is a glaring example of mismanagement of resources.” “While the Community Health Centre of Chasnala is operating from a congested space the Community Health Centre of Gaushala despite endowed with such a spacious building is lying useless due to the lack of staff and other facilities while Sindri residents are compelled to visit distant Dhanbad situated 25 km from here for attending to medical exigencies,” said Munna Giri a tea stall owner of Gaushala Bazar area of Sindri. Dr Pratima Dutta, Medical officer in Charge of Jharia who is also the in charge of Gaushala Bazar based Community Health Centre said, “We have written to the district administration as well as government several times earlier for the appointment of doctors and other staff at the CHC Gaushala Bazar but no step has so far been taken either for the appointment of doctors or other staff and also for the beefing up other facilities like seating arrangements etc.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Coal town street vendors to get smart identity cards||The Dhanbad Municipal Corporation is carrying out a survey according to the state urban development department’s directive to provide street vendors a QR Code based Smart Identity Card. The vendors face regular eviction in the name of anti encroachment drive due to lack of any identity document and will not have to face any further difficulties. The survey is being conducted through the Cluster Resource Persons and Town Vending Committees members in all the five circles of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation including, Jharia, Dhanbad, Sindri, Katras and Chhatatand and is aimed at providing a QR code based Smart certificate of Vending which will help them get space allotment at the upcoming vending zones of the civic body. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Sunday, Chandra Shekhar, City Manager of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation (DMC) looking after the survey work said, “All relevant data including name, age, address, mobile number, place of vending, items being dealt by street vendors, years of his operation are being collected as per the survey and all the data can be accessed by scanning the QR Code based Smart Identity Card.” “The Smart Identity card will make them eligible for all the government sponsored welfare schemes meant for the street vendors under the national urban livelihood mission or any other relevant schemes like the PM Street Vendors Atma Nirbhar Nidhi Yojna,” said Chandra Shekhar. A previous survey was also conducted by the Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in 2017 as per which identity cards were provided to around 3978 street vendors but a large majority of the street vendors were left out in the survey and the cards provided then also contained several factual errors. “The QR based smart identity card as well as QR based Smart Certificate of vending will also shield them against any harassment by police or administration or even the civic body or any other authority in name of any anti encroachment drive,” said Chandrashekhar. He added that during the survey being conducted for over a fortnight at different places like Railway station road, Big Bazar, SSLNT, Digwadih, Jharia, Loco Bazar and Police Line Hirapur, they have already collected data of over 1000 street vendors. The QR based Smart Identity Card and QR based Smart Certificate of vending will also serve as a document for the street vendors to get loans from the banks under the different welfare schemes meant for street vendors. Sneham Sinha, district coordinator of National Association of Street Vendors of India (NASVI) who is also coordinating with clusters resource persons of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation in the ongoing survey for smart card said, “The survey during which the Aadhar Card or Ration Card or Voter Id Card of the street vendors is being taken as proof is likely to completed in a month and will help to provide Identity to all such street vendors of the district who were left previous survey of 2017.” “We are also collecting documents and data of such street vendors during the survey who have received the loan worth Rs 10,000 under the PM Street Vendor’s Atma  Nirbhar Nidhi Yojna so that they can provide further loan of Rs 20,000,” said Sinha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.5 lakh get their jabs in Jharkhand as fresh vaccine supplies arrive||Jharkhand on Saturday vaccinated over 1.5 lakh residents against Covid-19, the highest in a day this month, after fresh supplies from the Centre allowed the state to intensify the immunisation campaign, figures released by the health department highlighted. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Saturday administered the first dose of vaccine to at least 1,11,529 residents and the second dose to 40,398 beneficiaries. At least 91,000 residents below the age of 45 years received the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 on the day, while 1,375 beneficiaries in this age bracket got their second jab. At least 1,202 session sites were operational in the state on Saturday, as per the dashboard of the Co-Win portal. As many as 85 session sites, including 78 sites run by the government, were operational in Ranchi, while 87 session sites opened their doors in East Singhbhum. At least 78 session sites in Dhanbad inoculated residents on the day. The immunisation campaign in the state lost momentum earlier this week due to shortage of vaccines and most of the government session sites remained non-operational. The state had around 7 lakh Covishield and 40,000 Covaxin doses in stock by the end of Saturday, health officials said. While the vaccination campaign regained momentum on Saturday, the state also reported two Covid casualties after a gap of at least a week. The two deaths, one each in Bokaro and East Singhbhum, took the toll in the state to 5,124 and that in East Singhbhum to 1,041. At least 282 people have died of Covid-19 in Bokaro so far. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further down to 276 in Jharkhand as the state reported 54 recoveries against 33 fresh cases of Coronavirus infection. As per NHM data, six recoveries against four cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 61, while the number of active cases in East Singhbhum dropped to 26 as the district reported six recoveries against five fresh cases. At least 11 districts – West Singhbhum, Saraikela, Palamau, Pakur, Koderma, Hazaribag, Gumla, Godda, Garhwa, Dumka, Deoghar and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on the day. The active caseload in Garhwa reached zero on the day as the lone Covid patient in the district recovered from the infection. The state on Saturday tested swab samples of 70,596 residents and 0.04 per cent of them were found infected by the deadly virus. So far over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by Coronavirus in the state and 98.44 per cent of them have recovered. However, 1.47 per cent of the patients could not survive. The doubling rate of cases in Jharkhand rose to 7,099 days against the national average of 806 days, while the growth rate in the state remained 0.01 per cent against the national growth rate of 0.09 per cent, highlighted government data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 20-year-old shot dead at Sakchi||Jamshedpur: A 20-year-old youth was shot and killed by an acquaintance near Delhi Metro Mall on crowded Sandline Road under Sakchi thana area on Saturday afternoon. The victim was identified as Prabhakar Kumar also known as Bucchu, a resident of Teachers' Colony at Ulidih in Mango. Kumar was shot by Rahul Yadav who was inebbriated and was fleeing the crime scene on a bike but was caught by some local residents from a short distance from the spot. 23-year-old Rahul was thrashed before being handed over to police. Kumar was rushed by the residents to MGM Medical College Hospital where the doctors on emergency duty declared him as brought dead. City SP, Subhash Chandra Jat who visited the spot said they are interrogating the assailant Rahul at the Sakchi thana. "We have arrested the assailant identified as Rahul Yadav who is drunk. We have seized the pistol he used in the murder and are trying to find out the reason behind the murder, "said Jat to The Telegraph Online. According to sources, Kumar ran a business of breeding and selling pedigree puppies and the murder was committed due to some monetary dispute between the murder victim and Rahul. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: A 50-year-old woman of Palma village of Tundi block, Fuku Devi, about 40km from Dhanbad district headquarters was trampled to death by two elephants of a herd of 22 on Friday night when she was heading towards the adjoining village to meet a relative. A team of forest department led by Topchanchi Ranger, Ajay Kumar Manjul recovered the body and kept it at the house of the deceased and sent it for post mortem to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital on Saturday morning at around 10 am after completion of formalities. Ajay Kumar Manjul, Tundi Forest ranger, said, “We have provided an ex gratia amount of Rs 25000 as immediate relief and remaining amount would be provided after the completion of all medical and documentary formalities.” “Though, there was a proposal for developing elephant corridor in Tundi, Topchanchi area which would have helped avoid human elephant clash but the proposal is yet to be approved by the government leading to regular loss of life and property,” said Raimuni Devi, member of Zila Parishad. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
25-07-2021||Jharkhand||South Eastern Railway transports 200 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen to Bangladesh||South Eastern Railway on Saturday became the first among the 18 zones of Indian Railways to transport liquid medical oxygen outside the country. A total of 200 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) stored in 10 cryogenic containers was sent from the Jamshedpur plant of Linde India Limited (a leading manufacturer of industrial and medical gases) to Benapole in Bangladesh through the Oxygen Express, which started from Tatanagar station. “It is the first time that any railway zone of the country has sent LMO through Oxygen Express outside India to meet the need for Covid-19 patients. The Oxygen Express left from Tatanagar station, which caters to Jamshedpur in Jharkhand, at around 10.15am carrying 200 tonnes of LMO,” said Geeta Sarkar, chief public relations officer, South Eastern Railway. She said the Oxygen Express service started from April 24 this year. The cryogenic containers can each carry up to 20 tonnes of liquid oxygen. Manufacturers prepare liquid oxygen with 99.5 per cent purity, which is then stored in large tankers and transported to distributors in cryogenic tankers at a specified temperature. It’s then converted back into gas and filled into cylinders by distributors. These cylinders are then dispatched to hospitals. These containers can also act as interim storage in remote areas which are facing oxygen scarcity. Sarkar further said that since April, South Eastern Railway has transported around 19,000 tonnes of liquid medical oxygen to 12 states and Union Territories — Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Assam, Haryana, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand, Kerala, Punjab and Delhi. These Oxygen Express trains originated from Tatanagar, Rourkela and Bokaro Steel City stations under the South Eastern Railway. “The Oxygen Express train will be reaching Benapole in Bangladesh in nearly 24 hours and will go through Adra, Asansol and Sealdah divisions before being handed over to Bangladesh,” said a senior official of the Chakradharpur division of South Eastern Railway, under which Tatanagar falls. A statement from the railways said: “Oxygen Express trains were announced in April and began operations on the 24th of that month, as hospitals from across the country reported an acute shortage of liquid medical oxygen amid the devastating second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. According to official figures, a total of 480 such trains have supplied more than 35,000 tonnes of LMO to various states, till now.” A special branch team of Jharkhand police arrested three men from a hotel in Ranchi on Saturday on a complaint filed by a Congress MLA alleging that they were trying to destabilise the Hemant Soren-led UPA government. The complaint was lodged against Abhishek Dubey from Palamau and Amit Singh and Niwaran Prasad Mahato from Bokaro for allegedly luring ruling party MLAs with cash.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-94
