26-07-2021||Calcutta||Focus on Urdu play in online drama workshop||Farhat Anjum, a Class X student of Jagbandhu Girls High School, was eager to do something new when she got an invitation to attend an online drama workshop. It taught Farhat much more than honing her acting skills. “It was fun emoting before a phone screen and using our limited space to the fullest,” she said. Farhat was one of the nine less privileged girls, who got to attend a 15-day workshop conducted by Canadian playwright Jawaid Danish. An initiative of NGO Rehnuma-e-Niswaan, the actors were selected from Calcutta, Howrah and South 24 Parganas. This workshop was a part of Kashf, an annual event comprising intra and inter-school competitions organised by Rehnuma-e-Niswaan for the Urdu medium schools. The girls there learnt some basics of theatre, dialogue delivery and life skills. More so, a full-fledged play was performed online. The 21-minute play, Lockdown Ki Aik Khamosh Eid, had an all-female cast. The workshop and the subsequent performance ended up empowering the girls besides teaching them the role of drama in daily lives. “Running my professional theatre group, RangManch, in Canada for 25 years gave me the confidence to work with the young and dedicated. This play was created without proper gadgets. The girls often borrowed their household cellphones for the project,” said Danish. The Urdu play focused on how children were dealing with the pandemic and their home-bound lives. It also explored their mental state while coping with a pandemic, climate change and global violence. Class XII student Gulrana Aafreen Shahedi of Howrah High School said, “We were encouraged to get into the skin of the characters that we were portraying. Rehnuma-e-Niswaan plans to organise many more online events for students. “Public speaking is a great way to boost the children’s confidence. We were testing waters in the virtual platform this time, but the response was overwhelming,” said the NGO’s secretary and founder Tabassum Siddiqua.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Stan Swamy wasn’t mum when doubters were tortured: Felix Raj ||Father Stan Swamy was not a “silent spectator” to the torture that was being unleashed on whosoever dared to question ‘the ruling powers of India”, said Father Felix Raj, the vice-chancellor of St Xavier’s University. He was speaking at a meeting on Sunday to protest “against the institutional killing of Father Stan Swamy”. The VC quoted from a video message of Father Stan: “…What is happening to me is not something unique, it is a broader process taking place all over the country. We all are aware how prominent intellectuals, lawyers, writers, poets, activists, student leaders are put in jail because they have expressed dissent or raised questions about the ruling powers of India.” “He (Father Stan) was happy to be part of the process because he was not a ‘silent spectator’. ‘I am ready to pay the price, whatever be it’, he said,” Father Felix Raj said at the meeting organised by the Paschim Banga Samajic Nyay Mancha, Kolkata Jela Committee, and held at Milli-Al-Ameen College in central Calcutta. “His tragic death in custody is termed as a case of judicial murder…. His bail petition was rejected so many times and this proves the inherent weakness of a section of the judiciary.” The 84-year-old ailing Jesuit and tribal rights activist from Ranchi had died in custody in Mumbai earlier this month while waiting for bail for nine months, since his arrest by the National Investigation Agency in connection with the Elgaar Parishad case. More than 100 people attended the protest meeting following all Covid safety protocols. Father Felix Raj described as “politically motivated” the arrest of Father Stan. “Looking at the shameful way this senior Jesuit priest had been arrested, I find myself failing to repeat the words of Christ on the cross: ‘Father, forgive them; they do not know what they are doing’. The arrest was politically motivated,” said the VC, who had led a march in Calcutta on October 15, demanding the release of Father Stan. Father Stan, he said, was a “gentle protector” of the rights of the tribals and other downtrodden people. Abdul Kafi, one of the speakers at the event, said the fascist regime in the country had become so desperate that they denied an aged person suffering from Parkinson’s disease the basic facilities that he deserved in jail. “A fascist regime always seeks to create a narrative that it is feeling threatened and cooks up conspiracy theories repeatedly. That is why they implicated an 84-year-old in a false case. They did not even allow a Parkinson’s disease patient, who could not eat by himself, a straw and sippers. NIA said they did not have these. How shameless can a regime be?” said Kafi, who teaches Bengali at Jadavpur University. A disability rights body in November had launched a campaign to send sippers to the Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, where Father Stan was lodged. The Jesuit had on November 6 petitioned a court requesting the National Investigation Agency to return his straw and sipper, which had been seized when he was taken to the jail on October 9. Debesh Das, a professor of JU and president of the Calcutta district committee of Paschim Banga Samajic Nyay Mancha, said it was time for academics and thinkers to speak out against the arrest of activists and acts of injustice.  “That is how we can pay a befitting tribute to Father Stan Swamy,” he said. Former Kalyani University professor Tirthakankar Chatterjee said Father Stan Swamy was murdered because he dared to question those in power why tribals were being denied the rights guaranteed by the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Changing profiles of Covid and corporate healthcare ||Covid has affected all lives and there is no industry that did not witness its impact. Lot of issues got exposed, especially in corporate healthcare. WHO had formally declared the coronavirus pandemic on March 11, 2020. In India, nationwide lockdown started on March 25, 2020. A gradual unlocking process started on June 1, 2020. The advent of this disease caused extreme stress and despair in the lifestyles of the common person and the medical profession. Right from the beginning, the disease gave no respite and the situation kept worsening. India has lost around 4.09 lakh citizens to Covid so far. A recent study indicated that the mortality among the hospitalised Covid patients was 7.2 per cent in the first wave and 10.5 per cent during the second, an increase of 45 per cent, which is phenomenal. The hospital workload also increased tremendously, almost to a break point, which resulted in a large number of critical patients having been waitlisted. It may be interesting to assess various aspects of this problem from different perspectives. Common man’s perspective: There has been increasing mistrust between patients and corporate hospitals for quite some time. The main issue is the cost of treatment and transparency. Clinical outcomes of treatment are also a critical issue. Usually, the best service at the most reasonable cost is desirable. The cost-related issues are mainly dealt by the corporate management and not by doctors, as commonly perceived. Addressing the medical fraternity on National Doctors Day, the Chief Justice of India (CJI) raised the question why should profiteering by corporates and investors be blamed on doctors. This observation is very pertinent and sums up the reality. There is a significant disparity in cost for the same services and investigations at different corporate hospitals. This issue is yet to be addressed. Increasing cost of treatment has been a matter of grave concern among patients. This has given rise to the concept of “hidden costs”. Patients today demand adequate infrastructure and more government regulations. Issues relating to insurance are also of paramount importance. Many of the common people’s queries regarding insurance remain unclarified. In corporate hospitals, disposable PPE kits are chargeable on a daily basis but not always recoverable by insurance. Since this pandemic has brought in many travel restrictions, outstation treatment is no longer a reality. Patients need to make a choice within the city. The treatment outcomes, safety and security of the patients are of utmost concern. Poor outcomes are not always caused by negligence, as perceived by many. Medical perspective: Doctors and healthcare workers (HCW’s) have been in the forefront during the Covid war and have endured extreme stress and hardship. They have been overworked, sometimes more than 24 hours at a stretch without much pay benefits in many cases. The contribution of the healthcare workers often goes unnoticed by society. There have been several incidents of social injustice in housing complexes and other public places. It appears as though medical professionals are now the “new untouchables” in society, even after providing such selfless service by risking their lives as well as the future of their families. The initial priority list for vaccination, issued by the government, included HCWs but excluded their families, which was surprising. There have been many occasions where the public have held the doctors responsible for corporate infrastructural deficiencies, like shortage of PPE kits, oxygen and emergency medications, which was really unfortunate. The CJI has questioned why medical professionals should be at the receiving end for someone else’s failures and struggle to get decent salaries even after eight to nine years of rigorous training. Very realistic indeed. During this pandemic many have ignored their health issues and worked selflessly rising to the occasion. There have been significant changes in daily medical practice during the period. Tele-consultations and social media communications, in place of face-to-face meetings, are now commonplace. Most practicing doctors have experienced a significant reduction of income during this period. Corporate hospitals: In spite of the questions raised, the corporate hospitals have put up an exemplary performance. The cost of setting up ICUs, acquiring ventilators and employing competent personnel has been huge. Governmental regulations have been changing from time to time and the hospitals have been admitting patients under certain schemes that are not always cost-effective. However, there are frequent complaints of overbilling. Secured software programmes have been installed minimising paperwork. Adequate training of personnel for online consultation have been initiated. Post-Covid clinics for medical management and mental health tele-consultations have been started. Tata Memorial Hospital in Mumbai, a grant-in-aid institution under the department of atomic energy of the government of India, has launched Navya, an online consultation clinic where opinion regarding any case related to cancer is available 24 hours. Violence at workplaces has been a major concern over the past few years, a problem which needs urgent solution. The laws in this regard need strict and impartial implementation. Better communication, education, improved primary healthcare and tele-medicine may be useful to some extent. A change in mindset is essential and good sense should prevail. It is time for corporate hospitals and the medical fraternity to reassess their priorities and further aid the common person. Dr Gautam Mukhopadhyay is secretary, Bengal Oncology Foundation, and clinical director, department of surgical oncology, Peerless Hospital, Calcutta ◙ Doctors, healthcare workers and corporate hospitals have all contributed significantly during this crisis. They have kept the hopes alive even at times of extreme despair ◙ Transparency regarding cost and implementation of government regulations are essential ◙ Acceptance of poor outcomes and prevention of violence at workplace are essential ◙ During the second wave of Covid, 798 medical professionals lost their lives. Supreme sacrifices cannot go in vain, they need to be honoured ◙ Teamwork is necessary but understanding others’ viewpoint is mandatory ◙ Now, there may be more questions than answers, but success is still achievable||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Impostor cleans out aged man’s bank account in Baguiati, arrested ||A 35-year-old man was arrested from his house in Asansol for allegedly duping an elderly man by posing as a bank official, police said. Rajesh Kumar Mondal, 25, had allegedly called up Baguiati resident Rama Prasad Chakraborty, 72, and introduced himself as assistant manager of the bank where Chakraborty has a savings account. After getting the account details, he transferred the money to another account. “We found that the stolen money was sent to a single account. A debit card attached to the account was used to buy electronic items from a shop in Asansol. We tracked down Kumar through the store,” the officer said. The police are trying to find out whether Kumar had duped anyone else.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Unauthorised Sonarpur camps: Vial numbers match, say police||Police probing alleged unauthorised vaccine camps in Sonarpur said the serial numbers on the vials found in possession of the accused, Mithun Mandal, had matched those on Covishield vials in batches sent to Diamond Harbour for use in the official drive. This means the liquid administered in the alleged unauthorised camps could be Covishield, which Mandal, a pharmacist at a primary health centre in Diamond Harbour, seems to have removed from the official stocks in an unauthorised manner. Police are awaiting a final forensic report on the composition of the liquid found in the seized vials. “Our preliminary investigation and inputs from the state health department suggest that the batch numbers and serial numbers of the vials seized from the accused have matched the stock details of the officially despatched Covishield vials. For further confirmation we are awaiting the forensic report on the liquid in the vials,” said a senior police officer. An official in the health department said Mandal had misused his position to steal vials and then entered the details of the people whom he administered the vaccine on the CoWIN portal. Those who were administered the liquid at Mandal’s camps, which he held in people’s homes, got vaccination certificates from CoWIN. “Mandal had direct access to vaccines and was also in charge of data entry in CoWIN. He thus misused his position,” said an officer. The health department official said Mandal could exploit his position and steal vials because of shortage of staff in primary health centres in remote areas. The Diamond Harbour subdivision has 11 primary health centres and 184 vaccination centres. “It is a known fact that we do not have adequate staff at remote health centres. Usually, the responsibility of handling vaccines and data entry in the portal is shouldered by two or three employees. At times even one person has to do everything,” said a health official in the South 24-Parganas district administration. Mandal, who has been remanded in police custody, has purportedly told the police that he had administered the liquid to not more than 30 or 40 people. Police sources said at least five health department employees were examined on Sunday. “Mandal might not be the only one involved in this," said an officer of Sonarpur police station. A police team took Mandal to several locations in Diamond Harbour on Sunday, apparently to try and ascertain the sequence of events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Website mirrors making of Satyajit Ray’s Goopi Gyne Bagha Byne||Between the covers of two traditional red cloth-bound notebooks is enclosed the creative process that resulted in one of Satyajit Ray’s landmark films, Goopi Gyne Bagha Byne. In Ray’s centenary year, a bilingual website, exploreray.org, is presenting the kheror khata in which he kept detailed notes covering all aspects of the film, from costume sketches to musical notes and dialogues. “The first khata has 733 pages of the story line, sketches of the characters and elements of the sets, the shooting script and the story board, all of which he developed over time. The second book has about 200 pages on the dance of the ghosts and post-production work,” said Ayananshu Banerjee, head, projects and digital transformation, TCG-Crest. The website has been developed by the Centre for New Media, an institute under TCG Crest, which deals with digital entertainment. This website not only presents the scanned pages but also offers extensive annotations, cross-referenced to the script. Over 500 movie clips, 100-plus images, movie stills and music snippets provide a multi-dimensional experience to Ray fans and researchers alike. By scrolling the pages, dated from December 25, 1964 to August 21, 1966, one can track how the film developed in the maker’s mind. “When a tune came to his head, he jotted down the notation, sometimes along with snatches of the lyrics. Many were never used. In one case, we found a tune recorded here used years later, in Goopi Bagha Phire Elo,” Banerjee says. Recordings have been made of piano renditions of the original notations for this project. The script is in Bengali but to make Ray accessible to the world, translations have been added. “Goopi Gyne… was the first Bengali film to release at Globe cinema. Ray had prepared the English subtitles for the screening. Since his storyboards were heavy with illustrations, there is little verbal description. So we did not have to translate much ourselves,” he points out. The team also accessed the magazine Sandesh in which Upendrakishore Roychowdhury’s story came out in 1915, serialised over six issues. The pages have been archived here alongside those of the reprint in the Puja edition of the magazine which grandson Satyajit revived as editor in 1961. Sandip Ray, the principal advisor to the project, said the project had been mooted before the lockdown but work could start only over the year-end. “Father kept two kheror khata for every film but the ones on Goopi Gyne Bagha Byne are rich as the film was special to him. We had showcased some pages during an exhibition organised by Ray Society on the film’s golden jubilee. But this website will provide comprehensive and easy access,” he said, adding that the Shatranj ke Khilari notebooks were next in richness of detail. “We will take a call on whether to take up another film depending on the response this gets,” said Sandip. Filmmaker Mrinal Sen’s US-based son Kunal, a year junior to Sandip at Patha Bhavan, has offered technical and creative assistance to the project.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid victim’s friends donate Rs 75,000 to Bhalopahar School in Purulia||A group of friends who lost schoolmate Abhignan Mukherjee — an inspector in Calcutta police’s traffic department — to Covid last year, donated Rs 75,000 to a school in Purulia on the death anniversary of their friend. Most of the students at Bhalopahar School in Purulia’s Bundwan block, about 300km from the city, are tribal and first-generation learners. Their parents barely earn a few thousand rupees a month. Mukherjee’s school friends — 10 of them — handed the money to the school on Saturday, exactly a year after the inspector succumbed to the disease. They said they wanted to do something in memory of their friend for a school, because “school is where their friendship had been founded”. The Purulia school, which depends on contributions, runs classes from Nursery to VIII and has 220 children on the rolls. The pandemic has shattered the aspirations of many of the children and their parents as the school had to be closed as a precaution against Covid. “Many of us have lost at least one loved one to the pandemic. He (Abhignan) was at the forefront of the fight against Covid and we are proud of him. We wanted to do something in his memory that would be of some significance,” said Debasish Sarkar, one of the 10 who raised the money, while returning from Purulia on Sunday. “It is a joint effort. Friends from India, Singapore, Canada, the US, Nigeria and Dubai have come forward. None of us knows what others have contributed. That was intentional.” The friends are from three batches of St Thomas’ Church School, Howrah. Kamal Chakraborty, 77, the co-founder and secretary of Bhalopahar School, plans to set up a library with the money. “No one reads now, but still I want to set up a library with the money,” said Chakraborty, who founded the school with Jayati Chakraborty. The school came up in 2004. “There were a few schools in the area but students would hardly go there. I got these children to school, gave them mid-day meals and also arranged for buses to ferry those who lived far away to school,” Chakraborty said. He rued that it was difficult to ensure that the children kept studying — and the pandemic has made the task even more difficult — because girls were married off early and boys started digging soil to earn a living. “Also, some of their parents go to other states to work as contract labourers and the children are left behind…. It is difficult but I am trying,” he said. Chakraborty had left his job in a private firm in Jamshedpur in 1996 and relocated to Bhalopahar, where he built the school and a health centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta woman’s videos leaked on 84 pornographic sites||A woman who was allegedly paid Rs 3,000 to appear in a shoot with the promise that the videos would only be viewed outside India learnt to her shock that those were leaked to 84 pornographic sites accessible from the country, police said. When the woman demanded that the videos be taken down, the two persons who got her to appear for the shoot — a photographer named Pratap Ghosh and a make-up artist named Jaysree Mitra — allegedly demanded money from her. Based on a complaint the woman lodged with Bidhannagar police on Saturday, Ghosh and Mitra were arrested. “The victim has told us that she was promised that none of her videos would be accessible to people in India. But after a few weeks of the shoot, she came to know through a friend that her videos were available on multiple pornographic sites, all accessible from the country,” said an officer of the Bidhannagar commissionerate. Most of the videos were shot at Central Park in Salt Lake in March. The complaint says at least three of the videos were uploaded on 84 pornographic sites, an officer said. “Panicked, the woman, who works at a private firm, requested Ghosh and Mitra to take down the videos. She was allegedly told that the videos would be taken down only if she paid up,” an officer said. “The two apparently cited the expenses they had incurred and asked her to compensate them if she wanted to have the videos removed.” The police said Mitra had lured the complainant into appearing for the shoot after befriending her on Facebook. “Initially, she was told that the shoot was part of a modelling assignment. Then she was asked to shoot with fewer clothes and was told that 25 other women had done similar shoots,” said the officer. At least six videos were shot, out of which three were uploaded on pornographic sites, the woman has told the police. The police said they found the “profile” of several other women in the app where the woman’s videos were uploaded first. The accused were produced in the Bidhnanagar court on Sunday. Mitra was remanded in police custody for two days and Ghosh for five days. The lawyers representing Ghosh and Mitra said the allegations were false. Both have been booked under the Indian Penal Code sections related to cheating and also under the Information Technology Act. The woman’s husband told Metro that their primary aim was to get the videos removed from the Internet, but as the accused allegedly started demanding money to take them down, they had no choice but to lodge a complaint.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
26-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19 restrictions alter eating-out timings in Calcutta||The restricted timings for diners at restaurants have changed the way Calcuttans eat out. The restaurants are allowed to serve diners from noon to 8pm at a 50 per cent guest capacity. At most places, the last orders are being taken between 7pm and 7.15pm. From an old favourite on Park Street to a glitzy new place inside a mall, the post-lunch period used to be a lean time for most restaurants. But not anymore. Early dinner is in vogue. So is “pregaming” (the practice of having a light drink before attending a social event), followed by takeaway. Groups of friends who used to book tables late in the evening at their favourite joints are now meeting over lunch. A string of eateries dotting Purna Das Road, Sarat Bose Road and Hindusthan Park have been buzzing with diners almost throughout the day. The 4pm-8pm slot is the busiest, said owners of the coffee shops and restaurants. A low-down on how Calcuttans are eating out. Many people are going to their favourite restaurants to order a drink or two, have some quick bites before getting the main course packed. The pregaming at the restaurant is like a prelude to a house party. Around 7.30pm on Friday, a group of three friends was leaving Trinca’s, each carrying a bag of food. “This is our favourite hangout. We had a round of drinks before ordering food. We asked for one starter at the table and then got the other items packed. We had another round of drinks with the starter before leaving,” said Diptangshu Mukherjee, 39, one of the three. The group was headed to Mukherjee’s home off CIT Road in Moulali, where two other friends would drop in. Siddhika Ghose Chaudhuri, the owner of Wise Owl, a café on Purna Das Road, has had a substantial rise in takeaways since the restricted timings came into force. “It is difficult to quantify but there has been a jump of around 20 per cent in takeaways,” she said. “Patrons are arriving early in the evening, ordering some beverages with chicken fingers wrapped in bacon or Caesar salad. They are getting a chicken stroganoff packed for dinner,” she said. The trend was more pronounced on weekends, said Ghose Chaudhuri. Kabir Azhar, director of Aminia Restaurants, said that before the fresh curbs were imposed in May, online aggregators made up nearly 70 per cent of the sales. “Takeaway by diners now make up 20 per cent of the total share. The share of online aggregators has come down to 50 per cent,” he said. Around 6.45pm on Friday, some 10 tables at Flavours of China, part of the Bar-B-Q restaurant on Park Street, were occupied. Mocambo was also buzzing with patrons. A group of four from Alipore was among those eating at Bar-B-Q. “Today is my husband’s birthday. He is no more. But this used to be his favourite restaurant. We came here after a long time,” said Puja Tandon, who had come with her son, daughter and a friend of her daughter. “If eating out means eating out early, so be it,” said Rishi, her son. Puja’s daughter Radhika studies BBA in Paris. An internship stint with an NGO has brought her to her hometown. She was accompanied by a friend from Paris, Martin Andries. “I have a high level of spice tolerance. I tasted Indian Chinese for the first time and loved it,” said Andries. “Indians usually don’t get hungry before 8.30pm-9pm. But these are unprecedented times and people adapt. We have been getting a good lot of early diners, especially on weekends,” said Nitin Kothari, the owner of Mocambo and Peter Cat. On weekends, often there is no gap between lunch and dinner rush, he said. Anjan Chatterjee, veteran restaurateur, described as “rudimentary” the urge to eat out and socialise. “Man is a social animal. He needs to satiate that rudimentary need. He will adapt in whichever way possible to do that,” Chatterjee said of the change in eating-out habits. His standalone restaurants as well as those in malls have been busy during what earlier used to be an interval between lunch and dinner. Young people who would earlier meet over drinks and dinner are now meeting over lunch, said restaurateurs. “A young group usually spends more time on a table. With the curbs, it is difficult to find three hours in the evening window. So, the young people are catching up mostly over lunch, usually over weekends,” said Pratap Daryanani, the owner of Oasis on Park Street. He had three tables booked for lunch on Saturday, for different groups aged under 40, Daryanani told this newspaper on Friday evening. Anand Puri, the owner of Trinca’s, spoke in the same vein. “Family crowds or elders make up a sizable section of early diners. The lunch crowd, on the other hand, has been witnessing a lot of young faces,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
26-07-2021||Calcutta||School students take a detour to the world of fiction||A WhatsApp link takes you to a shelf of books. Tiles like The Cherry Tree, The Wind on the Haunted Hill and The Blue Umbrella pop out. Clicking on the book covers takes one to the story inside. Welcome to an e-library project initiated by the Asian International School (AIS) for classes V to XII to mark the birth anniversary of Ruskin Bond in May. Thus, most books of the growing library are dedicated to the author. The Birla High School junior section has also come up with a same initiative in June to keep boredom at bay for their students. Built on similar lines, the school will be adding around 10 books for each class every month. The selection includes a range of classics and popular authors, Ruskin Bond and Roald Dahl being universal favourites. “The e-library project aims to encourage the children to read. Many students have shared with their teachers how much they are missing their school library. That’s when I decided to start an e-library. We plan to dedicate a month to each author and stock up on his books,” said AIS principal Vijaylaxmi Kumar. As of now, the AIS library is stocked with Ruskin Bond books, the Harry Potter series and worksheets for students. The link is being sent to their WhatsApp groups as well as on the school portal. Class VI student Anubhav Pal loves The Blue Umbrella and Harry Potter. “I can re-read them again. But what I am really looking forward to are some new authors. I hope to read up on some classics during this period,” said the bookworm. The principals and teachers at the AIS are working hard at stocking up their e-library with textbooks as well as fiction. “It will be very useful if more study material is available online, through the e-library. We plan to add more magazines and non-fiction. That way the senior students will not have to search too far for their reference material, now that the school library is off limits for them,” added senior science teacher Anita Shaw, who also co-ordinated the project. The Bengali and Hindi teachers are also coming up with their list of popular books and must-reads. The plan is to add an author every month in English as well as regional languages. “Next month the focus will be on Sudha Murty. Both the audio and online versions will be added to our e-shelves,” said the principal. Somraj Roy of Class IV, Birla High is looking forward to reading The Wonderful Wizard of Oz by L. Frank Baum from his school’s new e-library that came as a surprise. “I love to read after completing my school assignments. My entire family, including my three-year-old sister, reads together for an hour before dinner,” said Somraj. “We are getting used to holding lessons, activity classes and even inter-school events virtually. Our reading classes are enjoyed by all but students still miss the school library a lot. To satiate this hunger and fuel the passion for reading we set up the e-library for our children from classes I to V. Each month the collection will be updated by our librarian and language teachers, so that students have a wide variety of reading material to choose from,” said Birla High headmistress Farida Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-39
26-07-2021||Business||India's GDP growth expected to be 8.8-9 per cent in FY22: Care Ratings||The country's gross domestic product (GDP) growth is likely to be 8.8 to 9 per cent in the current financial year, driven by agriculture and industry sectors, Care Ratings said in a report. The country's economy had contracted by 7.3 per cent in fiscal 2020-21. The agency said the outlook for the Indian economy on almost all counts in FY22 would look seemingly better than FY21 on account of the negative base effect. "GDP growth for the year (FY22) is expected to be 8.8-9 per cent with GVA (gross value added) growth of 7.8 per cent. The main drivers of the economy would be agriculture and industry," the ratings agency said in its Economic Outlook for 2021-22. Services sector will not be able to reach its potential even at 8.2 per cent growth as the second lockdown has affected sectors like hotels and restaurants, tourism, retail malls and entertainment in particular, it said. While a lot has been done on the supply side by both the RBI and the government, the malaise is on the demand side which has been a problem even before the pandemic, Care Ratings pointed out. A critical factor this time will be the spending pattern of the rural households, the report said, adding that the monsoon forecast is good and ideally a stable Kharif harvest should bode well for rural incomes. There could be some pent up demand which surfaces this time too from urban India, but it may just about maintain the level of last year and not really be a breakthrough. "Higher consumption should stimulate investments. The crux will be an investment which has a multiplier effect on demand and investment," it said. The report also said the fiscal deficit for FY22 is projected between Rs 17.38 lakh crore to Rs 17.68 lakh crore. "For a nominal GDP of Rs 222.9 lakh crore, the increase in quantum of fiscal deficit would potentially push up the fiscal deficit ratio to 7.8-7.9 per cent of GDP," the report said. It also said the cost of services has increased across all components, which combined with the fuel-led impact would keep CPI (consumer price index-based inflation) elevated at around 6 per cent by March-end. Wholesale price index-based inflation will be in double digits mainly due to the low base effect as well as rising global commodity prices. "Given the high inflation numbers witnessed so far and our expectation of CPI inflation to remain elevated, it does not look likely that there can be any rate cut at least in the 2021 calendar year," the agency said. It also expects the non-performing assets (NPAs) of banks to be at 10-10.5 per cent for March 2022. The current account will turn into a deficit this year with a higher trade deficit and stable invisible flows, it said. "We do expect a deficit of 0.5-1 per cent of GDP in FY2021-22," it said. The report further said FPI flows to the country would be lower than last year and be in the region of USD 18-22 billion. It estimates the country's foreign exchange reserves to be around USD 620-630 billion by March-end.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
26-07-2021||Business||Sensex slips 123 points to close at 52,852||Equity benchmark Sensex declined over 120 points on Monday, tracking losses in index heavyweights Reliance, SBI and HDFC twins amid a largely subdued trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index ended 123.53 points or 0.23 per cent lower at 52,852.27, while the broader NSE Nifty slipped 31.60 points or 0.20 per cent to 15,824.45. SBI was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 1 per cent, followed by Reliance Industries, Tech Mahindra, M&M, L&T, Bharti Airtel, IndusInd Bank and HDFC. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, UltraTech Cement, Sun Pharma, Titan, Tata Steel and Kotak Bank were among the gainers. "Indian markets started marginally in red following negative Asian market cues as China tech and education shares plunged and Singapore's manufacturing output declined 3 per cent in June on a seasonally adjusted, month-on-month basis. During the afternoon session markets swung between positive and negative territory with lacklustre trade as traders were concerned as foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) offloaded Indian equities to the tune of over Rs 5,689 crore in July so far as they continued to adopt a cautious stance in view of various domestic and global factors," said Narendra Solanki, Head- Equity Research (Fundamental), Anand Rathi Shares & Stock Brokers. Also, the European stocks were seen retreating as investors watch corporate earnings, coronavirus cases and German business sentiment, which fell unexpectedly in July as supply chain constraints and rising COVID-19 infections dampened recent optimism, Solanki added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Seoul ended with significant losses, while Tokyo closed in the green. Equities in Europe were trading on a negative note in the mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.34 per cent to USD 73.85 per barrel. The rupee closed 2 paise lower at 74.42 (provisional) against the US dollar. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 163.31 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
26-07-2021||Business||No plan to print currency notes to tide over crisis, says Sitharaman||The government has no plan to print currency notes to tide over the current economic crisis triggered by the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman informed Parliament on Monday. To a question on whether there is any plan to print currency to tide over the crisis, the Finance Minister said, "No Sir". Many economists and experts have suggested to the government to print more currency notes to tide over the difficult economic situation with a view to support the economy ravaged by the spread of COVID-19, and protect jobs. In economic parlance, printing of money is called monetisation of the deficit. In other words, monetisation of the deficit happens when the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) buys government securities directly from the primary market to fund the government's expenses. India's real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is estimated to have contracted by 7.3 per cent during 2020-21, Sitharaman said in a written reply to Lok Sabha. This contraction reflects the unparalleled effect of the pandemic and the containment measures that were taken to control the pandemic, she said. "The fundamentals of the economy remain strong as gradual scaling back of lockdowns, along with the astute support of Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission has placed the economy firmly on the path of recovery from the second half of FY 2020-21," she said. The government had announced a special economic and comprehensive package of Rs 29.87 lakh crore under AtmaNirbhar Bharat (ANB) to combat the impact of the pandemic, to revive economic growth and to bolster employment during 2020-21, she said. The Union Budget 2021-22 announced a number of measures to support broad-based and inclusive economic development including a 34.5 per cent increase in capital expenditure and 137 per cent increase in health expenditure, she said, adding, the government announced a relief package of Rs 6.29 lakh crore in June 2021, to strengthen public health and provide impetus for growth and employment measures. Replying to another question, Sitharaman said, the impact of the second COVID-19 wave is expected to be muted given localised containment measures and rapid upscaling of the vaccination drive. The Union Budget 2021-22, estimates India's nominal GDP growth at 14.4 per cent during the current financial year ending March 2022. The RBI, in its latest Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) resolution of June 4, 2021, has projected India's real GDP to grow at 9.5 per cent in 2021-22, after accounting for the impact of the second wave as compared to its earlier projection of 10.5 per cent, she said. In reply to another question, the Finance Minister said the RBI has announced Special three-year Long-Term Repo Operations (SLTRO) of Rs 10,000 crore at repo rate for the Small Finance Banks (SFBs), to be deployed for fresh lending of up to Rs 10 lakh per borrower to provide further support to small business units, micro and small industries, and other unorganised sector entities adversely affected during the current wave of the pandemic. The first auction under the SLTRO was conducted on May 17, 2021, she said, adding, the unutilised portion of notified Rs 10,000 crore is being carried forward in each subsequent auction, until fully utilised or till the last auction to be conducted in October 2021, whichever is earlier. Three auctions under this scheme have been conducted so far, and SFBs have availed a total amount of Rs 1,640 crore under the scheme, she added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
26-07-2021||Business||Sensex slips over 192 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 192 points in early trade on Monday, tracking losses in index majors HDFC twins, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries amid unabated foreign fund outflows.  After slipping over 192.17 points lower, the 30-share BSE index pared some of its losses to trade 54.98 points or 0.10 per cent lower at 52,920.82 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 11.55 points or 0.07 per cent to 15,844.50.  Axis Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding more than 1 per cent, followed by Maruti, SBI, HDFC and ICICI Bank. Reliance was trading 0.41 per cent lower.  On the other hand, ITC, Titan, Infosys, Sun Pharma, NTPC and Tata Steel were among the gainers.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 138.59 points or 0.26 per cent higher at 52,975.80, and Nifty advanced 32 points or 0.20 per cent to finish at 15,856.0.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 163.31 crore on Friday, as per provisional exchange data.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Hong Kong were in the red, while Tokyo was trading with gains in mid-session deals.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.51 per cent to USD 73.72 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
26-07-2021||Business||Audi launches three all-electric SUVs in India||German luxury car maker Audi has made its debut in India in the EV space with the launch of three electric SUVs — the Audi e-tron 50, Audi e-tron 55 and Audi e-tron Sportback 55. The e-SUVs will be retailing at a price range of Rs 99.99 lakh to Rs 1.17 crore. Balbir Singh Dhillon, head of Audi India, said, “It is a big day for us as we launch the e-tron brand in India. Under the e-tron brand, we are launching not one, but three electric SUVs that begin our electrification journey.” Meanwhile, Mercedes-Benz has said by 2022, it will have battery electric vehicles in all the segments the company serves. From 2025, all new vehicle architectures will be electric- only and customers will be able to choose an all-electric alternative for every model the company makes. In India, the German marque will continue to offer only the EQC SUV for now.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
26-07-2021||Business||Reliance to start gas production from MJ field in Oct-Dec 2022||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) will start natural gas production from the MJ field — the third and the last set of discoveries that the company is developing in the eastern offshore KG-D6 block — in the last quarter of 2022 to raise the overall output by about two-thirds. In an investor presentation announcing first-quarter earnings, RIL said it has completed its first offshore installation campaign and a second one would begin in November. “Drilling and completions of wells (are) underway,” it said. “First gas expected by Q3 of FY23.” Financial year 2023 starts in April 2022 and the third quarter would be October-December 2022. RIL and its partner BP plc of the UK plan to use a floating production system at high-sea in the Bay of Bengal to bring to production the deepest gas discovery in the KG-D6 block. The MJ-1 gas find is located about 2,000 metres directly below the Dhirubhai-1 and 3 (D1 and D3) fields — the first and the largest fields in KG-D6 block. MJ-1 is estimated to hold a minimum of 0.988 trillion cubic feet (tcf) of contingent resources. The field also has oil deposits which would be produced using a floating system, called FPSO. “FPSO and subsea production systems (are) on track,” the company said. RIL-BP are developing three deep-water gas developments in block KG-D6 — R Cluster, Satellite Cluster and MJ — which together are expected to produce around 30 million standard cubic metres per day of natural gas by 2023, meeting up to 15 per cent of India’s gas demand. R-Cluster started production in December 2020 and the Satellite Cluster came onstream in April. While R-Cluster is expected to reach plateau gas production of about 12.9 mmscmd in 2021, Satellite Cluster will have a peak output of 6 mmscmd. The MJ field will have a peak output of 12 mmscmd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||ICICI Bank's chief Sandeep Bakhshi forfeits Covid year salary ||Sandeep Bakhshi, the managing director and CEO of ICICI Bank, did not take his salary in Covid-hit 2020-21, the annual report of the private sector lender showed. Bakhshi is perhaps the only instance of a non-promoter CEO taking a salary cut. His peers in the technology sector — Rajesh Gopinathan of TCS and Salil Parekh of Infosys — have both taken hikes, though the IT industry benefitted from the pandemic in terms of greater spending in the digital domain. However, many big name promoters did not take salaries last fiscal, including Uday Kotak and Mukesh Ambani. Besides Bakhshi, “material risk takers’’ of the bank including its executive directors, group chief financial officer and company secretary voluntarily opted for a 10 per cent reduction effective May 1, 2020, in their basic salary, retirals and supplementary allowances for fiscal 2021. The ICICI Bank CEO “voluntarily relinquished’’ his fixed compensation of basic, supplementary allowances and retirals for 2020-21 and was paid an honorarium fee of Re 1 for the year. Bakhshi, however, received allowances and perquisites amounting to over Rs 38.38 lakh, the annual report said, adding he got Rs 63.60 lakh as  performance bonus from ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company as deferred variable pay for 2016-17 and 2017-18. On the other hand, the percentage increase in the median remuneration of employees of the bank during the financial year was around five per cent, while the average increase in the remuneration of middle and senior management, including key managerial personnel, was zero per cent. The annual reports of the top three private sector banks — HDFC Bank, ICICI and Axis — showed HDFC Bank’s former MD & CEO Aditya Puri as the highest earner with total emoluments of Rs 13.82 crore. Sashidhar Jagdishan, who took over from Puri in late October, earned Rs 4.77 crore for the fiscal, which included payments as a group head till his elevation. Puri’s overall payments included Rs 3.5 crore as post retirement benefits. In HDFC Bank, the percentage increase in median remuneration of employees was 7.45 per cent and this included front line sales and overseas staff. The average percentage increase for key managerial personnel was 6.84 per cent. The annual report of Axis Bank showed  managing director and CEO Amitabh Chaudhry earning Rs 6.52 crore. The median remuneration of employees of the bank decreased 3.66 per cent in 2020-21 over the previous fiscal. Average remuneration increase for non-managerial personnel of the bank during the financial year was 5.8 per cent (annualised) and  around 0.67 per cent for managers. When compared with the bank’s median salary, Jagdishan earned 139 times the median and Chaudhry, 104 times. In ICICI Bank, it stood at 96 times for executive directors — Anup Bagchi, Vishakha Mulye and Sandeep Batra. According to a PTI report, HDFC Bank had 200 executives earning above Rs 8.5 lakh a month, including key management personnel, serving officials and those who left the bank midway last fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||Finance ministry moves file for extension of 3 MDs of govt-owned banks||The finance ministry has moved a file to extend the tenure of three public sector banks’ managing directors, including Punjab National Bank (PNB), according to sources. Besides, the sources said the ministry has recommended the department of personnel and training (DoPT) for extension of 10 executive directors (EDs) of various public sector banks. The three-year term of S. S. Mallikarjuna Rao, MD and CEO of PNB, is coming to an end on September 18 but the finance ministry has recommended extension for four months till January 31, 2022, when Rao attains his superannuation age of 60 years. Atul Kumar Goel’s term as MD and CEO of Uco Bank has been recommended for a two-year extension beyond November 1 this year. A. S. Rajeev, MD and CEO of Bank of Maharashtra, has been suggested for an extension of two years beyond December 1. The finance ministry has simultaneously forwarded the name of S. L. Jain for the appointment of MD and CEO of Indian Bank. The Banks Board Bureau had recommended the name of Jain in May after the interview.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||JSPL receives revised Rs 7,401 crore offer for Jindal Power arm||JSPL on Sunday announced it has received a revised offer of Rs 7,401 crore from Worldone Private Limited for divesting its subsidiary company Jindal Power Limiter (JPL). Jindal Steel and Power Limited (JSPL) had earlier announced accepting a Rs 3,015-crore offer from Worldone Private Limited to divest the 96.42 per cent stake it holds in subsidiary company JPL. The divestment is in line with JSPL’s strategic objective to continuously reduce its debt and carbon emissions and focus on the steel business. “After various rounds of discussion, JSPL and its transaction advisers have negotiated a revised and improved binding offer from Worldone accommodating all investor feedback received by the company. Worldone will (now) buy out all the equity shares and redeemable preference shares of JPL held by JSPL for approximately Rs 7,401 crore,” JSPL said in a statement. JSPL further said it has taken a decision to undertake a competitive bidding process to realise the highest possible value for the stake sale. In the bidding process, if JSPL receives a higher offer compared with that of Worldone’s offer of Rs 7,401 crore, the company will accept it. The transparent bidding process will be advertised in public domain and will present an equal opportunity for interested bidders from around the world to come forward and improve the offer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||Piaggio to offer all fuel options in India||Piaggio India will remain fuel agnostic and offer its customers the choice of diesel, petrol and CNG powertrains. “We are going to let the customer be free to decide what to use as it is a question of his livelihood. We have to be sensitive to the ownership cost and acquisition cost,” Piaggio India chairman and MD Diego Graffi said after the launch of the 300cc HT Ape range in both petrol and CNG fuel options. On why the company did not launch an electric powertrain, Graffi said: “EV is a revolution waiting to happen but right now there is a mental barrier against it. The company is investing in EV and BS-VI and alternative fuel to expand its current market share of 30 per cent.” The biggest roadblock to EV, Graffi feels, is the cost of acquisition and the swappable model of battery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||Reserve Bank's digital currency plan generates mixed response||The Reserve Bank of India’s plan for a central bank digital currency (CBDC) has generated a mixed response from digital currency exchanges. These exchanges hope the existing cryptocurrencies can co-exist with CBDC, with the RBI currency getting traded on their platforms. They are also seeking clarity on regulations around crypto assets . Some observers also see a limited upside in CBDC in an already robust digital payments ecosystem. “It is a great step forward in building a completely digital economy and we believe other crypto assets can also co-exist with this digital currency. It is the regulation of other crypto assets that will benefit investors, businesses and the economy,” said Avinash Shekhar,  co-CEO of   Zebpay. “We believe the Indian government will come up with clear regulations around crypto assets and it will be a well calibrated one after discussion with various stakeholders. We are optimistic that the government will come up with guidelines that allow all Indians to participate in this technological revolution,” Shekhar said. “This is a significant development for the global crypto space and is great news for crypto exchanges and investors in India. With countries like Russia and China also making similar moves, the launch of our country’s own CBDC accords India the leadership position in this space,” a Coin DCX spokesperson said. With CBDC promising a lower volatility while offering the same promise as that of crypto-assets, exchanges will be eager to include them as part of their portfolio, the spokesperson said. Sathvik Vishwanath, CEO and co-founder Unocoin: “Different countries have different infrastructure when it comes to domestic payments and we have a very robust stack already provided by the RBI. This means the advantage that we can get out of CBDC is limited.” He said 80 per cent of  countries have a poor payment structure where crypto-currencies are making the transactions free and fast, which explains the high value of the crypto-currencies. “In India, we can take advantage of this value growth by participating through investing in them. CBDC does not seem to be the need of the hour in India in any way,” said Sathvik Vishwanath, CEO and co-founder Unocoin. The RBI, however, has questioned the need for having private virtual currencies (VCs). “Developing our own CBDC could provide the public with uses that any private virtual currencies can provide and to that extent might retain public preference for the Rupee. It could also protect the public from the abnormal level of volatility some of these VCs  experience,” RBI deputy governor T Rabi Sankar had said last week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||Trai likely to review grey areas in 5G||The government plans to refer all issues relating to the 5G spectrum auction to the telecom regulator, which could pave the way for the much awaited auctions in this fiscal itself. “The government is considering sending a reference to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai), seeking its recommendations on issues involved in the auction of spectrum available for International Mobile Telecommunications (read: 5G) services,” minister of state for communications Devusinh Chauhan told the Rajya Sabha. DoT officials said they could refer to all contentious issues, including the review of the base price, the radio waves for sale and the appropriate standards. The officials expect the auctions of 5G spectrum in the current fiscal itself if the recommendations arrive from the regulator and other clearances obtained from the concerned authorities. 5G networks are capable of data speeds at least 20 times faster than 4G and seen as vital for emerging technologies such as self-driving cars and artificial intelligence. “We hope the government will also look into the industry’s call for revisiting the 5G spectrum pricing,” S.P. Kochhar, the director-general of the Cellular Opeartors Association of India, said. The referral to the telecom regulator could provide clarity to whether the 26 Ghz millimeter wave band would be put up for auction. The reserve price for 5G spectrum has been set at Rs 492 crore per Mhz of spectrum in the 3,300-3,600Mhz bands, which are considered ideal for 5G telecom services. Trai had recommended the 5G spectrum base price in August 2018. The suggestions were accepted by the Digital Communications Commission, the highest decision-making authority at the DoT. The industry has been lobbying the DoT to refer to Trai reserve prices for all spectrum bands cleared for 5G trials, including 26 Ghz, 3.3-3.67 Ghz and 700 Mhz. This could lead to Trai cutting the earlier base price of the premium-sub-Ghz 700 Mhz band that went unsold for the second auction in succession in March as well as mid-band 5G spectrum that have been termed by telcos as exorbitant.  The DoT is also likely to ask the regulator to set a base price for the 600 Mhz sub-Ghz band, which has not been auctioned previously.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||Infrastructure demand keeps steel prices high||JSW Steel recorded its highest profit (Rs 5,900 crore) and revenue (Rs 28,902 crore) in a quarter marred by the brutal second wave of Covid-19. The company’s joint MD and CFO Seshagiri Rao tells The Telegraph that spending on infrastructure and decarbonisation across the world is keeping the demand and prices of steel at an elevated level in the US, Europe and China despite the supply uptick. Unlike the last commodity boom, which was led by oil and gold, this time metals, including steel, are leading the charge. India will also consume 110 million tonnes (mt) of steel compared with 94mt last fiscal, Rao predicts. An excerpt: Profits have gone up 40 per cent even though sales are down 11 per cent. Is this because the sales realisations are up? Of course, sales realisations are up by 19 per cent on a blended basis. There are multiple factors. Cost push on account of iron ore and coking coal price jump was not fully reflected in the first quarter because we had inventory. The change in overseas operations also played a part. Compared with a Rs 325-crore loss, there is Rs 282-crore EBITDA profit this quarter, which reflects a Rs 600-crore swing. Indian subsidiaries also played a part with profit up at Rs 1,125 crore compared with Rs 825 crore in the fourth quarter. Positive contribution from exports also came along, which contributed 35 per cent compared to 25 per cent in Q4. HR coil prices are Rs 5,000-6,000 a tonne more in the export market. BPSL also made a profit of Rs 745 crore. Will the cost push be reflected in the second quarter? There will be a cost push on account of raw materials. Coking coal prices for us will go up by $32 a tonne during this quarter which translates to $20 a tonne cost push per tonne of steel. In iron ore, there will be a cost push in this quarter because we have bought and built inventory at high prices. Coking coal cost will go up further in the third quarter but not in iron ore as prices are softening. What is your outlook on prices and demand? Prices will follow the cost. Internationally, 1004mt of steel was produced in January-June of 2021 compared with 878mt in the corresponding period of 2020 and 928mt in 2019 when there was no Covid. China produced 563mt in the first six months compared with 504mt in 2020 and 491mt in 2019. There is an 18 per cent growth over last year in the rest of the world. So, steel supply has gone up everywhere, not only in China but in all the geographies, most significantly in the US and the EU in the last six months and in the last quarter too. This indicates very strong demand because prices are up despite the increased supply. Where is this demand coming from? Governments across the world are pouring money into infrastructure. Moreover, there is a $2-trillion investment committed till 2050 to renewable energy and infrastructure for decarbonisation. This is translating into a 3 per cent incremental capital expenditure as a percentage of GDP. Last time, the commodity boom was led by oil and gold, this time it is metal. So, we are pretty confident of steel demand in the world and in India. So I don’t see prices crashing, they may fluctuate. Where do you see India demand playing out in the next few quarters? We have given an estimate that India will consume 110mt steel this fiscal compared with 94mt last year. I have no doubt we will reach that number or even surpass it marginally. The second quarter, though sluggish, will be better than Q1, when we consumed 24.7mt compared with 30mt in Q4, (12mt in Q1 of last fiscal). We are seeing demand from yellow goods, appliances, solar, packaging and residential construction. Infrastructure will be back from Q3 too. Let’s turn to JSW Steel now. Mixed signals from Odisha. Some say JSW will give up two mines. Is that true? The state will also put up 10 mines for fresh bid. This is completely wrong. We are investing in a beneficiation plant, digitisation and buying equipment to operate on our own. In fact, JSW will also participate for more mines in the latest round of auction. There are 10 mines put up for bid, three of them are large. We will definitely participate in them. You are also bidding for NINL in Odisha? The government has shortlisted the bidder and opened the data room. It looks to be an interesting opportunity. Roadshow for Nagrnar (NMDC steel plant) is on too. These two we are examining. Your take on the Centre’s PLI scheme for high grade steel. Will JSW look at it? The Centre has offered 12 per cent incentive on grain oriented electrical steel, which is 100 per cent imported to India today. We have already announced JSW is exploring a JV with JFE of Japan in this segment. We are studying it. The maximum a company can get is Rs 200 crore a year. So, a company can maximum get Rs 1,000 crore in five years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||Business||Investing in cryptocurrencies? Know tax implications in India||The back-to-back lockdowns over the last one-and-a half years have made people realise the importance of having a passive income source. Indians tried many ways to generate good money in search of a good passive income source. Some started their own business from home and some started investing in IPOs and real estate. However, a lot of people choose to invest in cryptocurrencies. According to a report, a growth of over 10 million crypto investors has been reported in India in 2021. The hesitation and dissatisfaction with the cryptocurrency culture in India is declining at a steady pace. People are finding great opportunity to make good RoI with it. However, even after an enormous growth in the number of cryptocurrency traders and investors, people are worried about taxation on cryptocurrency in India. They are worried about its future here. In this article we are going to talk about the tax implications on cryptocurrency in India. Taxability issues The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has not yet granted bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency the status of legal tender in India. Hence, there are no clear rules or guidelines defining the taxability of cryptocurrencies, which calls for specific clarification from the income tax (I-T) department. However, it is not a good idea to skip paying taxes on profits from the sale of cryptocurrencies. All income except the explicitly exempted income is liable to income tax. This means that investors will be liable to pay taxes on cryptocurrency investments. Nature of investment In regular income tax parlance, the taxation on cryptocurrencies should depend on the nature of investment, whether it is held in the form of currency or in the form of assets. Profits from the sale of cryptocurrency can be taxed as business income if traded frequently, or as capital gains if held for investment purposes. However, it needs to be noted that, if considered as business income, the profit can be taxed according to the applicable slab rate. But if it is held for investment purpose, the taxation can be the same as tax gain in the form of capital gains. It also means that if taxpayers utilised their investments within three years, short-term capital gains according to the relevant tax slabs will be applicable. However, if the redemption happens after three years, it can be treated as long-term capital gains and taxed at 20 per cent with indexation. Meanwhile, some experts believe that profits from cryptocurrencies can be treated as income from other sources, whereas we can also consider profits from frequent trading as income from speculative business income. However, more details and discussions will be required to understand it better. What about mining? Cryptocurrency generated by mining is a self-generated capital asset and can be taxed as capital gains but Section 55 of I-T Act 1961,  which deals with the cost of acquisition and improvement, does not recognise it. However, according to some online sources, cryptocurrency mining can be considered as a taxable event. The fair market value or cost basis of the coin is the price at the time the miner mined it. It needs to be noted that you can avail a business deduction for the equipment and resources used in mining. The nature of those deductions varies depending on whether you mined the cryptocurrency for personal or business gain. If you are running a mining business, you can get deductions to cut your tax bill. But you cannot avail these deductions if you have mined cryptocurrencies for personal gain. Disclosure of income It is a well-known fact that taxpayers having income over Rs 50 lakh annually are required to disclose their assets and liabilities in the Schedule to Assets and Liabilities along with the cost of acquisition. As cryptocurrencies can also be considered as assets, taxpayers have to include cryptocurrencies in the above schedule. Additionally, taxpayers who are resident and ordinary residents also have to disclose foreign income and assets on their tax filing or tax returns. If we also consider the tax and penal consequences under the Act and the Black Money (Undisclosed Foreign Income and Assets) and Imposition of Tax Act, 2015, it may be a good step for taxpayers to disclose cryptocurrency holdings in the foreign assets or Income Schedule. In India, there are no official guidelines till now about the adoption of cryptocurrency and the tax imposition on it. Thus, we have to wait for government guidelines to know more details about the taxation on cryptocurrency. The writer is managing director, SAG Infotech||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-130
26-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra's employees turn witnesses in porn case, says ‘were asked to delete clips’||Businessman Raj Kundra’s four employees have turned witnesses in the case involving production and distribution of pornographic films and told police that they were asked to delete clips, sources said. According to the sources, the employees also confirmed that the clips were uploaded from ‘HotShots’, the businessman's controversial app that the police believe was used for streaming porn. Police said the app was removed from the Google Play Store for Android phones and Apple's App Store, so the accused "activated Plan B" and launched another app, Bollyfame. Raj Kundra, 45, was arrested on July 19 by Mumbai Police. A magistrate's court sent him to police custody till July 27. A day after his arrest, a lot of data was deleted from the records, said police. An employee of the Intelligence Bureau has been found to have links with another accused Yash Thakur, who is on the run, sources said. Sources also said that Yash Thakur befriended the IB official and then got him to work on starting the app to stream the clips. The official got the app registered in his wife's name, said police sources. He objected when Yash Thakur started uploading porn clips on the app against his earlier proposal that it will stream only award winning short films, the sources said. Raj Kundra has said the videos might be described as "lascivious" but do not show "explicit sexual acts". His wife Shilpa Shetty had told police that she was unaware of the exact nature of content on the mobile app via which Raj Kundra is accused of streaming pornographic content. She also underlined the difference between 'erotica' and 'pornography', and said her husband was not involved in producing pornographic content. Raj Kundra's lawyer, Abad Ponda, has objected to the content being classified as pornography, arguing that similar material is available on OTT platforms like Netflix. Maharashtra BJP leader Ashish Shelar has alleged that the state government is deliberately being slow in taking action in the case. Shelar has written to Amit Shah asking for a multi-ministerial task force in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
26-07-2021||India||Education ministry drafting bill for setting up higher education commission: Dharmendra Pradhan||The Ministry of Education is in the process of drafting a bill for establishment of the Higher Education Commission of India (HECI), the Lok Sabha was informed on Monday. The information was shared by Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan in the lower house. “The Ministry of Education has announced the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 on 29 July, 2020 after obtaining approval of Cabinet. The NEP envisions setting up of a Higher Education Commission of India as an umbrella body with four independent verticals to perform distinct functions of regulation, accreditation, funding, and academic standard setting,” he said in a written response to a question. “Accordingly, the ministry is in the process of drafting a Bill for establishment of the Higher Education Commission of India,” Pradhan added. The Higher Education Commission of India, envisages replacing autonomous bodies like the University Grants Commission (UGC), All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE). The National Education Policy 2020 recommended setting up of the HECI as a single overarching umbrella body for higher education, excluding medical and legal education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
26-07-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Demonstrators will seal roads leading to Lucknow after September 5, warns Tikait||All roads leading to Lucknow will be sealed by farmers after September 5, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait announced today, marking eight months of agitation over the Centre's three new farm laws. "Lucknow will become Delhi," Tikait announced at a press conference in the city, flanked by other leaders of the agitation like Yogendra Yadav, Shivkumar Kakka, and others The leaders also announced 'Mission UP and Uttarakhand', a strategy to take their agitation to all corners of the election-bound states. They are scheduled to go to polls in February-March 2022. However, this intensification of the protest will take place only after a farmer meeting or 'Kisan Mahapanchayat' scheduled on September 5 in western Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar. The event will be the biggest ever of its kind, the farmer leaders claimed. "We are launching Mission UP and Uttarakhand. It will make the movement more focused and intensive. There will involve big rallies and a Mahapanchayat and we will ensure that the protest against the BJP and the policies of the BJP government resonate at all steps, starting right from the village level," Yadav said. Farmers have been protesting at various border points of the national capital since November 26 against the laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. Farm leaders and representatives of the Central government have held several rounds of talks but the impasse remains. Earlier, on January 26, protesters broke barricades to enter New Delhi and clashed with police in several parts of Delhi following a tractor rally organised by the farmers. They also entered the Red Fort and unfurled their flags from its ramparts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||Over 44 crore vaccine doses administered in India so far: Health Ministry||The cumulative Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 44 crore, the Union health ministry said on Monday. In another significant achievement, Maharashtra on Monday became the first state to inoculate more than 1 crore people with both doses of Covid-19 vaccine, it said. The ministry said that 57,48,692 vaccine doses have been administered on Monday, according to the 7 pm provisional report. It said 7,20,900 vaccine doses were administered as first dose and 3,49,496 doses as second in the age group 18-44 years on Monday. Cumulatively, 14,19,55,995 persons in the age group 18-44 years across the country have received their first dose and 65,72,678 their second dose since the start of phase-3 of the vaccination drive. Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh have administered more than 1 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the age group 18-44 years. Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Telangana, Himachal Pradesh, Odisha, Punjab, Uttarakhand and West Bengal have vaccinated more than 10 lakh beneficiaries of the age group 18-44 years for the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||JEE-Advanced exams to be held on October 3 ||The Joint Entrance Examination (JEE)-Advanced will be conducted on October 3, Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan announced on Monday. The exam, earlier scheduled on July 3, was postponed in view of the COVID-19 situation. “JEE (Advanced) 2021 examination for admission in #IITs will be held on the 3rd October, 2021. The examination will be conducted adhering to all Covid-protocols,” Pradhan tweeted. This year, IIT-Kharagpur is conducting the exam, which is the qualifying test for admission to the prestigious Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs). While the JEE-Mains is conducted for admission to engineering colleges across the country, it is considered as a qualifying test for the JEE-Advanced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||UK High Court declares Vijay Mallya bankrupt||A British court on Monday granted a bankruptcy order against Vijay Mallya, paving the way for a consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) to pursue a worldwide freezing order to seek repayment of debt owed by the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines.  "As at 15.42 [UK time], I shall adjudicate Dr Mallya bankrupt," Chief Insolvencies and Companies Court (ICC) Judge Michael Briggs said in his ruling during a virtual hearing of the Chancery Division of the High Court.  "I have to decide if there is a real prospect of payment of petition debt in full within a reasonable period of time there is insufficient evidence that [Mallya's asset realisations in India] will pay the debt in full within a reasonable period of time, Judge Briggs noted, in reference to defence arguments pointing to a restoration process in India following a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court order for the attachment of Mallya's assets.  "In my judgment, the sums provided to date are conditional there is no evidence Dr Mallya will return to India to deal with the criminal trial and seek to unlock the allocation of realisations which have been made," the judge concluded.  The 65-year-old businessman, wanted in India on fraud and money laundering charges, remains on bail in the UK while a "confidential" legal matter, believed to be related to an asylum application, is resolved in connection with the unrelated extradition proceedings.  During the course of Monday's hearing, Judge Briggs asked Mallya's barrister, Philip Marshall, if there was any "indication" if his client intended to return to India to deal with the criminal proceedings and was told that there was no such indication.  The Indian banks, represented by the law firm TLT LLP and barrister Marcia Shekerdemian, had argued for the bankruptcy order to be granted in favour of the Indian banks who are owed over GBP 1 billion and pointed out that the long-drawn legal battle would complete its third birthday in September this year".  "The Petitioners [banks] say enough is enough. They have not been paid in full and no part of their debt is the subject of a serious dispute warranting the dismissal or further adjournment of the petition. A bankruptcy order should be made, with no further delay, the banks' legal team argued.  "The sum of GBP 1.05 billion remains due. Even if one were to treat his interest challenge as having any relevance (which it does not, whether as a matter of discretion or otherwise) a sum of close to GBP 0.5 billion is due Moreover, even if the assets received by the Petitioners provisionally were to be treated as payment towards the Debt (which they should not be), the sum of circa GBP 0.52 billion (INR 5,336.39 crores) would still remain due to the Petitioners. Even on that footing, therefore, the Petitioners are entitled to a bankruptcy order, they argued.  Once a bankruptcy order is made in the UK, there is an automatic vesting of all of the bankrupt's assets in a Trustee in Bankruptcy, whose role is to investigate their affairs and establish their true assets and liabilities, with a view to selling relevant assets and paying back the bankrupt's creditors. Under UK law, a bankrupt person must cooperate with the Trustee in Bankruptcy.  Such a person is prohibited from obtaining credit for more than GBP 500 without disclosing their bankrupt status, or acting as the director of a company without the court's permission.  A bankrupt person is also automatically discharged from their bankruptcy after one year unless an order is made suspending this discharge.  Immediately after the order was handed down on Monday, Mallya's barrister sought a stay followed by an adjournment of the order while legal challenges remain ongoing in the Indian courts. However, the requests were turned down by the judge, who also declined an application seeking permission to appeal against the bankruptcy order as he found there was no "real prospect of success" of such an appeal.  Mallya's counsel, who has indicated plans to pursue an appeal against the bankruptcy order in the higher appellate court, had argued that the Indian banks were pursuing the same debt against him both in India and the UK.  He said: "It is the Petitioners who have chosen to seek to ride two horses, by pursuing enforcement measures for themselves in India even as they seek to invoke a class insolvency remedy here.  "Any bankruptcy order, by contrast, would be self-evidently unjust and cause irreversible harm to Dr Mallya, notwithstanding the (at least) serious doubt which exists as to whether any further sum in fact remains unpaid or outside the Petitioner's power to realise."  The petitioners were made up of SBI-led consortium of 13 Indian banks, including Bank of Baroda, Corporation bank, Federal Bank Ltd, IDBI Bank, Indian Overseas Bank, Jammu & Kashmir Bank, Punjab & Sind Bank, Punjab National Bank, State Bank of Mysore, UCO Bank, United Bank of India and JM Financial Asset Reconstruction Co. Pvt Ltd.  The debt in question comprises principal and interest, plus compound interest at a rate of 11.5 per cent per annum from 25 June 2013. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||Special Court frames terror charges against PDP leader Waheed Parra||A special court has framed terror charges against Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra, a senior PDP leader and close aide of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, based on a police charge sheet claiming that he was an asset for Pakistan-based terror groups and that his 13-year journey as a journalist and politician from 2007 was a "saga of subterfuge, deceit and double-dealing". The court had heard arguments on the framing of charges from the defence and the prosecution earlier this month and it allowed framing of charges against Parra, who is alleged to have established a nexus with terrorists. He sought support from terrorists for political gains and reciprocated by providing a range of help which led to terror strikes. The eight-page order made available on Monday stated that "prima facie there is sufficient evidence against the accused for alleged commission of offences under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Indian Penal Code." The special NIA judge charged him with being a member of a terror group, raising funds for them as well as aiding an outfit. He was also charged under sections related to waging of war against the country, spreading disaffection against the government and criminal conspiracy. "I have gone through the police report as well as the statements of the witnesses of the prosecution and have applied my mind into the present facts and circumstances levelled in the police report...as well as statements of the witnesses and the digital evidence against the accused, there is sufficient evidence against the accused for alleged commission of offences...," the judge said in his order. With the help of five protected witnesses and technical intelligence, the Criminal Investigation Kashmir (CIK), a wing of the CID Department, submitted a charge sheet before the court alleging that Parra was hand in glove with terrorists to further the agenda of Pakistan-based terror groups and also to ensure that his political adversaries are neutralised. The 19-page charge sheet, with hundreds of pages of annexures, has given instances of his attempts to eliminate political opponents and to help his party leaders by paying terror groups to swing the electoral battle in his party's favour. His lawyer Shariq Reyaz has denied all these charges and said that he would contest the order against his client. The charge sheet has highlighted his links to Pakistan-trained Abu Dujana and Abu Qassim, who were killed in separate encounters with security forces, and went on to allege that he used to meet them personally as well as through Over Ground Workers (OGWs). The police tracked his journey from 2007 when he went to Pakistan and interviewed banned Hizbul Mujahideen's chief Syed Salahuddin and broadcast it on his local media channel which was being operated from Pulwama, his home district in south Kashmir. Parra joined the PDP in 2013 and "once ensconced in the safety of a recognised political party..., the accused systematically went about strengthening himself by craftily deepening his roots on two sides of the divide -- India and Pakistan". "...Parra had the permission of the Pakistani establishment to keep throwing crumbs at India, allowing them petty tactical gains and systematically pushing the overall situation, slowly but surely, in favour of Pakistan in a strategic sense. What played out over 13 years (2007-2020) was a saga of subterfuges, deceit and double meaning," the charge sheet alleged. The CIK, which is mandated to probe cases under the UAPA and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), took sanction for Parra's prosecution from the Jammu and Kashmir Home Department under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The CIK had filed a case last year against unknown politicians and others based on "reliable and confidential sources" who said some political functionaries were misusing their power and helping militants. In March this year, Parra was charge-sheeted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and it was alleged that the PDP youth leader had paid Rs 5 crore to the son-in-law of hardline Hurriyat Conference leader Syed Ali Shah Geelani for keeping Kashmir in turmoil after the death of Burhan Wani, a commander of the Hizbul Mujahideen terrorist group, in 2016. The NIA accused Parra, who was arrested last November, of being involved with banned terrorist groups such as the Hizbul Mujahideen and the Lashkar-e-Taiba. The NIA alleged that after the death of Wani, who was killed in an encounter with the Army in July 2016, Parra got in touch with Altaf Ahmad Shah, alias Altaf Fantoosh, and asked him to ensure that the valley was kept on the boil with widespread unrest and stone-pelting. In January this year Parra was granted bail by the NIA court, which said there was no reference to him in the original as well as the supplementary charge sheets presented in July and October last year respectively. However, he was arrested by the CIK Wing in the case related to nexus between mainstream politicians and secessionists, and he continues to be in jail since then. His bail was rejected by the NIA court in Srinagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||Registration begins for Delhi University PG courses||The Delhi University on Monday commenced the registration process for 20,000 seats for postgraduate courses and more than 4,500 aspirants visited its admission portal within the first 15 minutes, a senior university official said. The registration process for MPhil and PhD also began on Monday. The last date for registration of the programmes is August 21. "Within 15 minutes, more than 4,500 visitors logged in to the admission portal. More than 500 queries were received within a few minutes," said Rajeev Gupta, chairperson, admissions. The registration process for undergraduate programmes for which Delhi University Entrance Test (DUET) will be conducted also began. The DUET-2021 for all PG programmes, selected undergraduate programmes and M.Phil and Ph.D courses will be conducted by the National Testing Agency (NTA) for which the dates will be announced soon. The university will also organise Virtual Open Days for the benefit of all prospective candidates from July 27 to July 30. "These Virtual Open Days have been planned to assist the prospective candidates about the registration process and the admission process. Applicants will have the option to interact with the panelists. The webinar will also be telecasted live on DU's official Facebook and YouTube channels," the university said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team confined to Agartala hotel for questioning by local police||A team of Prashant Kishore's Indian Political Action Committee (I-PAC) which has been camping in a hotel in Agartala since last week to assess the political situation and potential support base for Trinamool Congress (TMC) is being questioned by the local police. While Tripura unit of TMC described it as an attack on democracy and said they were confined to their hotel by the police, Manik Das, Superintendent of Police, West Tripura, claimed members of the 22-member I-Pac team are being questioned in a Agartala city-based hotel, as part of a routine check-up. The outsiders-- around 22 persons were roaming around in various places. Since Covid restrictions are in place, we are enquiring to verify the reasons behind their arrival and stay in the city. They all underwent Covid tests on Monday, the reports are awaited, Das told reporters. President of the Tripura unit of Trinamool Congress, Ashish Lal Singha however termed it as an attack on democracy. “It's an attack on democracy. Being a resident of Tripura, I am shocked. It's not Tripura's culture. BJP has panicked following the overwhelming response and support to TMC due to the misrule of the BJP led government in Tripura. The I-PAC team has been under detention since Sunday night in a hotel. However, the police are saying it's a part of routine check-up,” said Singh. He said the I-PAC team, comprising 23 members, had reached the state a week ago and also visited several places to conduct a survey at ground zero'. They had discussions not only with Trinamool Congress but also with the other parties and the team is assessing the political situation and the prospect of TMC in the next assembly election in 2023, he said. The district police chief, however, denied the allegation levelled by Singh that the I-PAC team was under detention and said it was a routine process'. When contacted, officer-in-charge of East Agartala police station Saroj Bhattacharjee said, “They were not detained. We are now verifying their documents.” They are all in the hotel. Meanwhile, according to sources, the incident has been reported to TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and professional political campaigner I-PAC chief Prashant Kishor. When contacted, President of BJP in the state Manik Saha said he is not aware of anything about this.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||BJP parliamentary board and legislators to decide next Karnataka CM ||BJP national general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh on Monday declined to comment on the next chief minister after the resignation of B S Yediyurappa, saying the decision is left to the party's parliamentary board and BJP legislature party. "I will not say now.The parliamentary board of the BJP will decide the next chief minister and in the legislature party meeting," Singh told reporters in New Delhi. When asked when the meeting was likely, he said he cannot say anything at this juncture. To a question on the reason behind Yediyurappa's resignation as Chief Minister, Singh said he himself has explained it. Regarding his next Bengaluru visit, he said he would let people know later. Yediyurappa on Monday resigned as Chief Minister and thanked the BJP leadership for giving him an opportunity to serve as CM for two years despite completing 75 years of age.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||Tamil Nadu gears up to cope with Covid third wave||The Tamil Nadu government has planned to vaccinate the most vulnerable sections soon and also train medical professionals to cope with the possible third wave of coronavirus, state Health Secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan said on Monday. Also, localised infections would be closely monitored and all out efforts would be made to ensure the pandemic is under check, he said. "Doctors and nurses would be trained to cope with the possible third wave and already the infrastructure at all the paediatric wards in the government hospitals across the state have been upgraded," Radhakrishnan said. The third wave is likely to affect children more. The government's efforts are oriented towards averting any new infections, he added. "We have to be mentally prepared to face it. And appropriate steps were already taken to improve the beds and oxygen supplies," he said referring to the nearly 80,000 beds created across Tamil Nadu. Oxygen cylinders and concentrators have also been readied. But a disheartening factor is the behaviour of some of the people, he lamented. "Despite the state government's best efforts in enforcement and monitoring to bring the pandemic under control, an element of casualness which is creeping among the people could cause a spurt in cases," Radhakrishnan said and appealed to the people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour. "Some people are still not wearing face masks or following social distancing. The absence of masks and non-conformity to social distancing norms are causing concern," he said and warned that this could affect the efforts in bringing down the coronavirus cases. On Sunday, Tamil Nadu reported 1808 cases with its overall tally going to 25,48,497. The active cases stand at 23,364. Regarding inoculation, the senior official said the government has planned to cover the most vulnerable sections soon, subject to availability of vaccines. "The emergence of Covid variant is not in our control. So, we have to be mentally prepared to face any eventuality," Radhakrishnan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||National Commission for Women all set to launch 24-hour helpline ||The National Commission for Women will be starting a 24-hour helpline to provide immediate assistance to women facing domestic violence and sexual harassment. The new helpline, scheduled to be launched on Tuesday, aims to facilitate an integrated range of services for women affected with violence under one roof such as help from police, psycho-social counselling and access to One Stop Centres, among other services, the NCW said in a statement. The helpline has been developed in collaboration with Digital India Corporation, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. The objective of the helpline is to provide immediate assistance to women affected by violence by linking them with appropriate authorities such as police, hospitals, District Legal Service Authority, psychological services and providing information about women-related government programmes across the country. The helpline will function with a team of trained experts. Any girl or woman aged 18 years and above can seek help by calling on this helpline which will be operated from the premises of the National Commission for Women in New Delhi, the NCW said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-392
26-07-2021||India||Bill to set up Higher Education Commission of India is being drafted: Education Minister||The Ministry of Education is in the process of drafting a bill for establishment of the Higher Education Commission of India (HECI), the Lok Sabha was informed on Monday. The information was shared by Union Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan in the lower house. "The Ministry of Education has announced the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 on 29 July, 2020 after obtaining approval of Cabinet. The NEP envisions setting up of a Higher Education Commission of India as an umbrella body with four independent verticals to perform distinct functions of regulation, accreditation, funding, and academic standard setting," he said in a written response to a question. "Accordingly, the Ministry is in the process of drafting a Bill for establishment of the Higher Education Commission of India," Pradhan added. The Higher Education Commission of India, envisages replacing autonomous bodies like the University Grants Commission (UGC), All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE). The National Education Policy 2020 recommended setting up of the HECI as a single overarching umbrella body for higher education, excluding medical and legal education.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Hisar duo dupe Amazon of lakhs, gets arrested by UP police||The Uttar Pradesh police have arrested two Haryana-based men who allegedly duped e-commerce giant Amazon of lakhs of rupees, officials said on Monday. The accused, both natives of Hisar district in Haryana, were arrested by officials of the Cyber Crime police station in Noida who were investigating the case, they said. The accused have been identified as Anil alias Alok Singh (27), a B.Sc graduate, and Sachin Jain (30), a Class 12 pass, the UP police said in a statement. “The duo had created at least 99 accounts on Amazon website using forged identification. They had linked several bank accounts of various banks to these Amazon accounts which were used by them to order electronic products. It would either be prepaid or cash on delivery (COD) orders,” the statement read. “However, after receiving the goods, they would sell them off at cheap prices in Delhi's Gaffar Market and then contact Amazon, saying they wanted to return the products as they were 'defective',” it added. According to its policy, the company would send their delivery partner to pick up the defective product and refund the money, the police said. “But the duo would collude with the delivery agents who fraudulently marked these orders as 'picked up' on the data base and get them a refund in the bank accounts linked with their Amazon accounts,” the police said. After the arrest, the UP police has frozen the multiple bank accounts linked to the 99 Amazon accounts of the duo, according to the statement. These frozen bank accounts had Rs 26 lakh in them, the police said, adding further investigation in the case in which the FIR is lodged at Noida's Sector 36 Cyber police station is underway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Tharoor demands probe monitored by SC judge on Pegasus scandal||Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Monday demanded a Supreme Court judge-monitored probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations and indicated that opposition parties would continue to disrupt Parliament's proceedings until the government agrees to a debate on it. He alleged that it appears that the government used public money for snooping for its "selfish political interests". Last week, an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including those of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for snooping through the Pegasus spyware of the Israeli firm NSO Group, which only sells the hacking software to "vetted" governments and government agencies. The government has been denying all opposition allegations in the matter. Speaking to reporters in the Parliament complex after the Lok Sabha was adjourned, Tharoor said, "We want the government to agree to a debate on the issue, but it is not ready. What we are saying is that if you (government) do not agree to this and answer our questions, then why we should allow you to transact your business." He said other issues like price rise and contentious farm laws are also important for the opposition but the Pegasus row is a priority. Both Houses of Parliament have transacted little business since the Monsoon session began on July 19 as opposition parties have forced adjournments with their protests over a number of issues with the Pegasus row being the main one. Tharoor also made light of IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw's statement on the issue in both Houses, saying he just shared his "Mann Ki Baat" without listening to the opposition. Vaishnaw had termed the snooping stories a bid to malign India, claiming that there is "no substance" to this sensationalism. The parliamentary panel on information technology led by Tharoor is likely to question top government officials, including from the home ministry, later this week on Pegasus snooping allegations, according to sources. The 32-member Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology is scheduled to meet on July 28. The agenda of the meeting is "Citizens data security and privacy", according to a notification issued by Lok Sabha Secretariat.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa another victim of Modi alleges Congress||The Congress on Monday took a swipe at Prime Minister Narendra Modi over B S Yediyurappa's resignation as Karnataka chief minister, and said he is yet another "victim" of the PM who has a record of allegedly forcing retirements of senior BJP leaders. Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala charged that it is Delhi's autocracy that decides chief ministers and not the will of BJP's MLA's. He also alleged that the BJP government in Karnataka is an "illegitimate" one as it is born out of "defection and corruption". The Congress has been alleging that the BJP used the Pegasus spyware to oust the Congress-JDS government in the state. "The ignominy, torment and insult being heaped upon Sh. B.S.Yediyurappa by Modi ji, dictating him to tender his resignation, makes him PM's latest victim and member of the 'forced retirement club'," Surjewala charged on Twitter. "We now know that Delhi's autocracy decides CM's and not the will of BJP's MLAs," he further charged. "The stark reality is that Modiji habitually insults and compulsorily throws senior BJP Leaders in dustbin of history," the Congress leader alleged. Yediyurappa has, however, claimed that there is no pressure on him from the party leadership to resign and he has tendered his resignation of his own. "Modiji's record is replete with painful and forcible retirements of Advaniji, M.M.Joshiji, Keshubhai Patelji, Shanta Kumarji, Yashwant Sinhaji and many others. The list of Modiji's victims in BJP doesn't end here," Surjewala said. He also cited the names of Sumitra Mahajan, Sushma Swaraj, Uma Bharti, C.P.Thakur, A.K.Patel, Haren Pandya, Harin Pathak, Kalyan Singh as those leaders who have been retired by the top brass of the BJP. He said the latest "victims" are Harsh Vardhan, Ravi Shankar Prasad and Sushil Modi. Congress leader Mallikarujun Kharge, however, termed the resignation of Yediyurappa as an internal matter of the BJP. Taking on the BJP over the Pegasus spying issue, Surjewala said, "Malady is with BJP's corrupt Government and appalling maladministration in Karnataka, for it is an illegitimate Government born out of defection and corruption." "Will merely changing the face change the diabolical character of BJP Government synonymous with mal governance and decay," he said. Yediyurappa announced his resignation as chief minister in the Karnataka Vidhan Souda on Monday afternoon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Tejashwi lashes out at Bihar govt on day 1 of monsoon assembly session||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Monday alleged that the honour of elected representatives in Bihar was under attack from a high-handed bureaucracy that has been given a "free run" by the Nitish Kumar government. He made remarks to the effect while talking to reporters outside the assembly premises on the inaugural day of the monsoon session, soon after chairing a meeting of all legislators of the five-party Grand Alliance helmed by the RJD. “It is shameful that on a date remembered for the martyrdom of Bhagat Singh, honourable members of the House were hit by boots of police personnel who also physically dragged female legislators,” the leader of the opposition said. Yadav was referring to the infamous incident of March 23 when opposition MLAs had held Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha hostage inside his chamber in protest against a bill that aimed to give more teeth to the Special Armed Police though it was seen as "draconian" by the Grand Alliance. As marshals seemed overwhelmed by the enormity of restoring order, police was called and the unruly legislators were physically evicted before proceedings resumed and the bill was passed with the opposition in absentia. Yadav, who was flanked by other leaders of the Grand Alliance which also includes the Congress, the CPI, the CPI(M) and the CPI(ML), lamented that a motion he moved earlier in the day with regard to the incident that took place during the budget session was turned down.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa tenders resignation to the Governor, says it has been accepted||After months of speculation about over his exit, B S Yediyurappa on Monday stepped down as the Chief Minister of Karnataka, coinciding with his government completing two years in office. He termed these two years as "trial by fire", pointing out that he had to run the administration without cabinet in the initial days, followed by devastating floods and the challenge of Covid-19 management, among other issues. The 78-year-old BJP veteran who submitted his resignation to Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot at the Raj Bhavan here, said he quit "voluntarily". "I had decided to resign two months ago, as we complete two years of our government today. I thought it was apt to resign now and have submitted the resignation to the Governor, and he has accepted it," Yediyurappa told reporters emerging from the Raj Bhavan. An official notification from the Governor's office said Gehlot has accepted Yediyurappa's resignation and has dissolved the Council of Ministers headed by him with immediate effect. Thanking the party leaders and the people for giving him an opportunity to serve the state, he said, he had no "pressure" from the party's central leadership in Delhi, and has quit on his own "voluntarily", to make way for others to serve as the Chief Minister. "I will not make any proposal on who should be the next Chief Minister, it is left for the high command to decide. Whomever they choose, I will cooperate and work with...I don't want to take any names," he said in response to a question. Monday's developments now shift the focus to the BJP veteran's successor who could lead the party-led government for its remainder of term till 2023. Among the names that have been doing the rounds as the probable successor to Yediyurappa are that of Union Minister Pralhad Joshi, BJP national General Secretary C T Ravi, its national organising secretary B L Santhosh and state Assembly Speaker Vishveshwar Hegde Kageri. The names of Home Minister Basavaraj S Bommai, Revenue Minister R Ashoka and Deputy CM C N Ashwath Narayan have also been doing the rounds. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, who has earlier served as the Chief Minister--is also seen as a contender. Mining Minister Murugesh Nirani and MLA Arvind Bellad also seem to be in contention. Meanwhile, the Governor's office said Yediyurappa shall continue to function as Chief Minister till alternate arrangements are made. Considered the architect of the first ever BJP government to the south of Vindhyas, Yediyurappa had headed the state four times. Asserting that he will hundred per cent continue in politics and work for bringing BJP back to power from tomorrow itself, the Lingayat strong man said, "...there is no question of political retirement for any reason, I'm with the karyakartas and the people." "Party has nurtured me to this height, most probably no other politician in the country has got the privileges that I have got." Responding to a question whether he will accept, if there is an offer to make him the Governor, he said, "Atal Bihari Vajpayee had offered me to become the central Minister, when he was the PM, I had said no. There is no question of becoming Governor. I will work to strengthen the organisation in Karnataka. I have not asked for any position, nor will accept it." Yediyurappa who has played an instrumental role in building the BJP in Karnataka, had served as its state President, Member of Parliament, MLA and Deputy Chief Minister. Earlier in the day, speaking at an event organised to mark his government's two years in office at Vidhana Soudha, the seat of state legislature and secretariat here, Yediyurappa had announced his decision to step down, as his voice choked and he turned emotional. "Not out of grief, but with happiness," he said, as he thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National President JP Nadda for giving him an opportunity to serve as Chief Minister for two years, despite completing 75 years of age. There is an unwritten rule in the BJP of keeping out those above 75 years from elected offices. During the speech, Yediyurappa termed his tenure for two years as "trial by fire", recalling that he had to run the administration without cabinet in the initial days, followed by devastating floods and the COVID-19 management, among other issues. Thanking the people of Shikaripura constituency for electing him to assembly for seven terms, Yediyurappa while speaking to mediapersons later said, no one in BJP was given the opportunity to hold any position after 75 years, but that he was allowed to become CM, despite crossing that age bar. "... Am humbled and sincerely thank the people of the state for giving me the opportunity to serve them," he tweeted. Asked about the future of those who had defected from Congress-JD(S) and are now Ministers, as they had helped BJP to come to power, he said, "all are together with us." "I am confident that the next chief minister will also cooperate with those who helped in forming this government. All will work together."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Finally, Yediyurappa says he will step down as Karnataka CM ||B S Yediyurappa on Monday announced his resignation as the Chief Minister of Karnataka, as his government completes two years in office. The 78-year old, BJP veteran said he will submit his resignation to the Governor post lunch. "Don't take me otherwise, with your permission... I have decided that after lunch I will go to the Raj Bhavan and submit my resignation as the Chief Minister to the Governor," Yediyurappa said with a choked voice, as he turned emotional. "Not out of grief, but with happiness," he said, as he thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah and BJP National President J P Nadda for giving him an opportunity to serve as Chief Minister for two years, despite completing 75 years. There is an unwritten rule in the BJP of keeping out those above 75 years from elected offices. The Chief Minister also said that he will work to strengthen the party and bring it back to power, as per the expectations of the central leaders. Yediyurappa was speaking at an event organised to mark his government's two years in office at Vidhana Soudha, the seat of state legislature and secretariat here. During the speech, Yediyurappa termed his tenure for two years as "trial by fire", recalling that he had to run the administration without cabinet in the initial days, followed by devastating floods and coronavirus among other issues. The chief minister yesterday said he was expecting a “message” from the party leadership. “I will let you know if the message comes by this evening,” he had told reporters in Belgaum while touring the flood-ravaged areas. Hours later Nadda had told reporters in Goa: “He (Yediyurappa) has done good work. The Karnataka government is running properly and Yediyurappa is handling everything in his own way.” Asked about the much-speculated change of leadership in the state, Nadda shot back: “That is what you feel; we don’t feel so.” On his way back to Bangalore, Yediyurappa was asked again whether the party leadership had conveyed a decision and whether he might resign on Monday. “I don’t know anything yet,” he said. Told that his supporters were anxious about his likely removal, Yediyurappa said: “I will abide by the party’s decision. No one should create any issues.” Soon after reaching Bangalore, Yediyurappa said he had received “no information so far” from the party leadership. “I hope I’ll get the message tonight or by tomorrow morning,” he said, adding he would “take a call tomorrow” if the party doesn’t say anything. He sidestepped a question on Nadda’s statement. “Nadda is our party leader and it’s my duty to work as he says,” he said. Yediyurappa had on Wednesday dropped the first clear hint that he might resign and switch to party work. He had then said he was expecting a “message” from the party leadership on Sunday and would take a decision based on that on Monday after attending a meeting of party lawmakers to mark the second anniversary of his current tenure. His statement was followed by a flood of visitors, including more than a hundred pontiffs from Lingayat mutts, to his home. The seers were among those who wanted the BJP to allow Yediyurappa to stay in office until the 2023 state elections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi drives tractor to Parliament to protest farm law||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday drove a tractor to Parliament along with other party MPs and demanded that the three contentious farm laws be repealed. Gandhi along with party MPs Pratap Singh Bajwa, Ravneet Singh Bittu and Deepinder Singh Hooda also carried banners and raised slogans. "These laws are aimed at helping only two-three industrialists. The entire country knows for who whom these laws have been brought. These laws are not for the benefit of farmers and that is why they have to be withdrawn," Gandhi told reporters. Congress leaders Randeep Surjewala and Youth Congress chief BV Srinivas along with a number of party leaders were detained by the Delhi Police outside Parliament and taken to Mandir marg police station. The detained Congress leaders raised slogans demanding the withdrawal of farm laws. "We will not be cowed down by such actions. This struggle will continue under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi and we will not allow the Modi government to hand over the rights of 62 crore farmers to three-four industrialists," Surjewala told reporters after he was detained. The tractor ride to Parliament was aimed at highlighting the cause of farmers and extend their support to them, party leaders said. The BJP has, however, termed the move as "theatrics".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Rahul warns govt against ignoring China's actions||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday alleged that the government is clueless on how to handle China, and said ignoring its actions now will cause problems later. He cited a media report which claimed that in Demchok in Eastern Ladakh, China's tents are still on the Indian side and there is no date yet for talks between core commanders of the two countries. "GOI is clueless on how to handle China. Ignoring their actions now will cause huge problems in the future," Gandhi said on Twitter. India and China are involved in a stand-off in Eastern Ladakh since May last year and two countries have been holding talks for de-escalation and disengagement. Congress general secretary and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala also took a swipe at the prime minister over the matter. "Show red eyes, Saheb, blow your 56" saheb," he said in a tweet in Hindi using the hashtag #RemoveChinaFromOurLand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||India logs over 39,000 fresh Covid cases, 416 casualties in a day||With 39,361 people testing positive for coronavirus infection in a day, India's total tally of COVID-19 cases rose to 3,14,11,262, while the daily positivity was recorded above three per cent after 35 days, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The COVID-19 death toll climbed to 4,20,967 with 416 fresh fatalities. The active cases have increased to 4,11,189 and comprise 1.31 per cent of the total infections. The national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.35 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. An increase of 2,977 cases has been recorded in the active COVID-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. As many as 11,54,444 tests were conducted on Sunday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of COVID-19 in the country to 45,74,44,011. The daily positivity rate has increased to 3.41 per cent and the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.31 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,05, 79,106 while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 43.51 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.India crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. The 416 new fatalities include 123 from Maharashtra, 67 from Odisha and 66 from Kerala. A total of 4,20,967 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,31,552 from Maharashtra, 36,374 from Karnataka, 33,911 from Tamil Nadu, 25,043 from Delhi, 22,750 from Uttar Pradesh and 18,073 from West Bengal. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-393
26-07-2021||India||Vijay Diwas: PM pays tribute to soldiers, President's Drass visit cancelled||President Ram Nath Kovind could not visit Drass on Monday for paying homage to Kargil martyrs on the 22nd anniversary of Vijay Diwas due to bad weather, officials said here. The President instead visited the Baramulla War memorial in north Kashmir where he laid a wreath to pay homage to the martyrs, the officials said. In 1999, the Indian armed forces defeated attempts by Pakistan to capture strategic heights in Kargil. It was named 'Operation Vijay' (victory). Kovind is also likely to visit the High Altitude Warfare School at Gulmarg after the Baramulla visit, they said.  Paying tributes to the soldiers who made the supreme sacrifice in the Kargil war, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said their bravery motivates us every single day . On the 21st anniversary of the Kargil Vijay Diwas, Modi said the country remembers the sacrifice and valour of its soldiers. He tweeted, "We remember their sacrifices. We remember their valour. Today, on Kargil Vijay Diwas we pay homage to all those who lost their lives in Kargil protecting our nation. Their bravery motivates us every single day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Moderate rain likely in Delhi today, says IMD||The national capital woke up to a cloudy sky on Monday morning as the minimum temperature settled at 28.3 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department said. The city is expected to receive moderate rain during the day, while the maximum temperature may settle around 34 degrees Celsius, it said. The relative humidity was recorded at 77 per cent at 8.30 am. The city had experienced sultry weather on Sunday with some parts getting light rain. The maximum and minimum temperatures had settled at 37.3 and 27.6 degrees Celsius, respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Pegasus: CPM Rajya Sabha MP seeks court-monitored investigation||A Rajya Sabha MP has petitioned the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored special investigation team probe into the Pegasus controversy, listing the unfathomable threat to every walk of life if surveillance did take place. John Brittas, the CPM Rajya Sabha member from Kerala and a journalist with wide reporting experience, has contended that the alleged surveillance on the government’s critics and opponents with the help of the Israeli spyware would, if not dealt with seriously, have a “chilling effect” on citizens’ rights to free speech and privacy. This is the second petition moved in the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored SIT investigation into the controversy, the first having been filed by an advocate, Manohar Lal Sharma. Both petitions are expected to come up for hearing this week. Brittas’s petition says that WhatsApp and Facebook have successfully sued the Israeli company that owns the Pegasus spyware in a Californian court for “its notorious interception/ cyber-attack in the past”. It adds that while questions have been asked in Parliament on the alleged phone-tapping of Indian rights activists, journalists, politicians and constitutional authorities, the government has neither denied nor admitted the charge. Brittas has submitted that Union IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw’s statement in the Rajya Sabha had failed to categorically deny the allegations and merely said that “the time-tested processes in our country are well-established to ensure that unauthorised surveillance does not occur”. “This statement is as empty as making a hope that there will not be any crimes in India as Indian Penal Code is there,” the petition, filed through advocate Resmitha R. Chandran, says. Among the points the petition raises are: ⚫ If the government sticks to the then IT minister’s statement in Parliament on November 28, 2019, that there had been “no unauthorised interception”, the latest surveillance — if it happened — can only be considered authorised interception. So, the government needs to explain the reasons for the alleged snooping. ⚫If Pegasus was used in an unauthorised manner, it violated the fundamental rights to free speech and life and liberty and was a “slap on the face of the right to privacy”, upheld by a nine-judge constitution bench in 2017. It would also have violated provisions of the Information Technology Act and the Indian Telegraph Act, for which strict punishment must be awarded after an immediate, independent and transparent investigation. ⚫ If the alleged surveillance targeted judges and Supreme Court staff, as claimed, it would amount to unprecedented interference in the administration of justice. ⚫ If a former Election Commission member’s phone was tapped, it would mean the fundamentals of democracy and free elections too have been shaken. ⚫ If the phone numbers of Opposition members were snooped on, it would have “a chilling effect” on dissent against the government and weaken democracy. ⚫ If senior CBI officials were spied on, it would suggest either that the government does not trust its own investigating officers or that some external agencies were accessing highly confidential data belonging to India’s topmost investigating agency. This would be a threat to the independence of the central investigating agencies and to the unity and integrity of India. ⚫ If a well-known Indian virologist’s phone was tapped, it would be an alarming development amid a pandemic “with respect to the safety and security” of Indians. ⚫ The controversy raises fears about India’s financial interests being compromised as the purported list of potential targets includes the phone numbers of businessmen associated with the Rafale deal. ⚫ The alleged snooping must have been carried out either by the Indian government or by a foreign agency. If it was done by the government, it was unauthorised. Spending public money for the ruling party’s political interests cannot be allowed. If a foreign agency did the spying, it’s an act of external aggression that must be dealt with seriously. ⚫ If rights activists and journalists were snooped on, it would mean the government has no regard for citizens’ fundamental rights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Shiv Sena compares 'Pegasus attack' to Hiroshima bombing||The Shiv Sena on Sunday compared the “Pegasus attack” to the Hiroshima bombing, saying “freedom is dead now” and alleging a pervasive “fear of snooping” in the country. Sena spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said a smart phone now resembled a “bomb planted in the hand”, that the Narendra Modi government was peeping into “bedrooms” and that “we are being pushed towards slavery”. The Congress wondered why the Centre had not yet answered the simple question whether any government agency in India had used the Israeli spyware. “The nuclear bombs dropped on Hiroshima were no different from the Pegasus attack. People died then, freedom is dead now,” Raut wrote in Sena mouthpiece Saamana. He said the fear spawned by the surveillance on judges, journalists, rights activists, businessmen and politicians was not healthy for freedom or national security. He recalled that a leading businessman he had met recently was carrying a basic phone as it was safer. “Hundreds of crores are being spent. Reports suggest Rs 60 crore is required for (renewing the) licence every year to use Pegasus. Who is bearing the cost?” Raut wrote. “Former telecom minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said 45 countries were using Pegasus and asked why India should be singled out. He confirmed the use of Pegasus. Who (else) in India has the wherewithal to use such a spyware?” P. Chidambaram, former Union minister for home and finance, too said the government needed to answer which agency was using Pegasus. The Congress leader asserted that Prime Minister Modi should himself make a statement in Parliament. In an interview to PTI, Chidambaram said: “If the Pegasus spyware was used, who acquired it? Was it acquired by the government or by one of its agencies?” He added: “Was it a rogue agency in India doing it without the knowledge of the government or was it a foreign agency hacking into Indian telephones without the knowledge of the government? Either way, it is a more serious matter than the government conducting the surveillance.” Chidambaram said a probe by a joint parliamentary committee or one monitored by the Supreme Court was a must. He emphasised that none of the ministers had yet denied the use of the Pegasus spyware — they had only made “clever” statements to try and wriggle out of the situation. “Communications minister Ashwini Vaishnaw is obviously a very clever minister and therefore the statement has been very cleverly worded,” Chidambaram said. “He denies that there was any unauthorised surveillance. He does not deny that there was surveillance. He does not deny that there was authorised surveillance.” Rahul Gandhi, who has used the controversy to accuse the Prime Minister and home minister Amit Shah of treason, tweeted: “Pegasus: benefits for friends and surveillance of opponents. Aam ke aam, guthliyon ke daam (Two at the price of one).” Raut, who wondered why the government was averse to any investigation, wrote: “How dirty has politics become. We have to face it daily. More so in Delhi. The Modi government has intruded into people’s bedrooms. “Why have mostly those people been targeted who are not blind bhakts of Modi? Those people who are not ready to accept the government’s slavery have been targeted. “The fear of snooping has affected everybody — politicians, activists, journalists, businessmen. The judiciary and the media are working under pressure. The open atmosphere in the national capital has ended over the last few years. A phone is like a bomb planted in the hand. Information about your daily routine is collected.” The Congress too ran a campaign on social media on the attack on individual freedom. It posted screenshots of Google searches, arguing people were concerned only about negative issues like surveillance and a vaccine shortage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Covid: Study puts virus deaths at six times the Centre’s official count||India’s Covid-19 deaths may be six times the Union health ministry’s official count or even higher, researchers said on Sunday after analysing the central government’s own civil registration and health information datasets. Their study, based on three independent data sources, has estimated 2.7 million to 3.4 million deaths through the country’s two waves until July 2021. Even the lower estimate is about 6.4 times the 421,000 deaths officially recorded until Sunday. “We used three distinct datasets reaching similar conclusions,” Prabhat Jha, professor and epidemiologist at the Centre for Global Health Research, University of Toronto, Canada, who led the study, told The Telegraph. The findings place India’s Covid-19 death rate at about 2,000 per million population, close to the range reported in Latin America, according to the study by Jha and his colleagues that has been posted on MedRxiv, an online preprint server, but not been peer reviewed yet. India’s health ministry has for months used official death counts to suggest that India’s Covid-19 death rate is among the lowest measured per million population — currently about 309 per million. The new study is the latest among independent research efforts that have used different methodologies to estimate the excess deaths (compared with corresponding periods in previous years after correcting for population rise) or Covid-19 deaths in India, all indicating that the country has vastly undercounted its deaths. The health ministry has described these efforts at extrapolating the excess Covid-19 deaths in India as “audacious” and said the country has a “robust system of recording Covid-19 deaths”. The ministry has added that it has always asked the states to conduct death audits and record any missed deaths. Many public health experts in India have argued since April that the crowds at the crematoriums and funeral sites in multiple cities, and the bodies dumped in rivers, reflected a large volume of excess deaths that were difficult to manage through the available crematorium or funeral infrastructure. Jha and his collaborators used the Centre’s Civil Registration System (CRS) that records births and deaths, using data from eight states and seven cities, and the health ministry’s Health Management Information System (HMIS) that contains mortality data from around 200,000 health facilities across India. They compared the data from the CRS and the HMIS for 2020 and 2021 with the death data between 2015 and 2019 to estimate the “excess mortality”, which would most likely have occurred because of Covid-19 during 2020 and 2021. Across the two waves, the median excess mortality during 2020 and 2021 compared with earlier years, going by CRS data, was 32 per cent for the states and 37 per cent for the cities. The HMIS data suggested 27 per cent excess mortality from July 2020 to May 2021, with 120 per cent excess mortality during April-May 2021. The researchers also collaborated with India’s Centre for Voting Opinion and Trends in Election Research, or C-Voter, which questioned over 137,000 randomly selected households across India about Covid-19 deaths among their members. The national survey by C-Voter found about 3.5 per cent adults reporting a Covid-19 death in their household during April-June 2021 and estimated 29 per cent to 32 per cent excess deaths between June 2020 and June 2021. These proportions of excess deaths are consistent with the 32 per cent excess deaths from the CRS estimates and 27 per cent excess deaths from the health facilities covered by the HMIS, the researchers said. The health ministry has said that excess mortality is a term used to describe an all-cause mortality figure, and that attributing these deaths to Covid-19 is “completely misleading”. But many health experts say the spikes in deaths during the Covid-19 pandemic are likely to be caused by Covid-19. Any changes in the death figures from causes apart from Covid-19 “are likely small compared to the sharp increases in Covid-19 deaths”, particularly during the second viral wave, Jha and his colleagues said in their study. Earlier this year, Bhramar Mukherjee, a senior biostatistician at the University of Michigan, and her colleagues had estimated that around 1.2 million people had died of Covid-19 in India up to May 15 this year when the official count was about 270,000. Last week, Arvind Subramanian, former chief economic adviser to the Indian government who is currently at Brown University in the US, and his colleagues had used different methodologies for three estimates of India’s excess deaths — 3.4 million, 4 million and 4.9 million. The health ministry has said the extrapolation of deaths “has been done on an audacious assumption that the likelihood of any given infected person dying is the same across countries, dismissing the interplay of direct and indirect factors such as race, ethnicity, genomic constitution of a population and previous exposure levels to other diseases and associated immunity”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Yediyurappa waits for ‘message’ on imminent departure as CM||The Karnataka BJP remained on tenterhooks through Sunday amid expectations of B.S. Yediyurappa’s imminent departure as chief minister, but the matter remained hazy even though the would-be successors stepped up their lobbying for the post. Yediyurappa himself spoke nonchalantly about the possibility of his exit but BJP national president J.P. Nadda confounded all by lauding his performance. The chief minister kept saying he was expecting a “message” from the party leadership. “I will let you know if the message comes by this evening,” he told reporters in Belgaum where he toured flood-ravaged areas on Sunday. Hours later Nadda told reporters in Goa: “He (Yediyurappa) has done good work. The Karnataka government is running properly and Yediyurappa is handling everything in his own way.” Asked about the much-speculated change of leadership in the state, Nadda shot back: “That is what you feel; we don’t feel so.” On his way back to Bangalore, Yediyurappa was asked again whether the party leadership had conveyed a decision and whether he might resign on Monday. “I don’t know anything yet,” he said. Told that his supporters were anxious about his likely removal, Yediyurappa said: “I will abide by the party’s decision. No one should create any issues.” Soon after reaching Bangalore, Yediyurappa said he had received “no information so far” from the party leadership. “I hope I’ll get the message tonight or by tomorrow morning,” he said, adding he would “take a call tomorrow” if the party doesn’t say anything. He sidestepped a question on Nadda’s statement. “Nadda is our party leader and it’s my duty to work as he says,” he said. Yediyurappa had on Wednesday dropped the first clear hint that he might resign and switch to party work. He had then said he was expecting a “message” from the party leadership on Sunday and would take a decision based on that on Monday after attending a meeting of party lawmakers to mark the second anniversary of his current tenure. His statement was followed by a flood of visitors, including more than a hundred pontiffs from Lingayat mutts, to his home. The seers were among those who wanted the BJP to allow Yediyurappa to stay in office until the 2023 state elections. In a show of strength, the pontiffs held a conclave in Bangalore on Sunday expressing solidarity with Yediyurappa, who belongs to the politically influential community. But Yediyurappa said: “There was no need for the pontiffs to hold such a conclave. I have complete confidence in Prime Minister Narendra Modi, (home minister) Amit Shah and Nadda.” Asked whether a Dalit politician might take over from him, Yediyurappa had said it was not for him to say anything. “It’s up to the party.” Leader of the Opposition and former Congress chief minister P.C. Siddaramaiah had challenged the BJP to pick a Dalit chief minister. Among the aspirants are mines and geology minister Murugesh Nirani, who recently travelled to Delhi to apparently lobby with the party bosses. The rest have been meeting party lawmakers in Karnataka. They are Union parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, the three deputy chief ministers — C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Laxman Savadi and Govind Karjol — BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi and MLA Aravind Bellad. Karjol is the lone Dalit among them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Centre to apply Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act after 42 years||Migrant labourer Raja Kumar’s lockdown-induced miseries in successive years may have been less acute if the country’s governments had not sat on a 42-year-old legal provision that the Centre is now set to implement under a Supreme Court nod. Kumar, 25, who worked in Noida for a paltry Rs 225 a day, had to return home to Sameswari village in Bihar’s Banka district in April when work became unavailable amid the second wave of Covid. But the labour contractor who engages him did not give him a transport allowance. “I had to borrow money to go home,” Kumar said. Had the government implemented the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979, Kumar would have been able to register himself as a migrant labourer in his home state and in any state where he chose to work and claimed social security. Registration under the act would have ensured his protection under the labour laws relating to minimum wage, safety and accident coverage. His labour contractor would have had to pay him a transport allowance for the journey back home. An additional benefit of the registration would be that during crises like the pandemic, state governments looking to provide free rations or meals and other help to stranded migrants would be easily able to identify and reach them all. After the Covid outbreak last year, an out-of-work Kumar had been forced to stay back in Mumbai — where he worked then — running up debts to feed himself. Unorganised-sector workers like Kumar may now hope for easy registration and government welfare, thanks to a June 29 directive from the Supreme Court. The apex court — which had taken up the matter on its own — criticised the delay over the database and directed the labour ministry to finalise and implement the portal by the end of July. (The 1979 act has now been subsumed under a new labour law, the Code on Occupational Safety, passed by Parliament last year.) On July 19, the Centre told Parliament that an Aadhaar-seeded National Database for Unorganised Workers would become operational from August. To a question from Congress member Suresh Kudikonnil, labour minister Bhupender Yadav said his ministry was developing a portal for the database in collaboration with the National Informatics Centre. A dry run and a security audit were under way. “The project is expected to commence the registration work by August 2021 after addressing all critical technical issues. Thereafter, the state governments are to populate the data on the portal through mobilising the unorganised workers,” Yadav said in a written reply. Workers will be able to register themselves free of cost at nearly 4 lakh “common service centres” and select post offices, Yadav said. The apex court has also directed the enrolment of more beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act, which provides for up to 75 per cent of rural people and 50 per cent urban residents to be brought under the subsidised food programme. With the rural-urban population ratio being 70:30, about 67-68 per cent of Indians should be covered under the programme. But the government’s list of beneficiaries, based on the National Statistical Office’s household consumption survey report for 2011-12, covered barely 60 per cent of the population. The apex court has directed a list revision. A survey of 8,023 migrant labourers by the civil society group Stranded Workers Action Network (Swan) between April 21 and May 31 showed that about 82 per cent of these workers had at best two days’ worth of rations left. Seventy-six per cent had Rs 200 or less left with them. “I feel the government should increase our wages and provide subsidised rations at the workplace as well as medical insurance,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Bengal girl rewrites school’s score in Kerala||When her mother told 16-year-old Rukshat Khatun on Saturday morning that Malayalam film star Dileep wanted to talk to her, the daughter of a domestic worker had to “pinch myself”. Many in Kerala seem equally surprised — not so much at Dileep’s gesture but at Rukshat’s feat that had impressed the actor so deeply. Rukshat, a Bengali girl from Murshidabad whose parents shifted to Kerala 12 years ago, has topped her school by scoring an A-plus in every subject in her Class X board exams — which she wrote in Malayalam. Never before had any student of the NGO Quarters Government Higher Secondary School, Kozhikode, achieved this. Over the past week since the results were declared and some web media outlets highlighted her achievement, Rukshat and her parents have received a flood of congratulatory calls. But on Saturday morning, her mother Jhuma Bibi, who works as a domestic hand, couldn’t believe her ears when heard the caller’s name. “My mom ran to me and put us on a WhatsApp video call with my favourite actor. He congratulated me and promised to come and visit us when he is in Kozhikode the next time,” Rukshat told The Telegraph in fluent Malayalam. “My parents, my sister and I spoke with Dileep Sir for about 10 minutes. Even now I’m pinching myself to make sure it was not a dream.” Learning a new language so different from Bengali may have been a challenge, but Rukshat is thankful that father Rofik Sheikh, who works at a metal fabrication unit in Kozhikode, made the shift to Kerala in search of livelihood. She believes she owes a debt to the southern state. “People are very poor in my village (in Murshidabad), so we don’t get to help each other like they do here in Kerala. Had I been there, both of us (sisters) would have been married by now,” she said. “But in Kerala we got a chance to study and achieve something in life.” As for picking up Malayalam, “it was very difficult for me and my elder sister but our schoolteachers devoted extra time and attention to us”. Rukshat and sister Najiya speak fluent Bengali, too, since they and their parents talk among themselves in their mother tongue. “I can speak and read Bengali very well but struggle to write in the language. But I shall learn to write Bengali since it’s my mother tongue and part of my culture,” she said. Rukshat said reading Anandabazar Patrika on her father’s mobile phone “almost every day” had helped improve her Bengali. Although she wants to complete her higher secondary schooling in Kozhikode, Rukshat is open to seeking higher education in Bengal. “I’m proud of my state, which has given birth to legends like Rabindranath Tagore. Once I’m old enough, I’m ready to move to Bengal for higher studies or even employment,” she said. Rukshat plans to enrol in the commerce stream and later do a BCom and get a job with the government or a commercial bank. Najiya, who too did well in her Class X boards and is now waiting for her higher secondary results, wants to graduate in science. Rukshat thanked her parents for roughing it out at a place hundreds of kilometres from home to ensure their two daughters had a good education. “I could study only up to Class VII while my wife studied till Class X,” Rofik said. “So we are doing our best to ensure our daughters study as much as they can since they have a good opportunity in Kerala.” Overall, 121,318 students scored an A-plus in every subject this year, up from 41,906 last year, in Kerala where physical exams were held even amid the pandemic. These students scored between 90 and 100 per cent in all subjects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||India||Family members cremate youth outside lover’s home in Bihar||The family members of a youth brutally killed over a love affair cremated his body in front of the house of the girl whom he loved in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district. The police have arrested the girl’s father on murder charges. The incident occurred at Sonbarsa village under Kanti police station, around 85km north from the state capital on Saturday evening. Saurabh Kumar, 22, a resident of Repura Rampur Shah village, working with a private firm in Odisha had come home to attend the marriage of his sister. On Friday night, he went out for a rendezvous with his beloved staying at the neighbouring Sonbarsa village. Both were seeing each other for the past four years. However, the girl’s family members caught the youth. They brutally assaulted him with sticks and iron rods, cut off his genitals, and dumped him at a nearby government hospital. They also informed his family members about their act. Saurabh succumbed to his injuries while being treated at the hospital. The police registered an FIR and took his body for post-mortem. “The deceased youth’s family members, relatives and local villagers became angry and aggressive after we handed over his body to them. They blocked a nearby road for some time and then moved towards Sonbarsa village with a plan to cremate the body in front of the girl’s house,” Kanti police station official Mithilesh Kumar Singh told The Telegraph. “We tried to stop the crowd but it did not listen to us. It built a funeral pyre outside the girl’s newly constructed house, and cremated Saurabh on it. It was done as an act of vengeance. We have arrested the girl’s father Sushant Kumar Pandey alias Dinesh Pandey under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC),” Mithilesh added. The police have also arrested three persons from the side of the deceased youth on the charges of creating a law and order situation. Saurabh’s father Manish Kumar is an auto-rickshaw driver and a part-time farmer. “The girl’s family was against the relationship on the ground that our financial status did not match. They used to threaten to kill my son. They had attacked him last year and had tore off his nails, following which we sent him to Odisha to work. “He had come to attend my daughter’s marriage on July 8 and had stayed back. He was our only son and we always used to tell him to stay away from love,” Manish told reporters. Meanwhile, the police are camping at both the villages due to tension prevailing among the people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-394
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata​ reaches Delhi, expected to meet opposition leaders||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee reached New Delhi on Monday amid speculation about her attempt to unite the opposition ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. For the first time since her election victory in Bengal, Banerjee is expected to meet with various opposition leaders over the next three days in Delhi. She is also likely to meet prime minister Narendra Modi on Friday besides also meeting president Ram Nath Kovind during her stay. This will be her first meeting with Modi since their tense encounter in Bengal when the chief minister skipped the PM’s cyclone review meeting in May. Banerjee’s meetings are of great significance in the opposition's attempts to take on the BJP in the 2024 elections. According to sources, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has invited Banerjee to tea, but no date has been confirmed. Dismissing reports that Banerjee was planning to host a tea for opposition leaders, a Trinamool Congress leader said she is likely to have one-on-one chats with them. Banerjee was last week named leader of the Trinamool parliamentary party though she is not an MP; the new role signals her readiness to play a larger role in national politics beyond Bengal. In a virtual speech on July 21 to an audience that included Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and Congress leader P Chidambaram, Banerjee appealed for unity. She said people would not forgive the opposition parties if they did not bury their differences and unite against the BJP. Others present at that online meet were DMK’s Tiruchi Siva, Telangana Rashtra Samiti leader Keshav Rao, RJD leader Manoj Jha, Shiv Sena’s Priyanka Chaturvedi, Samajwadi Party’s Ram Gopal Yadav and Jaya Bachchan, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP)'s Sanjay Singh and Shiromani Akali Dal's Balwinder Singh Bunder. Banerjee is also likely to go to Parliament, where the monsoon session has been marked by disruptions over the Pegasus “snooping scandal” besides other flashpoints. Banerjee on Monday announced the country’s first judicial inquiry headed by former judges into the Pegasus case, in which several opposition leaders, journalists and others have been revealed as potential targets of Israeli company NSO's Pegasus spyware, which is sold only to governments. The chief minister’s nephew and Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee is among those named as potential targets from a leaked database of NSO. She said several other Bengal leaders were targeted. The Congress recently tweeted on Mr Banerjee being targeted with the phone snoop spyware. Trinamool MP Derek O'Brien retweeted that with the comment “khela hobe” — the Trinamool’s wildly popular assembly election anthem that means ‘game on’.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Pegasus : Protesting Congress workers arrested in Calcutta||Congress supporters today protested outside the Raj Bhavan in Calcutta, West Bengal, against the Pegasus row. Armed with placards and shouting slogans against the alleged tapping of phones of political leaders, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, the party's supporters gathered in front of the north gate of the sprawling Raj Bhavan complex. The police arrested some of the protesters and took them to the central lock-up at the Kolkata Police headquarters at Lalbazar, an official said. "We will continue our protests till we see the end of it," Congress leader Ashutosh Chatterjee said as he was whisked away in a prison van. Mr Chatterjee and other Congress members shouted slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP government at the centre over the Pegasus issue. Congress supporters had protested in front of the Raj Bhavan on the same issue on July 22.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta HC seeks details of vaccine supply, inoculation in WB||The Calcutta High Court on Monday directed the West Bengal and central governments to provide details of Covid vaccine supply and inoculation of people in the state. Hearing a clutch of PILs with regard to adherence to COVID protocols in the state, a division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice R Bharadwaj also advised the state government to think of ways to ameliorate the woes faced by people, specially the aged, in getting vaccinated. The bench directed the union government to provide details of vaccine supply to West Bengal as well as to other states. It also asked the state to provide details by next week of the people vaccinated in the state so far and the brands used to do so and their numbers and also the stock of vaccines with it. It also asked the West Bengal government to inform it on the number of people who suffered illness following vaccination. The bench passed the directions on a number of PILs with regard to coronavirus vaccination and adherence to restrictions imposed by the government to deal with the disease. The PILs will be taken up for hearing again on August 5, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Congress protests outside Raj Bhavan in Calcutta, many held||Congress supporters on Monday protested outside the Raj Bhavan in Kolkata over the snooping row. Armed with placards and shouting slogans against the alleged tapping of phones of political leaders, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, the party's supporters gathered in front of the north gate of the sprawling Raj Bhavan complex. Police detained some of the protesters and took them to the central lock-up at the Kolkata Police headquarters at Lalbazar, an official said. "We will continue our protests till we see the end of it," Congress leader Ashutosh Chatterjee said as he was whisked away in a prison van. Chatterjee and other Congress members shouted slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the BJP government at the Centre over the Pegasus issue, which has rocked national politics since last week. Congress supporters protested in front of the Raj Bhavan on the same issue on July 22 as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Why Sonia is Mamata's first stop in Delhi ||The one appointment that could make the Delhi trip of Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee a success is yet to be firmed up, and although her inner circle has been told that UPA chairperson Sonia Gandhi has invited her for tea, there is no confirmation on the meeting from the Congress as yet. Mamata is expected to be in Delhi till Friday. On Tuesday, she will be at the Central Hall of Parliament meeting MPs from other states,  mostly from the Opposition and a few from the treasury benches with whom she had worked during her stints with the National Democratic Alliance. “On Wednesday, Didi has called a meeting of all MPs from both Houses,” said a Trinamul source. A meeting with  Prime Minister Narendra Modi has been scheduled for Thursday. While Mamata maintains that it is a courtesy call, Trinamul sources said the chief minister would convey the urgency to hold the by-election for the Bhowanipore seat. In the Assembly elections, Mamata had switched over to Nandigram from where she lost to  BJP nominee and now leader of Opposition in the Bengal Assemgly Suvendu Adhikary. Mamata, though, has been chosen as the leader of the House, but she is not  a member of the legislative Assembly at present. The last time when Mamata came face-to-face with Modi was soon after the cyclone Yaas. The  casualty of that meeting was then chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. “The by-election has to be held before November or else there will be a constitutional crisis. While Rajya Sabha elections have  been announced, the EC is mum on the Bhowanipore bypoll under pressure from the BJP,” said a Trinamul leader. Mamata has already made clear her intentions for the 2024 Lok Sabha polls,  and her path to a more constructive role in national politics will need the blessings of the UPA chairperson. A senior Congress leader said it was difficult for any party to commit itself to a coalition demands at this stage. “Without power, it is difficult to sustain a front for a long time. The UPA exists on paper now. Maybe in early 2024 there will be some noise over it. Though it will depend entirely on the position the Opposition parties will be in towards the end of 2023,” the Congress leader said. Mamata, however, would like to push for an early referendum from within the parties opposed to the BJP to develop a consensus, as it will give her time to manoeuvre in Bengal, either entirely on her own as she did in 2019 or by throwing tidbits to the Congress, which is a weaker force in the state. “It is convention that the leader of the biggest party leads the alliance. Congress is still the biggest party in the UPA,” said a Congress leader. “Her victory in the Assembly elections have raised her stature but whether  that be enough to propel her for the biggest role is not yet clear.” In the elections that have been held till date since the BJP came to power, the local requirements of each state have helped create a political formation. Like in Maharashtra, the Maha Vikas Agadhi came into being in a post-result scenario.  In Tamil Nadu, the DMK was backed by  parties that included Congress and the Left. Unlike  parties like the DMK and the Shiv Sena, the Trinamul Congress has not displayed any accommodative bent of mind. Rather it has actively poached leaders from both the Left and the Congress, weakening the Opposition space in the state and leaving the field entirely to the BJP. “Mamata could become the convenor but then she would have to sit outside the ring. She also has to be in the fray. Now it is too early to say whether she will be acceptable to the other parties. Conversely, she may not be open to work with or under a younger leader from the Congress. This visit is for her to test the waters,” said a political observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal govt forms panel to probe into Pegasus scandal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said her government has formed a two-member inquiry commission to look into allegations of snooping on politicians, officials and journalists using Israeli spyware Pegasus. The decision to form a panel, with retired judges as its members, was taken at a special cabinet meeting chaired by the chief minister during the day. "We thought the Centre would form an inquiry commission or a court-monitored probe would be ordered to look into this phone-hacking incident. But the Centre is sitting idle... So we decided to form a commission on inquiry' to look into the matter," she said at a press conference here. The two-member commission will be headed by former Calcutta High court Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya. Former Supreme Court judge Madan Bhimrao Lokur is its other member. "Names of people from West Bengal have figured on the Pegasus target list. The Centre is trying to snoop on everyone. The commission will find out details about this illegal hacking," the CM added. A massive political row erupted in the country and other parts of the globe after media reports claimed that the Pegasus spyware was used to infiltrate phones and conduct surveillance on political leaders, government officials and journalists.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||50 houses damaged in erosion of Ganga river bank in Malda  ||Around 50 houses were gobbled up by the Ganga in a 12-hour period since Saturday night because of the erosion of the left bank at Baishnabnagar in Malda district. Hundreds of residents have started shifting to safer places since Sunday morning as the river is gulping chunks of land every hour. After repeated alerts from the state irrigation department, the Farakka Barrage Project (FBP) Authority has started anti-erosion works at Baishnabnagar that comes under the Kaliachak 3 block. Sources said the Ganga had started eroding land in the Bhimagram-Hatkhola area of Baishnabnagar on Saturday night. “Most of us were asleep or were about to go to bed when we heard the sound of chunks of land falling into the river. When we rushed out, we found the river steadily advancing into our village. We started shifting our belongings to safer places and gradually, the erosion took a severe turn. By this morning, as many as 50 houses were washed away by the river as we stood helplessly,” said Rajib Sheikh, a local Trinamul leader. Sources said the Ganga had devoured five houses on June 26 and another 35 homes on July 7. “But the erosion that we have been witnessing since Saturday late evening is appalling. On house after another was collapsing into the river. Almost 100 houses were swallowed by the Ganga this year alone,” said Ziaul Haque, a school teacher. The families which have turned homeless overnight are staying at the local primary school. The block administration has provided them with relief, said the sources. The FBP Authority, a central government organisation, has the responsibility to carry out anti-erosion works along a long stretch of the left bank of the Ganga, including at Baishnabnagar. A few days ago, a team of the authority officials had visited the erosion-prone areas and they would take up the task on war footing, said the sources. “We are battling the erosion. The victims have been accommodated at safer places and provided with relief. We have come to know that the FBP authorities have completed the tender process of anti-erosion work and the project is expected to start soon,” |said Mamun Akhtar, the Kaliachak 3 block development officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal logs 806 more cases and nine deaths||Bengal on Sunday completed three consecutive weeks or 21 uninterrupted days of less than 1,000 new Covid-19 cases being detected every day in a further indication that the state had gone past even the residual impact of the devastating long spell of spike ushered in with the eight-phase Assembly elections. The state logged 806 infections, nine deaths and 892 recoveries on Sunday, recording a drop in total active cases for the 35th consecutive day. The total of active cases fell by 95 to 11,796 on Sunday. “These are small, yet significant landmarks that we happily acknowledge – without leaving any room for complacency – as we go along, making progress every day,” said a minister. The recovery rate is currently at the state’s all-time high of 98.04 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.32. _“We have covered a lot of ground, achieving a lot of success in fighting the second wave, over the past couple of months,” said the minister. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.61 per cent on Sunday. With Calcutta logging 55 infections and North 24-Parganas 87, Sunday was also the 18th consecutive day since the second wave struck, when none of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figures of new cases. Eighteen districts reported double-digit figures of new infections, while North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Birbhum recorded single-digit figures. Of the nine deaths, one each was reported from the city, North 24-Parganas, East Burdwan and Darjeeling. Seventeen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Sunday. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Till now, Bengal has reported over 15.23 lakh Covid cases. The total includes nearly 14.94 lakh recoveries and 18,073 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Two persons held over theft of dyke safety sheet in South 24-Parganas||Two persons were arrested from the Sagar area of South 24-Parganas on Saturday for alleged theft of geo-synthetic textile sheets which are used by the state’s irrigation department to protect the vulnerable earthen dykes from being washed away in heavy rain and high tides. Subhajit Sardar and Uttam Sardar were produced in the additional chief judicial magistrate’s court in Kakdwip on Sunday and remanded in judicial custody for 10 days Concerned over the increasing theft of geo-synthetic textile sheets, the irrigation department had lodged separate complaints at the Sagar and Ganga Sagar police stations. The Sunderbans district police conducted raids in various areas, arrested two persons and recovered about 50 square meters of the sheets. Irrigation department sources said at least 600 square meters of the geo-synthetic textile sheets had been stolen, rendering the embankments vulnerable once again. The sheets cost around Rs 255 per square meter, said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Govt officials to organise at least 300 plantation drives in South 24-Parganas ||South 24-Parganas district administration officials will on Monday observe the International Day for the Conservation of the Mangrove Ecosystem by organising at least 300 plantation drives, all of which will have the participation of local residents. Another highlight of the event, sources said, will be acknowledging the prominent role played by women in the last decade in bringing mangrove plantation to the fore of nature conservation in the district. Two major cyclones battered the district in the past one-and-a-half years with residents saying the only saving grace was the pre-existing mangrove cover. “The chief minister has asked for 15 crore mangrove saplings to be planted across three coastal districts this year. In South 24-Parganas itself, more than 1 lakh women are being employed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Act, under which mangrove plantation is sanctioned,” said an official. A total of 4,652 hectares of land has reportedly been earmarked for the plantation of a total of 7.24 crore saplings this year. Sources said the drive would span around 800km of coastline. Last year, five crore saplings were planted at the directive of the chief minister. Sumitra Paira is a resident of Gosaba who has been involved in planting mangrove saplings for the past two years. “Earlier, I used to earn Rs 3,000 a year doing this work. Now I am earning ten-fold,” she said. “This income has brought about a huge change in my family’s life. My husband had lost most of his fishing income since last year following the first lockdown,” she added. Paira is part of a team of 60 women hired by district officials to do the MGNREGA work. Incidentally, the shift for women’s employment towards plantation work in this district is fore-grounded by the lack of major industry in the area, combined with its mainstay economic activities of fishing. “After Yaas, we realised that we can protect the embankments only thorugh intense plantation of mangrove saplings which would also protect the livelihood. We have involved one lakh women in this scheme to plant crores of mangroves to empower them. There will be around 10 lakh new mandays created through the drive and it would be a great gift for the rural families in our district,” said P. Ulaganathan, the South 24 Parganas district magistrate. “As July 26 is the International Day for the Conservation of the Mangrove Ecosystem, we are celebrating it in a grand way. One lakh women will plant saplings and seedlings of mangroves in hundreds of places in our district,” added the district magistrate.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Four migrant labourers from Murshidabad die in Mumbai mishap||Four migrant labourers from Murshidabad were killed when a service elevator failed and crashed at a construction site in Mumbai’s Hanumangali on Saturday. A fifth person from Maharashtra also died and four workers were injured. Sources said the incident occurred in Hanumangali, where the construction of a new building had reached the 16th story and was still in progress. The deceased were Bharatpur residents Abhinab Das, 35, Bharat Mondal, 30, and Lakshman Mondal, 45. Khargram resident Chinmay Konai was also among the deceased as was a youth from Maharashtra. Except for Chinmay, the three other youths hailed from the same village, Gadda, and were friends. “The youths had come back home during the migrant saga in March 2020 and were at home without work until November that year. They were all supposed to come home in a few months for Durga Puja,” said Anil Mondal, Bharat’s father, breaking down in tears. Sources said around 6 lakh migrant workers from Murshidabad work in Kerala, Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat, mostly as construction workers. The district is the largest reserve of migrant workers from the state, ahead of Malda, with over 4 lakh such workers. Police sources in Murshidabad said families in Gadda had received the news over phone by Saturday evening, barely an hour after the incident reportedly occurred at 5pm. “We too were first informed through the media. We confirmed the news later by calling our Mumbai counterparts,” said district magistrate Sharad Dwivedi. “We have informed the disaster management department, but we are still unclear as to when the youths’ bodies will be sent home,” he added. Post-mortems were reportedly completed at a Mumbai hospital by noon on Sunday. “We will try to bring the bodies home by Monday night for the families,” said a source in Kandi police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP leader Tilak Chand Roka joins Anit Thapa-headed faction of GJM||Tilak Chand Roka, a well-known face in Darjeeling politics who had joined the BJP early this year, switched sides to the Anit Thapa-headed faction of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha on Sunday and asserted that the hills had given “everything possible” to the saffron party and it was time for the BJP to honour its commitment. Roka’s statement comes close on the heels of a similar remark by Ajoy Edwards, a leader of the GNLF which is an ally of the BJP. “The party even handed over the Darjeeling (Assembly) seat to them. It is time for the BJP to deliver and even Darjeeling MP Raju Bista is aware of the deliverance quotient,” Edwards had said. These developments in the hills suggest that the BJP which is half way into the current Lok Sabha’s five-year tenure is now slowly being pressured by hill politicians and even its allies to deliver on their promises. The BJP had in its 2019 Lok Sabha poll manifesto promised a “permanent political solution” for the region and tribal status for 11 hill communities. Edwards had also noted that the BJP had talked about “minimum wages” for tea garden workers before the Lok Sabha elections. Roka, a former elected Gorkhaland Territorial Administration Sabha member and also an advisor to the tea garden trade union of Bimal Gurung’s Morcha, on Sunday said that he had decided to support the BJP before the Lok Sabha elections “as it was the need of the hour and to prove the hill people’s support to the BJP”. “We, the people from the hills, Terai and the Dooars, have done whatever we could. We have elected the BJP leader and taken our issue to Parliament by exercising our franchise. It is now the responsibility of the BJP to deliver on its commitments,” said Roka in Darjeeling soon after joining the Morcha faction. The hill people have elected BJP leaders to Parliament since 2009. In fact, Darjeeling also elected a BJP MLA in 2019 and 2021 while BJP candidate from Kurseong, B.P. Bajgain, won from Kurseong this year. Despite the BJP garnering the major chunk of the vote share in the hills, many are upset that the party has not delivered anything concrete vis-à-vis the two demands mentioned for the region in the manifesto. “The BJP has to deliver,” said Roka. Even Edwards had said that if the BJP failed to deliver, the GNLF would be compelled to look otherwise. Edwards, however, sounded hopeful that the BJP would live up to its commitment. Kalyan Dewan, president, BJP (hills) did not answer calls to his phone. Anit Thapa reached Darjeeling where he plans to camp to strengthen the party. Roshan Giri, the general secretary of the Bimal Gurung faction of the Morcha, challenged Thapa to float a new party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-158
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Tea garden employees in north Bengal to observe cease work for immediate revision of salaries||The staff and sub-staff serving in the tea gardens of north Bengal have decided to observe ceasework for five hours each from August 2 to 4 for immediate revision of their salaries. They had observed a ceasework of three-and-a-half hours on Saturday under the banner of the West Bengal Tea Employees’ Association. Those employees number around 10,000 in north Bengal. The next month’s ceasework will be from 7am to 12pm. “If tea planters do not pay heed to our demand, we will observe ceasework during these three days. Since 2014, there hasn’t been any proper revision of our salaries,” said Partha Lahiri, the general secretary of the Association. But the planters are reluctant to raise the staff’s salaries. It was since last September that the employees have launched the movement on the issue of salary revision. “At that time, representatives of tea planters’ associations had told us to refrain from movement because the negotiation on bonus was going on. We were told that they would hold talks with us on the issue but till date, it has remained unaddressed,” he added. The planters however, pointed out that in January this year, all these employees have been provided with an interim hike of 15 per cent, at the same time when the wages of workers were also revised. The employees, however, are not ready to buy the theory. “Earlier, our salaries were fixed through agreements which would remain effective for three years. This means, we have missed two such revisions as two agreements were supposed to be signed in the past six years, that is, since 2014. There had been an interim hike, but if we consider the earlier rates of revision, a sub-staff is losing around 4,500 rupees in each month while a staff is bearing a minimum loss of 7,000 rupees per month as per our estimation,” said a representative of the association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
26-07-2021||West Bengal||Local people attack police team, torch vehicle in Raiganj ||A police team was attacked and their vehicle torched at a village near here on Saturday night when they went there to rescue a youth who had been apprehended and beaten up by local people who suspected him to be a thief. An assistant sub-inspector of police was injured in the attack and is under treatment at Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital. Reinforcements went to Bhatol village and brought the situation under control. The police have arrested nine persons. Sources said some residents of Bhatol had intercepted Mohammad Mustakim at Amtala More and accused him of stealing cellphones. “The villagers started roughing him up. Law enforcers from the police outpost at Bhatol that is under Raiganj police station arrived and rescued the youth. But some in the mob demanded that Mustakim be handed over to them. The mob attacked the police with bricks, stones and sticks. The villagers ransacked a police vehicle and set it on fire. Mustakim’s motorcycle was also burned down,” said a source. Additional forces led by Suraj Thapa, the inspector-in-charge of Raiganj police station, went to the village and dispersed the attackers. The injured ASI, Chanchal Singha, was taken to the hospital. The police conducted raids at Bhatol and arrested nine persons, including two minors. “A police picket has been raised at the village to keep the situation under control. We ordered a probe into the attack,” said a senior police officer. All the nine arrested persons were produced in the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Raiganj on Sunday. The court sent the minors to a government home. Of the remaining seven, two were remanded in police custody for five days and five in judicial custody for 14 days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
26-07-2021||West Bengal||‘Mangrove Man’ builds shield against cyclones in Sunderbans||Umashankar Mandal, 40, hails from a remote island in the Sunderbans and is a geography teacher at a Murshidabad high school. Over the past decade, he earned the moniker of “Mangrove Man” for the12-year-long tree plantation drive he started in the area following the devastation caused by Cyclone Aila in 2009. Mandal, residents of the area admiringly say, has planted over 6.5 lakh saplings with help of 135 associates on the embankments of the rivers of two islands, Gosaba and Satjelia. Local residents say they have grown to consider the tree cover as a “shield” for their lives, that was proved true during Cyclone Amphan last year and Cyclone Yaas this year. “Aila gave us a lesson. I can’t forget it. It was May 25, 2009 when I, along with a few friends, placed ourselves behind the breached embankment to save our village from being flooded. But we failed to save the homes and properties as the river water was mightier than our efforts. My mud house collapsed and almost all the villagers became homeless, which led me to think about a permanent solution. As a student of geography, I began to be sure that mangrove plantation was the one and only remedy,” said Mandal. Villagers speculate that even recent initiatives by the state government, especially those by chief minister Mamata Banerjee, in undertaking large-scale mangrove plantation drives on the Sunderbans embankments is a nod for the good work initiated by Mandal a decade ago. Following Cyclone Amphan in 2020, Mamata Banerjee had directed the South 24-Parganas district administration to plant five crore mangrove saplings. After Cyclone Yaas, the state government had undertaken a plan to plant 15 crore mangrove trees to maintain the ecosystem of the Sunderbans. “Embankments were breached at hundreds of points because of the rise in water levels during Yaas. Several areas were washed away as saline water had entered the villages after breaching the embankments. We did not suffer from such a large crisis during Yaas. We were saved as the saplings we planted 10 years ago had become a dense mangrove forest along with our river embankment,” said Kumaresh Mandal, a villager from Lahiripur area of Gosaba. Bankim Hazra, Sunderbans affairs minister, said that Mandal had been working silently with help of villagers for the past 12 years and that Hazra’s department was planning to felicitate him sometime this year for his extraordinary work. “I came to know about the geography teacher and his initiative a few months ago. I have not personally met him but have heard from local district officials about his initiative. Our government has taken a large scale drive to plant mangroves under the leadership of our chief minister Mamata Banerjee. I have a plan to felicitate the youth for his work,” said Hazra, the minister. According to Mandal, a lack of awareness had caused mangroves to be cut off, combined with absence of administrative care and attention towards these natural barriers on the islands in South 24-Parganas. The journey he started was not easy. In 2009, Mandal took out a personal loan of Rs 3 lakh to hire staff for the plantation. “Primarily, I was alone in starting the initiative. I used to collect the seeds of mangrove trees floating in the river by boat. Then, I used to plant them along the embankments. If I planted a hundred saplings, not more than 50 percent could survive,” said Mandal, the geography teacher of Jangipur High School in Murshidabad. Recently, he had set up a platform namely ‘Purbasha’ to bring more people under the umbrella of the plantation drive. The solo campaign of Mandal has now become a team effort after local residents began realising the importance of his work within a few years. “It was like a movement. People from different villages started raising questions as to why they would provide free labour to plant the trees. It was my luck that a few of my friends and relatives joined me in the drive and convinced the villagers,” he said. Mandal said he, along with his team members, work for three months from August to collect the seeds of mangrove trees and plant saplings throughout the year. “I am happy as we were able to save our areas from back to back cyclones — Bulbul, Amphan and Yaas. Yaas is an important example as the shield of mangroves that we built helped us save our embankments,” added the teacher. Mandal can’t pay salaries to people who work in the plantation drives but he provides clothes, books and food to the children of families who work in his drive through crowdfunding. “I am happy as many people, and my friends, now fund me to continue my drive. I am happy that a large number of people, mostly women, are with us,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
26-07-2021||West Bengal||National body of small tea growers for Rs 25 as base price||A national body of small tea growers has written to Union commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal, requesting him to announce a minimum support price of Rs 25 per one kilogram of tea leaves produced by them. The Confederation of Indian Small Tea Growers’ Associations (Cista) said there was a steady decline in the tealeaf price in the past few weeks in Assam and Bengal. “We are nowadays selling one kilogram of tea leaves in the range of Rs 15 to Rs 18 whereas the minimum cost of production is Rs 19 per kilogram. Most small tea growers run families out of the earnings they make by selling tea leaves. If the price continues to remain below the cost of production, we doubt how long they would be able to sustain the loss,” Cista president Bijoygopal Chakraborty said. India has altogether around 2.5 lakh small tea growers who contribute around 51 per cent of the total production in the country. Anyone who owns not more than 25 acres of tea plantation is classified as a small grower. Assam has around 1.3 lakh small tea growers and Bengal has close to 50,000. The small tea sector emerged in the past two decades. While small tea plantations mushroomed on one hand, bought leaf factories or BLFs came up on the other hand. The BLFs buy the leaves from the growers and process them. “The Tea Board of India had earlier taken some initiatives to ensure that the growers got a fair price. But most of the factories do not adhere to the regulations framed by the board. Hence, we have requested the Union commerce and industry minister to declare a minimum support price of Rs 25 for the tea leaves produced by small growers,” the Cista president said. In another development, the Tea Board has come up with a circular, mentioning that a section of tea manufacturers is violating the Tea Marketing Control Order of 2003. According to the order, all the tea manufacturers will have to sell at least 50 per cent of their annual production through auctions. “The board went through the figures at auction centres spread across the country and found out that there were a number of gardens which were violating the order. While several estates are routing less amounts of tea through auctions, some others are not sending the brew for auction at all,” said a source in the Tea Board. “If the tea gardens do not adhere to the order, the board will take actions,” the source added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-159
26-07-2021||North East||Six policemen killed along Assam-Mizoram border as violence escalates||A tense situation prevailed along the disputed Assam-Mizoram border as six cops from Assam were killed in violence that broke out along the border. There were reports of fresh firing along the border area close to Assam’s Cachar district and Mizoram’s Kolasib districts. Significantly, the violence broke out along the disputed border two days after Union Home Minister Amit Shah conducted a closed door meeting with the chief ministers of the northeast stated at Shillong. The tension escalated to such an extent that the Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma took on to Twitter to announce that six Assam Police personnel were killed in firing by miscreants from Mizoram along the inter-state border in Cachar district. Following which the chief ministers of the two states got locked in a war of words on Twitter on Monday. As the two leaders traded charges on Twitter, Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said he has spoken to his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga and his police force will maintain peace. Zoramthanga accused the Assam Police of resorting to lathi-charge and lobbing tear gas shells while Assam Police claimed that a large number of "miscreants" from Mizoram were indulging in stone pelting and had attacked the Assam government officials. Assam's Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164 km long border with Mizoram's three districts of Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit. Following a territorial dispute, there were clashes along the inter-state border in August 2020 and February this year. Mizoram Deputy Inspector-General of Police (Northern Range), Lalbiakthanga Khiangte, told PTI that at least eight unoccupied farm huts near Aitlang stream in the trouble-torn area were torched around 11.30 PM on Sunday. Union Home Minister Amit Shah had to intervene. According to sources, he spoke to the chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram over the ongoing border row between the two states and asked them to ensure peaceful resolution of the dispute. During his separate telephonic conversations with Assam CM Himanta Biswa Sarma and his Mizoram counterpart Zoramthanga, Shah asked them to maintain peace along the inter-state border where tension prevails, said sources. The home minister asked the chief ministers to resolve the border issue mutually. Both chief ministers have assured the home minister that the needful will be done to ensure peace and resolve the border issue amicably. Police forces from both states are expected to return from the disputed site, the sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
26-07-2021||North East||IIM Shillong becomes Arunachal's official think tank||The Arunachal Pradesh government has signed an MoU with IIM Shillong recognising the premier institute as its “official think tank and knowledge partner”. The MoU was signed on Friday between state chief secretary Naresh Kumar and Prof D.P. Goyal, director IIM Shillong, in presence of chief minister Pema Khandu in Shillong. This is a first-of-its-kind collaboration between the institute and any state government in the Northeast, a move many feel could see more and more states tap into expert advice/services offered by institutes such as the IIM for holistic development. According to the MoU, the government of Arunachal Pradesh will recognise Dr APJ Centre of IIM Shillong as an official think tank and knowledge partner of the  government in the frontier state which suffers from connectivity issues and mainly dependent on agriculture. “IIM Shillong will assist Arunachal Pradesh in developing policies and roadmap for business development in the handloom, horticulture, tourism, logistics and BPO sectors. IIM Shillong will also facilitate the state government in implementing some of its flagship projects by providing critical managerial interventions,” the IIM said. Functioning since 2008, the premier institute has also agreed to organise managerial capacity building programs for the state’s newly-recruited officers besides laying emphasis on establishing a satellite or an extension knowledge centre of IIM Shillong in Itanagar, the state capital. This centre will help impart training to youths for entrepreneurship development and promoting start-up ecosystem, amongst others. Khandu, who was in Shillong to attend the meeting between home minister Amit Shah and chief ministers of the Northeast on Saturday, has termed the development as “historic”. “Capacity building is the most important aspect of governance and IIM Shillong is the best in the region... This association will make IIM Shillong the think tank of the state government.… I am optimistic the collaboration would pave way for creating a rich human resource which will augment the state’s development,” Khandu said. He has invited the IIM Shillong team to visit Arunachal Pradesh in August to “explore” potential areas for policy intervention. IIM Shillong director said the frontier state’s administrators would be trained in public policy and governance starting next month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-17
26-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: TMC Martyrs' Day programme, Chennai  effort to prevent defacing of city walls, marriage proposals at Olympics||New fulcrum Sir — The enthusiastic participation of representatives of Opposition parties in the special function organized by the Trinamul Congress on Martyrs’ Day was a significant political development. The chief minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee, made an impassioned plea to all Opposition parties to put the country’s long-term interest above their personal political calculations and form a united front against the Bharatiya Janata Party without delay. In her inimitable way, Banerjee said that the BJP has ‘a high viral load’ — this is especially apt given the virulent religious nationalism of the saffron outfit — and compared the Opposition parties to doctors facing an emergency. By taking the ‘Khela Hobe’ pitch to the national stage, Banerjee has become the rallying point for Opposition unity. Banerjee can become the fulcrum of an alternative to the Narendra Modi regime. The country is in great need of someone exactly like her who has the potential to change the dynamics of national politics and win voters over. More and more people are now realizing that their embrace of the Hindu right-wing in 2014 has turned out to be far from rewarding. Looked at objectively, seven years of Modi rule have brought only misery and ruin to the country. In contrast, West Bengal is making strides in economic progress and achieving social cohesion, thereby proving to be a model state for the rest of the nation. The crises that are plaguing the country reveal the need for better leadership. If the Opposition parties unite against the BJP and dislodge it from power and instal a pro-people government in 2024, they will have done India a good service. They can unite behind India’s foundational values and common minimum policies and programmes. G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Hurting history Sir — It is great that in order to discourage those who continue to deface city walls with posters, scribbles and etchings, the Greater Chennai Corporation has decided to paint artwork across the city walls. In this context, it must be pointed out that city walls often bear posters and drawings of political parties and politicians. This, too, should be actively discouraged. Offenders who deface walls should be taken to task and penalized heavily. N. Mahadevan,Chennai Sir — City walls are not the only things that Indians deface. Most of us want to leave a mark on the pages of history. But some people go about doing this the wrong way. Scribbling and etching names, symbols, slogans, curses on our historical monuments is not the way to etch our names on the pages of history. People who do such things are not only inflicting serious harm on the monuments but also on India’s culture and heritage. They are maligning India’s image as a civilized land in front of the world. It pains us when we see our beautiful monuments being carved out to write names and draw obscenities. People also spit paan and gutkha juice on the walls of these edifices. This shows that we do not deserve these beautiful monuments, which are like little doors to our past. The legends of history whose robes brushed against these walls are now battered and stained by the irresponsibility of their successors. I urge the Government of India, the Archaeological Survey of India and the ministry of culture to take stern action against people who deface ancient monuments and book them under Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958, which says that if someone destroys, removes, injures, alters, defaces, imperils or misuses a protected monument s/he shall be punishable with imprisonment for up to three months and/or a fine of up to Rs 5,000. But just laws, rules or government action cannot save our monuments. Education and realization of the worth of tangible history can bring true change. Noopur Baruah,Tezpur Sir — What makes the GCC think that people who have scant regard for the heritage monuments of the country will be discouraged from defacing walls because of the artwork on them? The only trick that seems to have a limited amount of success in India is putting up images of gods and goddesses on walls. But this will only communalize our public spaces further. Could there be a case for setting up designated spaces where advertisements can be put up? That way other walls can be spared and people would know where to look for things being advertised. Tania Chakraborty,Calcutta  Forced hand Sir — In many ways, the Olympics are a bit like relationships. Highs, lows, outlandish risks, heady rewards, and mostly shorter than one expects them to last. But that is no excuse to make public proposals that put athletes on the spot. No less than five marriage proposals were made at the Rio Olympics. Time will tell how many proposals are made in Tokyo. Public proposals are, at heart, acts of intense coercion and humiliation, made by those who are too insecure to ask their loved ones to spend the rest of their lives with them without a baying mob complicit in the weird sting operation. Marriages are serious business. Surely an agreement on this should entail more careful thinking than a public podium provides scope for. Kaveri Raj,Ernakulam Parting shot Sir — Atanu Biswas’s article, “Green gold”(July 23), was invigorating; it provided valuable insight into the e-waste situation worldwide and suggested possible solutions to tackle the menace. The estimated amount of global e-waste is gargantuan — 52.2 million metric tonnes. The answer lies in recycling. But the percentage of e-waste properly recycled in India is low — only 1.5 per cent. The Indian Institute of Technology Madras has shown us the way with its innovative venture to reuse e-waste as a resource material to treat the waste water and convert the same to generate electricity. The earlier the ministry of renewable energy takes up the issue, the better for the country. K. Nehru Patnaik,Visakhapatnam||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
26-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Deeper crisis||That inequality lies at the root of the ill health of a population is not new; this fact has only been thrown into sharper focus by the Covid-19 pandemic. The findings of the Oxfam report, Inequality Report 2021: India’s Unequal Healthcare Story, which documents the existence of sharp inequalities across caste, class, gender and religion-based categories on several health indicators, are a testament to the prevailing challenge. India’s reduced health budget, persistent under-funding of its public healthcare systems and its focus on encouraging private — but often unaffordable — healthcare entities have led to the deepening of disparities in people’s access to medical services. The data are suggestive of a discernible advantage enjoyed by affluent constituencies over those belonging to socially disadvantaged groups such as scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. Other kinds of binaries are also at play. Hindus have greater healthcare capital than Muslims, as do men over women and urban populations over their rural brethren. Data bear out the anomalies. As much as 12.6 per cent more children are stunted in SC households than those in general category homes; 8 per cent less children are immunized in Muslim households; a woman from the general category lives, on an average, 15 years longer than a Dalit woman. Worryingly, these crevices afflicting the welfare model have only been widened by Covid-19. The implications of social discrimination in a country that has five beds and 8.6 doctors for every 10,000 people and where the rural population, comprising 70 per cent of the national population, has access to barely 40 per cent of the beds can only be troubling. Significantly, not only do those in lower income brackets face more visits to hospitals and Covid centres on account of compromised personal health than the rich, but are also subject to five times more discrimination upon testing positive. The absence of universal health coverage has had a debilitating impact on citizens’ finances; out-of-pocket expenses are known to be a cause for penury in India. Insured citizens are not immune to financial challenges either. After the massive spike in cases during the second wave, 50 per cent of insurance claims got rejected while those that get processed yield only 60 per cent of the amount. Greater public health allocations — Telangana and Himachal Pradesh have undertaken such a measure — have had a positive effect on health outcomes during the pandemic. There are also lessons to be learnt from Kerala’s multi-layered pandemic health system — offering basic services at the community level, an expanded primary healthcare coverage, more hospital beds and doctors — outlined by the report. Can Kerala’s approach to the health crisis serve as a model to be emulated by other states?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
26-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Thoughtful||Draconian legislations are an integral, albeit worrying, feature of the judicial architecture of democracies. This is because in spite of their allegedly overarching reach and the history of patent misapplication, the imperatives of national security make it difficult for the judiciary to get rid of these laws. There is thus a need to achieve a fine balance so that the rhetoric of security perfected by the State does not end up crushing civil liberties. This illuminating position was arrived at by several legal luminaries — four former judges of the Supreme Court as well as one former judge of the Patna High Court — in the course of a webinar organized by the Centre for Judicial Accountability and Reform. The recourse suggested by these wise minds merits attention. Justice Madan B. Lokur, for example, reiterated the principle of accountability, more specifically financial accountability, from law-keepers. This is an important suggestion, given the fact that wrongful application of legal instruments — it is not, by any means, unprecedented in India — can be addressed, only partially, by demanding financial compensation for the victim’s loss of liberties. The Supreme Court, incidentally, has sought Manipur to respond to a plea of compensation by an activist who was incarcerated for a seemingly benign post on social media. But the thrust, as was agreed by the learned judges, should be on the examination of the constitutional validity of these restrictive laws. The result of this enquiry could be instructive given the State’s enthusiasm for these laws. Data indicate that the rate of conviction, in spite of a discernible spike in the application of the sedition law or, say, that of the equally severe Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, remains quite low. Of equal concern is the fact that the executive and the judiciary seem to be pulling in different directions on the matter. The Delhi police have now been empowered to apprehend citizens by applying the National Security Act. The progressive views of the judiciary, in contrast to the hawkish stance taken by the State, must be acted upon to sharpen the public engagement on a philosophy that seeks to view civil liberties and security as conflicting binaries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
26-07-2021||Opinion||Deadly Gamble: Covid in the UK||“Let the bodies pile high in their thousands,” expostulated Boris Johnson in his private office, but the door was open and a number of witnesses reportedly heard him. This was last October, when the second wave of Covid-19 was gaining speed but the British prime minister was determined not to reimpose restrictions like masks and self-isolation on the public. The bodies did pile quite high — into the tens of thousands, in fact. In the five months from November 2020 to March 2021, Covid killed 86,049 British citizens, most of whom would have probably lived had Johnson’s government taken a less capricious approach to lockdowns. Undaunted, he’s at it again. Earlier this month, with new Covid cases zooming past 50,000 a day and currently doubling in almost every two weeks, Johnson announced the end of all pandemic restrictions. Go where you want, wear a mask or not as you like, crowd six deep at the bar, hug people or even sneeze at them if you feel like it, indoors, outdoors, everywhere, any time. Other governments look on, aghast but fascinated. It would be really interesting to know how many deaths it takes to achieve ‘herd immunity’ in a population that has already been heavily vaccinated, and here’s a mug who’s willing to roll the dice with his own people. Watch closely and take notes. The British population does pretty much lead the way in vaccinations: 88 per cent of adults have had their first jab and 68 per cent have had both doses. Maybe they’re already on the brink of herd immunity, which was generally believed to kick in around 60 per cent of the population vaccinated for the original version of the Covid virus, but maybe 80 per cent or higher for more recent, more infectious variants. Or maybe the recent variants are so infectious that herd immunity is entirely unattainable for any vaccination programme. It would be nice to know, but not at the risk of spreading death among our own people. But look! Here comes Johnson, and he’s willing to use the British people as guinea pigs. One can easily imagine such thoughts going through the minds of French or American or Indian leaders, but it’s quite unlikely that they passed through Johnson’s own mind. He’s not a detail man, and it’s more likely that he just wandered into this position through inattention and wishful thinking. First, back in February, when the vaccines were taking hold and things were looking up, he promised that ‘freedom day’, when all restrictions would be cancelled, would be in mid-June. Then the Delta variant appeared and caused havoc in India. In mid-April, Johnson closed the gates to Indian travellers, and postponed ‘freedom day’ for a month. But he has stuck grimly to that date even though he had the horrible example of the Netherlands before him — it ended all restrictions in late June, then reimposed them earlier in July when new infections ran wild. And now ‘freedom day’ has arrived. Britain’s new health secretary, Sajid Javid (who has just caught Covid), blithely predicts that there might be 1,00,000 new infections a day within a couple of weeks. However, not to worry because ‘the link between infection and hospitalization or death has been broken’. No, it hasn’t, although that link is clearly much weakened by the level of vaccinations in the UK. No vaccine confers complete immunity, and if daily infections climb into six digits, even a one-in-a-thousand rate of hospitalization can mean hundreds a day. Johnson is gambling with people’s lives, although it’s not clear if he really understands the risk. On the other hand, maybe he’ll get away with it. The very nature of experiments is that you don’t know the outcome in advance, and this is a big, important one. If the British level of vaccinations really lets a country open up completely, despite the worst that new variants can do, that’s good news for everybody. And if that turns out not to be the case, it’s only British people who have to die.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
26-07-2021||Opinion||Mind games||A speaker in a television debate was deploring the paucity of hospital beds. A simple soul would have gone on to say, ‘We need more beds.’ This philosopher astutely stressed another logical possibility: ‘There are too many people.’ He was defending the moves in certain states to penalize those with more than two children. As an exercise in theoretical dialectics, his stand was impeccable, but it lacked context. He overlooked the fact that India’s total public expenditure on health is under 2 per cent of GDP, the Centre’s share being 25 per cent of this. Roughly two-thirds of hospital beds are utilized by the one-third of our population who can pay commercial rates, sometimes by pauperizing themselves. A new government scheme of Rs 50,000 crore for hospital expansion consists entirely of credit guarantees to private players, further skewing the ratio. Our new Union health minister is rightly concerned that across India, people are queuing fruitlessly for Covid shots. Again, the simple-minded would infer a shortage of vaccines, but the minister knows it’s owing to mismanagement by state governments. In that case, a shortage at point A should be balanced by a glut at point B. Yet the latter seems the case only at private hospitals. The simple-minded would conclude that few people can afford market rates, and the 25 per cent commercial quota needs reducing. At least two chief ministers have said as much, to no avail. In an India-sized country, any statistic can seem huge, even if dwarfed by others left uncited. The allotment of x lakh vaccines for a state is acclaimed, concealing that the demand runs into crores. The minister’s early tweets, besides reviling the Opposition, stated the projected supply of vaccines per month. That means nothing unless set against the amount required, the amount manufactured or imported, and the long-term immunization schedule. One-off statistics cannot buttress a rational plan. I would not dream of calling our rulers irrational. Rather, their sagacity tells them that their trusting subjects can be fobbed off with impressive noises in default of fact and logic. Towering numbers can be as mesmerizing as giant statues and bullet trains, and vastly easier to supply. Another favourite ploy with numbers is to confuse the trail. A budget increase of 137 per cent was claimed for the novel head of ‘health and well-being’ this Covid year. In fact, the health ministry received 10 per cent less than last year’s revised budget. Besides Rs 35,000 crore earmarked for vaccines, the increase was owing to a 28 per cent hike for the Ayush ministry and a generous (and welcome) allocation for drinking water and sanitation to the ministry of public health. Such juggling of heads makes it impossible to compare one year with another. It also allows multiple citing of the same grant, as the jackal in the folk tale showed the crocodile his sole surviving offspring over and over. Covid relief packages have employed similar tactics. They included items repeated from earlier budgets, items — like private participation in space projects — of doubtful relevance to Covid, and many items that were not grants but loans or mere guarantees for loans. A cow, a horse and a camel do not add up to three elephants. Neither in intent nor in function was this an integrated programme of Covid rehabilitation. In fact, it bore the dual label of an Atmanirbhar package. A not dissimilar ploy argues how little the Rs 20,000-crore Central Vista project will actually cost: for the present, allegedly, just Rs 1,300 crore. In fact, that is the upfront commitment for just two components in the first two months of the financial year — ignoring other construction likely to start this year, like the prime minister’s residential complex and other buildings elsewhere to house the ministries temporarily. That modest 1,300 crore is contrasted with the obviously larger budget for vaccines — with no heed to countless other demands, mostly unmet, resulting from the pandemic. Government pronouncements have come to resemble publicity exercises. There is hardly a pretence at dispassionate furnishing of data or grounded justification of policy. Instead, we encounter a barrage of mental bludgeoning: stray misleading factoids, statistics without source or context, rhetorical claims defying logic. They are offences to the intelligence, purveyed by our wise rulers because they consider us gullible. The practice has spread to sectors of society that stake their authority on learning and judgment. When the maximum gap between Covishield doses was increased to 16 weeks, one argument was that everyone may not have taken their second dose by 12 weeks. This could only be due to personal problems or shortage of vaccines: neither is a medical argument. More basically, we were told the gap was extended on the best medical evidence. Laymen were puzzled when leading doctors denied knowledge of such research. The confusion could have been avoided had the official announcement cited its sources. That is what distinguishes scientific method from practices that concoct their own trials, reports and certification. This was instanced in the ‘trial’ of a herbal nostrum administered in a southern state to Covid patients in no serious danger. Its champion was jubilant: “Many patients died in the allopathic hospitals, but all ours recovered.” In other words, the potion did not kill off those who would have survived anyway: a less than total proof of efficacy. One wonders at the pressures that induced a state government to pander to such fallacies. Where even medical science proves malleable, the law obviously provides rich material. In some new-age legislation (like the original version of one of the contentious farm laws), the terms exclude recourse to the courts. Again, we laymen can only wonder. Can there be laws not subject to the courts — laws beyond the law? Going still farther, Father Stan Swamy is the latest prey to laws that, on crucial issues like evidence and personal liberty, operate unlike all other laws — indeed outside the normal parameters of jurisprudence and, some lawyers say, constitutionality. We laymen cannot tell; but in the Supreme Court’s words, it makes everyone scared. One may well be terrified if one’s fate is effectively determined by the mere charge of wrongdoing rather than the evidence. The fear is so total and visceral as to divert all attention from the moral and intellectual bankruptcy underlying such laws. In Shakespeare’s Measure for Measure, a magistrate questions a bawd about the latter’s occupation: “Is it a lawful trade?” The answer comes: “If the law would allow it, sir.” Such seamless logic heralds a fearsome reign of misrule and unreason where the State can nonetheless say, ‘Whatever is done is in accord with the law.’ Let us look to our times. Sukanta Chaudhuri is Professor Emeritus, Jadavpur University||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
26-07-2021||Jharkhand||JMM defends police slilence on topple plot, says probe on right track ||The Jharkhand Mutki Morcha (JMM) defended the police’s silence on the arrest of three persons for allegeldy trying to destabilise the state 's coalition government headed by it, saying law enforcement agencies seldom comment on ongoing investigations, especially when the charges are so serious in nature. Addressing a press conference on Monday in response to BJP legislature party leader Babulal Marandi’s accusation that police had arrested three innocent persons, the JMM general secretary, Supriyo Bhattarcharjee, said, “Babulalji, who was the first CM of the state and is also a lawmaker, must know that police never comment on such issues. Unlike other crimes, this was an attempt by the BJP to destabilise the government in which three persons were held. Therefore, unless entire probe is over, I don’t think any investigating agencies will comment. This is not a case of mobile theft, but an attempted political crime.” Taking a dig at the BJP, the JMM spokesperson added that if Marandi was confident that the three were innocent, he should help them get a good lawyer and fight their case. “Rather than trying to threaten police officials, Babulal should help his friends get lawyers and fight in court,” he said. On Sunday, Marandi had demanded a judicial probe by a sitting high court judge into the allegations that the trio was working to topple the state government. Bhattarcharjee did not mention that, but claimed police investigations were on the right track. “In their confessional statement before police, the accused have admitted that they were lobbying for the BJP and trying to prey on ruling party MLAs. Once the probe is over, police will take further action,” he said. The spokesperson  reiterated that the JMM-Congress-RJD alliance was intact and the government was here to stay for five years. “Even though a few names of Congress MLAs have found mention in the media as being targeted by BJP agents, none of our MLAs has received any offer. JMM workers know their responsibilities... they know how to counter such attempts.” The three arrested persons have been identified as Abhishek Singh, Amit Singh and Nivaran Prasad Mahto. Amit and Nivaran are from Bokaro and Abhishek is from Ratu Road In Ranchi. Police have booked them under various sections of IPC, Representation of the People Act, 1951, and Prevention of Corruption Act, besides sedition. The three have apparently told the police that on July 15, three MLAs—two Congress and one Independent—had travelled with them on a  flight from Ranchi to Delhi to broker a deal. They didn’t name the MLAs but alleged that several BJP leaders  from Maharashtra had approached them to negotiate with MLAs in Jharkhand to try and topple the state government. Police, however, are yet to issue a formal statement on the issue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
26-07-2021||Jharkhand||Katras night food drive for street dwellers and daily wagers||A group of Katras residents led by a young BCCL officer, Dev Kumar Verma, are running a free night food service for the street dwellers of the town. The night food service programme is aimed at helping a large number of people whose income has been adversely affected due to the pandemic induced recession and closure of different industrials units and offices. The food is being distributed under the ni shulk bhojan vitran programme of Lions Club Katras outside the premises of Katras Railway station from 7.30 pm to 8.30 pm. Talking to The Telegraph Online today Verma who also operates three schools in Katras to impart free of cost education to coal picker children said, “As around 50-60 street dwellers live in the surrounding areas of Katras railway station so the food distribution is being carried out near the station where needy people from surrounding areas like Katras Bazar also visit to avail the benefit of free food.” “Large majority of station vendors besides rickshaw pullers, other daily wage earners deprived of day’s income and beggars are the major beneficiaries of our food distribution programme,” said Verma. “The food menu keeps changing on different days ranging from puri-sabji to chawal dal sabji and some times of puri sabji khir,” said Verma. The night food service launched by them is an extension of free food distribution programme carried out last year in Katras. “The food distribution during the night is most suitable time to reach the real beneficiaries as majority of daily wage earners, rickshaw pullers and porters remain away on work during the day time and return back to their place during the night, so maximum people can take benefit,” said Verma. Dr Sudharshan Kumar a renowned physician of Katras who is chairperson services of Lions club of Katras and takes active part in free night food service said,“ When we started the drive on July 1 there were only 40-50 beneficiaries but as the information spread we now distribute more than 100 packets on a daily basis for which a cost of Rs 2,000 is incurred per day.” Three professional cooks prepare the food at a rented kitchen near Swastik Talkies Cinema Hall of Katras. “Besides the beneficiaries, the number of donors for night food service programme has also increased as many people celebrate their birth, marriage day etc by sponsoring the special foods cooked on the day,” said Kumar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
26-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad industries seek respite from  power cuts||Over 60 MSME industry owners have demanded better industrial infrastructure including uninterrupted supply of power, sufficient water supply provision and better transport arrangement at the industrial parks of Kandra and Sindri area of Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority. The demands were made at a recent meeting of MSME industry owners with Kriti Sriji, regional director of Jharkhand Industrial Area Development Authority. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Monday, noted industrialist of Dhanbad, Rajiv Sharma who is also the general secretary of Jharkhand Industries and Trade Association said, “The demand for regular power supply was on the priority list as despite the fact that around 20 hours of electricity supply is carried out every day but a power cut for four hours takes place during the crucial commercial hour causing great production loss for us.” “We demanded the regional director of JIADA to coordinate with Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited to avoid the power cuts during the crucial commercial hours,” said Sharma and added prior information about the power cut schedule can help in avoiding losses to a great extent. “We also demanded to coordinate with the DVC to ensure direct connection for industrial units so that the disruption to plant operation due to repeated power failure can be avoided,” said Sharma and they simultaneously demanded solar plate connection arrangement for all streetlights at Sindri and Kandra based industrial parks. “The second most important requirement  for industry is water requirement both for drinking purpose and also for industrial usage but due to scarce water supply the industrials units situated at Kandra and Sindri Industrial parks had to face a lot of difficulties” said Sharma who himself owns a small electrical equipment manufacturing unit at Kandra Industrial Area of Govindpur. “We can’t understand the reason for the improper water supply arrangement at the industrial parks as the civic bodies can have good source of income by making supply of water at commercial rate to the industrial parks,” said Ashish Dudani another MSME owner of Kandra Industrial park of JIADA and suggested that water supply can be easily augmented at Kandra Industrial area through the Bheltand Based Water treatment plant of Dhanbad Municipal Corporation. He also raised the issue of water logging due to improper drainage system at Kandra and demanded upgradation of the drainage system at Kandra with immediate effect to create an ambience conducive to industrial growth in the park. “The outcome of meeting was quite fruitful as the regional director assured to initiate measures on a number of our suggestions as we simultaneously raised the issue for better transport facility to ensure arrival of workers in the factory from distant areas as well as the transport of raw material and finished goods from and to the industry,” said an Industry owner Harendra Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
26-07-2021||Jharkhand||7-year-old comes 6th at Asia school chess meet||Dishita Dey of Jharkhand made an impressive debut in the international arena by securing sixth place in the Asian School Chess Championships for under-7 girls which concluded on Sunday. The event was played online over 9 rounds Swiss rapid play. The event attracted 39 players from 24 countries of Asia. Dishita scored 6 points out of possible 9 from as many rounds. India's Samhita Pungavanam won the gold by pushing her teammate Charvi A to silver on better tie break as both tied with 8 points each. The bronze went to Ventura Gaye Thalia of Philippines who scored 7.5 points. The 4th and 5th spot too went to Indian players Narayanan Rishitha and Ira Bohara who scored 7 and 6.5 points, respectively. The state's chess fraternity congratulated Dishita for her debut performance and wished her a great future ahead. "Dishita played well in her international debut. She will make more progress in future," said All Jharkhand Chess Association secretary Neeraj Kumar Mishra, an International Master. International arbiter and chief coach at Tata Chess Centre in Jamshedpur Jayant Kumar Bhuyan also praised Dishita and said the kid has a bright future. "I am happy with her (Dishita) performance. She will improve her game as she grows," he added. Dishita, who recently stood 6th at the recently concluded Online National School Chess Championship for Under-7 girls and qualified for the Asian Meet, is a student of standard II at Narayana School in Calcutta. She is the daughter of former Jharkhand women’s champion Alka Das. She opted to play for Jharkhand and is registered with the state chess association. Dishita hones her chess skills under her Jamshedpur-based maternal uncles Dushyant and Abhishek Das. Karnataka Grandmaster M.S. Thejkumar also chips in with guidance to the kid. She is the cousin of Jharkhand chess prodigy Adhiraj Mitra who will represent the country in the Asian School Chess Championship for Under-9 to be played from July 29 to 31. The talented Dishita has won the recently concluded online state championship in the under-10 age group and has also represented Jharkhand in virtual under-10 and under-12 national events.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
26-07-2021||Jharkhand||Patient death leads to brawl at RIMS emergency ward ||Emergency services at Jharkhand’s largest state-run hospital, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), came to a standstill for several hours late on Sunday night following a scuffle between junior resident doctors and attendants of a patient who allegedly died of kidney failure. Police from Bariatu  had to rush to the spot around 10pm and use muscle power to bring the situation under control after the emergency ward of the hospital turned into a wrestling ring with doctors and attendants throwing punches at each other, eye witnesses said. “We had to intervene to bring the situation under control. Both parties have lodged FIRs with us and further investigation is under way,” said Anjan Kumar, a sub-inspector at the Bariatu police station. Relatives of the deceased woman, Anita Devi, accused the junior doctors of delaying her treatment on the pretext of documentation, which allegedly led to her death. On the other hand,  doctors have accused attendants of the patient of misbehaving with a woman junior doctor and creating a ruckus at the emergency. As per RIMS records, the patient was brought to the emergency ward of the hospital amaround 12.30 in the afternoon. Both her kidneys were on the verge of failure and the doctors were preparing her for dialysis. She died at around 8.30 pm. The woman was also a Covid suspect and her test results were awaited, said Dr Vivek Kumar, the president of Junior Doctors’ Association of RIMS. While doctors have blamed the attendants of the patient for starting the brawl, the attendants told the police that junior doctors locked up some of them in a room and brutally thrashed them, said police. At  11pm, RIMS Director Dr. Kameshwar Prasad and Superintendent Dr. Vivek Kashyap had to visit the emergency ward and pacify the junior doctors. The doctors have lodged a named FIR against one Aman Kumar, son of the deceased, and some other relatives of the patient with the local police station, while the attendants have lodged an unnamed counter FIR against the junior doctors, said police, adding that normalcy prevailed at the emergency ward of the hospital on Monday. The Indian Medical Association (IMA)  was yet to issue a statement on the incident by the time this report was filed. A member of  IMA Jharkhand, requesting anonymity, said that both parties were at fault and the association stands against all forms of violence, be it with doctors or attendants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
26-07-2021||Jharkhand|| Jharkhand vaccinates over 1.5 lakh for 2nd day running||Jharkhand on Sunday vaccinated over 1.5 lakh residents for the second day in succession after a crisis of vaccines slowed down the pace of immunisation in the state for several days last week, data compiled by the health department highlighted. As per provisional vaccination numbers released by the National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Sunday administered the first dose of vaccines to at least 1,18,004 residents, while the second jab was administered to as many as 34,018 beneficiaries. Over 1 lakh beneficiaries who got jabbed were younger than 45 years. At least 94,250 residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years got their first jab, while as many as 6,606 beneficiaries in the same age group got their second jab. Data released by the health department on Sunday evening highlighted that the state has received 93,02,030 doses of Covishield and Covaxin doses from the Centre so far. The state has administered vaccines to 87,37,460 residents. Some of these beneficiaries also received the Russian Sputnik V vaccine, procured separately by private hospitals. The state had over 5.3 lakh vaccine doses in stock by Sunday evening. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped further to 254 in Jharkhand on Sunday as the state reported at least 50 Covid recoveries against 28 fresh cases of infection, an NHM bulletin stated. No fresh casualties were reported, and the Covid toll remained 5,124. None of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike in Covid cases on Sunday with Koderma and Hazaribagh reporting the highest spike of four cases each. At least 10 recoveries against one fresh case of coronavirus infection brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 52, while the active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 21 as the district reported five recoveries against one fresh case on the day. As per NHM data, at least 11 districts – West Singhbhum, Saraikela, Palamu, Pakur, Lohardaga, Khunti, Godda, Giridih, Garhwa, Deoghar and Chatra – did not report fresh cases. Garhwa, which had zero Covid patients on Saturday, did not report fresh cases on Sunday. The state on Sunday tested swab samples of 54,968 residents and 0.05 per cent of them were found infected by the SARS-CoV-2 virus. So far, over 3.46 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand and 98.44 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients have died. The state did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Sunday. So far, at least 102 confirmed and 60 suspected cases of black fungus have surfaced in Jharkhand. At least 30 patients have died, while 101 have recovered from the fungal infection, as per data compiled by the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
26-07-2021||Jharkhand||Olympics: Simdega keeps faith in Indian women's hockey team||The defeat of the Indian women’s hockey team in their opening match in Tokyo Olympics on Saturday failed to daunt the spirited enthusiasts of Jharkhand’s Simdega. They would continue bringing out small processions in villages in support of the team that has two members from Jharkhand — Nikki Pradhan from Khunti and the Simdega girl Salima Tete. “Taking on the world number one, Netherlands, was like playing the final match and our team played rather well,” Hockey Jharkhand president Manoj Konbegi defended the national women’s team despite its 1-5 defeat in the inaugural match. Small children keep the enthusiasm alive in Simdega by going around their respective villages, carrying a banner saying Cheer for India and shouting slogans supporting the team. Nikki didi ko goal bachana hai, Salima didi ko goal marna hai and Bharat ko gold jitna hai are some of the slogans, besides Cheers for India and Chak de India, they shout while roaming around in their villages that produced many hockey stars. Besides shouting slogans, these children also dance to the tune of two songs that have been composed by local artistes recently and also uploaded on YouTube. “One of this was released on Wednesday,” Konbegi informed about a Hindi song lyrics of which runs like Khelenge hockey dilojaan se (will play hockey wholeheartedly), adding it was sung by local artistes Kashinath Nayak and Jagannath Ram. But the other one, a Nagpuri song urging Khelo khelo khelo hockey pura dam lagake khelo (play hockey with all your energy)... that was presented by Laldhan Nayak and launched during the sub-junior national hockey championship held in Simdega last year was more popular. The song became a hit because it is in local Nagpuri dialect and also narrates the achievements of hockey legends from Jaipal Singh, Sylvanus Dungdung and Michael Kindo to Sumrai Tete and Kanti Baa. “This song is played whenever there is a hockey match and even at other gatherings,” Konbegi said about its popularity, adding he also found it playing at social functions. “Even we were inspired by Laldhanji’s song but made it in Hindi as that would be understood by people from outside the state,” Kashillal Nayak replied when asked why they chose to render their song in Hindi instead of Nagpuri. The people of the region, including Simdega, that produced many hockey greats have hockey in their blood, Konbegi reminded, adding they were trying to keep their enthusiasm intact by launching songs and organising small gatherings in villages. “I will speak to Salima and also send her these video clips so that she and her teammates know how seriously these young children support them,” he further informed. “Such things may not impact their game on Tokeyo but will surely motivate these children who are the future of hockey in this part of the country,” Konbegi added to justify their activities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-93
