27-07-2021||Calcutta||Homoeopath glare on Life Care nursing home||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Monday ordered an inquiry against Life Care nursing home in Howrah’s Bally, where a homoeopath allegedly issued the death certificate of a woman admitted under an allopathic doctor. The nursing home has also been asked to keep admissions on hold till further orders. A number of commission members, all doctors, felt that the death certificate of a patient admitted under an allopathic doctor must be issued by a person who has at least an MBBS degree, said retired justice Ashim Banerjee, the chairperson of the health panel. The woman’s family told the commission that they doubted the credentials of two doctors involved in her treatment. Later, the hospital told the relatives that one of the doctors was a homoeopath and the other an ayurved. Banerjee said the 74-year-old woman, who suffered from septic shock, altered sensorium, acute febrile illness and chronic kidney disease, was admitted to the nursing home last August. “The patient was admitted under an allopathic doctor, who would visit her once a day. It seems that she was mainly treated by a homoeopath and an ayurved,” Banerjee said. “We have asked Howrah’s chief medical officer of health to inquire about the allegations against the hospital. The hospital has been asked to keep new admissions on hold,” said Banerjee. An official of the commission said that since the patient was admitted in a clinical establishment that had licence to offer allopathic treatment, it should not have used the services of a homoeopath or an ayurved. “An ayurved or a homoeopath does not know the intricacies of modern medicine. No questions would have been raised had the patient been admitted in a homeopathic or an ayurvedic hospital,” the official said. Banerjee said they suspected the two doctors had given fake registration numbers. “They had mentioned registration numbers issued by the West Bengal Medical Council. But homoeopaths and ayurveds are not registered by the council,” Banerjee said. The commission also asked Midland Nursing Home in Belghoria to pay Rs 2 lakh as compensation after it found that the health-care facility had employed a nurse and a resident medical officer who were not authorised to work. AMRI The commission on Monday asked AMRI Hospitals Dhakuria to offer a discount to a patient’s family after it found that the hospital did not follow its advisories on discounts on pharmacy products, consumables and pathological tests. Last August, the commission had asked private hospitals to offer Covid-19 patients discounts on the maximum retail price of medicines and consumables. “Eighty per cent of the bill was paid by the insurance company and 20 per cent by the patient’s family. We have asked the hospital to include the discounts on consumables, pharmacy products and pathological tests and offer 20 per cent of that amount as discount to the patient’s family,” Banerjee said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
27-07-2021||Calcutta||Man held for cheating lawyer of Rs 40 lakh by promising him job in CBI||A man has been arrested for allegedly cheating a lawyer of Rs 40 lakh by promising him a job in the CBI, police said. Biswajit Chatterjee, the lawyer from Baranagar, lodged a complaint against Krishanu Mandal, a resident of Baguiati, on Sunday. “The accused had allegedly  provided Chatterjee a fake appointment letter and a forged identity card,” said an officer of Baranagar police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
27-07-2021||Calcutta||Balcony of two-storey house collapses in north Calcutta, elderly man injured ||An elderly man was critically injured when the balcony of a two-storey house in north Calcutta on which he was standing collapsed on Monday afternoon. Golok Chandra Das, 68, who fractured his hip, lives in Behala and returned to the north Calcutta house where he is still a tenant to get his second Covid shot. Three other members of the family, including two women, were trapped on the first floor of the building. They were rescued by fire department personnel. Residents of the area said the building — 9 Dayal Shome Lane — was at least 100 years old. Das was standing on the balcony around noon when neighbours heard a loud noise. They rushed out and found that the balcony had collapsed. Das was lying in a heap of debris. “He was trembling and unable to speak. A friend and I brought him out of the debris and took him to the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital in an app cab,” said Rajdip Pal, who lives in the same neighbourhood. “We have been tenants of the house since my grandfather’s era. My parents have all their identity documents registered at that address. We now live in Behala but my parents wanted to take the vaccine in our old neighbourhood. They were vaccinated on Friday,” Das’s son Joy said. The balcony that collapsed could be accessed from all rooms on the first floor. To reach the staircase, one has to walk through the balcony. Calcutta Municipal Corporation officials said they had declared the building “dangerous” long ago but the families living there did not move out. On Sunday afternoon, a portion of the roof of a dilapidated building on Ashutosh Mukherjee Road in Bhowanipore had collapsed. The CMC often declares buildings as “dangerous” but it allegedly does not do much beyond that. “The problem is most of the dilapidated buildings are litigated. If the CMC tries to demolish them, it is dragged to the court,” said an official in the civic health department. To overcome this problem, the CMC had introduced a rule that allowed relaxation to the owners of dilapidated buildings to construct additional floors if they demolished the risky structures and raised new ones.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
27-07-2021||Calcutta||Ramakrishna Mission writes to Centre, seeks 4 lakh Covishield doses at discounted price ||Ramakrishna Mission has written to the Centre seeking 4 lakh Covishield doses at a discounted price of Rs 150 a jab to launch a mass vaccination drive in all 23 districts of Bengal and parts of the Northeast. All states procure Covishield from the Centre at Rs 300 a dose and private players buy it from the manufacturer — the Pune-based Serum Institute of India — at Rs 600 a dose. Swami Atmapriyananda, the pro-chancellor of the Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute and coordinator of the Covid vaccination project of the Mission, has urged Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya for a “special concession to procure the vaccines from the Serum Institute India” to vaccinate around 2 lakh people (with both doses) as part of the order’s “Free Covid Vaccination Programme”. The Centre is yet to respond to the appeal, made earlier this month, said a monk of the order. “We want to reach out to the masses in remote areas of the districts with free vaccines in keeping with the Ramakrishna Mission’s ideology of ‘selfless service’,” said Swami Atmapriyananda. “The idea is to aid the state government in offering vaccine cover to all with the motto of ‘Siva jnane jiva seva or serving living beings as embodiments of divinity or God’.” Monks of the order said two organisations — the Bangalore-based Atyati Technologies and Bagri Foundation — have promised Rs 6 crore to the Ramakrishna Mission for its mass vaccination programme. Two other philanthropic organisations — the Calcutta-based Vivekananda Swasthya Seva Sangha and the Bangalore-based Karuna Trust —have assured the Mission of logistic support by providing doctors, nurses, support staff, ambulances and mobile vans to conduct the mass vaccination programme. Ramakrishna Mission wants to utilise its branch centres and its extensive network to organise vaccination camps. In a letter to the Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, Ramakrishna Mission has said it wants to immediately take up the mass vaccination programme in Bengal. “We propose to vaccinate all in the age group of 18+ and try to cover particularly the rural parts of Bengal and the Northeastern region on mobile vans which have been named ‘Vivekananda Covid Vaccination Centre on Wheels’,” the letter to Bhushan says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
27-07-2021||Calcutta||State tech university starts renting accommodation to set up WiFi-enabled hostels ||The state tech university has begun renting accommodation in the vicinity of the campus to set up WiFi-enabled hostels where students can attend classes over digital platforms, a university official said. The Maulana Abul Kalam Azad University of Technology (MAKAUT), to which all private and government engineering colleges in the state are affiliated, has two hostels on its Haringhata campus, where a section of students of the university’s in-house programmes stay. Vice-chancellor Saikat Maitra said they now wanted to provide accommodation to as many students as possible so they could attend online classes without any connectivity woes. A notice from the university’s registrar, Partha Pratim Lahiri, on July 21 said: “It is hereby informed that MAKAUT will be hiring rented accommodation within the vicinity of the university’s main campus for entire requirements like store, hostels and for other purposes which may deem fit.” An official of MAKAUT said close to 2,000 students were enrolled in in-house programmes — undergraduate and postgraduate courses run directly by the university. “Of them, about 550 students have been provided hostels. But we have to increase the number of hostels if we are to accommodate more students who are unable to attend classes on digital platforms because of the digital divide,” he said. “Since constructing a hostel will take time, we are renting accommodation.” VC Maitra said the new hostels would have the WiFi facility. The hostel infrastructure is being ramped up so that physical distancing could be maintained once students are called back to the campus, following an approval from the government, the VC said. “The number of students has increased over the years. The Covid pandemic is not going to end anytime soon. So, we have to ensure alternative plans so that studies can go on without disruptions. Before recalling the students, we have to get the infrastructure ready so students can attend online classes maintaining all safety protocols,” he said. A MAKAUT official said once they set up the infrastructure, they would seek permission to call the students back to the campus. “Many of the students cannot afford data packs because of pandemic-induced economic constraints.” Last month, the university had waived the hostel, library and laboratory fees for its in-house students till the resumption of in-person classes. Unstable Net connectivity at home is also a problem for many. Another official said: “We don’t want any student to avail of public transport while coming to the campus when in-person classes resume because physical distancing norms are hardly maintained in buses. We will deploy our own buses to bring students from the hostels that are being developed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
27-07-2021||Calcutta||City likely to get more rain in coming days: Met office||A weather system brewing over the Bay of Bengal is likely to bring a wet spell in south Bengal. The system was in the form of a cyclonic circulation on Monday. It is expected to turn into a low-pressure area over the next 24 hours. The Met office recorded around 8mm of rain in Alipore on Monday. Some areas recorded more rain. “The city is likely to get more rain in the coming days. The system is expected to remain active till July 31,” said a Met official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-37
27-07-2021||Calcutta||Absence of written test hurt students, say schools||Several schools reported that no student had scored 100 per cent in ISC (Class XII) maths unlike other years. Some said the highest in the subject had gone down, too, making them believe that the absence of pen-and-paper exams had hurt students. At least two schools said they intended to bring it to the notice of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) that announced the ICSE and ISC results on Saturday. In some other schools, students had contacted their teachers to ask for a provision of improvement exams or rechecks. In La Martiniere for Boys, Calcutta Boys’ School, Loreto House, Calcutta Girls’ High School, Sri Sri Academy, Delhi Public School New Town, Sri Sri Academy, M P Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School and Julien Day School Howrah, not one student scored 100 in maths. All these schools have several students scoring 100 every year. A Calcutta Boys’ official said usually, the school has eight or nine ISC candidates who score 100. A La Martiniere for Boys official said they usually have 15 students who score 100 and a Loreto House official said at least five score full marks. Sri Sri Academy, MP Birla and Calcutta Girls’ officials said three or four of their students score 100 every year. Teachers in some schools said that if the marks in other subjects are high, for those vying for prestigious colleges, the maths score could become the differentiator. “A student might lose out in the competition for admission in top colleges,” said a principal. A school head said that those who had secured admission in foreign universities were safe but many others were worried. “Students are worried that a dip in their percentage might affect their college admission,” said a school head. For example, in one school, the highest in maths is 93 and 27 students have scored 90 and above — in the 90 to 93 bracket. In another school, the highest maths marks last year was 99. This year, it is 84. Teachers in some schools said marks were not as expected and students would have performed better had they appeared in a written exam. “The marks in the subject are not as expected. A lot of our students in both science and commerce have approached us because they want to write an improvement exam,” said Gargi Banerjee, vice-principal, Sri Sri Academy. Teachers across schools said writing an exam would have let the academically stronger students get better marks than what they scored in the rehearsal exams. “The rehearsals wake them up because they see their answer scripts and understand where they stand and prepare better to write a board exam. It is in the last leg that they burn the midnight oil, which was missing this year,” said Raja McGee, principal, Calcutta Boys’. The council had cancelled this year’s ICSE and ISC exams because of the Covid pandemic. The council had asked for the average marks of Classes XI and XII. Teachers said that seriousness among students does not set in before they are in Class XII. “In Class XI, they still cannot overcome the joy of passing ICSE. They are also busy with activities and co-curriculars,” said McGee. “A 99 or 98 is not a bad score. Since the formula considered marks in Class X, XI and XII, unless a student scored a 100 in all three, it is not possible to get a 100 in the board exam,” said John Stephen, acting principal of La Martiniere for Boys.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
27-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal receives 1.5 lakh Covaxin doses,  another 1.7 lakh to arrive on Tuesday||Bengal on Monday received around 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin and got an assurance from the Centre that another 1.7 lakh doses would arrive on Tuesday, paving the way for administering the second jab to Covaxin recipients in Calcutta. Sources in the health department said on Monday around 40,000 doses of Covaxin were handed to the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC). An official of the CMC said they would resume administering Covaxin on Tuesday. The civic body was forced to stop administering the vaccine, manufactured by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, as it had run out of stock. The state health department, too, had run out of Covaxin doses. “We received 1.5 lakh doses of Covaxin today and the Centre assured us that another 1.7 lakh would be sent tomorrow. Priority will be given to those who took their first dose of Covaxin more than 42 days, or six weeks, ago,” said an official of Swasthya Bhavan. “Once we start receiving more doses, more and more second dose recipients will be covered.” The second dose of Covaxin is to be administered four to six weeks after the first. As the state government had run out Covaxin doses, a large number of second dose recipients were clueless when they would get the jab. “We require 2.5 lakh Covaxin doses to administer the shot to all those who are waiting for their second jab,” an official in the state health department said. The official said that apart from Calcutta, Covaxin doses were sent to some of the districts adjoining Calcutta, including North and South 24-Parganas, and Howrah. The supply of Covishield, manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, is likely to remain steady for the rest of the month. “Around 18 lakh doses of Covishield are expected to arrive by July 31. As of Sunday evening, the state health department had about 8.5 lakh Covishield doses,” the official said. “The supply of Covishield has improved this month. We will be able to scale up vaccination with the arrival of the Covishield and Covaxin doses.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
27-07-2021||Calcutta||Calcutta assumes life of its own after night curfew sets in||A slice of Calcutta assumes a life of its own after the night curfew sets in. Ballygunge Circular Road, the leafy, upscale south Calcutta neighbourhood, has never been a stranger to a vibrant nightlife. Two dhabas on the road, which remain open through the night, have always drawn a sizable section of the city’s late-night revellers. A tour of the road on two consecutive nights, Friday and Saturday, showed little has changed because of the 9pm-to-5am curfew. A series of cars were still parked outside the two dhabas on both days. Waiters served food to the occupants of the cars. The dining area inside the eateries was also busy. All well beyond 9pm. The party goes on till well into the morning. Many elderly residents complained they are woken up in the middle of the night by the vroom of the super cars. Some of them alleged racing. Earlier, the noise would merge with the sound of other passing vehicles. In the middle of a pandemic-forced night curfew, there is little else on the road and the noise seems louder. Late-night snippets from Ballygunge Circular Road, when a ban on any movement — barring those for medical emergencies and those of essential service providers — is in force across the city. 11.15pm, Friday A dhaba right opposite the gate of the Ballygunge Maidan army camp was bustling with customers. At least 15 cars were parked outside the eatery. A Mercedes S-Class pulled into a vacant spot, minutes after a Mahindra XUV 500 left.The aroma of kebabs, daal and hot butter-laced rotis filled the air. Most people were busy eating inside cars. The plates were sometimes kept on the bonnets and boots of the cars. Soft drinks and water bottles were kept on the roof. A group of waiters was busy serving the occupants. Some other waiters waved expectantly at every car that passed by. “Gari ke andar khaiye, bahar khaiye, restaurant mei baithke khaiye. Jidhar marzi khaiye. Raat bhar khula hai (You can eat inside the car or inside the restaurant. Whatever you like. We are open through the night),” a waiter said as our car stopped by. A young group sat inside a Hyundai i10. A waiter served food inside the car and kept a jug of water on its roof. One occupant of the car reached out for the jug. But he was stopped by a woman seated next to him. The waiter was called again, this time for a bottle of packaged drinking water. Every now and then, a two-wheeler of online food aggregators turned up at the eatery. Home delivery of food is allowed through the night. Asked why food was being served to people after 9pm, a man sitting at the counter of the eatery said: “Yahaan to log raat ko hi aate hai (Most people come here at night)”. 12.05am, Saturday At least a dozen cars were parked outside one of the eateries, right next to the quarters of IAS officers. The waiters were busy doing the rounds between the kitchen and the cars. Every now and then, one of them was stepping out with a series of trays in both hands, walking briskly up to a car and serving the food. One of the waiters serves two plates of kebabs to the occupants of one car and rotis and curries to the occupants of another. The destination of the kebabs was a Toyota SUV. Inside, two glasses were kept on a seatback table. A man poured liquor from a bottle into one of the glasses, added water to it before taking a sip. Another man stood near the rear window, talking to the man inside. Inside a Hyundai Creta a few metres away, a family of four were having dinner. A man sat at the wheels, a woman beside him and two children in the back. A waiter was rebuffed by the man for being late in bringing the food. “Bada gari hai na bahut, is liye hamare liye time nahi hai tere paas (There are a lot of fancy cars around. That is why you don’t have time for us),” the man barked. The waiter had just delivered papads and salads to the occupants of a BMW 3 Series 330i Sport, which had come “long after” the Creta, according to the man. The Telegraph had sought to know about the violation of the night curfew from police. “The eateries usually remain open for online orders. I was out last night to ensure the enforcement of the night curfew. We will act against violators,” said the officer-in-charge of Ballygunge police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
27-07-2021||Calcutta||City police start prosecuting vehicles with faulty number plates ||The city police have started prosecuting vehicles with defective number plates and the ones that have registration numbers written in fonts that are difficult to read when the vehicles are in motion. Police said such vehicles, when found violating traffic rules, often result in faulty citation cases, causing inconvenience to motorists who get falsely implicated. The police have prosecuted 2,252 motorists over the past 26 days for using defective number plates. “The number plates that do not conform to the standard size and font are deemed defective. Among those are the ones on which the digits and the letters are written in a font that is difficult to read when the vehicle moves,” said a traffic officer posted in south Calcutta. “The registration plates of some of the prosecuted vehicles were damaged and on some the numbers and letters were hazy.” Most of the motorists prosecuted are said to have told the police that they were unaware of the rule related to the font and size. “The motorists whose vehicles had number plates with cursive writing or small display were difficult to convince that using a plate like that was an offence,” the officer said. According to the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, all vehicles registered after April 1, 2019, should have a High Security Registration Plate (HSRP), which are issued only by the government and have a number of security features. A transport department official said it was mandatory for all vehicles to sport HSRPs, which have to be bought from regional transport offices. The HSRPs, which are acceptable across the country, are made of aluminium with a unique laser-etched code below the IND (international registration code for India) and the Ashoka Chakra hologram. The number plates are secured with snap-locks which become non-reusable when tampered with, an officer in the motor vehicles department said. The city police depend on traffic constables and homeguards for manual citations of vehicles that are spotted flouting traffic rules. Citations are also recorded based on footage from automatic number plate recognition cameras, paired with red light violation detection cameras. Once the registration numbers of violating vehicles are noted down — manually or through cameras — an e-challan is generated against the name and mobile number of the person in whose name the vehicle is registered. A number of Calcuttans issued such a challan protested that their vehicles were not at the spot of the violation. “Defective registration number plates were responsible for a large number of faulty citations,” an officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-38
27-07-2021||Business||Recruitment Mantra launches campaign ‘HIRE EMPLOYEE @999/- ONLY’ for recruitment||Leading recruitment firm, Recruitment Mantra is launching an encouraging campaign ‘HIRE EMPLOYEE @999/- ONLY’ to serve the recruitment needs of different companies and firms.  The brand new campaign which is considered as highly economical and feasible will enable these firms to save their cost as well as encourage them to hire more people. The budget-friendly package is proven to benefit the firms and corporates in preventing them from hiring internal HR teams or to spend large amounts on different portals and advertisements. Their in-house team provides expertise on all aspects of recruitment and retention ranging from creative development, traditional and digital media advertising, national and local outreach, and information technology solutions. Speaking about the launch, the CEO Mr. Arghya Sarkar says, "As the pandemic has worstly affected our economy, now most of the organisations are opting for cost cutting. Earlier the recruitment process was different where for hiring manpower the companies had their internal recruitment team. Some companies used to pay for different portal subscriptions. Some of them even used to hire a consultant who charged at least 8.33% on annual CTC. Therefore, this campaign will be beneficial for all these organisations to hire skilled manpower as per their requirement at Rs. 999/- only." The young and dynamic entrepreneur, Mr. Arghya Sarkar is a successful businessman with hands-on experience in multiple fields and domains that include recruitment, HR consulting, brand management and image consulting. He is also associated with Iapetus Coach De Vie Pvt Ltd as its Managing Director which is one of the fast growing start up businesses in the field of image consulting. As per Mr. Sarkar, 25% profit from this campaign will be used for charitable purposes for those needy children who suffered the most during this pandemic. With simplified processes and accessibility, the campaign will likely bring an ease in the recruitment process by generating high volume and quality enrollments for multiple firms and organisations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
27-07-2021||Business||Block Beats Company emerges as the new sun-rise in the block chain technology||A blockchain is a form of a database that keeps information different from a traditional database. Blockchains store data in blocks linked together. As new data arrives, it is added to a new block. Once the block has been filled with data, it is chained onto the preceding block, resulting in the data chained chronologically. A blockchain may hold several sorts of data. Its most frequent application to date has been as a transaction ledger. Dr Sahil Kadari has worked in the blockchain technology field for over five years. He has top administrative positions in several organisations, making significant contributions to the development and growth of new enterprises. Blockchain, according to Sahil, is the future of the next generation and one of the finest investment opportunities of this age. He is still researching the uses and development possibilities of blockchain technology. He is also the recipient of a lot of awards including Nelson Mandela Award, Indian Iconic business Award, Indian Glory award to name a few. He is also India's 1st youngest Doctorate in Blockchain technology certificate. Block Beats was founded by him. The creators of the business, Block Beats Genesis, feel that their purpose is to create a civilization united by a shared desire to understand how to manage complex technology, which is changing more and more of our world. They regard the digital gap as a worldwide challenge to humanity, which they are quickly addressing. Their contribution to addressing this issue is their one-of-a-kind offering, a high-tech platform that makes sophisticated technologies publicly available and promotes them. They are creating a strong platform based on cutting-edge technology. Using a blockchain is cryptographically safe since the ledger is spread among all nodes in the system, making hacking difficult. There is no one governing authority, and the network cannot be twisted or controlled by a single controlling authority. There is no intermediary. It's a novel hybrid proof-of-work. Why choose BlockBeats? It operates at a high speed and a low cost, making the whole process affordable and cost-effective. It further protects against hacking and maintains a real-time database ensuring easy entry and fair competition by eliminating middlemen. Their Trading assists clients in the management and transformation of their front, middle, and back-office trading activities. They offer a comprehensive range of services to buy-side, sell-side, and market infrastructure businesses, including systems integration and technology consultancy, to help them achieve high-performance trading and settlement capabilities across all asset classes. Strategy, architectural design, operating model work, process improvement, system development, and trading package integration are all part of this, as are application management, application outsourcing, and business process outsourcing. Benefits of using BlockBeats: Blockbeats offers BANKS PAYMENT SYSTEMS that are simple to use and set up. Everything from an AI-created portfolio to automatic payments is included. Blockbeats contribute to the growth of the Token's value. We live in a world where DIGITAL CURRENCY EVOLUTION is taking place. Everything is building up to the launch of big cryptocurrencies. It is jam-packed with cutting-edge blockchain technology. It saves time and allows you to cash out anytime you want. Blockbeats also has FAVORABLE REGULATIONS such as untraceable transactions, anti-hacking capabilities, three layers of encryption, and automatic payments. One should feel at peace because the data is stored in a decentralised manner. It is encrypted data with Blockchain protection and Fast Calculation. Blockchain is a game-changing technology that will have a significant influence on every industry. Now that you understand the significance of blockchain technology, Block Beats can assist you in making informed decisions and investing in cryptocurrency.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
27-07-2021||Business||IMF slashes India's growth forecast for FY22 to 9.5 per cent||The International Monetary Fund (IMF) on Tuesday cut its economic growth forecast for India to 9.5 per cent for the fiscal year to March 31, 2022 as the onset of a severe second Covid-19 wave cut into recovery momentum. This forecast for 2021-22 is lower than the 12.5 per cent growth in GDP that IMF had projected in April before the second wave took a grip. For 2022-23, IMF expects economic growth of 8.5 per cent, larger than the 6.9 per cent it had projected in April. “Growth prospects in India have been downgraded following the severe second COVID wave during March-May and expected slow recovery in confidence from that setback,” IMF said in its latest World Economic Outlook (WEO). India’s economy is gradually recovering from a deep contraction in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 (7.3 per cent) and a subsequent severe second wave of Covid-19. IMF joins a host of global and domestic agencies which have cut India's growth estimates for the current fiscal. Last month, S&P Global Ratings projected a 9.5 per cent GDP growth in the current fiscal and 7.8 per cent in 2022-23. While World Bank sees GDP growth at 8.3 per cent from April 2021 to March 2022, the Asian Development Bank (ADB) last week downgraded India's economic growth forecast to 10 per cent from 11 per cent estimated in April. Another US-based rating agency Moody's has projected India clocking 9.3 per cent growth in the current fiscal ending March 2022. For 2021 calendar year, Moody's has cut the growth estimate sharply to 9.6 per cent. The GDP, which shrank from USD 2.87 trillion in 2019-20 to USD 2.66 trillion in the following year, is estimated to reach around USD 4 trillion in 2024-25. Overall, the global economy is projected to grow 6 per cent in 2021 and 4.9 per cent in 2022. The 2021 global growth forecast is unchanged from the April 2021 WEO, but with offsetting revisions, the report said. The global economic recovery continues, but with a widening gap between advanced economies and many emerging markets and developing economies. “Our latest global growth forecast of 6 percent for 2021 is unchanged from the previous outlook, but the composition has changed,” IMF’s Chief Economist Gita Gopinath said in a blog post released along with the WEO. Gopinath said, “IMF estimates the pandemic has reduced per capita incomes in advanced economies by 2.8 per cent, relative to pre-pandemic trends over 2020-2022, compared with an annual per capita loss of 6.3 per cent a year for emerging market and developing economies (excluding China).” “These revisions reflect important extent differences in pandemic developments as the delta variant takes over. Close to 40 percent of the population in advanced economies has been fully vaccinated, compared with 11 percent in emerging market economies, and a tiny fraction in low-income developing countries,” she wrote. “Faster-than expected vaccination rates and return to normalcy have led to upgrades, while lack of access to vaccines and renewed waves of Covid-19 cases in some countries, notably India, have led to downgrades,” Gopinath added. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
27-07-2021||Business||Sensex drops 273 points||Equity benchmark Sensex tumbled over 273 points on Tuesday, tracking losses in index majors Reliance Industries, Dr Reddy's and Axis Bank amid a massive selloff in Chinese markets. Despite opening on a positive note, the 30-share BSE index turned red to end 273.51 points or 0.52 per cent lower at 52,578.76, while the broader NSE Nifty fell 78 points or 0.49 per cent to 15,746.45. Dr Reddy's was the top loser in the Sensex pack, plunging over 10 per cent, after the company reported s 36 per cent decline in consolidated net profit at Rs 380.4 crore for the quarter ended June 30, 2021, on account of higher expenses. Axis Bank, Sun Pharma, Kotak Bank, HDFC and ITC fell up to 3.19 per cent. On the other hand, Tata Steel, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, Bajaj Finance and Tech Mahindra were among the gainers. "Stocks gave up gains as investors were nervous on the selling across Chinese markets by global funds coupled with the policies of the Chinese authorities and the likely impact on Indian markets despite knowing that it is also a positive for India," said S Ranganathan, Head of Research at LKP securities. While we did see profit booking across banks and the pharma pack on account of negative news flow on few pharma names, certain pockets across the broader market like textile exporters and coffee stocks posted smart gains on the back of rising coffee futures, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai and Hong Kong witnessed massive selloff as data safety and other enforcement actions weighed on Chinese internet and other companies. Seoul and Tokyo ended with gains. Stock exchanges in Europe were trading with losses in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.30 per cent to USD 73.91 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
27-07-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 150 points in early trade ||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 150 points in early trade on Tuesday, tracking gains in index majors HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Tata Steel amid a positive trend in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index was trading 155.51 points or 0.29 per cent higher at 53,007.78 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty rose 48.15 points or 0.30 per cent to 15,872.60.  Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising more than 1 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, IndusInd Bank, Maruti, Titan and SBI.  On the other hand, Axis Bank, L&T, HCL Tech, Nestle India and HDFC were among the laggards.  In the previous session, Sensex ended 123.53 points or 0.23 per cent lower at 52,852.27, and Nifty slipped 31.60 points or 0.20 per cent to 15,824.45.  Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,376.79 crore on Monday, as per provisional exchange data.  Domestic markets look to be modestly good as of now. Notably, 1QFY22 corporate earnings have been strong so far and commentary of most management also have been encouraging, said Binod Modi Head-Strategy at Reliance Securities.  "While asset quality worry for banks and NBFCs post 1QFY22 earnings cards of HDFC Banks and ICICI Banks weighed on investor sentiment, it is likely to improve with the reopening of the complete economy and faster job creation," he stated.  While concerns over global growth due to the recent rise in delta variant coronavirus cases in different parts of the world continue to persist, we believe that the underlying strength of the domestic market remains intact, Modi added.  US equities extended gains ahead of corporate earnings report cards of heavyweights and Federal Reserve policy meeting outcome.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul and Tokyo were trading with gains in mid-session deals, while Hong Kong was in the red.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.41 per cent to USD 74 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
27-07-2021||Business||Byju’s acquires Singapore-based Great Learning||Edtech major Byju’s on Monday announced the acquisition of Singapore-based Great Learning in a transaction valued at $600 million, comprising cash, stock and earnout. The company has also earmarked an additional $400 million investment in the professional and higher education segment to accelerate Great Learning’s growth, a press statement said. “The acquisition marks Byju’s strong push into the professional upskilling and life-long learning space globally with a total commitment of $1 billion, expanding its offerings beyond the K12 and test prep segments, and further accelerating the company’s growth plans,” it added. Great Learning will continue to operate as an independent unit under the Byju’s group under the leadership of its founder and CEO Mohan Lakhamraju and co-founders, Hari Nair and Arjun Nair. The acquisition comes only days after the firm bought Epic, a digital reading platform for kids, for $500 million (Rs 3,729.8 crore). The company is planning to invest an additional $1 billion in North America to accelerate its vision of “helping students fall in love with learning”. The acquisition is expected to help Byju’s expand its footprint in the US by providing access to the more than two million teachers and 50 million kids in Epic’s existing global user-base, which has more than doubled over the last year. Epic CEO Suren Markosian and co-founder Kevin Donahue will remain in their roles. “Our partnership with Epic will enable us to create engaging and interactive reading and learning experiences for children globally. Byju’s has aggressive plans for the international and US market expansion. The acquisition with Epic will not only lead to significant investments in technology that will help to further personalised learning for students but also enable Byju’s to become a natural part of America’s learning culture,” the company had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-128
27-07-2021||Business||Paytm expects to launch IPO at end of October||Indian digital payments firm Paytm expects to launch its initial public offering (IPO) at the end of October, pending regulatory approvals, a source familiar with the matter said on Monday. Paytm, which has filed for a Rs 16,600 crore ($2.2 billion) IPO that will likely be the largest ever in India, also expects to break even in 18 months, the source said, declining to be named as the matter is not public. Paytm’s IPO plan comes at a time several first-generation homegrown start-ups in India prepare to go public on the domestic bourses, led by food delivery firm Zomato, which made a stellar stock market debut last week. “Hopefully Paytm will be able to go out before Diwali,” the source said. The startup, which counts China’s Ant Group and Japan’s SoftBank among its backers, narrowed its operating loss to Rs 1,655 crore in the financial year to end-March 2021 from Rs 2,468 crore a year before. “Paytm is on the path to profitability now,” the source said. “If the company continues the way it is doing right now 18 months is quite reasonable, assuming there is no Covid-related impact to the business.” Paytm declined to comment. JSW Cement Private equity funds Apollo Global Management, Advent International and Synergy Metals and Mining Fund are in the race to pick up a stake in JSW Cement, part of the $12 billion JSW Group, according to a source. The three funds have moved to the next round of the minority stake sale of JSW Cement at valuation of around $1.5 billion. JSW Cement is divesting a stake worth Rs 1,500 crore ($200 million) to fund its capital expenditure, the source said. This could be a combination of debt and equity, though it is yet to be finally decided.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
27-07-2021||Business||British court grants bankruptcy order against Vijay Mallya||A British court on Monday granted a bankruptcy order against Vijay Mallya, paving the way for a consortium of Indian banks led by the State Bank of India (SBI) to pursue a worldwide freezing order to seek repayment of debt owed by the now-defunct Kingfisher Airlines. “As at 15.42 (UK time), I shall adjudicate Mallya bankrupt,” Chief Insolvencies and Companies Court (ICC) judge Michael Briggs said in his ruling during a virtual hearing of the Chancery Division of the High Court. “I have to decide if there is a real prospect of payment of petition debt in full within a reasonable period of time… there is insufficient evidence that (Mallya’s asset realisations in India) will pay the debt in full within a reasonable period of time,” Judge Briggs noted, in reference to defence arguments pointing to a restoration process in India following a Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court order for the attachment of Mallya’s assets. “In my judgment, the sums provided to date are conditional… there is no evidence  Mallya will return to India to deal with the criminal trial and seek to unlock the allocation of realisations which have been made,” the judge concluded. The 65-year-old businessman, wanted in India on fraud and money laundering charges, remains on bail in the UK while a “confidential” legal matter, believed to be related to an asylum application, is resolved in connection with the unrelated extradition proceedings. During the course of Monday’s hearing, Judge Briggs asked Mallya’s barrister, Philip Marshall, if there was any “indication” if his client intended to return to India to deal with the criminal proceedings and was told that there was no such indication.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
27-07-2021||Business||Kotak Mahindra and Axis Bank meet analyst estimates of asset quality||Two private sector lenders — Kotak Mahindra Bank and Axis Bank — on Monday met analyst estimates of their asset quality, providing some relief amid renewed concerns of a rise in bad loans because of the second Covid wave. Axis Bank reported a gross non-performing asset (NPA) ratio of 3.85 per cent during the first quarter ended June 30. Though it marked a slight deterioration over 3.70 per cent in the previous three months, it was in line with the 3.9 per cent  projection by Emkay. The brokerage had expected Kotak Mahindra Bank to report a gross NPA ratio of 3.5 per cent. The percentage of gross NPAs to gross advances at the bank came in at 3.56 per cent which was, however, higher than 3.25 per cent in the preceding January-March quarter. Observers said though the percentage of bad loans in both these banks have risen on a sequential basis, it is not as bad as feared. Worries about the banks’ non-performing loans have risen because of the impact of the second Covid wave after HDFC Bank, known for its stable asset quality, reported a higher gross NPA ratio of 1.47 per cent compared with 1.32 per cent in the January-March quarter and 1.36 per cent in the April-June 2020 quarter. Bajaj Finance also reported a 19.15 per cent gross NPA ratio in its auto finance business, a huge jump over 9.31 per cent in the preceding quarter. During the period under review, Kotak Mahindra Bank reported a standalone net profit of Rs 1,641.91 crore against Rs 1,244.45 crore in the year-ago quarter, a rise of almost 32 per cent. The lender disclosed that it has implemented a one-time restructuring for 6,522 accounts where its exposure stood at almost Rs 227 crore. The bank’s net interest income rose 6 per cent to Rs 3,942 crore from Rs 3,724 crore in the April-June quarter of the previous fiscal. Axis Bank disclosed that it has undertaken a one-time restructuring for 8,162 accounts where the exposure stood at Rs 2,124 crore. The specific loan loss provisions for the quarter was Rs 3,151 crore compared with Rs 3,512 crore in the previous year. The bank’s net profit almost doubled to Rs 2,160.15 crore in the June quarter from Rs 1,112.17 crore in the year-ago period.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
27-07-2021||Business||Centre has no plan to ask RBI to print money to finance deficit ||The Centre has no plan to ask the Reserve Bank of India to print money to finance its deficit for the current fiscal even as the interest rates on government paper show little signs of softening with those on the benchmark 10-year paper at 6.16 per cent at close on Monday. “The fundamentals of the economy remain strong as the gradual scaling back of lockdowns, along with the astute support of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Mission (stimulus package) has placed the economy firmly on the path of recovery from the second half of 2020-21,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in the Lok Sabha on Monday. She was replying to a question by Lok Sabha member Mala Roy of the Trinamul Congress on the state of the economy during the coronavirus pandemic. When asked “whether there is any plan to print currency to tide over the crisis”, the finance minister, in her written statement, replied “no”. Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee and former finance minister P. Chidambaram had suggested that printing money was an appropriate way to support rising expenditure during the pandemic. While Banerjee said the government should print money to support direct cash transfers to the poor, Chidambaram wanted the Centre to “act boldly and spend” by borrowing or printing more money. “This is not the time to worry about the fiscal deficit. So what if the deficit widens to 6.5 per cent. We can’t lose another year like we lost the last year. My advice to the government is to act boldly and spend. Borrow or print money and spend,” Chidambaram said. A section of the economists was opposed to the idea as this would lead to higher inflation and a decline in the value of the rupee. Sitharaman introduced the insolvency amendment bill in the Lok Sabha which is meant to provide a pre-packaged insolvency resolution to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). The bill — Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (amendment) Bill 2021 — will replace an ordinance promulgated in April this year. Tax collection The net direct tax collection in the first quarter of 2021-22 is Rs 2.46 lakh crore against Rs 1.17 lakh crore a year ago, the minister of state for finance Pankaj Chaudhary informed Lok Sabha in a written reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
27-07-2021||Business||Tata Motors reports greater than expected loss in the first quarter||Tata Motors on Monday reported a greater than expected loss in the first quarter with its Indian operations coping more effectively than overseas arm Jaguar Land Rover to the twin challenges of the pandemic and a semiconductor shortage. The Indian auto major reported a consolidated loss of Rs 4,450.92 crore against a loss of Rs 8,437.99 crore in the year-ago period. While JLR was a drag, the performance of the domestic operations was better than estimates. Analysts had expected the company to report a net loss of around Rs 2,000 crore during the period. In the preceding quarter, Tata Motors had posted a net loss of Rs 7,605.40 crore. During the period, its consolidated revenues stood at Rs 65,535.38 crore, up from Rs 31,481.86 crore in the same period of the previous year. It was, however, lower than the Rs 87,772.31 crore earned in the January-March period. Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), which contributes a significant part of Tata Motors’ topline, reported revenues of around £4.97 billion, which was a 73.7 per cent jump over the previous year. Retail sales of JLR rose 68.1 per cent year-on-year to 124,537 units, while wholesales jumped 72.6 per cent to 84,442 vehicles. But the semiconductor constraint meant wholesales fell short of targets by around 30,000 vehicles. According to JLR, the production constraint resulted in a pre-tax loss of £110 million  compared with £413 million in the same period of the previous year. The company reported a free cash outflow of £996 million, which it said was better than £1.6 billion at the peak of the pandemic  a year ago. On the road ahead, the Tata Motors subsidiary said that despite the spread of the Delta variant, a higher vaccination coverage is an encouraging trend. However, it added that the shortage of semiconductors is very difficult to forecast. The company reiterated that the semiconductor supply shortages in the quarter ending September 2021 will be greater than in the first quarter, potentially resulting in wholesale volumes coming in  about 50 per cent lower than planned. “JLR expects the situation will start to improve in the second half of the financial year. In the second quarter, JLR expects a negative EBIT margin with a free cash outflow of less than £1 billion. “As the semiconductor supply improves, JLR expects to achieve a positive EBIT margin and positive free cash flow in the second half of the financial year,’’ it said. Tata Motors’ standalone revenues, which largely represent its domestic & joint operations, came in at Rs 11,818.31 crore against Rs 2,634.14 crore in the year ago period — a 349 per cent rise. However, it posted a loss of Rs 1,320.74 crore, which was lower than Rs 2,190.64 crore in the same quarter of the previous year. Tata Motors expects demand to improve but warned of rising input prices. The results should improve on a sequential basis from the second half, the company said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-129
27-07-2021||India||Rakesh Asthana appointed Delhi police commissioner||Rakesh Asthana, a senior IPS officer of Gujarat cadre, was appointed as the Commissioner of Delhi Police on Tuesday. According to a Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) order, Asthana, currently serving as Director General of the Border Security Force (BSF), will join as the Delhi Police Commissioner with immediate effect. The appointment of Asthana to the post came just days before his superannuate on July 31. He will have a tenure of one year. This is one of the very few instances when an IPS officer outside of the AGMUT cadre has been appointed as the Delhi Police chief. Usually, an officer belonging to the Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territory (AGMUT) cadre is appointed to the post. Asthana, a 1984-batch IPS officer, had served as the Special Director of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). During his stint in the CBI, he was engaged in an unsavoury spat with the then CBI Director Alok Verma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
27-07-2021||India||SC seeks Centre's response on uniform standard of healthcare||The Supreme Court Tuesday sought the Centre's response on a plea seeking directions for a uniform standard of healthcare for citizens in line with the Constitution by adopting the provisions of the Clinical Establishments Act, 2010. The plea has also sought directions for operationalising all the provisions of the Act, as well as Clinical Establishment Rules, 2012 in order to ensure affordable and quality healthcare. A bench comprising Chief Justice NV Ramana and Surya Kant issued notice to the government and others on the plea filed by Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, Patients' Rights Campaign and K M Gopakumar. Senior advocate Sanjay Parikh, appearing for the petitioners, argued that the Clinical Establishment Act (CEA) came after several committees' recommendations and National Policy on Health and provided guidelines for determining charges and standard treatment. The plea has sought directions for notification and implementation of the conditions for registration of clinical establishments such as observance of minimum standards, display of rates for procedures and services, compliance with the standard treatment protocol, as provided in Sections 11 and 12 of the CEA read with Rule 9 of the Rules, 2012. The plea has also sought directions that a grievance redressal mechanism be created for the patients at the district, state and national level till the lacunae in the CEA are filled by a suitable legislation. The PIL said the duty to provide healthcare to citizens was put on the government under Article 47 of the Constitution; however, the public healthcare system did not proceed as conceived and treats only 30 per cent of the patients, while the rest are treated by the private sector. The petition contended that the public healthcare system suffers from a lack of public health infrastructure and human resources, non-availability of medicines, lack of public investment and forced dependency on the private sector. The plea submitted that there is an urgent need to develop the public healthcare system in India by providing proper infrastructure and sufficient budget to ensure that the maximum facilities exist in the public domain, not only in normal times but also at the time of emergencies such as COVID-19. Since it will take time and investment to develop the public health infrastructure, there is an urgent need to regulate the private healthcare providers to ensure access to affordable and quality healthcare to citizens, the plea said. "If the provisions of the Clinical Establishments Act 2010 are implemented, which apply both to the public and private sector, it would be possible to control some of the ailments from which the private medical the sector is suffering from and also provides an enabling environment to enjoy the right to health guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution and Article 12 of International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights," the plea said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
27-07-2021||India||Day after clashes, Centre summons top Assam, Mizoram officials||The Centre has summoned to New Delhi the chief secretaries and DGPs of Assam and Mizoram for a meeting on Wednesday while the restive inter-state border was calm, a day after armed clashes left six dead and over 50 injured, officials said. Notwithstanding the apparent placidity at the border, leaders from the two sides Tuesday voiced anger over the incident, betraying the brittleness of peace. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla will chair the meeting to discuss the sudden escalation of violence along the Assam-Mizoram border. The meeting of the chief secretaries and Directors General of Police is expected to work on a peace formula so there is no repeat of such violence, a home ministry official said in New Delhi. The two northeastern states are locked in a battle over their boundaries for decades, often culminating in clashes big and small but none like the one witnessed on Monday. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, meanwhile, blew hot and cold, saying he will abide by any law enacted by Parliament that forces it to even cede its land to another state but till then it will not allow even an "inch to be encroached". BJP general secretary and Lok Sabha MP from the state Dilip Saikia demanded that Mizoram tender an apology to the people of Assam for the death of its police personnel. "What Mizoram police along with local people did yesterday is condemnable. There was a video showing Mizo people celebrating the killing of Assamese police personnel. I condemn this barbaric attack on Assamese people and police," Saikia told reporters in the national capital and demanded an apology. Mizoram Information and Public Relations Minister Lalruatkima shot right back and claimed CRPF personnel at the border did not restrain armed police personnel and civilians from Assam from intruding into Mizoram despite the tension. "The bloody clashes could have been averted had CRPF personnel prevented Assam police from entering Mizoram territory," Lalruatkima told PTI. Assam chief minister Sarma told reporters in Silchar that his government will move the Supreme Court seeking protection of Innerline Forest Reserve from destruction and encroachment and deploy three commando battalions in Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi districts bordering Mizoram to strengthen security. "It is the responsibility of the Centre to define the boundary and we will abide by it...if tomorrow the Parliament enacts a law by which our land can be given to another state, we will do so but till then we will protect our constitutional boundary," he said after paying floral tributes to the slain personnel. Assam has declared a three-day state mourning after the incident. "The dispute is not regarding land but encroachment of reserved forests is the issue. We have no settlements in the forest areas and, if Mizoram can give evidence, we will immediately carry out eviction," he said. "People have sacrificed their lives but boundary has been protected which we will continue to do at any cost. There is very strong deployment of police inside our border and not an inch of land will be allowed to be encroached," he asserted. Responding to a question about whether there could be a foreign angle to the border flare-up, he said, his government had taken decisions in the last two months which might have angered "certain non-state vested actors". He claimed some people who entered India from Myanmar wanted to settle in Assam's Dima Hasao district via Mizoram but his government thwarted the attempts. "Then we hit the drug route through Mizoram and Manipur to Assam," he said. "Finally, the tabling of the Assam Cattle Protection Bill in the state assembly also created apprehension though we have clarified that transporation to northeastern states will not be affected provided they have valid permit," he added, while explaining the reasons that could have upset the non- state actors. When asked if the problem could have been resolved as constituents of NEDA, the northeastern version of the NDA, were ruling the two states, Sarma shot back, saying, "This is not a political issue but a long-standing boundary dispute. Earlier, there were Congress governments in both the states. Was the problem resolved then?" Assam's Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164-km border with Mizoram's three districts of Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit. Tensions along the border with Mizoram in Cachar and Hailakandi districts of Assam have been escalating since October 2020 with frequent incidents of burning of houses and charges of encroachment of land by both sides. On October 22, 2020, high-level talks were held under the aegis of the Union Home Ministry where it was decided to maintain the status quo and resolve the dispute through discussions. Tensions flared up again in February this year and since then hundreds of people have fled their homes near Gallacherra border outpost after two huts were burnt down, an Aizawl report said. After a lull of few months, a grenade was hurled on an Assam government team visiting the border by unknown attackers from Mizoram on July 10, while two back-to-back explosions were heard from across the border in the wee hours on July 11. Mizoram was a district of Assam before it was carved out as a union territory in 1971 after years of insurgency and the district borders did not really matter. It became a state in 1987 and border issues cropped up as perceptions over where the boundary should be differed. While Mizoram wants it to be along the inner line notified in 1875, which Mizo tribals feel is part of their historical homeland, Assam insists it should be defined according to district demarcation done much later. In an unrelated development but which could give an insight into the Centre's approach to border row among states, the government told the Lok Sabha on Monday that such disputes can "only" be resolved with the cooperation of states involved and the Union government just acts as a facilitator. "The approach of the central government has consistently been that inter-state disputes can be resolved only with the cooperation of the state governments concerned and that the central government acts only as a facilitator for amicable settlement of the dispute in the spirit of mutual understanding," Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said. Assam is engaged in protracted border disputes with Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Meghalaya and Mizoram. The Union home ministry, meanwhile, said the Centre is in regular touch with the Assam and Mizoram governments and trying to calm down the situation. CRPF contingents have been deployed in the violence-hit area.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
27-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha witnesses repeated adjournments amid opposition protests over Pegasus, farm laws||Lok Sabha on Tuesday witnessed a series of brief adjournments amid uproar created by opposition members over various issues, including the Pegasus spying controversy and the three contentious farm laws. While no legislative business could be transacted, the House for the first time in the Monsoon session took up "matters of urgent public importance" wherein MPs raise issues relating to their respective constituencies. Soon after the House assembled for the day, Speaker Om Birla repeatedly urged the protesting members to go back to their seats. “Do not compete with each other in sloganeering. Compete with each other to raise people's issues,” he said. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar took a swipe at the protesting opposition members and said if they are concerned about farmers, they should allow the proceedings of the House to continue. He made the remarks while replying to a supplementary query related to an insurance scheme for farmers during the Question Hour as the opposition members continued with their sloganeering on various issues, including the Pegasus spying controversy and the agriculture laws against which a section of farmers has been protesting on Delhi's borders for eight months. “There are around 15 questions related to farmers. If the opposition members are really concerned about farmers, they should listen to what the government has to say,” Tomar said. “Disruptions are lowering the decorum of the House,” he said. After being adjourned nine times, the lower house reassembled at 4.30 PM and Rajendra Agrawal, who was in the Chair, once again took up one matter of urgent public importance. However, the opposition members again trooped into the well shouting slogans and carrying banners. The members of the Congress, CPI, CPI(M) and the TMC were protesting over the Pegasus snooping row, while the BSP, SP and the Shiromani Akali Dal were raising slogans against the Centre's three farm laws. Agrawal urged the protesting members to go back to their respective seats. “We are requesting you to please cooperate and participate in the proceedings,” he said. With opposition members not willing to relent, Agrawal adjourned the House for the day. Earlier, Speaker Om Birla led the members in paying tributes to Anerood Jugnauth, former president of Mauritius, and Kenneth David Buchizya Kaunda, the first president of Zambia. The opposition's protests started soon after the proceedings began at 11 am. Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal said by disrupting the proceedings, the opposition is not allowing the ministers to do their duty of replying to questions. As the protests continued, the House was adjourned for the first time till 11.45 am. When the House met again, the protests continued, leading to another adjournment till 12 noon. As Lok Sabha reassembled at 12 noon, Agrawal, who was chairing the proceedings, asked the protesting members to discuss their issues and said the government is ready to answer their questions. As the protests continued, Agrawal adjourned the House till 12.30 PM and later till 2 pm. Subsequently, Bhartruhari Mahtab, who was in the Chair, had to repeatedly adjourn the House due to continuing protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
27-07-2021||India||Unity of opposition parties will take shape on its own: Mamata||Trinamool Congress leader and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said the unity of opposition parties will take shape on its own, sidestepping questions of her taking on the leadership role. Banerjee, who is in the national capital for the first time after her party's resounding victory in the assembly polls, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and described it as part of protocol. "I had asked for an appointment from the PM... This was a courtesy visit. Post election, following the protocol we have to meet the PM once. But I also spoke about the Covid situation. I asked him to ensure that West Bengal gets enough vaccine doses. I am not against giving vaccines to other states, but considering the population of Bengal, we need more doses," she told reporters after the meeting. She said during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Bengal in May, there was no scope for a one-to-one meeting. Banerjee also said that she mentioned the issue of the change in West Bengal's name and told him that it was a long pending issue that should be resolved. While Banerjee refused to say if she discussed the Pegasus project with Modi, said that the prime minister should convene an all-party meet on the snooping row and decide on a Supreme Court-led probe. When asked if she has lined up a series of meetings with the Opposition parties with the 2024 Lok Sabha polls in mind, she said that the general elections are far away. "However planning for it has to be done in advance. Like there is election in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Tripura. Like how happened in Tripura with our boys and the issue of Dainik Jagran," she said. Asked about her efforts to unite the Opposition leaders, she said that it will happen "automatically". "Opposition unity will happen naturally, automatically," she said. On whether she will lead the Opposition against the BJP, she said, "The country will lead the Opposition, we are the followers." She said that she will meet all Opposition members after the Parliament session is over and the coronavirus situation normalises, indicating that another visit soon was on the anvil. This time around, however, she has her itinerary set with meetings with opposition party leaders who are seeking time from her and those like Congress Chairperson Sonia Gandhi who has invited her for tea. "She has called me for a chai per charcha tomorrow. Many of these leaders are my old friends. We discuss about old and new times. I will meet Arvind Kejriwal day after tomorrow. Javed Akhtar and Shabana Azmi asked for time, I have given them time. I will meet my party MPs tomorrow. I met Congress leaders Kamal Nath, Anand Sharma and Abhishek Manu Singhvi today," she said. A name missing from her list was that of NCP chief Sharad Pawar. "I haven't spoken to Sharad Pawar. I will meet him after the monsoon session," she said. She also said that she wants to meet the President but she has been informed that she needs to get a RT PCR test done, which, according to her, is difficult to do.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
27-07-2021||India||BS Yediyurappa had resigned on July 10, Narendra Modi had his letter, say sources||Though BS Yediyurappa kept alive the suspense surrounding his exit until his tearful announcement on Monday, he had resigned as Karnataka chief minister weeks back, sources told NDTV. According to sources, Yediyurappa resigned on July 10. A senior leader close to him delivered the resignation letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi the same day. Six days later, when Yediyurappa took a chartered flight to Delhi to meet with PM Modi and others in the BJP leadership, there was a strong buzz that he was about to resign. According to NDTV reports, he had offered to quit citing his poor health during his meeting with the prime minister. But Yediyurappa hedged and shut down all talk of his exit, telling reporters: “Not at all, not at all, not at all. There is no truth in it.” But sources say at that meeting, Yediyurappa, 78, told the prime minister he wanted some more time to step down. He reportedly said he wanted to unfurl the national flag on Independence Day August 15 as his last act as Chief Minister. That would mean nearly another month's grace period. He met with BJP chief JP Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah too. After each meeting, he said he had been told that the party has immense faith in him and wanted him to strengthen the party in Karnataka. After that day, Yediyurappa kept saying he had heard nothing from his party and that he would resign the moment he was asked to. Sources told NDTV that it appeared to be an attempt to project uncertainty over his exit and doubts in the party over whether to let him go. The apparent fluidity also helped build the perception that the BJP was finding it hard to find a replacement for the four-term chief minister and powerful Lingayat leader. In all this speculation, Yediyurappa kept a busy schedule and met with religious heads, including Lingayat seers, in an apparent message to his party leadership in Delhi on the strong support he enjoys. The Lingayats are a powerful community with a huge electoral impact in Karnataka, a fact that fortified Yediyurappa for long from dissenters and even from corruption allegations. Finally, Yediyurappa could stall no more as his government's two-year anniversary arrived. He told reporters on Sunday evening that he had heard “nothing till now” from the BJP but hinted heavily that come Monday, he may not remain in the post. “Nothing has come till now... In the morning there is a programme to mark two years of government. I will speak about the achievements in those two years. After that, you will know the progress,” he said. “I have decided that I will work till the very last minute. I already said two months ago that I was ready to resign whenever I was asked to. I will say it again - until now I have got no message from the centre. As soon as it comes, if they ask me to continue I will. If not, I will resign and work for that party,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
27-07-2021||India||Basavaraj Bommai elected as new Karnataka chief minister||The Karnataka BJP legislature party on Tuesday elected Basavaraj Bommai as its new leader and he will succeed outgoing Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa. According to party sources, Bommai, a Lingayat leader from North Karnataka, had the backing of the outgoing chief minister Yeddyurappa to succeed him. Basavaraj Bommai is the son of former chief minister, the late S R Bommai. The 61-year-old leader was Minister for Home Affairs, Law, Parliamentary Affairs and Legislature in Yediyurappa's council of ministers which was dissolved on Monday. "The new leader proposal was made by senior leader B S Yediyurappa and was supported by Govind Karjol, R Ashok, K S Eshwarappa, B Sriramulu, S T Somashekar, Poornima Srinivas, and the newly elected legislature party leader and new Chief Minister will be Basavaraj Bommai," BJP's central observers and Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan said after the meeting. Soon after the announcement, Bommai sought the blessings of Yediyurappa, and he was greeted by other party leaders. The legislature party meeting to elect the new leader took place at a city hotel in the presence of Union ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishan Reddy who were appointed as central observers by BJP's parliamentary board. It was attended by BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh, state president Nalin Kumar Kateel, national general secretary C T Ravi, among others. Known for his "clean and non-controversial" image, Bommai is considered among the close confidants of Yediyurappa. Ending months of speculation over his exit, Yediyurappa on Monday stepped down as the Chief Minister, coinciding with his government completing two years in office. Governor Thaawarchand Gehlot accepted the 78-year-old BJP veteran's resignation, and dissolved the Council of Ministers headed by him, with immediate effect. The notification from the Raj Bhavan said Yediyurappa shall continue to function as Chief Minister till alternative arrangements are made.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
27-07-2021||India||US Secretary of state arrives in India for two-day visit||US Secretary of State Antony Blinken arrived in India on Tuesday on a two-day visit aimed at further boosting bilateral ties and deliberate on the rapidly evolving security situation in Afghanistan as well as to expand cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region under the framework of Quad. On Wednesday, Blinken will hold extensive talks with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and meet National Security Advisor Ajit Doval. He is also scheduled to call on Prime Minister Narendra Modi before leaving for Kuwait as part of his two-nation tour. Just before leaving for India, Blinken said he was looking forward to consultations with partners of the US for further cooperation in support of its shared interests in the Indo-Pacific and Middle East. "Wheels up for my trip to New Delhi and Kuwait City. I look forward to consultations with our partners to further cooperation in support of our shared interests in the Indo-Pacific and Middle East," he tweeted. This is Blinken's first visit to India after assuming charge as the US Secretary of State and the third by a high-ranking Biden administration official after it came to power in January. US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin visited India in March while US Special Envoy on Climate Change John Kerry travelled to New Delhi in April. "Secretary Blinken's visit is an opportunity to continue the high-level bilateral dialogue and bolster the India-US global strategic partnership," the Ministry of External Affairs said last week while announcing the visit. "Both sides will review the robust and multifaceted India-US bilateral relations, and potential for consolidating them further," it said. Acting Assistant Secretary for South and Central Asian Affairs Dean Thompson said on Friday that the discussions will focus on expanding ties in areas of security, defence, cyber, and counterterrorism cooperation. "We collaborate across the government on these issues, including through regular US-India working group meetings, and we look forward to further strengthening our ties with India to ensure a safer and more secure world," he said. People familiar with the agenda of the visit said both sides will extensively deliberate on the deteriorating security situation in Afghanistan with the Taliban increasing its hostilities in an attempt to seize control of new areas in the country. Afghanistan witnessed a series of terror attacks in the last few weeks as the US withdrew the majority of its troops and is looking at completing the drawdown by August 31, ending nearly two-decade of its military presence in the country. The two sides are also expected to explore ways to deepen defence collaboration, including exercises, defence transfers and technologies ahead of the next edition of the 2+2 defence and foreign ministerial dialogue to be held in the US later this year, those familiar with the development said. Both sides will also discuss ways to deepening engagement in the Indo-Pacific region as well as in enhancing Covid response efforts. The two sides are also expected to look at implementing the Quad vaccine initiative. They are also expected to focus on ways to augment trade and investment ties besides looking at opportunities in healthcare, education, digital domains, the people cited above said. In the talks, India will continue to push for ensuring open and consistent supply chains for materials and items required for vaccine production, the people cited above said. Boosting defence and strategic ties is expected to also figure in the talks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
27-07-2021||India||Seven Opposition parties write to PM, seek intervention on Pegasus row||Seven Opposition parties have written to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking his intervention to direct the government to discuss farmers' issues and Pegasus phone-tapping in Parliament, NCP leader Supriya Sule said on Tuesday. The BSP, RLP, SAD, National Conference, CPI and the CPI(M), besides the NCP, are the signatories to the letter. SAD leader Harsimrat Badal said it is very unfortunate that farmers have died while protesting against the three farm laws but the Centre is not even ready to discuss their issues. NCP leader Sule said the seven parties have written to the President seeking his intervention to instruct the government to discuss the farmers' issues and Pegasus snooping in the Parliament. Shashi Tharoor promises action Parliamentary panel on Information Technology will question government officials on the issue, the committee chairman and senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said on Tuesday asserting that it is the "most important issue" for many members. The 32-member Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT is scheduled to meet on Wednesday, for which the listed agenda is ''Citizens' data security and privacy'', according to a notification issued by Lok Sabha Secretariat. The panel, which has the maximum members from the ruling BJP, has summoned officials from the Ministry of Electronics, Information and Technology and the Ministry of Home Affairs. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. Opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers -- Prahlad Singh Patel and Railways and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, a former CBI chief, and at least 40 journalists are on the list on the leaked database of NSO. It is, however, not established that all the phones were hacked. "The subject of Citizens Data Privacy and Security is an approved agenda item of the committee and it was under this item that we had earlier discussed the Pegasus issue in November-December last year. So it's a continuing issue. There would be other questions as well, as this is not necessarily the only issue. But, for many of us in the committee this is perhaps the most important issue," Tharoor told PTI a day before the panel's meeting. Since the beginning of the monsoon session on July 19, both houses have seen repeated disruptions as opposition parties have been demanding a Supreme Court-monitored judicial probe in this matter. "Parliament is not functioning because of this issue. People are anxious to find out about this and we are definitely likely to have questions for the government officials attending the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-388
27-07-2021||India||Made in India Sputnik V to be available soon, says Dr Reddy's||Dr Reddy's Laboratories Ltd expects the locally manufactured Russia's COVID-19 vaccine Sputnik V to be available from September-October period, a senior official of the city-based drug maker said on Tuesday. M V Ramana, CEO of Branded Markets (India and Emerging Markets), Dr Reddys, said due to the sudden spike of Covid-19 cases in Russia, the arrival of Sputnik V doses is getting delayed and the situation may ease by August end. "The local manufacturers are currently in the process of Technology absorption and scale up. “And we expect and from the October-September timeframe we are likely to have locally manufactured Sputnik available," Ramana told reporters. Dr Reddy's, which has tied up with Russian Direct Investment Fund for Sputnik V in India, soft launched the vaccine in India in May 2021 after receiving Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) in April 2021. Ramana said the company is in discussions with RDIF for ramping up supplies. RDIF has tied up with six Indian drug makers to manufacture Sputnik V. Dr Reddy's is in a pact with Russian Direct Investment Fund to sell the first 125 million people doses (250 million vials) of COVID-19 vaccineSputnikVin India. The official said the vaccine was launched in 80 cities and over 2.5 lakh people have been administered the jab. Replying to a query, he said the trials of Sputnik V in adolescents have commenced in Russia and they are expected to be completed by October. On the arrival of more Sputnik V stock from RDIF, Ramana said "What we wait for now is the balance of the second dose and we are in discussions with RDIF. We do expect to hear back from them by the end of July. The indications are that in the month of August we should start seeing a bit of floor of the imported product." Meanwhile, Dr Reddy's, in a press release, said SVAAS Wellness Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the drug maker, tied up with ICICI Lombard General Insurance Company Limited for a pilot launch of a first-of-its-kind cashless outpatient offering in India. The partnership marks the launch of Dr.Reddys digital health solution 'SVAAS' and demonstrates ICICI Lombards deeper foray into the wellness space.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
27-07-2021||India||There has been a slowdown in rate of decline of Covid-19 cases, says Centre||In the past few weeks, there has been a slowdown in the rate of decline of average daily Covid cases, which is a cause of concern, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. It also said that there are 54 districts in 12 states and Union Territories, which reported over 10 per cent Covid positivity rate for the week ending July 26. "The average daily new cases declined from 3,87,029 cases between May 5-11 to 38,090 cases between July 21- 27. In the past few weeks, there has been a slowdown/reduction in the rate of decline, which remains an area of concern," joint secretary in the health ministry, Lav Agarwal, said. Twenty-two districts in seven states have reported an increasing trend in daily Covid cases for the last four weeks and this is also a cause of concern, the ministry said. There are also eight districts, which were witnessing a decline in positivity rate, but are now seeing a rise in Covid cases, it said, adding that "we cannot take the situation for granted". A study by the Armed Forces Medical College looked at 15 lakh doctors and frontline workers and found that Covishield gives 93 per cent protection while there was 98 per cent mortality reduction, the government said India recorded less than 30,000 fresh Covid-19 cases after 132 days while its active caseload fell below 4,00,000 after 124 days on Tuesday, according to health ministry data. The data updated at 8 am also showed that as many as 29,689 new coronavirus infections took the country's tally of COVID-19 cases to 3,14,40,951 while 415 fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,21,382. The number of active cases dropped to 3,98,100 and comprises 1.27 per cent of the total infections. The national Covid-19 recovery rate improved to 97.39 per cent, it stated. The number of active cases fell by 13,089 in a span of 24 hours, it said. The daily positivity rate declined to 1.73 per cent. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.33 per cent, the ministry data stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
27-07-2021||India||Mamata meets Modi, demands SC monitored probe into Pegasus issue||Trinamul Congress leader and Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday said the unity of opposition parties will take shape on its own, sidestepping questions of her taking on the leadership role. Mamata, who is in the national capital for the first time after her party's resounding victory in the assembly polls, met Prime Minister Narendra Modi and described it as part of protocol. "I had asked for an appointment from the PM... This was a courtesy visit. Post election, following the protocol we have to meet the PM once. But I also spoke about the Covid situation. I asked him to ensure that Bengal gets enough vaccine doses. I am not against giving vaccines to other states, but considering the population of Bengal, we need more doses," she told reporters after the meeting. She said during Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to Bengal in May, there was no scope for a one-to-one meeting. Mamata also said that she mentioned the issue of the change in Bengal's name and told him that it was a long pending issue that should be resolved. While Mamata refused to say if she discussed the Pegasus project with Modi, said that the prime minister should convene an all-party meet on the snooping row and decide on a Supreme Court-led probe. When asked if she has lined up a series of meetings with the Opposition parties with the 2024 Lok Sabha polls in mind, she said that the general elections are far away. "However planning for it has to be done in advance. Like there is election in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Tripura. Like how happened in Tripura with our boys and the issue of Dainik Jagran," she said. Asked about her efforts to unite the Opposition leaders, she said that it will happen "automatically". "Opposition unity will happen naturally, automatically," she said. On whether she will lead the Opposition against the BJP, she said, "The country will lead the Opposition, we are the followers." She said that she will meet all Opposition members after the Parliament session is over and the coronavirus situation normalises, indicating that another visit soon was on the anvil. This time around, however, she has her itinerary set with meetings with opposition party leaders who are seeking time from her and those like Congress Chairperson Sonia Gandhi who has invited her for tea. "She has called me for a chai per charcha tomorrow. Many of these leaders are my old friends. We discuss about old and new times. I will meet Arvind Kejriwal day after tomorrow. Javed Akhtar and Shabana Azmi asked for time, I have given them time. I will meet my party MPs tomorrow. I met Congress leaders Kamal Nath, Anand Sharma and Abhishek Manu Singhvi today," she said. A name missing from her list was that of NCP chief Sharad Pawar. "I haven't spoken to Sharad Pawar. I will meet him after the monsoon session," she said. She also said that she wants to meet the President but she has been informed that she needs to get an RT PCR test done, which, according to her, is difficult to do.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
27-07-2021||India||Man ends life after jab centre brawl in Uttar Pradesh||A 22-year-old man ended his life by hanging after his mother was allegedly roughed up and their house ransacked by police, following a brawl at a Covid vaccination camp in Ranchhad village here. Superintendent of Police, Baghpat, Abhishek Singh said 10 policemen of Binauli police station have been relieved of their duties and attached to police lines. Akshay, a son of a local RSS leader, had taken his mother (62) to a vaccination centre to get her vaccinated against COVID-19 on Monday. He wanted to get her the jab first instead of standing in queue, citing her age. This led to an altercation with police, his family members said. A policeman allegedly slapped Akshay and got into a scuffle, they said. The vaccination camp was organised by the Health Department in a primary school in Ranchhad village. Later, policemen raided Akshay's house and broke chairs and a window of the car and also vandalised a tractor, the family said. When the women of the house protested, they were insulted. Akshay's mother Madhu, her sister-in-law Kamlesh and one Dharamveer Singh of the village were taken into custody and brought to the police station. A case was filed against Akshay, they alleged. Upset over this, Akshay allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself, the family said. After the news of the suicide reached the villagers, they held a demonstration demanding that a case be lodged against policemen. It was only after senior police officials pacified them that they allowed police to take the body for post-mortem at around 7.30 am on Tuesday. On the complaint of Akshay's father, a case was filed against five policemen, including police station in-charge Chandrakant Pandey, SSI Udham Singh Talan, constable Ashwani, head constable Salim and constable Murli, under section 306 (abetment of suicide) and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, police said. SP Singh said Akshay had assaulted the police personnel due to which there was chaos in the camp. A report was filed against Akshay at the Binauli police station for obstructing government work as well as for assault. Later, he ended his life by suicide, the SP said. On the basis of the complaint given by the family members at Binauli police station, an FIR was lodged and 10 policemen were attached to police lines with immediate effect, he said. The investigation into the incident is underway, the SP said. Policemen in large numbers have been deployed in the village to maintain law and order. In a similar incident, five people, including a doctor, were injured when a clash broke out between two groups over Covid-19 vaccination in the Sukhpura area of Ballia district on Monday, according to police.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
27-07-2021||India||Health ministry seeks detail on fake Covid tests from states||The Union health ministry has sought details on the issue of fake Covid tests from states, Minister of State for Health Bharati Pravin Pawar informed Rajya Sabha on Tuesday. Uttarakhand has reported instances of fake Covid tests, Pawar said in a written reply to whether the government is aware that several private firms have been found to be involved in fake Covid tests rackets endangering people's lives. The ministry was also asked about details of such states where such instances of fake tests have been reported. As reported by the state of Uttarakhand, FIRs have been registered against the firms involved, Pawar said. Police investigation against all laboratories involved is underway and they have been debarred from further testing in the state and all payments have been withheld, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
27-07-2021||India|| Children to get Covid-19 jabs from August, says health minister||Vaccination for children against Covid-19 is expected to kick off in August, Union health minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Tuesday informed the Parliamentary meeting of the BJP chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, according to news agency ANI. "In BJP Parliamentary Party meeting today, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said that the government would likely start vaccinating children next month for Covid-19. He also said that India is soon going to be the largest vaccine producing country as more companies will get production licences," tweeted ANI. "We would likely begin vaccinating children from next month," the health minister reportedly said during the meeting," Mandaviya was quoted as saying by Hindustan Times. As of now, every citizen in India above the age of 18 is being inoculated with the Covid-19 vaccine. Mandaviya's statement comes amid increasing concerns regarding a third wave of the pandemic, which is likely to affect more children according to experts. The lack of vaccines for kids is increasing worries among citizens. Days ago, AIIMS chief Dr Randeep Guleria said that children are likely to get their vaccines by September, explaining that it will be a significant move to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission. "I think Zydus has already done the trials and they're waiting for the emergency authorisation. The Bharat Biotech's Covaxin trials should be over by August or September, and by that time we should get approval. Pfizer vaccine has been already approved by the FDA (US regulator - Food and Drug Administration)," Guleria told ndtv.com. The European Medicines Agency has already recommended authorising Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 12 to 17, the first time the shot has been authorized for people under 18. In May, the US had authorised the Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine for children aged 12 to 15 years old. The total number of Covid vaccine doses administered so far as part of the nationwide vaccination drive has reached 44.19 crore, the Union health ministry said in its daily bulletin on Tuesday. A total of 45.7 crore doses have been supplied to the states and Union territories from January till date and an additional 6.03 crore doses are expected to be supplied by July 31. This will amount to a total of 51.73 crore doses supplied from January to July 31, the health ministry said in another statement. India recorded less than 30,000 fresh Covid-19 cases after 132 days while its active caseload fell below 4,00,000 after 124 days on Tuesday, according to Union health ministry data. As many as 29,689 new coronavirus infections took the country's tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,14,40,951 while 415 fresh fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,21,382, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
27-07-2021||India||Ahead of Rajasthan Cabinet reshuffle, Ajay Maken to meet Congress MLAs||Ahead of the Rajasthan Cabinet reshuffle, Congress general secretary Ajay Maken will hold meetings with party MLAs during his two-day visit to Jaipur. Maken, who is the incharge for Rajasthan affairs at the AICC, will be coming to the state capital on Wednesday. He will hold discussions with the party MLAs and those supporting its state government during his two-day visit, said state Congress chief Govind Singh Dotasra in a tweet. Maken and K C Venugopal had held a meeting with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday night over the Cabinet reshuffle. Maken had said that he would be arriving in Jaipur again to hold one-to-one discussion with the MLAs on July 28 and 29 about the appointment of district and block presidents of the party. Party leaders had said there is no conflict about the Cabinet reshuffle and after discussions with the chief minister, the decision regarding this has been left to the party high command. The reshuffle may take place in the next a few days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
27-07-2021||India||Centre seeks extension to frame rules for Citizenship Amendment Act||The central government has sought an extension till January 9 for framing rules of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA), which was passed by Parliament in 2019, Minister of State for Home Affairs Nityanand Rai informed Lok Sabha on Tuesday. He was replying to a question from Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi on whether the government had missed the deadline to frame and notify CAA rules and the steps taken in this context. “The Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA) has been notified on 12.12.2019 and has come into force w.e.f. 10.01.2020,” the minister said. “The Committees on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been requested to grant further extension of time upto 09.01.2022 to frame the rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019,” Rai said. The CAA envisages to grant Indian nationality to persecuted non-Muslim minorities of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. This is the fifth extension sought by the government for framing of these rules. According to the Manual on Parliamentary Work, the rules for any legislation should have been framed within six months of presidential assent or seek extension. The objective of the CAA is to grant Indian citizenship to persecuted minorities like Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists, Parsis and Christians from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. Those from these communities who had come to India till December 31, 2014, facing religious persecution there, will not be treated as illegal immigrants but given Indian citizenship. After the CAA was passed by Parliament, widespread protests were witnessed in different parts of the country leading to deaths of nearly 100 people in police firing and related violence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
27-07-2021||India||BJP legislature party meeting to initiate formal procedure to appoint Karnataka's new CM||Initiating the formal process to replace B S Yediyurappa, who resigned as Chief Minister, the BJP central leadership has directed the state unit to convene a meeting of the legislature party here on Tuesday evening. “There is a legislature party meeting today at 7 pm at a private hotel,” Basavaraj S Bommai, who served as Home Minister in the dissolved B S Yediyurappa Cabinet, told reporters here. After this, a meeting of the BJP Parliamentary Board will be held where a final decision (on the new Chief Minister) will be taken, he said. Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and G Kishan Reddy, along with BJP general secretary and Karnataka in-charge Arun Singh -- the observers from the BJP central leadership -- are expected to attend the legislature party meeting, a top party functionary said. Yediyurappa on Monday resigned his post exactly on the day he completed his two years in office.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
27-07-2021||India||Centre trashes reports claiming India will fail to meet July vaccine target||The government on Tuesday dismissed media reports that claimed that India will miss the end-July target of administering 50 crore Covid vaccine doses as "ill-informed and misrepresenting" and asserted that over 51.60 crore vaccine doses will be supplied from January to July 31. The health ministry issued a statement referring to recent media reports alleging that the country will miss the target of administering half-a-billion (50 crore) doses of the COVID-19 vaccine by July-end, while pointing out that the government had stated in May that it would make 516 million (51.60 crore) vaccine shots available by the end of this month. "These reports are ill-informed and have clearly misrepresented the facts," the statement said. The figures of 516 million vaccine doses might have been picked up from various sources which informed about the likely availability of the vaccine doses from January to July-end, it added. "The facts are that a total of more than 516 million vaccine doses will indeed be supplied from January 2021 to 31st July, 2021," the ministry said. It added that the vaccine doses are supplied to the states in accordance with the advance allocation plan and they are informed about it in advance. The vaccines are supplied to the states in various schedules throughout the month. "Therefore, availability of 516 million doses till end of a particular month does not mean that every dose supplied till that month is going to be consumed/administered. "There would be supplies in pipeline, which should be available for next few days till the next supplies of vaccine doses materialise in a particular state/district/sub-district to keep vaccination going on," the statement said. A total of 45.7 crore doses have been supplied to the states and Union territories from January till date and an additional 6.03 crore doses are expected to be supplied by July 31. This will amount to a total of 51.73 crore doses supplied from January to July 31, it added. "It should be appreciated that India has crossed the landmark of 440 million (44.19 crore) doses administered, which is the largest number achieved in the world and has been done at quite a brisk pace too. Out of these, 9.6 crore are cases where both the doses have been administered," the statement said. A total of 11.97 crore Covid vaccine doses were administered in June. For the month of July (as on July 26), a total of 10.62 crore doses have been administered. It is the endeavour of the government to provide vaccination to the eligible citizens in the shortest possible time according to the availability of the vaccines, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-389
27-07-2021||India||Raj Kundra remanded to 14-day judicial custody in pornography case||A Mumbai court on Tuesday remanded businessman Raj Kundra in 14-day judicial custody in a case related to alleged creation of pornographic films and publishing them through some apps. Kundra, husband of Bollywood actor Shilpa Shetty, was arrested July 19 by the Mumbai police crime branch under sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Information Technology Act. He was produced before a magistrate's court here at the end his police remand on Tuesday. The court sent him to judicial custody for 14 days. Kundra moved the court for bail and his plea was kept for hearing on Wednesday. The crime branch earlier told the court that Kundra had plans to sell 119 adult films to a person for USD 1.2 million. The police claimed that during the probe into the case, it was found that Kundra set up Armsprime Media Pvt Ltd, which, through London-based Kenrin Pvt Ltd, bought 'Hotshots' app to upload objectional videos on social media. The police also claimed to have found 51 obscene videos-- 35 with Hotshots logo and 16 with BollyFame logo, during searches at the office of the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
27-07-2021||India||Border disputes can only be resolved with state govts' cooperation, says Centre||Inter-state border disputes can "only" be resolved with the cooperation of state governments involved in the matter and the Centre just acts as a facilitator in such cases, the Union government informed Parliament on Tuesday. Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai said this in a written statement to the Lok Sabha in response to a question on the role of the Union government in redressing border disputes between states in the country. "The approach of the central government has consistently been that inter-state disputes can be resolved only with the cooperation of the state governments concerned and that the central government acts only as a facilitator for amicable settlement of the dispute in the spirit of mutual understanding," Rai said. He cited at least seven such disputes in the country with Assam being involved in four. According to available information, there are boundary disputes arising out of demarcation of boundaries and claims and counter-claims over territories between Haryana-Himachal Pradesh, Union Territory of Ladakh-Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra-Karnataka, Assam-Arunachal Pradesh, Assam-Nagaland, Assam-Meghalaya and Assam-Mizoram, he said. "Occasional protests and incidents of violence are reported from some of the disputed areas," the minister said. On Monday, at least five Assam Police personnel were killed while defending the "constitutional boundary" of the state with Mizoram as the festering border dispute between the two northeastern states erupted into a bloody conflict, officials said. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had earlier claimed six police personnel were killed in action during the clashes. An Assam government statement revised the figure just before midnight and said that five state police personnel died and more than 50 people of the force were injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
27-07-2021||India||Senior journalists move Supreme Court, seek independent probe on Pegasus row||Veteran journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar have moved the Supreme Court seeking an independent probe by its sitting or retired judge into the reports of alleged snooping by government agencies on eminent citizens, politicians and scribes by using Israeli spyware Pegasus. The petition, likely to come up for hearing within next few days, sought to investigate if the illegal hacking into the phones using the Pegasus spyware represented an attempt by agencies and organisations to muzzle and chill the exercise of free speech and expression of dissent in India. It also sought a direction to the Centre to disclose if the government or any of its agencies obtained license for Pegasus spyware and used it, either directly or indirectly, to conduct surveillance in any manner. The petitioners claimed that investigation involving several leading publications around the world has revealed that more than 142 Indians, including journalists, lawyers, government ministers, opposition politicians, constitutional functionaries and civil society activists, have been identified as potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus software. It climaxed that the forensic analysis of several mobile phones belonging to persons targeted for surveillance by the Security Lab of Amnesty International have confirmed Pegasus-induced security breaches. The targeted surveillance using military-grade spyware is an unacceptable violation of the right to privacy which has been held to be a fundamental right under Articles 14 (equality before the law), 19 (freedom of speech and expression) and 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) by the Supreme Court, it added. It said the targeted hacking of phones belonging to journalists, doctors, lawyers, civil society activists, government ministers and opposition politicians seriously compromises the effective exercise of the fundamental right to free speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. It has an obvious chilling effect on expression by threatening invasion into the most core and private aspects of a person's life, it claimed. It claimed that the hack occasioned by the Pegasus spyware constituted a criminal offence punishable under interalia Section 66 (computer related offences), 66B (punishment for dishonestly receiving stolen computer resource or communication device), 66E (punishment for violation of privacy) and 66F (punishment for cyberterrorism) of the IT Act, punishable with imprisonment and/or fine. The attack prima facie constitutes an act of cyber-terrorism that has several grave political and security ramifications, especially considering that the devices of government ministers, senior political figures and constitutional functionaries which may contain sensitive information have been targeted, it added. Earlier, a petition was filed by a lawyer before the apex court seeking a court-monitored probe by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) into the snooping row.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
27-07-2021||India||Won't listen to elitists views asking to ban beggars on streets, says Supreme Court||Making clear it will not take an "elitist view" that no beggars be allowed on the streets, the Supreme Court Tuesday asked the Centre and Delhi government to respond to a plea seeking vaccination and rehabilitation of beggars and vagabonds in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The apex court said begging is a socio-political problem and people are compelled to beg on the streets to eke out some elementary livelihood in the absence of education and employment. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and M R Shah told the counsel appearing for the petitioner that it would not consider one part of the prayer which sought direction to the authorities to restrain beggars, vagabonds and homeless persons from begging at public places or traffic junctions. The bench said it would issue notices to the Centre and the Delhi government seeking their responses on the prayer made in the petition for rehabilitation, vaccination and providing food and shelters to beggars and vagabonds amid the pandemic. "As the Supreme Court, we would not want to take an elitist view that no beggars should be there on the streets," the bench said. While referring to a part of the prayer made in the plea, the bench said it is seeking to restrain people from begging on the streets. "This is a socio-economic problem of poverty. The idea is to rehabilitate them, give them and their children education, it said, adding that such people have no choice and nobody wants to beg," it said. The bench said it is a wider issue of social welfare policy of the government and the apex court cannot say that such persons should be kept away from our eyes. The counsel appearing for the petitioner said the object and purport of the prayer is to rehabilitate them and ensure that they are provided vaccination, food and shelter amid the pandemic situation. The bench asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to assist it in the matter and posted it for hearing after two weeks. At the outset, the petitioner's counsel told the bench that issue raised in the plea is regarding rehabilitation of beggars as the impending third wave of Covid-19 pandemic poses a serious threat. The bench noted in its order that it has indicated to the petitioner that it is not inclined to countenance a prayer seeking directions to restrain beggars and vagabonds from the streets. "The reason why people are generally required to take to the streets to beg is to eke out some elementary livelihood in the absence of education and employment. This is a socio-economic problem and can't be remedied as sought in prayer A," the bench observed. It noted that petitioner's counsel has said that he is not pressing the prayer seeking directions to restrain beggars and vagabonds from the streets. "In view of the clarification issued, we are inclined to issue notice," the bench said, while granting liberty to the petitioner to amend the prayer. It said since the immediate issue which needs to be attended is that of vaccinating these persons, it would expect the Centre and Delhi government to apprise it about the steps which are being taken to deal with this human situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
27-07-2021||India||Expose Opposition parties as they are not ready for discussions, Modi tells BJP MPs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked BJP MPs on Tuesday to mark 75 years of independence by organising programmes in every village of their constituencies, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal said. Sources said the prime minister also asked the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs to expose the Opposition parties as the government is ready for a discussion but they are not. Accusing the Congress and other Opposition parties of not letting the Parliament to function since it started for the Monsoon Session, the prime minister asked all MPs to expose the party before the public and the media. The session at the Parliament has been constantly interrupted due to protests from the Opposition and demands for discussions on the Pegasus phone-hacking row, the farm laws and other issues. Rajya Sabha proceedings were adjourned for almost an hour till 12 noon on Tuesday as a determined Opposition continued to protest against snooping of political opponents of the ruling BJP, journalists and government critics as well as over farm laws. Congress, TMC and other opposition party MPs rushed into the well of the House, shouting slogans against mass surveillance and farm laws. Slogan-shouting by the MPs, who also carried placards, drowned the voices of ministers and others who were called to lay official papers on the table of the House. On the other hand, Lok Sabha was adjourned till 12:30 pm for the third time since the House convened for the day, amid continuous protest by Opposition members over the Pegasus snooping controversy and farm laws. After the House convened for the day at 11 am, the Opposition members trooped into the Well, shouting slogans and raising banners. The Congress, CPI, CPI(M), TMC members were protesting over the Pegasus snooping issue, while the BSP, SP and Shiromani Akali Dal were protesting against three farm laws of the Centre. This has been the dominant behaviour in the Parliament this season and little to no work has been done amid protests by the Opposition. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar took a swipe at the protesting Opposition members and said if they are concerned about farmers, they should allow the proceedings of the House to continue. He made the remarks while replying to a supplementary query related to an insurance scheme for farmers during the Question Hour as the Opposition members continued with their sloganeering on various issues, including the Pegasus spying issue and the agriculture laws. On Monday the Centre reached out to the Opposition to end the deadlock over the issues, amid new demands that Home Minister Amit Shah resign and the Prime Minister be investigated. Meanwhile, addressing the BJP parliamentary party meeting on Tuesday, Modi also said the 75th anniversary celebrations of independence should not merely be a government programme, but it should be a people's movement with people's participation, Meghwal told reporters after the meeting. He asked the BJP MPs to form a team of two party workers in each Assembly segment, which will organise the programmes and seek suggestions and ideas from people on how they envisage India in 2047 when the country will complete 100 years of independence. The prime minister told the MPs that these teams of two BJP workers will visit 75 villages in each Assembly constituency and spend 75 hours in each constituency, Meghwal said. The 75 years of independence can also be celebrated by organising local sports events and cleanliness drives, Modi said. He also emphasised on the digital literacy of people in rural India so that they can avail maximum benefits of the government welfare schemes, the minister said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
27-07-2021||India||NSO Group's India client will be revealed soon: Chidambaram||The government would brazen out the allegations of snooping until it is known who the "Indian client" of Israeli firm NSO Group's Pegasus spyware was and that name would be revealed soon, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Tuesday. The former home minister said that based on investigations by an international group of journalists, news portal 'The Wire' has reported that there was "an Indian client of the NSO Group". Last week, an international media consortium reported that over 300 verified mobile phone numbers, including those of two ministers, over 40 journalists, three opposition leaders besides scores of businesspersons and activists in India, could have been targeted for hacking through the Pegasus spyware of the NSO Group. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter. "Who was the 'Indian client'? Was it the government of India? Was it an agency of the government? Was it a private entity?" Chidambaram asked in a tweet. "I am certain the client's name will be revealed soon. Until then, I suppose the government will brazen out the allegations of snooping," he said. Amid reports that French President Emmanuel Macron spoke with Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on the Pegasus snooping allegations, Chidambaram had attacked the Centre on Monday, too, saying the only government that was "unconcerned" over the issue was that of India. The parliamentary panel on information technology led by Congress leader Shashi Tharoor is likely to question top government officials, including those from the home ministry, later this week on Pegasus snooping allegations, according to sources. The Pegasus scandal has created ripples all across the country with the non-BJP ruled states continuously attacking the Centre over snooping allegations. On Monday, Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced the nation’s first commission to probe the Pegasus snooping allegations, shortly before setting off for Delhi on a five-day trip during which she will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several Opposition leaders. Bengal’s two-man commission of inquiry will be made up of the retired Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B. Lokur, and the former Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court, Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya. It has to submit its findings and recommendations within six months from Monday. Under its terms of reference, the commission is to ascertain whether any interception occurred; identify the state and non-state actors involved, if any; determine the mechanism used for the alleged hacking; find out whether Pegasus or any other spyware was used; examine the information collected, altered, stored or used; and gather the details of how people were affected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
27-07-2021||India||Brazil scraps Covaxin's Emergency Use Authorisation application ||After suspending the proposed clinical trials of Bharat Bioetchs COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin, Brazil has now scrapped the Emergency Use Authorisation request made by the Indian company for the jab. The Brazilian health regulator's decision comes after the vaccine maker informed the South American country about thetermination of its pact with its partners in that country. According to a statement issued by the National Health Surveillance Agency of Brazil, Anvisa, its Collegiate Board on Saturday unanimously decided "to close the process that dealt with the temporary authorization of emergency use, on an experimental basis, of the Covaxin vaccine". Earlier Anvisahad suspended the clinical studies of Bharat Biotechs COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin in Brazil following the termination of the companys agreement with its partners there. "The decision was taken after Anvisa was informed by the Indian company Bharat Biotech International Limited that the company Necessidade no longer has authorization to represent Bharat Biotech,manufacturer of the Covaxin vaccine, in Brazil," Anvisa said. Anvisa's decision refers to the request for emergency use of Covaxin that had been filed by the Brazilian company Necessidade with Anvisa. Bharat Biotech on July 23 said it terminated the MoU it entered with Precisa Medicamentos and Envixia Pharmaceuticals LL.C for its COVID-19 vaccine Covaxin for Brazilian market. The termination of the MoU came after the deal with the Brazilian Government for supply of 20 million doses of the Covaxin landed in controversy and attracted investigation by authorities in that country. Following the graft allegations and subsequent inquiry by the authorities, the Brazilian government had earlier suspended Covaxin's order temporarily. Bharat Biotech will continue to work diligently with Anvisa, to complete the regulatory approval process for Covaxin, Bharat Biotech had said while announcing the termination of its pact with its Brazilian partners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
27-07-2021||India||Heavy rains cause extensive waterlogging in Delhi||Heavy rains on Tuesday morning led to extensive waterlogging on several road stretches across Delhi, including near Pragati Maidan in central and Dhaula Kuan in the southern part of the city. Some of the stretches and areas where waterlogging was seen included Dhaula Kuan, Mathura Road, Moti Bagh, Vikas Marg, Ring Road, Rohtak Road, Sangam Vihar, Kirari and near Pragati Maidan among others. The waterlogging also created traffic snarls in different locations of the city. Traffic moved at slow pace at ITO, underneath Moti Bagh metro station, Dhaula Kuan underpass, near Pragati Maidan, Mathura Road, Vikas Marg, Ring Road near IP Flyover, Rohtak Road among others. Public Works Department (PWD) officials said waterlogging complaints were being dealt with priority. Morning rain was of high intensity so a few areas of the city witnessed waterlogging. Our field staff is on the ground and we are closely observing the situation, a PWD official said. According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Southwest Monsoon had reached the capital on July 13, which was 16 days behind the usual date of onset. Normally, monsoon reaches Delhi by June 27. It covers the entire country by July 8. Last year, the wind system had reached Delhi on June 25 and covered the entire country by June 29.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
27-07-2021||India||Pegasus : Mamata announces panel to probe snooping allegations||Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced the nation’s first commission to probe the Pegasus snooping allegations, shortly before setting off for Delhi on a five-day trip during which she will meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi and several Opposition leaders. Bengal’s two-man commission of inquiry will be made up of the retired Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B. Lokur, and the former Chief Justice of Calcutta High Court, Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya. It has to submit its findings and recommendations within six months from Monday. Under its terms of reference, the commission is to ascertain whether any interception occurred; identify the state and non-state actors involved, if any; determine the mechanism used for the alleged hacking; find out whether Pegasus or any other spyware was used; examine the information collected, altered, stored or used; and gather the details of how people were affected. Among those whose phone numbers are said to have been hacked is poll strategist Prashant Kishor, whom Trinamul has consulted extensively since 2019. The phone number of Trinamul Congress national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee is reported  to be on the list of the potential targets of Pegasus-enabled spying. Mamata said the Bengal government was well within its rights to institute the probe under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, as the state is home to people whose phones may have been hacked via the Israeli spyware Pegasus. “They (the retired judges) will see who hacked — totally illegal — how it is being done, in order to shut every mouth. It’s all done, ready…. We request Justices Lokur and Bhattacharya to immediately join and begin investigating this,” the chief minister said at a brief media conference at Nabanna before leaving for Delhi. The timing of the announcement makes it clear that Mamata would, during her Delhi trip, flag the subject to try and mobilise the Opposition against the Modi government. Bengal’s move comes at a time two public interest petitions have been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored investigation into allegations that the Centre has snooped on judges, politicians, journalists and rights activists with Pegasus. The Narendra Modi government is yet to formally deny having bought the spyware. “I have an important piece of information to share with you,” Mamata said at the media conference. “The (state) cabinet has approved the appointment of a commission of inquiry… in the exercise of power conferred by Section 3 of the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, in the matter of widely reported illegal hacking, monitoring, putting under surveillance, tracking, recording, etc, of mobile phones of various persons in the state.” The Commission of Inquiry Act allows the Centre as well as the states to institute probes, Mamata later told The Telegraph. If the Centre orders an inquiry, the state cannot on its own appoint a panel to look into the same matter. Nor can the Centre order a probe under the act once a state government has done so — unless the Union government widens the scope to cover more states. “No state government shall, except with the approval of the central government, appoint another commission to inquire into the same matter for so long as the commission appointed by the central government is functioning,” according to the Commission of Inquiry Act. If a state government has ordered an inquiry, “the central government shall not appoint another commission to inquire into the same matter for so long as the commission appointed by the state government is functioning, unless the central government is of opinion that the scope of the inquiry should be extended to two or more states”. Mamata’s move is expected to put pressure on the Centre to order a wider probe as the possible targets for surveillance — as identified by a global media exposé on phone numbers earmarked for hacking through Pegasus — are based in multiple states. Sources close to Mamata said the chief minister had consulted multiple legal experts on the matter over several days, and spoken at length to Justice Lokur three times before arriving at the decision. Calls had gone out from her office to every member of her cabinet late on Saturday evening, asking them to show up before 1pm on Monday for a crucial cabinet meeting. Several ministers said in private that the agenda had not been shared with them till the meeting began. Since speaking out on the Pegasus controversy on July 21, Mamata has relentlessly tried to corner the BJP on the subject, accusing it of endangering India’s democracy through illegal snooping and urging the Supreme Court to take suo motu cognisance of the matter and intervene. After reaching Delhi on Monday, the chief minister went to the home of Abhishek Banerjee, the Trinamul MP and her nephew. There, she met senior journalist Vineet Narain, known for pursuing the “hawala scam” of the early 1990s. Narain had recently been booked by Uttar Pradesh police on various charges, including hurting Hindu sentiments, after he made land-grabbing allegations against a Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader and his brothers. On Tuesday, Mamata is scheduled to meet Modi and Congress leaders Anand Sharma, Kamal Nath and Abhishek Manu Singhvi. Sources close to her said she would keep the interaction with Modi a G2G (government-to-government) meeting, talking to the Prime Minister as chief minister of Bengal and bringing up the state’s demands and concerns, particularly those relating to vaccines and central dues. “Over the week, her trip will gather momentum with meetings with Sonia Gandhi, Sharad Pawar and other key Opposition politicians,” a source said. “In all this, her focus on the Pegasus scandal will remain unwavering.” The source said Covid concerns had forced several changes to Mamata’s plans, and that a proposed visit to Parliament’s central hall, for instance, was no longer a certainty. At the news conference at Nabanna, Mamata said: “For a week (since the media exposé), we had thought the Centre would definitely conduct a probe by a Supreme Court judge under the watchful eye of the Supreme Court, which people have faith in — while Parliament was on. “In that case, people would not have been denied justice. But when we saw that this Centre, even while Parliament was on, was not paying this any attention, Bengal became the first state — even before my trip to Delhi — to do this. “If somebody refuses to wake up, they have to be forcibly woken up. This is one small step by us, which we hope will awaken everybody else.” Bengal home secretary B.P. Gopalika issued the formal notification for the commission following approval from governor Jagdeep Dhankhar. The notification said the decision was taken keeping in mind the reports about widespread phone-tapping with sophisticated tools since 2017, which could potentially breach State secrets, jeopardise law and order in the state and violate privacy. “…The reported interception, if found to be true, shall result in grave interference with the privacy of the aforesaid individuals and the public at large…. (The) reported interception may have landed in the hands of state and/ or non-state actors, as being currently reported, which if found to be true can lead to a total breakdown of public order of the state and the same is serious criminal offence,” it said. It added that such snooping, if it happened, would cause “complete demoralisation” of the police force and other security services in the state, besides a “total loss of public confidence” in the police force.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
27-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Mamata appoints Lokur for a judicial probe into the scandal||Justice Madan B. Lokur, whom the Mamata Banerjee government appointed on Monday to a two-member judicial probe into the Pegasus controversy, has often found himself at odds with the Narendra Modi government. So much so that last October, the Centre had rushed to stall the Supreme Court’s move to appoint him as a one-man committee to monitor efforts to prevent Delhi’s air pollution. The government got the court to withhold the appointment by promising an ordinance on air quality management. As a sitting judge, Justice Lokur had headed a bench that delivered an unpalatable verdict for the Modi government on extra-judicial killings. Justice Lokur had condemned, after retirement, the use of the sedition law against “youngsters, students talking about doing something good for the country”. Justice Lokur confirmed his appointment by the Bengal government on Monday but told The Telegraph he was yet to receive the formal notification. “Obviously,” Justice Lokur said, asked whether the Bengal government had taken his consent before appointing him. He said he was not aware of the two-man commission's terms of reference or the timetable for submission of the report. “I’m yet to receive any formal communication from the Bengal government. As such I'm not in a position to say anything,” Justice Lokur said. Two petitions had been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a court-monitored investigation into allegations about the government snooping on judges, politicians, journalists and rights activists with the Israeli spyware Pegasus. The petitions by John Brittas, a CPM Rajya Sabha member from Kerala, and advocate M.L. Sharma are expected to come up for hearing this week. In 2018, a Supreme Court bench headed by Justice Lokur had ordered a CBI inquiry into the alleged killings of 1,528 people by the security forces in Manipur between 1985 and 2001, despite the Modi government arguing this would demoralise the armed forces. Justice Lokur retired in December 2018. At a webinar last September, he had said without mentioning names that “(the charge of) sedition is being used with an iron hand to curb free speech, which is an overreaction to people expressing views”. Alluding to Dr Kafeel Khan, a Gorakhpur doctor who has emerged as a symbol of resistance against State oppression, he had said that recently in Uttar Pradesh, a speech calling for the unity and integrity of the country was used to keep the speaker in preventive detention on the ground that the speech was against the country’s integrity. Justice Lokur’s willingness to express dissent also showed in the way he had in January 2018 combined with three fellow apex court judges to hold a news conference and accuse then Chief Justice Dipak Misra of allocating key cases to certain favoured junior judges. Last Saturday, Justice Lokur had again expressed his concern at provisions like the sedition law, the anti-terror UAPA and the National Security Act and at the way accused were treated in jail --- all implied criticism of the central government. He had mentioned Father Stan Swamy - an ailing 84-year-old Jesuit who died in custody in Mumbai this month - and Delhi University teacher Hany Babu, both arrested under the UAPA in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case. “There is now… something called ‘soft torture’.... You have somebody like Hany Babu whose eye is in very bad shape and when it appears that he might lose his eye, then he will be sent to hospital but not before that. Everybody has talked about Stan Swamy. Why could he not be given medical treatment earlier? Isn't that torture?” Justice Lokur had said at a webinar. He had suggested fixing accountability. “The only way is accountability. Accountability has to be in two forms; one is financial accountability where compensation has to be given. Once the courts start telling police or prosecution that you better pay Rs 5 or 10 lakh, I think they'll probably come to their senses,” he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-390
27-07-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Rahul arrives in Parliament driving a tractor||Rahul Gandhi on Monday arrived in Parliament driving a tractor, intent on drawing attention to the government’s indifference towards the agitating farmers and appearing to leave the ruling dispensation embarrassed. “We have brought the farmers’ message to Parliament. The government doesn’t allow a debate on the farmers’ ongoing protest in Parliament,” Rahul told reporters, explaining the optics that would have delighted the farmers sitting on the roads outside Delhi. “They are suppressing the farmers. We have brought the tractor here to convey the farmers’ message to the government. The black laws will have to be repealed,” he added. The farmers are protesting against three new farm laws that they say would facilitate their exploitation by big companies. “These laws were framed to help two-three industrialists. The whole of India knows this. These laws are not going to help the farmers,” Rahul said. Rahul said: “They know why these laws were brought. They have to be taken back, there is no other way.” The Congress has regularly been protesting in Parliament demanding a discussion on the contentious farm laws and the Pegasus snooping controversy. No demonstrations are allowed near Parliament, and Rahul would definitely have been stopped on the way had he come the entire distance from his own residence on a tractor, which has become a symbol of the farmers’ protest. But the Congress leader had cleverly started off from the residence of party Rajya Sabha member K.T.S Tulsi, which is quite close to Parliament House. His arrival on a tractor at the gate of the complex caused a flutter. The red tractor carried a banner on the front condemning the three “black farm laws”. While Rahul drove the vehicle, party MPs from Punjab and Haryana sat with him on the tractor carrying placards demanding the repeal of the contentious laws. Those accompanying Rahul included Pratap Singh Bajwa, Deepender Hooda, Ravneet Singh Bittu, Gurjeet Singh Aujla, Amar Singh and Jasbir Dimpa. How badly the security establishment was rattled became immediately obvious from the tough action taken against Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala when he tried to drive the tractor back after Rahul had left it at Parliament’s entrance. Along with Surjewala on the tractor were Youth Congress president B.V. Srinivas and other party functionaries. The police promptly arrested all of them and drove them to Mandir Marg police station on a bus. They were released in the evening after daylong detention, during which Youth Congress workers protested outside the police station. The Congress accused the government of suppressing people’s right to protest. “We are not going to be frightened by the police’s highhandedness and handcuffs. The agitation in support of the farmers will continue under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi,” Surjewala said. “This is a battle for the survival of the farmers and the Congress will not allow the government to bulldoze its way.” The last time tractors had had a field day in Delhi was January 26, when the government had allowed the protesting farmers to hold a “tractor parade” along specific routes in Delhi. But with some breaches of route happening amid huge confusion, and a few ugly scenes witnessed at the Red Fort, the protesting farmers’ movement in the capital has been strictly restricted since then. Now 200 farmers are allowed to come on buses to Jantar Mantar daily to hold a symbolic protest. It was the turn of women farmers on Monday, when the Delhi police inexplicably prevented former Congress MLA Alka Lamba from joining the protest. She was placed under house arrest with the police saying no one who lacked prior permission would be allowed to join in. The farmers protesting for the past eight months at three venues outside Delhi – at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur borders – have been desperately trying to catch the government’s attention. They plan to campaign against the BJP in the upcoming state elections in Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Uttarakhand next year, and believe the party can be taught a lesson. The situation is extremely volatile in large swathes of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh where the farmers have prevented BJP leaders from holding any programmes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
27-07-2021||India||Puri becomes the first city to turn tap water into drinking water ||Puri has become the first city in India to turn tap water into drinking water quality, and that too 24x7, through a smart water management technology built up by Odisha, and hence putting it in same pedestal with global cities like London, Singapore and New York. According to the state government sources, the tap water now complies with all the parameters mentioned in drinking water standard — Indian quality standard 10500 — prescribed by the Bureau of Indian Standard. The initiative, dedicated to the people by Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday, is part of the government’s ‘sujal’ or ‘drink from tap’ mission and is likely to benefit city’s 2.5 lakh resident population, including 66,000 slum population as well as about 2 crore tourists who visit the holy city annually. “Providing drink-from-tap quality water 24x7 to every household is a transformative project and this is a step in the direction of our vision for making Puri a world class heritage city,” Naveen said while inaugurating the network. “Puri residents, tourists and pilgrims alike can now drink water from tap across the city be it at home or across the newly-established water fountains,” added Patnaik. Pilgrims will have access to 120 drinking water fountains set up all along the Grand Trunk Road and other Puri hotspots. The state-of-the-art technology, which allows people to drink directly from the tap, has been put into place after 100 per cent of its nearly 32,500 taps were fitted with meters. Government sources claim that metered taps will ensure less wastage of precious water; and drink from the tap mechanism will reduce plastic burden of the city. “The entire technology is automated and there will be real time monitoring system in various strategic points. Any dip in quality will be automatically corrected,” Mathi Vathanan, principal secretary, housing and urban development department in Odisha, told The Telegraph on Monday. Vathanan pointed out that the field engineer would receive alerts in their mobiles if there are any quality issues and be able to undertake corrective measures remotely. “While rich and even middle class people can buy quality water, the poor in slums and elsewhere suffer most for poor quality of drinking water and hence the project will benefit the poor most,” said the official. Environmentalist Subhas Datta questioned the source of the water supply. “Puri traditionally had a sweet water supply near the sea but rapid withdrawal has been turning it into saline. Any further withdrawal will put Puri in more difficult situation,” he said. “We are only using surface water for Puri’s water supply,” pointed out Vathanan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
27-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee protests against alleged used of spyware||The Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee’s Bhubaneswar wing on Monday organised a demonstration on the issue of the Centre’s alleged use of Pegasus spyware to hack phones of politicians, ministers, journalists, industrialists and other eminent personalities. Party activists burnt the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah at Master Canteen Square near the Congress Bhavan. “We demand a judicial probe into this. This kind of hacking of phones using the Pegasus spyware could not have happened without the knowledge of the Prime Minister and home minister. The home minister should immediately resign,” said senior Congress leader Biswajit Das. Odisha Pradesh Congress president Niranjan Patnaik said: “We are opposing the heinous move of the Centre tooth and nail.” The Centre has made an attempt to hack the phones of members of the judiciary as well as politicians. The country’s integrity is under question at the moment. It’s an anti-national act. Everything including country security and its sensitive internal affairs has been exposed. A judicial probe should be initiated into the issue.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
27-07-2021||India||Vikassheel Insaan Party boycotts alliance meeting in Bihar||The ruling NDA in Bihar faced a fresh crisis on Monday after ally Vikassheel Insaan Party boycotted an alliance meeting here on Monday alleging that its voice was not being heard. The move came on the heels of party chief and state animal husbandry and fisheries minister Mukesh Sahni being stopped at Varanasi airport on Sunday by the administration and police in Uttar Pradesh and prevented from taking part in the installation ceremony of a statue of bandit turned politician Phoolan Devi on her death anniversary. The programme was being organised by Sahni’s party. The party accused the Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in Uttar Pradesh of working for a particular caste and that Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of “Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas (Together, for everyone’s growth, with everyone’s trust)” was not being implemented in the neighbouring state. The banners and posters put up in Varanasi for the ceremony were also allegedly dismantled by the district administration. Sahni had to go to Calcutta to catch a flight back to Patna because no direct flight was available. His request to allow him to go back by road to Bihar was not accepted. “Our voice is not being heard in the NDA, nor our demands being met despite being a part of the government. Therefore we did not attend the NDA meeting today (Monday),” Sahni, known as “Son of Mallah”, said. “We believe in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas slogan, but it is not being implemented in Uttar Pradesh. The government there is working for a particular caste,” Sahni added. The NDA is in power in Bihar with a thin majority. It has 126 members and support of an Independent MLA in the 243-member House. The Opposition Grand Alliance has 110 MLAs. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has five legislators while one seat is vacant. Sahni’s party has four MLAs, and even if it quits the NDA, it will not lead to the immediate fall of chief minister Nitish Kumar’s government but leave it in a precarious position. The majority figure in Bihar Assembly is 122. Sahni is a member of the Legislative Council. His comments about Uttar Pradesh, which goes to polls next year, could queer the pitch for the BJP, which is seeking to get re-elected under the leadership of Adityanath. Bollywood set designer turned politician Sahni represents the Nishad or Mallah (fishermen, boatmen) community from which Phoolan hailed. She was in direct confrontation with the Rajput community of Adityanath. An estimated 14 per cent of the population of Uttar Pradesh consists of the Mallah community. It has a powerful presence in several districts, especially those located in the middle and eastern parts of the state. The community constitutes around eight per cent of the population in Bihar. Sahni opened a party office in Lucknow on Monday and revealed plans to contest 165 seats in Uttar Pradesh polls. These constituencies have a sizable Mallah population. He also vowed to spread the thoughts of Phoolan. His plans to contest elections in Uttar Pradesh appeared to be an act of going against ally BJP which could hurt its poll prospects. “The Uttar Pradesh government is afraid of me. It was the reason for stopping me from holding news conferences and installing statues of Phoolan Devi. The police stopped supporters of my party in various parts of Varanasi. The Mallah community will show its strength in the 2022 elections,” Sahni said on Monday evening.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
27-07-2021||India||India-China clash: Beijing  ramps up military positions along LAC||China is ramping up its military positions, including airbases and air defence units, along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh amid the border standoff with India that has been on since May last year, sources said. Sources in the security establishment said China has been building additional airbases, runways and heliports along the LAC which could give them an edge over the Indian Air Force in the event of a conventional military conflict. “An intelligence report suggests that China is building additional air bases, heliports and air defence units near the Line of Actual Control as part of rapid expansion of Chinese military infrastructure in the region,” said an Intelligence Bureau official. A retired lieutenant general said China had better military infrastructure and, with additional airbases and air defence units, the Chinese People’s Liberation Army can deploy more fighters from its several airbases. “Rapid expansion of China’s military infrastructure, especially air infrastructure, is a cause of concern. It gives them a slight edge in the event of a military conflict,” he said. The IAF has also enhanced deployment of frontline jets, attack helicopters and transport fleet in its key bases along the LAC besides battle tanks, missile systems and frequent sorties by its combat aircraft. “China has also been aggressively ramping up its air and military infrastructure in other disputed areas along the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim. This raises the risk of escalations and sustained conflict in these regions too, apart from Ladakh,” the veteran said. The intelligence report has also revealed that armies of China and Pakistan have been conducting regular joint patrols in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir. Beijing is also said to be helping Islamabad set up multiple surface-to-air missile launch sites and a missile defence system in the region. “As per the intelligence report, an increase in Chinese air activities has also been observed in PoK. There is a closer cooperation at military and economic level between the two countries in the region amid the ongoing border standoff and prevailing tension between India and China,” said a defence ministry official. Defence minister Rajnath Singh had earlier hinted at the collusive threat from Pakistan and China amid the ongoing border standoff in Ladakh. India shares a 7,000km-long border with these two countries. “We have got reports that construction activities are in full swing for setting up military infrastructure with the help of the Chinese army at several locations in PoK. The construction work for the installation of a surface-to-air missile defence system was being carried out by Pakistan Army and the (Chinese) People’s Liberation Army near Lasadanna Dhok of PoK,” said another IB official. Joint reconnaissance has also been noticed regularly between the Chinese PLA and Pakistani troops in forward locations like Deolian and Jura in PoK. According to the intelligence report, Chinese aircraft have been landing in Skardu in PoK for refuelling. The Skardu airbase is located around 100km from the Leh airbase on the Indian side. In the past Pakistan had conducted joint air exercises with China at the Skardu airbase. Despite opposition from New Delhi, both Islamabad and Beijing are also building the $60 billion China-Pakistan Economic Corridor that traverses through the PoK which connects both the countries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
27-07-2021||India||Karnataka: Tearful Yediyurappa steps down ‘voluntarily’||A teary-eyed B.S. Yediyurappa “voluntarily” stepped down as Karnataka chief minister on Monday, announcing his decision at an event to mark his two years in office and ending several days of suspense. The 78-year-old, four-time chief minister, who had won his current term by engineering defections and toppling the Congress-JDS government in 2019, said he had decided to quit on his own with no message coming from the BJP leadership. “I have decided to go to the Raj Bhavan after lunch and submit my resignation — not out of sadness but in all happiness,” an emotional Yediyurappa said at the end of a 20-minute address, his voice choking as he recalled how he had helped turn the BJP into a political power in Karnataka. “I’m happily going to the Raj Bhavan to submit my resignation, as others should get an opportunity,” he told reporters while leaving the state legislature complex. Governor Thaawar Chand Gehlot accepted the resignation and dissolved the council of ministers with immediate effect. With speculation about his exit swirling, Yediyurappa had on Sunday said he was expecting a “message” from the BJP leadership by evening and would take a decision after that. But after meeting Gehlot on Monday, he said that no word had come from Delhi. “I volunteered to resign since I have completed two years (as chief minister). There was no word from Delhi.” He refused to name a successor: “I will not name any names. It’s the party high command that will decide.” Yediyurappa said he would continue to work for the party to ensure it won the 2023 Assembly polls. Since talk about his resignation had triggered protests from his Lingayat community, Yediyurappa urged its pontiffs to honour his decision to resign and stop issuing statements on the subject. “Some 400 to 500 pontiffs had come to bless me and ask me to continue in office. Since I have resigned on my own, I beg them not to issue any statements and trigger problems. I shall always be indebted to them for their support,” he said. At the anniversary event, Yediyurappa had dwelt at length on how he had built the BJP up in Karnataka from a time when he was its lone MLA, after Vasanth Bangera resigned from the party, in the late 1980s. “Today I have the satisfaction of fulfilling my duties,” he said. Yediyurappa, known for his organisational skills even when the BJP enjoyed little support in Karnataka, recalled how Rajnath Singh and Sushma Swaraj had expressed surprise at the way he had mobilised thousands of farmers and women for two rallies in the state. “Atal Bihari Vajpayee had asked me to become a Union minister. But I told him I wanted to build the party in Karnataka (voice chokes) and won’t come to Delhi at any cost,” he said. “At the time there would be hardly 200 to 300 people even when Vajpayee, L.K. Advani or Murli Manohar Joshi visited Karnataka. I used to tour Shimoga district on a bicycle because we did not have a car. Today the party has grown across the nation.” The BJP won its first election in Karnataka under Yediyurappa’s leadership in 2008. But he got embroiled in controversies and corruption cases as chief minister, and the BJP forced him to resign in July 2011. He was arrested in a land scandal in October and spent 25 days in judicial custody. Angry at the way the BJP had treated him, Yediyurappa launched the Karnataka Janata Party, branded it a “secular” party and ensured the BJP’s defeat in the 2013 elections by cutting into its votes. He returned to the BJP in 2014. His exit now leaves the BJP without an experienced leader to helm the government. While the RSS wants to move away from caste equations by picking national organising secretary B.L. Santosh, a Brahmin who is close to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, many in the state BJP are against ignoring the Lingayat community that has been the BJP’s mainstay all these years. Several aspirants have already made a pitch for the top job before the party leadership. Mines and geology minister Murugesh Nirani — who happens to belong to the Panchamashali Lingayat sub-sect — has visited Delhi twice in recent days. Union minister for parliamentary affairs Pralhad Joshi is widely seen as a non-controversial candidate who could take all sections along with him. While all the three deputy chief ministers too have thrown their hats in the ring, the 70-year-old Govind Karjol will have the edge if the BJP opts for a Dalit chief minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
27-07-2021||India||Opposition skips meeting called at short notice by Piyush Goyal||The Opposition on Monday decided to skip a meeting called at short notice by leader of the Rajya Sabha, Piyush Goyal, to counter the charge that the government had not reached out to them to try and end the weeklong stalemate over the Pegasus snooping controversy and repeal of the three farm laws. Responding to a direct charge by the RJD’s Manoj Jha that ministers had not reached out to Opposition members to evolve a formula to break the deadlock despite a directive from the chairman, Goyal said: “I am appealing and inviting, on the floor of the House, the honourable leaders of different parties to join me over a cup of tea today at six o’clock (6pm). I am publicly inviting them to join me over a cup of tea. We are happy to discuss all the issues, evolve a consensus and develop a formula.’’ Goyal’s appeal cut no ice. If anything, the sudden invitation for a meeting 50 minutes later without checking if the Opposition leaders were free at that time further upset them. “They think we are at their beck and call,’’ AAP’s Sanjay Singh told The Telegraph, adding that the Pegasus snooping case has serious ramifications involving the Rafale deal and blackmail. According to Binoy Viswam of the CPI, the sudden invite smacked of arrogance. “A government which has shown absolute disregard for all norms of democracy is trying to play a gimmick on Parliament and trying to befool the Opposition. The CPI does not want to be a party to this, and opted out of the meeting,” he said. Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh said no one went for the meeting, underscoring his earlier tweet in which he spelt out the Opposition’s demands. “The entire Opposition is united. 1. Have a discussion on Pegasus snooping issue in presence of Prime Minister or Home Minister. 2. Announce a Supreme Court-monitored enquiry into the scandal. Parliament is not functioning because Govt is not agreeing to these legitimate demands,’’ he had tweeted. Trinamul Congress’s Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien supported Ramesh’s tweet after the invite and said: “We need this in #Parliament @narendramodi @AmitShah. Not green tea at @PiyushGoyal office. Thanks. But no thanks.’’ DMK’s T. Siva told this newspaper that there were only a few party leaders present in the House when Goyal made the invitation. “Is this the way to ensure that the entire Opposition is present?” he asked. In the House, Siva also objected to the Chair switching off the mike of leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge when he was interrupted by Goyal. The government’s contention is that Goyal and parliamentary affairs ministers had reached out to various leaders of the Opposition for finding a way out of the deadlock. “But there is no consensus among all the Opposition parties on many issues,’’ Goyal said. With former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and Trinamul national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee featuring in the list of potential hacking targets in the Pegasus snooping case, both parties are unwilling to settle for the statement by the IT minister which has already been tabled in both Houses. This, they say, is way beyond his remit; adding for good measure that not only is Ashwini Vaishnaw new to the job but he also features on the list.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
27-07-2021||India||Tikait announces launch of 'Mission Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand'||Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, who has been one of the faces of the farmers’ protest against the three central farm laws, on Monday announced the launch of “Mission Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand” to “defeat the BJP in the 2022 Assembly elections”. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi claims that there is nothing anti-farmer in the three farm laws. It is a big lie of the Prime Minister. One of the three laws states that the farmers will have to buy fertiliser, seeds, insecticides, equipment, etc, from the corporates under contract farming. It also states that the farmers have to enter an agreement with the banks to take loans to buy these things. The fact remains that the farmers take loan after mortgaging their properties,” Tikait said at a news conference of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha in Lucknow on Monday. “We defeated the BJP in Bengal and now we will dislodge them in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand because the government is not ready to repeal the black laws. Our first mahapanchayat of Mission Uttar Pradesh-Uttarakhand would be held in Muzaffarnagar on September 5,” said Tikait, who is the BKU spokesperson. The farmers had campaigned against the BJP during the March-April Bengal elections. “We are soon going to sit on dharna at all the entry points to Lucknow, the way we are doing it around Delhi. The government thinks we are getting tired and would suspend our agitation at Delhi’s borders but we are expanding our protest base,” said the BKU leader. The Morcha is a coalition of farmer unions which is spearheading the farmers’ protest since November last year. Farmers from several states are gathered at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for the past eight months under the Morcha banner. Tikait said he is not planning to contest elections as the sole aim of the Morcha was to remove the BJP from power so that the new government repeals the three controversial farm laws enacted by the Modi government. “We are at war with the ruling BJP and not a single farmer of the country will vote for the party in future. Our simple strategy is to support those who are able to defeat the BJP. We did this effectively in Bengal and will repeat it in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand in 2022,” said the farmer leader.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-391
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Forced to take part in pornographic shoot: Bengal women||An FIR has been registered based on complaints by two women who alleged that they were forced to "take part in a pornographic shoot" and the video was circulated on the Internet, a senior police officer said here today. One of the women said that her video has been uploaded on several websites and apps, some of which are apparently associated with businessman Raj Kundra and his venture, the officer maintained. Raj Kundra, husband of actor Shilpa Shetty, was recently arrested in Mumbai for his alleged involvement with an adult film racket. The complainants said that they had come across a notice seeking models for a photo shoot on Facebook, and got in touch with the advertisers, who then forced them to take part in a pornographic shoot. "The photo shoot reportedly took place sometime in January inside a studio near Ballygunge railway station. The women, one from Asansol and the other from Calcutta, said they did not want to take part in the shoot after getting to know all details, but the organisers did not listen to their pleas," the officer stated. Both of them, in their complaint at New Town police station, said they were paid Rs.3,500 each and that the organisers had given assurances that the videos would not be circulated on the web. The two women have shared links to the websites, where their videos have been uploaded, the officer said, adding that a probe has been initiated in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
27-07-2021||West Bengal||NHRC officials probing post-poll violence has ties with BJP, alleges Bengal||The TMC government in Bengal has alleged in an affidavit filed before the Calcutta High Court that the NHRC committee which probed incidents of post-poll violence in the state was fraught with bias against the ruling dispensation . The affidavit, submitted to the court on Monday, also claimed that members of the panel share close ties with BJP leaders. Criticising the Mamata Banerjee government, the NHRC panel, in its report placed before the high court recently, has underscored that the situation in the state is a manifestation of law of ruler instead of rule of law". It recommended CBI probe into grievous offences like murder and rape . Contradicting the findings of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) panel which was set up by its chairman on the order of the court -- the affidavit submitted by the TMC government said, members of the committee "have close association with the Bharatiya Janata Party and/or the central government". "The formation of the committee and the purported field teams are fraught with bias against the ruling dispensation in the state of West Bengal. "It will be evident that the committee has been deliberately constituted to spearhead a witch hunt against the entire state machinery in West Bengal," the affidavit maintained. The matter is scheduled to be taken up for hearing on Wednesday by a five-judge bench of the high court, presided by Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal. The state government, in its affidavit, has further claimed that the "NHRC "chairperson has abused the process of this honourable court and appointed only those members who are interested in conducting a hatchet job against a democratically elected government." It said that such members who have an "inherent bias" against the ruling dispensation were chosen and accordingly "predisposed to give a negative report" on the law-and-order situation. Under such circumstances, the credibility of the panel to investigate in an "unbiased and neutral manner" is questionable, the state government pointed out. It noted that the committee head, Rajiv Jain, had served as the director of the Intelligence Bureau under the incumbent BJP government. He was the subsidiary Intelligence Bureau chief in Ahmedabad from 2005 to 2008, when "Prime Minister Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat and Amit Shah a minister", the affidavit explained. It said that another member Atif Rasheed, a former president of ABVP students' union in Satyawati College, had contested the Delhi Municipal elections in 2021 on a BJP ticket. Contending that the state government was not given an opportunity to be heard, the affidavit said the "report ought not to be considered by this honourable court." Denying the allegation that the entire state machinery in West Bengal is responsible for post-poll violence, it submitted that the "police and all other competent officers of the State of West Bengal have taken all steps to prevent any violence after the declaration of results for the West Bengal State Legislative Assembly on May 2". Several PILs filed before the high court claimed that people were subjected to assault, made to flee homes, and property was destroyed in pockets of Bengal, following the announcement of assembly poll results. Maintaining that the acts of violence resulted in disruption of life and livelihood of thousands of people, the NHRC committee report said "the local police has been grossly derelict, if not complicit, in this violence". "The spate of violence shows a pernicious politico-bureaucratic-criminal nexus. Moreover, this violence also attacked some pillars of democracy including rule of law, political pluralism and free, fair and secure polling," the report added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Two youths fall into Jaldhaka river while taking pictures in Kalimpong, one body found||Police have found the body of one of the two youths who fell into the raging Jaldhaka river at Jhalong in Kalimpong district while clicking pictures on Sunday. Police said Sajal Ghosh, 42, and his friend Aliful Islam, both residents of Dhupguri in Jalpaiguri district, were on a day’s trip to Jhalong and Bindu in neighbouring Kalimpong district. “Preliminary probe revealed that one of them slipped and fell into the river while clicking pictures with his cell phone. He had climbed on a boulder that was perched on the river bed. Seeing his friend drowning, the other one jumped to save him,” said an officer. On Sunday, a team from the Sashastra Seema Bal and police initiated search but could not find the duo. Their bike was recovered from the site. On Monday as searches resumed, Sajal’s body was found. Aliful is still missing. “Searches are on to find Aliful,” said S. Agarwala, a representative of Jaldhaka Offbeat Tourism Association.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal reports 657 active cases, 12 deaths||Bengal on Monday logged 22 straight days of less than 1,000 new Covid-19 infections detected in a day since the pandemic’s second wave, with 657 new cases, 875 recoveries and 12 deaths. The state also recorded a drop in its total number of active cases for the 36th consecutive day, by 230 to 11,566 now. Bengal’s recovery rate is at the state’s all-time high of 98.05 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.34. Daily positive confirmation rate of Covid-19 cases in Bengal, nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 2.04 per cent on Monday. Calcutta logged 46 new infections and two deaths. North 24-Parganas logged 84 new cases and three deaths. Monday was also the 19th consecutive day since the second wave when not one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure of new infections detected in a day. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures and North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia reported single-digit figures. Fifteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Monday, while Jalpaiguri, Malda, Nadia, Bankura and Hooghly reported one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. Bengal now has over 15.24 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 14.95 lakh recoveries and 18,085 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
27-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP youth wing vice-president dies after brawl with party members in Calcutta BJP office||A vice-president of the BJP’s youth wing in Bengal died after he took ill following an alleged brawl with his colleagues at the end of a party meeting in Calcutta on Monday. Raju Sarkar, aged around 40, died while he was being taken to a private nursing home in Calcutta. Sources said there was a meeting of the Yuva Morcha’s Calcutta zone at the BJP office in Hastings, Calcutta, on Monday. “Sarkar looked alright during the meeting. After the meeting was over, he had a quarrel with a few Yuva Morcha leaders, which soon descended into a brawl. We brought him downstairs and it was then that he complained of chest pain. We took Sarkar to SSKM hospital and from there to a private nursing home. He passed away while on way to the nursing home,” said a Yuva Morcha source. Another source said there was no bed vacant at the SSKM hospital. The deceased was known to be a close associate of Saumitra Khan, the state Yuva Morcha chief and Bishnupur MP. Sarkar had switched to the BJP in 2017. His switch came after the former de facto number two in Trinamul, Mukul Roy, had joined the BJP. Sarkar had recently resigned from his post through a message on the official WhatsApp group of the Yuva Morcha. However, Khan refused to accept the resignation and Sarkar continued in the post. BJP insiders said Sarkar had always been in the old-timers’ bad books as he was a Trinamul turncoat. There was unrest in the Yuva Morcha over the recent appointment of a state secretary, which Sarkar was said to have facilitated. “He was always very close to Mukulda. After Mukulda returned to Trinamul, there was a buzz that Sarkar was spying on us for him. So, many members, including one of our general secretaries, were very sceptical of him,” a Yuva Morcha leader said. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said: “This is very unfortunate. He was such a lively boy... However, I’m unaware of any brawl.” An officer of Hastings police station said: “We have heard about Sarkar’s death. But no one has lodged any complaint.” Additional reporting by Monalisa Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-156
27-07-2021||West Bengal||No proposal received for inclusion of Gorkhas in Scheduled Tribe list by Assam govt: Centre ||The BJP-led government at the Centre has revealed that Assam, a BJP-ruled state, has not recommended the inclusion of Gorkhas in the Scheduled Tribe list, although the saffron party has used this promise to garner votes from the Gorkhas across the country. Renuka Singh Saruta, Union minister of state for tribal affairs, in a reply to a question posed by Congress MP from Assam Gaurav Gogoi in Parliament on Monday, stated that the ministry of tribal affairs had not received any proposal from the Assam government for the inclusion of “Gorkha” community in the Scheduled Tribe list of Assam. Gogoi had sought information on whether the Assam government had sent a recommendation for granting tribal status to Gorkhas, and if yes, its details and the status of the proposal. The population of the Gorkha community in India is the highest in Assam followed by Bengal and Sikkim. Keshav Raj Pokhrel, the secretary-general of the Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Anit Thapa faction), said the Union minister’s reply exposed the BJP. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised tribal status for 11 Gorkha communities, the Union home minister came to Darjeeling and raised the hopes of people, but their own government in Assam has not yet recommended tribal status for Gorkhas,” said Pokhrel. “Today’s reply clearly suggests how serious the BJP is about the demand of our community. However, how far can they go only with lip service,” he added. While there is a demand for the inclusion of 11 Gorkha communities in the ST list in Bengal and Sikkim, the demand is for more Gorkha communities in Assam as the communities such as Tamang and Subba, which have been recognised as ST in Bengal and Sikkim, have not been recognised in Assam. Against this background, recommendation from the Assam government is deemed important. Bengal and Sikkim have, however, sent their recommendations many years ago. However, various RTI replies in the past have suggested that the office of the Registrar General of India, which is under the Union home ministry, had not warmed up to the idea of granting tribal status to the Gorkha community. According to the laid down modalities, a state government concerned has to put forward the demand along with the report of the ethnography survey to the Registrar General of India (RGI). After a favourable response from the RGI, the matter is then sent to National Commission for Scheduled Tribes and after being vetted by the law ministry, a bill is prepared by the tribal ministry for cabinet approval. Following the approval, the bill is placed in Parliament. Even though RTIs have earlier suggested that the matter has not moved beyond the RGI office, BJP leaders have continued to raise hopes of ST status among the community members since the 2014 elections. In between these seven years, the Centre also formed three committees to examine the demand. The demand was also listed in the BJP’s 2019 Lok Sabha election manifesto.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Calcutta High Court asks Centre for vaccine details||Calcutta High Court on Monday asked the Centre to inform it how many vaccines it had sent to Bengal till date, specifying how many of them were Covishield and Covaxin doses. The division bench of Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj asked the Centre to file an affidavit with the details of the vaccine doses sent to Bengal on August 5 when the case would be taken up again. During the hearing of a number of public interest litigations, the court directed additional solicitor-general Y.J. Dastoor to ask the Centre to file the affidavit. The PILs were moved with various allegations. Some petitioners contended that vaccines were not available at municipal offices or hospitals and most people did not have money to take the jabs at private health establishments. A petitioner claimed a large number of people were not getting vaccines after standing for a long time in queues. The state authorities have been saying that the Centre is not sending adequate number of vaccines. In one of the petitions, it has been claimed that the Centre has been “discriminatory” in its attitude towards Bengal and has not been sending vaccines according to the need. The acting chief justice then asked the advocate-general if the state government was taking special care for senior citizens and why old people had to stand in queues for a long time. Bengal has so far administered over 2.73 crore vaccines — approximately 27.3 per cent of its population — and they include around 81.25 lakh second doses (over 8.12 per cent of the population). The national average at the moment is 25.6 per cent for at least one dose administered and 7 per cent for two doses. In terms of fully vaccinated people, Bengal is second in the nation after Maharashtra (98.9 lakh). Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has repeatedly been alleging that the BJP-led Centre has been meting out step-motherly treatment to Bengal with regard to sending vaccines. Despite vaccine wastage being “very low” (around 7 per cent) in the state, she said, not enough people have been vaccinated here only because the four crore doses sought — in total — by now have not been given. The Trinamul Congress chief has been saying that the state government bought 18 lakh doses worth Rs 59 crore on its own before the Centre decided to take full responsibility of sending vaccines to the states.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans health workers armed with Covid kits||A voluntary organisation in the Sunderbans is equipping rural women to conduct basic health scans with instruments such as thermal guns and pulse oximeters to detect symptoms of Covid-19 faster. “We have observed that people in rural areas like the Sunderbans often ignore symptoms and invite bigger problems by delaying medication. This has become more evident during the pandemic as many people have either died or suffered enormously owing to delay in detection,” said Subhasis Mondal, who is the secretary of Maa Saroda Women & Rural Welfare Society, the non-government organisation that works for the socio-economic empowerment of women in the Sunderbans and adjacent areas of North 24-Parganas. Last Wednesday, women of 20 self-help groups and 10 Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) workers and auxiliary nurses-cum-midwives (ANM) active in Hingalganj and Hasnabad blocks of the Sunderbans under Basirhat subdivision in North 24-Parganas, received medical equipment with financial support of an industrial gas production company, Linde Global Support Services Private Limited. The initiative is aimed at bridging the gap between the detection of diseases and start of medication and start of medication which often gets delayed and results in deaths in the remote areas of the Sunderbans. A member of the society explained the ground realities. “ There are two reasons for the delay (in diagnosis and medication). First, the unavailability of basic health scanning devices like pulse oximeter, thermal gun or thermometer with Asha workers. Second, the reluctance of people to visit rural health centres because of the distance. Our objective is to take the scanning initiative to the people by engaging women of self-help groups.” Dipti Das Karmakar, 48, a self-help group leader in the Bispur area of Hasnabad, said Covid had been an “eye-opener”. “Many people died of Covid only because they ignored the symptoms in the initial stages. In some cases, patients died before the required medication could begin. Now equipped with a thermal gun, pulse oximeter and a kit we can change this situation,” she said. Asha worker Anima Das said: “It is a big support for us and for the people here. The only time we were provided these devices was for election day duty.” Asked about remuneration, an official of the society said the daily allowance of workers is care of. “It is in the range of Rs 150 per day per person,” he added. The local administration is being kept in the loop. A regular health update is being sent to the block development officer and the block medical health officer every day, said Mondal. He added their organisation would pay for the blood tests of villagers if required. A senior manager of the gas company, Susanta Mohanty, said that with this initiative, they aimed to create health awareness “so that people turn up to get health check-ups done on time”. A senior health official of North 24-Parganas administration welcomed this corporate help. “The government has certain limitations despite its commitment to people’s welfare. If more such organisations come up to extend support to the government, the gap in rural healthcare can be easily bridged,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Landowners seek action against land-grab instances in Bolpur and Santiniketan||Over a hundred landowners in Bolpur and Santiniketan have formed a committee and submitted a memorandum to the local land revenue office demanding action against the alleged growing instances of land-grab through fake deeds. Residents on behalf of the Surul Land Protection Committee sent a copy of the memorandum to the Nabanna top brass, including the office of chief minister Mamata Banerjee, to seek their intervention. Sources said the land mafia were forging old deeds to sell land even as original owners remained in the dark. Another source said that once land is sold to a person with fake documents, the same land is quickly sold again and again to other clients to create a chain of owners so that tracing the original fraud gets difficult. “Landowners come to know about this fraud when new owners come to take possession of the land,” said a source. “A property belonging to my family in Santiniketan worth around Rs 85 lakh has been recorded in the names of strangers with the help of forged property deeds. The practice has taken a serious turn in Santiniketan as at least 50 landowners faced the problem with the land mafia attempting to forge their documents too,” said Debasish Sarkar, a professor of agricultural economics in Visva-Bharati. The headmaster of Bolpur High School Supriya Sadhu recounted his experience of his four bighas being “fraudulently” recorded in the names of strangers without his knowledge. “This happened three years ago. I am fighting to get my land back and the accused person who forged my deed has been arrested. Such cases are increasing,” said Sadhu. Birbhum district magistrate Bidhan Ray said he had asked the additional district magistrate (land) to take up the issue and submit a complete report regarding the allegations of malpractices. “We will not spare anyone involved in such illegal activities. I have already asked my senior officials to submit a detailed report and we will take stern action,” said Ray. Sources said activities of land mafia were increasing in Santiniketan and Bolpur after the price of land here shot up. “The activities of land mafia have increased over the past 10 years and now it is beyond control as Santiniketan and Bolpur have become a hub of several housing projects. Land that used to be sold for Rs 50,000 per cottah a decade ago is now priced at around Rs 4-5 lakh a cottah. The activities of land mafia must be curbed or else legitimate landowners will suffer,” said a source in the land department. Sanjoy Roy, the block land and land reforms officer of Bolpur, said the local residents had provided instances of at least 60 such attempts to change records by using forge deeds. “We always send letters to owners before we change the names in the land record through mutation. We will conduct a probe with each attempt to find the culprits who are attempting to change the record with false documents,” Roy said. A government official said that the market value of these 60 properties was around Rs 100 crore. According to the government directive, if any such case of property fraud was found, the land department should immediately lodge a police complaint against the person who had appealed for getting the property transferred in his or her name. “We got three specific complaints since February this year. We have sent the copy of the deeds to the sub-registrar's office to know if such deeds existed. Once we get the report, action will be taken,” Roy added. Sources in the district administration said land of tribal people were also being sold off via forgeries. “Allegations of such practices are prominent in pockets of Santiniketan like Prantik, Surul, Goalpara and Taltore areas,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Girl injured in explosion in North Dinajpur, BJP and TMC blame each other||A three-year-old girl suffered serious injuries when a crude bomb exploded in front of a BJP worker’s house at Indran village in North Dinajpur district on Monday afternoon. Police said Purnima Saha was playing near Kalyan Das’s home with some children when a bomb went off. “Locals rushed her to Raiganj Government Medical College and Hospital. She is reported to be in critical condition,” said a police officer. Villagers said they had no inkling as to who kept the bombs in front of Das’s house. Both BJP and Trinamul leaders raised fingers at each other following the explosion. Arindam Sarkar, a district Trinamul leader, alleged that BJP workers had stored crude bombs in their houses ahead of the Assembly polls. Basudeb Sarkar, BJP chief of North Dinajpur, however, rejected the charges. “Trinamul supporters had planted the bombs in front Das’s house.” The police said they were gathering information. “Some policemen have been deployed in the area,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Govt bid to placate unsuccessful higher secondary examinees||The top brass of the Bengal government has decided to depute officials to speak to unsuccessful higher secondary examinees across the state and assure them that their grievances will be addressed by July 30 following a realisation that if the students continue with their agitation, it will send a wrong message about the entire evaluation process. “Top government officials had to intervene as the agitation continued even today (Monday) despite several initiatives by the West Bengal Council of Higher Secondary Education. The prolonged agitation would raise questions over the evaluation process, which would ultimately leave all eight lakh examinees in trouble in the future,” said a senior government official. District magistrates have been asked to send senior officials like SDOs, BDOs or inspectors of the schools to the spots where the unsuccessful examinees have been agitating with a demand that they be declared as qualified. “The officials would talk to the agitating students and hear their grievances. The officers would also assure the students that the council would address their grievances by July 30,” said an official. The message was sent to the district magistrates by the education secretary, Manish Jain, as instructed by chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi. About 18,000 students didn’t pass out of Class XII this year. The list of the schools where a number of unsuccessful students are registered would be shared with the district authorities. All the schools with unsuccessful examinees were asked to contact the council on July 29. The aggrieved students have been asked to contact their school heads the next day to know the status of the review. The chairperson of the higher education council, Mahua Das, issued a statement on Monday evening, saying that the council was aware of the agitation by the HS examinees. “This is a clear signal that the council is eager to solve the issue at the earliest. The steps were initiated after the chief secretary held a meeting with the chairperson of the council on Saturday and instructed her to initiate steps to stop the agitation,” said a source. “According to the results available with the council, about 18,000 students were unsuccessful. But the agitation across the state is creating an impression that many more students were unsuccessful. So, steps are needed to ensure that no wrong message is sent against the entire system,” added the source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Mumbai police arrest two persons in Siliguri for duping businessman of Rs 2 crore ||A team of Mumbai police along with Siliguri Metropolitan Police raided a hotel on Bidhan Road and arrested two persons on Sunday night for allegedly duping Rs 2 crore from a Mumbai resident. The duo have been identified as Ashwin Patel from Gujarat’s Surat, and Ram Kumar from Rajasthan, both in their late 40s. Sudharshan Patel, an assistant inspector of police posted at Lokmanya Tilak Marg police station in Mumbai, who reached Siliguri with a team in search of the duo, said that on July 19 this year, they had received a fraud complaint from a Mumbai resident. “These two persons, along with six others whom we have already arrested, had opened an office in Mumbai and had been promising higher returns on investments. Around mid-July, the complainant paid them Rs 2 crore in cash and was told to get documents after four hours. But when he went there, he found the office closed. He kept going to the office for the next four days or so, but it stayed closed. On July 19, he informed us. On probing the case, we arrested six persons but these two managed to escape to Calcutta and then Siliguri,” the police officer said. He added that the police were tracking the cell phones of Ashwin and Ram Kumar, which is how they were traced. Accordingly, the Mumbai police team reached Siliguri and contacted officers of Siliguri police station and Panitanki police outpost under Siliguri police station. Then, the hotel raid was planned and the duo nabbed. On Monday, both were produced at a local court. The Mumbai police team filed a petition seeking transit remand for both, court sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||West Bengal||Pegasus row: BJP lashes out at Bengal govt for setting up inquiry commission ||The BJP lashed out at the Bengal government for setting up a commission of inquiry into the Pegasus snooping controversy, but a section of functionaries said privately that the issue had embarrassed the party and it should have welcomed the judicial probe. “Why are we even surprised that Mamata Banerjee has constituted a judicial commission to investigate bogus “Pegasus Project”? Her priorities have always been warped,” tweeted BJP’s national IT chief and cominder for Bengal, Amit Malviya. “If only she had shown such alacrity to probe postpoll violence and investigate several Covid scams in Bengal!” Malviya added. Bengal’s leader of Opposition Suvendu Adhikari retweeted Malviya’s post. Immediately after Malviya, BJP’s Asansol South MLA and chief of the state women’s wing, Agnimitra Paul, took to Twitter and alleged that the state government had spent “Rs 32.53 crore for the past six years on 13 commissions of inquiry” for political purposes and the Pegasus probe would be no different. However, several state BJP office-bearers admitted off the record that the surveillance allegation was an embarrassment for the party nationally as well as at the state level. Some of these leaders went to the extent of saying that Mamata Banerjee’s decision to initiate a formal probe into the snooping of phones through Pegasus spyware was a masterstroke. “The best thing for the party would have been to laud the commission and let it be. The fact that our leaders are going all out against the CM shows that there must be something wrong,” a state BJP functionary said. One BJP leader also appreciated Mamata for the time she chose to announce the commission. “She made the announcement just before her departure for Delhi. This will obviously be talked about nationally,” this leader said. “Our leaders could have been a bit more sensitive while reacting to it.” The chief spokesperson of the state BJP, Samik Bhattacharya, tried to turn the tables on Trinamul during a news conference. Bhattacharya said it was alleged that the Bengal government snooped on the telephones of its own ministers, officers and journalists. Thus, its role in the Pegasus issue must also be probed, he added. “Didn’t a certain police commissioner go to Israel in the past ten years? Did he not hold meetings with their representatives? Don’t the STF and CID use softwares like Pegasus? These questions must be asked,” Bhattacharya said. He added that former state BJP chief Rahul Sinha and Mukul Roy, the former de facto Trinamul number two who had joined the BJP in 2017 and went back to his former party after the recent Assembly polls, had also complained of being snooped on.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-157
27-07-2021||North East||Gaurav Gogoi seeks to Amit Shah’s intervention into Assam-Mizoram border dispute||A day after the Assam-Mizoram border clash claimed the lives of at least five policemen, one civilian and left 50 others injured, Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi on Tuesday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah, seeking his intervention to ensure peace at the inter-state boundary between the two states. The Lok Sabha MP also said the violence along the disputed border is a failure of the constitutional machinery" to ensure safety of people. “This is not just a failure of peace at the border, but a failure of the constitutional machinery of the state that failed to protect its men,” Gogoi said. At least six persons were killed and 50 others, including an SP, injured in a bloody clash between the police forces of the two states along the Assam-Mizoram border on Monday. The incident came two days after Shah held talks with the chief ministers of eight northeastern states and underscored the need to resolve lingering border disputes. “This (violence) is despite the Home Minister's visit to the northeast barely a few days prior to the incident, promising prosperity in the region and stability with regard to the border issues. Yet these atrocities continue,” Gogoi said in the letter. Shah had spoken to the chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram, Himanta Biswa Sarma and Zoramthanga respectively, and urged them to ensure peace along the disputed border and find an amicable settlement. Gogoi said disputes and instability along the inter-state boundary of Assam with Mizoram have been continuing for a while now, and the recent incidents draw special attention as "both sides claim to have rights over the land historically, which only further aggravates the tensions". The deputy leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, said, “More lives cannot be put in danger. Therefore, I urge you to take the matter into immediate consideration for appropriate action. The government ought to ensure safety and peace at the borders of Assam.” Assam's Barak Valley districts of Cachar, Karimganj and Hailakandi share a 164-km long border with Mizoram's three districts of Aizawl, Kolasib and Mamit. After allegations of encroachment of territory by both sides over the past few weeks and skirmishes that escalated tensions between the two states, violent clashes were reported along the inter-state border that ended in the death of at least five Assam policemen and one civilian.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
27-07-2021||North East||Assam declares three-day state mourning to condole deaths amid border clash with Mizoram||The Assam government declared a three-day state mourning from Tuesday to condole the death of five policemen and one civilian in a border clash with Mizoram on the previous day, a notification said. During this period, the national flag will fly at half-mast and there will be no public entertainment, the order issued by the General Administration Department said. At least six persons were killed and 60 others, including an SP, injured in a bloody clash along the Assam-Mizoram border on Monday. Union Home Minister Amit Shah has spoken to the chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram, Himanta Biswa Sarma and Zoramthanga respectively, and urged them to ensure peace along the disputed border and find an amicable settlement. Sarma paid floral tributes to the five slain policemen at Silchar on Tuesday. "We are deeply anguished by the loss of lives of our brave @assam police personnel. I visited Silchar SP office and paid floral tributes to the five martyrs and salute their sacrifice," he tweeted. Earlier in the day, the chief minister visited the Silchar Medical College and Hospital and met the police personnel injured in the attack. "Visited SMCH to meet injured officials and directed doctors to ensure best treatment to them. Asked to send seriously injured personnel for higher level treatment by air ambulance on priority," Sarma said in another Twitter post. The chief minister is also likely to visit the inter-state border where the situation was stated to be "tense but under control", officials said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
27-07-2021||North East||TMC alleges Tripura cops of  putting I-PAC team under house arrest||The Trinamul Congress alleged that a 23-member team of its poll consultant Prashant Kishor had been put under house arrest at a hotel in Agartala by the police of the BJP-ruled Tripura since Monday early morning. The police said they hadn’t detained the members of the I-Pac (Indian Political Action Committee) but got the team tested for Covid-19. “The team members had come from outside and were freely moving across Tripura. Once the test reports come in, they can move around,” a West Tripura police officer said. Trinamul’s Tripura president Ashish Lal Singh said he was ashamed and shocked over the “house arrest” of the members of the I-Pac. “This is not the culture of Tripura. I am shocked and ashamed. They have been under house arrest since 1am (on Monday). This shows that the ruling BJP is scared,” Singh told The Telegraph. He said the IPAC members were divided into six teams and had visited all eight districts of Tripura for an independent political survey. Trinamul national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee took to Twitter to slam the “house arrest”. “The fear in @BJP4Tripura before even @AITCofficial stepped into the land, is more than evident! They are so rattled by our victory in #Bengal that they’ve now kept 23 IPAC employees under house arrest.…”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
27-07-2021||North East||Five Assam cops killed in inter-state border clashes with Mizoram||At least five Assam policemen were killed in clashes along the inter-state border with Mizoram on Monday, two days after boundary disputes in the Northeast were discussed at a meeting attended by Union home minister Amit Shah and chief ministers of the region in Shillong. The deaths were announced by Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma who had initially put the toll at six. The figure was later revised to five dead and over 50 injured. Sarma said the policemen were killed while they were “defending the constitutional boundary of our state at the Assam-Mizoram border”. The Mizoram government blamed Assam police, saying “they forcibly crossed the duty post manned by CRPF personnel and overran a duty post manned by 1 (one) section of Mizoram police personnel”. Mizoram was a part of Assam till 1972. Efforts for a breakthrough since 1995 to resolve the border dispute have not made much progress. While the BJP is in power in Assam, the Mizo National Front (MNF) governs Mizoram. The MNF is part of the BJP-led NDA at the Centre but the two parties are not allies in Mizoram. On Monday, sources said, trouble started at a Covid screening centre between Lailapur (Assam) and Vairengte (Mizoram). Mizoram home minister Lalchamliana said in a statement that “around 200” armed Assam policemen led by an inspector-general of police and accompanied by the Cachar deputy commissioner, superintendent of police and divisional forest officer reached an autorickshaw stand at Vairengte around 11.30am on Monday. “The Assam police damaged several vehicles that were travelling along the National Highway between Vairengte and Lailapur,” the statement said. It did not mention any casualties in Mizoram. This resulted in Vairengte residents proceeding to the site but they “were assaulted” by Assam police by resorting to lathicharge and firing tear gas, causing injuries to several civilians, it said. “The confrontation continued and a volley of tear gas canisters and grenades were launched at Mizoram police followed by firing from the Assam side around 4.50pm. Mizoram police responded spontaneously by firing back at Assam police…,” Lalchamliana’s statement said. Assam cabinet minister Parimal Suklabaidya said video footage showed the “aggressive and violent acts” by the Mizoram side towards “our police and civilians despite our people maintaining patience”. Union home minister Shah spoke to both the chief ministers, following which Assam police withdrew from the place and the duty post handed back to CRPF personnel, Lalchamliana said. Seeking the intervention of Shah to stop the flare-up “right now”, Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga had tweeted on Monday afternoon: “Dear Himantaji, after cordial meeting of CMs by Hon’ble Shri @amitshahji (on Saturday), surprisingly 2 companies of Assam Police with civilians lathicharged & tear-gassed civilians at Vairengte auto rickshaw stand inside Mizoram today. They even overrun CRPF personnel/Mizoram police.” Sarma said he had spoken to Zoramthanga and iterated that Assam would maintain status quo along the border.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
27-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Equally just||Power operates in multiple ways. That is why the independence of the judiciary at all levels is of primary importance in the administration of justice. While hearing a plea that indicated how political connections and money may create pressure on a trial court, the Supreme Court emphasized that the lower courts provided the first line of defence for the civil liberties of the accused, the wronged and of civil society. As the initial interface between citizens and the law, their independence was crucial to the integrity of the entire system as well as in preserving the public’s faith in the judiciary. The reported pronouncements of the Supreme Court articulated one of the most troubling issues afflicting justice delivery in India. The ‘colonial mindset’ regarding the district judiciary that the Supreme Court referred to affected the people too: they seldom laid store by judgments of the lower courts, as though taking for granted that they would have to pursue justice up the ladder to higher courts, perhaps to the highest one. This loss of trust was the result of a duality underlying the system; the Supreme Court put it incisively in its reported statement that there could not be one system of justice for the rich and resourceful and another for those without resources. The Supreme Court’s description of the ‘appalling conditions’ under which trial judges work included the lack of infrastructure as well as the lack of protection that made them targets when they stood up for what was right. Their independence was contingent on their freedom from political pressure and other considerations; the fact that high courts decided on transfers and postings was one such. In effect, the Supreme Court was deploring the hierarchy within the system besides external pressures. This rounded perception of the hurdles lower courts faced in delivering justice freely must be honoured. To make it meaningful, the entire justice machinery, including the law enforcers, must commit to a change of attitude and function. Equally important would be an environment conducive to fearless adherence to the Constitution and the principles of justice and civil liberties, including practices of arrest, detention and bail. For the district judiciary to function independently and impartially, the higher courts, too, would have to ensure that none of their rulings impinged on civil liberties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
27-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: First ever gender-balanced Olympic Games in history, nutrition and Covid-19||Towards fairness Sir — In a welcome move, the International Olympic Committee announced on Women’s Day earlier this year that the Tokyo Olympics would be the “first ever gender-balanced Olympic Games in history” with almost 49 per cent of the total athletes being women (“Fair games”, July 24). This push was extended to the opening ceremony last Friday, where a rule change allowed countries to select both a male and a female flagbearer to share the honour of carrying their nation’s colours. The Games have come a long way since 1900 when 22 women participated in the event in Paris for the first time. Since then, many efforts have been made to achieve gender balance at the Olympics. London 2012 marked the first time when all national Olympic committees managed to include at least one female athlete in their delegation in the history of the Games. Finally, the Youth Olympic Games 2018 in Buenos Aires became the first fully gender-balanced Olympic event ever held. Several important decisions had recently been taken to create a more gender-balanced event programme and athlete quotas for Tokyo 2020. It is hoped that these actions will lead to full gender equality for all upcoming Olympic Games. Incidentally, India fell short of sending a gender-balanced contingent to Tokyo with 56 women as opposed to 71 men. A sobering truth is that in spite of being the second-most populous nation in the world, India performs poorly in multi-event competitions. This should act as a reminder to the sports ministry that there is an urgent need to improve infrastructure for both genders in India. S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — While it is good to know that the Olympic committee is actively trying to bridge the inequities between men and women in sporting events, the reality remains that female athletes all over the world have access to lesser resources than men. It will need the active effort of all countries to truly make a change. Abhra Ganguly,Calcutta  Eat right Sir — Since the outbreak of Covid-19, medical experts have urged people to pay attention to their nutrition so that their immunity is not compromised. A recent study has found that a Japanese fermented soybean dish, natto, may inhibit the ability of the coronavirus to infect cells. While natto may not be easy to include in the Indian diet, we must consider eating more fermented food — rich in probiotic bacteria — to enhance the immune system. Aparajita Saha,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
27-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: One for none||Unity in diversity is one of the many wisdoms that India has gifted to the world. Indeed, the comity of nations has, over the years, acknowledged pluralism to be almost synonymous with the Indian republic. It is thus curious that the prime minister has felt the need to reiterate the importance of unity to Indians. In the course of his recent Mann ki Baat address, Narendra Modi entreated citizens to lead a ‘Bharat Jodo Andolan’. Unity, indeed, is a desirable goal and citizens must always strive towards meeting it. In a democracy, the government — elected by the people — is also mandated to protect the social fabric of the nation. It will be instructive to examine Mr Modi’s record in this respect. There is general consensus that India’s inclusive body politic has come under unprecedented strain with the political ascendancy of the Bharatiya Janata Party. Violence and vilification of and discrimination against minorities have become part of New India’s everyday experience. Lynchings and communal conflagrations are some of the more visible dimensions of this engineered polarization. The world, too, has taken note of the deterioration. For instance, India was one of the 10 nations that the United States Commission for International Religious Freedom, a quasi-judicial, Congressional entity, recommended to be redesignated as a ‘country of particular concern’. India’s enfeebled commitment to secularism under Mr Modi’s watch may have been a factor in this troubling inference. The reason for the invigoration of faith-based fault lines is not far to seek. Its lip service to fraternity notwithstanding, the ideological framework of India’s ruling dispensation has no place for the spirit of accommodation among religious communities. Spurred by a seemingly majoritarian impulse, it seeks to impose a narrow vision that goes against the wisdom, humaneness and expansiveness of the values enshrined in the Constitution. What must also be acknowledged is that there is considerable public support for Mr Modi’s allegedly divisive agenda. The recent Pew report on the waning culture of religious tolerance assumes significance in this context. Could it be that Mr Modi’s call for unity is, in fact, an indirect admission that India’s faltering unity needs to be rectified? The prime minister’s critics would be hoping that citizens are not being goaded to embrace a homogenous unitariness in the name of unity on an auspicious, imminent occasion. For that would be the final nail in the coffin of Indian unity.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
27-07-2021||Opinion||Search for the truth||For the past few days, an audio clip has been circulating on WhatsApp, alerting residents of Calcutta about an armed gang operating in the dead of night. The speaker does not introduce himself; he refers to a “most respectable family” that he knows, living at Mukundapur on the southern fringes, and narrates its plight. It is 2 in the night when the doorbell rings, waking the family from its slumber. It rings persistently, arousing both dread and a sense of helplessness. When the gentleman goes up to the first floor balcony and looks out, he spies a team of uniformed policemen, armed and vociferous, at his gate. When he asks them what the matter is, they say they are questioning the neighbourhood on an unoccupied building in the vicinity. Smelling a rat, he tells the “policemen” that he will answer their queries from the balcony, to which the posse replies that the men needed to enter the house as some documentation was necessary. Fortunately, better sense prevails and the gentleman replies if that was the case they should return during the day. The message mentions that “they” (there is no clarifying who that might be) tried to garner data and identified police stations like Mukundapur, Rajpur and Baruipur in South 24 Parganas. When I checked, the Calcutta police ruled out its authenticity, although the clip has gone viral. The credibility is not questioned by those sharing this message because, as the clip itself points out, the pandemic has not only rendered thousands in the city jobless, but also spawned criminal networks. Women accompanied by young children seeking alms are a common sight in the lanes and bylanes during the afternoon, as are men looking for odd jobs to eke out a living. Most localities have elderly residents living alone, their children having settled in other cities or abroad. When they are sent messages like these, they panic. Relatives and friends forward the clips in order to “alert” their senior citizen acquaintances, without stopping to verify the contents. This reminds one of the ancient Greek philosopher, Socrates, who always insisted on a ‘triple filter test’ to verify the authenticity of what was being said, canards included. “The first filter is truth. Have you made absolutely sure that what you are about to tell me is true?” he would ask. If we were to apply this principle to the narrator of the message, should he not have checked with the police first before alarming all the recipients so convincingly? Or added the phone number of the local police station to the message? Socrates’s second test was that of goodness. “Is what you are about to tell me something good?” he would query. “You want to tell me something that may be bad, even though you’re not certain it’s true?” To those forwarding this clip without a second thought, this is precisely the checkpoint. What is the necessity of triggering alarm if the facts have not been authenticated by a proper source, in this case the police? The final filter of the Greek philosopher was that of usefulness. This is the only one that may be touted by those taking social media by storm. But while they may consider the piece of information to be of use to potential victims about criminals on the prowl, they need to apply a set of parameters that ensures constructive communication. Most citizens are already in a state of anxiety given the unprecedented pandemic. When social media “alerts” trigger hysteria that cannot be assuaged without remedial measures, those who proffer such sage advice should coordinate with the law-keepers. Or accept that the onus of safeguarding mental health, the likeliest casualty in the circumstances, is on them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
27-07-2021||Opinion||Far from sustainable||The 70th general assembly of the United Nations called on countries “to ensure that all people have the same opportunities to live a better life without compromising our planet” as part of its 2030 agenda and called them Sustainable Development Goals. The process of development is sustainable only if it is sustained environmentally, socially, and economically. Economic growth would be environmentally sustainable when the issues of climate change, water conservation and investment in renewable energies are addressed. Development is socially sustainable when it facilitates the growth of various marginal communities and cultures and when growth is fairly distributed in terms of quality of life, healthcare and education. Development is economically sustainable when growth generates “wealth for all without harming the environment”. Seventeen Goals were agreed upon by the UN to achieve the objective by 2030. As per the latest report (2021), India with a score of 60.1 ranks 120th amongst the listed 165 nations. India’s rank corresponds to its per capita rank in GDP (122nd as per the latest report of the International Monetary Fund estimated on purchasing power parity basis). Hunger, poor public healthcare facilities, limited access to clean water and sanitation, increased economic inequality are some of the significant challenges that brought down India to such a low rank. Following in the footsteps of the UN, the Niti Aayog developed an index of SDGs based on 14 goals and classified the states and the Union territories based on that index. The recent report of the Niti Aayog (2020-21) indicates a clear divide in India in terms of accomplishing SDGs: whereas the states in southern, western and northern India are above the all-India average, those in central and eastern India are lagging behind. Kerala, with a score of 75, tops the country whereas Bihar (52) continues to be at the bottom. Bengal (62) comes in between, 10th amongst the 18 major states. Bengal’s relatively poor score can be attributed to the lack of civic amenities amongst the urban poor, stunted growth of children, anaemia amongst adolescents and pregnant women, lower wage for female employees, lower percentage of holdings operated by women as well as a lower percentage of renewable energy in terms of total installed capacity. The plight of the urban poor is the single most important criterion that brought down the overall score of Bengal. The slums in Calcutta, Howrah and other congested towns have long been ignored as they matter less in vote bank politics when compared to people belonging to similar social strata living in rural areas. The percentage of urban households living in kutcha houses and the proportion of urban houses without drainage facilities in Bengal are much higher compared to the all-India average. Bengal is far below the national average in terms of the number of toilets constructed for the urban poor and in terms of installed sewage treatment capacity as a percentage of overall urban sewage generated. Other than Calcutta, its surrounding agglomeration and Siliguri, Bengal hardly has any city worth naming. That only two airports are functional in a populous state is indicative of poor infrastructure. Bengal needs to introspect on why the prevalence of anaemia is high among children, young adults and pregnant women. The difference with other performing states may be marginal but in a state where the mid-day meal scheme for school-going children is taken seriously, where anganwadi schemes aimed at extending basic healthcare to pre-school children, adolescents and married women is so deeply entrenched, the high incidence of anaemia is counter-intuitive. The fight against malnutrition, anaemia and stunted growth needs attention to make development socially sustainable. The lower wage of female employees vis-à-vis their male counterparts in Bengal is an indicator of the pressure on land for livelihood. The workforce available in the agrarian sector is far above the optimal requirement because of the high population density in Bengal. It is this pressure on land that explains the lower percentage of land holdings operated by women. There will be no solution to this problem till the time the surplus rural labour force is redeployed to the secondary sector. Bengal needs to concentrate on small and medium scale industries and on manufacturing units in rural and semi-urban areas. So far as environmental issues are concerned, Bengal is below the national average on account of the percentage of renewable energy out of total installed-generating capacity and in terms of carbon dioxide saved from LED bulbs. The Niti Aayog wants to promote competitive federalism amongst states to accomplish the SDGs. However, this is unlikely to work considering the pathetic financial condition of most of the states. The Centre needs to come up with state-specific schemes and act as a facilitator in states progressing to realize their SDGs within a reasonable time frame.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
27-07-2021||Opinion||Past and present||The name of Jean-Luc Godard is bandied about a lot when people discuss serious cinema. Godard as a self-indulgent director of a whole bunch of unwatchable, plotless films, or as a master, the Picasso of cinema, who smashed cinematic language and put together a new syntax that radically changed the way we make and look at films. The irascible 90-year-old recluse skulking around in his Swiss village would probably shrug at both descriptions; and neither opinion should come in the way of a re-examination of a complex and varied body of work. I myself have always loved Godard, if always with a certain Godardian irreverence, and I recently found myself clicking on a link to view an old favourite, Masculin Féminin. JLG burst upon the international scene with Breathless in 1960. Over the next decade, he gunned out something like twenty films. The early films, from Breathless to Week-end in 1967, are broadly accepted as being JLG’s great first period and M/F is the eleventh, made at the height of what we could now call Godard v.1.0. Most of the films from this phase were in black and white, centred around Paris or some other Gallic city, made almost on the fly, often coming pretty close to a documentary shoot, the camera often hand-held, with a small cast and crew. As in many other films of this first phase, a lot of the action in M/F takes place in small apartments, cafes, bars, amusement arcades and, of course, the streets. From all reports, the ‘script’, such as it was, consisted of notes and drawings Godard made in his notebooks, sometimes even on the night before the next day’s shoot. The filming was done in the winter of ’65-’66. Masculin Féminin — 15 faits précis (Masculine Feminine — 15 precise events), to give it its full title, starts by pretending it’s a love story. However, this is Godard, the master of narrative feints, and within five minutes the film starts pulling the rug from under the romantic tale and from you, the viewer. A young man, Paul (played by the luminously pale Jean-Pierre Léaud) sits in a cafe, awkwardly chatting up a beautiful young woman, Madeleine (Chantal Goya). They discuss jobs, labour (“the worker isn’t his own man anymore”), and the magazine where Madeleine works while she tries to make it as a pop singer. Madeleine asks a question. There’s a cut. The soundtrack is taken over by a nasty argument from an adjacent table where we see a couple sitting with a small boy. The man grabs the child and walks out of the cafe. The woman screams in helplessness as she tries to stop him. She runs to their table, fumbles in her purse and comes running back to the exit. She opens the door, small gun in her hand, and shoots the man. For the rest of the film, we follow Paul and Madeleine but with filmic detours. From different angles we explore ideas of love, of relationships between men and women, of marriage and cohabitation, all in the context of a deeply alienating environment, with the ongoing war in Vietnam as one inescapable backdrop, with dynamics of race as another, with the atomizing, dehumanizing nature of technology as a third. If the first scene encapsulates the whole arc of a love story, from the first fumbling courtship to the terminally violent end of a partnership, the remainder of the film expands and explores various aspects of masculinity and femininity in a modern context. As with any work that is more than half-a-century old, some aspects will appear more dated than others. Watching the mini-dramas of this group of twenty-somethings play out in the bleak, wintertime Paris of the mid-60s, what is startling is how much of the ‘story’ is still relevant today, and how utterly fresh the form of this grainy black-and-white film still feels. When Paul goes into a booth and records a beseeching message for Madeleine on a vinyl disc, it presages the inarticulate frustrations, the cringe-making banalities we now trip into with text and voice messages. When a character says to another, “In the near future, each citizen could well be wearing an electrical apparatus designed to stimulate pleasure and sexual gratification,” or, “[g]ive us this day, a TV and car, but deliver us from freedom”. We realize we are watching one of the earliest allusions to realities and ways of thinking that are commonplace today. For all its postmodernist elan, there are quaint details you can’t help notice; for instance, lovers addressing each other with a formal ‘vous’ (aap) as opposed to ‘tu’ (tu/tum) even in the most intimate situations. With the intervening decades helping you to pull back, you also see the macro view: Godard and the French New Wave of the late 50s and 60s are totally embedded in a particular historic moment. This kind of film-making was only possible in western Europe for a short period of time, during a time and a situation of abundance at multiple levels, where a producer would back a director like Godard to go ahead and make what he wanted, how he wanted; the plenitude involved was not just financial but also intellectual, where the freedom to explore form was consistently extended to various maverick auteurs, almost like a publisher providing an advance for an experimental book that might well fail. M/F could only have been made when it was made and where it was made. And, yet, in its prescience and pessimism, the film depicts some things that seem unchanging, as when an activist friend asks Paul to sign a letter saying, “the undersigned are deeply concerned at the imprisonment of eight members of the world of arts and letters in Rio de Janeiro for expressing their disagreement with official policy, and protest against this violation of freedom of thought in Brazil and demand the liberation of the eight prisoners.” Paul signs and asks, “Last week it was Madrid. What next?” “Athens, Baghdad, Lisbon...” comes the reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-61
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand hikes DA for government staff to 28 per cent||The Jharkhand government has decided to raising dearness allowances (DA) of its employees to 28 per cent with effect from July 1 this year. The decision to increase DA was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren on Tuesday. A total of 19 proposals were taken up at today’s meeting. Briefing the media, cabinet coordination secretary Vandana Dadel said that state government employees will now get 28 per cent DA against 17.5 per cent. The DA of pension holders was also hiked. “Close to 2.5 lakh state government employees will be benefitted by Tuesday's decision,” she said. In another significant decision, the state cabinet cleared amendments in the Indian stamp duty regulations which will allow the government to increase rates of deeds, affidavits, land and property registry, among others. The revised rates are likely to be applicable from August 1. While Dadel did not provide details of the quantum of hikes, she said the state would generate additonal revenue to the tune of Rs 200 crore because of this decision. The cabinet also agreed to engage the National Institute of Hydrology in Roorkee to prepare an action plan for the implementation of the pogrammes of the Union ministry of Jal Shakti. The cabinet also agreed to the state education department’s plan to distribute free textbooks to students of classes IX, X and XI of government schools.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand unveils plan to promote ethanol production||The Jharkhand government is working on a plan to promote ethanol production in the state to boost alternative sources of energy in the field of biofuels. On Monday, the state industries department unveiled a draft policy, titled, Jharkhand Ethanol Production and Promotion Policy 2021, and held a discussion with potential investors. Addressing the gathering, state industries department secretary Pooja Singhal said that the state government was working on several sector-wise policies and hoped to unveil at least seven of them in the next two months. She also spoke of some of the advantages of investing in Jharkhand, like, ease of doing business, a land bank and a host of upcoming industrial parks and special economic zones. On the ethanol sector, she said, “Given the availability of feedstock used for ethanol production, Jharkhand can easily sustain a minimum of 600 KL/day of production for the captive market available in eastern India.” Notably, ethanol is distilled from sugarcane, molasses, maze and agro waste. Since sugarcane cultivation is scare in Jharkhand, investors will need to procure raw material from nearby states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and the likes. Explaining the salient features of the draft policy, she said, “The policy proposes a highly remunerative incentive structure including capital subsidy at 25 per cent of the investment made in fixed capital of up to Rs 10 crore for MSMEs and Rs 50 crore for non-MSMEs. This apart, there is also a one-time skill development subsidy at Rs 13,000 per employee for training employees who are domiciled in the state. Also, employment cost subsidy (50 per cent reimbursement for male workers and 100 per cent reimbursement for female workers) of expenditure on account of contribution toward ESI and EPF schemes for a period of 5 years will be provided.” Among others present on the occasion were industries director Jitendra Kumar, deputy commissioner, Department of Excise and Prohibition, Rakesh Kumar, representatives of various trade bodies, including Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Centre assures 35 lakh vaccine doses to Jharkhand in August||Jharkhand has been assured supply of over 35 lakh doses of vaccines from the Centre in August to continue the ongoing immunisation drive against Covid-19, the latest supply schedule released by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) on Tuesday said. While the Centre will provide as many as 27,46,930 vaccine doses for free, at least 7,95,250 doses will be made available for purchase by private hospitals and clinics involved in the vaccination drive. With at least 35,32,180 vaccine doses assured, the state will now be in a position to inoculate at least 1 lakh residents daily in August, health officials said. Jharkhand, as per records with the health department, has at least 3,377 session sites for vaccination and the infrastructure to immunize over 3 lakh residents every day. The state, as per government records, received around 25 lakh vaccine doses in July. However, delayed supply of vaccines hit the immunisation drive for several days in Jharkhand as districts ran out of vaccines, officials said. Owing to the crisis of vaccines, the state recorded the lowest single day vaccination figure of barely 13,000 in the month of July. While the increase in the number of vaccine doses in August may help in smooth running of the campaign, many residents desiring to get Covaxin doses or waiting for their second dose of the Bharat Biotech-made vaccine may have to deal with a shortage, sources said. As per the schedule of vaccine supply, Jharkhand will receive 24,08,650 Covishield doses and 3,38,280 Covaxin doses free of cost. At least 6,88,130 Covishield doses and 1,07,120 Covaxin doses will be made available for purchase by private hospitals. The figures indicate that on an average, the state may only get the freedom to administer around 15,000 Covaxin doses every day. The demand for Covaxin, primarily due to the shorter gap between the two doses, led to a ruckus at some session sites in Jharkhand this month. Many beneficiaries of the second dose of the vaccine also complained about the unavailability of vaccines at session sites close to their homes. In the wake of the growing demand for Covaxin, some districts decided to allow only online slot booking for beneficiaries of this vaccine. Jharkhand has so far received 93,02,030 doses of vaccines from the Centre for running the immunisation drive against Covid-19, highlights data with the National Health Mission (NHM). As per NHM data shared on Tuesday evening, the state has so far administered at least one dose of vaccine to 90,32,969 residents, including some who took the Russian Sputnik V vaccine procured separately by private hospitals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Miffed with stiff competition posed by online sellers Dhanbad retailers write to PM Modi||Reeling from the impact of pandemic induced slowdown, over lakh traders are facing the survival risk due to the stiff competition being posed by online trade and e-commerce sites. Over six to seven per cent outlets are facing the risk of closure, while 9-10 per cent of staff including the store managers, salesmen and loaders associated with retail sector warehouses and shops are at the risk of losing their jobs. Perturbed by the prevailing situation, retailers and other traders of Dhanbad wrote two separate letters, marked to Prime Minister, Narendra Modi and the Union Commerce Minister, Piyush Goyal demanding to curb the monopoly of a few big players in the e-commerce sector. The aggrieved traders led by vice president of Federation of Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Surendra Arora said, “We believe in comprehensive development of business, trade and industry in which the inclusive growth of every stakeholder including retailer, wholesaler, common staff and labourers engaged in loading work is ensured.” “While several other countries in the world faced the impact of global recession in a more adverse manner, the impact of recession remained minimal in India due to comprehensive involvement of different groups in the business and trade activity,” maintained Arora. He added that during the lockdown an attempt has been made by a chain of handful of large business houses to adversely affect traditional business houses. Echoing sentiment, Prabhat Surolia president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce said, “Online trade may prove to be a progressive step for the growth of trade and industry but the attempt by a few big players to capture the entire market can’t be part of the government policy.” According to them, if the monopoly of big players continues at the cost of small traders being affected then the central government’s slogan ‘vocal for local’ can’t be realized. “Due to huge overhead costs including the shop and warehouse rent, electricity charges, staff cost the retailers can’t survive the stiff competition being posed by online traders” said Surolia. “The blow suffered by the online trade to the retail sector is not limited to the metropolitan cities or large urban centres. The heat is being felt by traders of smaller towns and rural areas also,” he added. “When trade of several items was restricted in the retail sector during the lockdown such items were freely supplied through online trade in violation with the norms,” charged an agitated Surolia.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jamshedpur hosts sport climbing trials for World Youth Meet||Tata Steel Adventure Foundation (TSAF) in association with Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF) East Zone is conducting the national qualifying trials of sport climbers. Those selected will make it to the national squad for the World Youth Championship, which will be hosted by Russia n Voronezh, from August 21 to 31. A total of 24 aspirants, including 9 from TSAF, are trying their luck at the three-day trials which was flagged off at JRD Tata Sports Complex on Monday. The participants have been segregated in accordance with their age into junior and youth (A & B) camp. Siblings Aman and Anisha Verma, Talim Ansari, Suraj Singh Thakur, Sachin Saroj, Abhiskek Rawat, J Purty and Vidula Abhale are among the aspirants from TSAF. The trials are being held in the absence of audience. All safety norms, including Covid protocol, is being followed to ensure safety of everyone. Those selected will continue to getting trained at the training centre. This initiative of TSAF is to promote sport climbing in India and provide exposure to Indian athletes and help them prepare for future Olympic Games. Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel wished good luck to all the participating athletes and supported TSAF’s initiative to provide exposure and opportunity to the promising sport climbers. He also lauded TSAF's efforts to promote sport climbing in India. Debraj Dutta, chairman, IMF East Zone, Hemant Gupta, head, TSAF and co- chairman, IMF East Zone and Bibhas Roy, coach along with officials and volunteers are managing the trials. “Around 10 sport climbers would be selected after the trials. They will train in Jamshedpur before departing for Russia,” said Gupta. TSAF has invested heavily, to develop infrastructure at the training centre for sport climbing in Jamshedpur. Besides JRD Tata Sports Complex, it has also installed 5 modular climbing walls at rural schools around the steel city to increase the reach and awareness of the sport. The premier Jamshedpur-based adventure outfit started developing sport climbing in 2015 and has taken giant leaps over the years. The efforts are already reflecting through the results as TSAF climbers won the zonal and national trophy in 2019. Cadets from TSAF training centre are amongst the best performing athletes in India. Anisha Verma is the current national record holder in speed climbing in girl’s category while her brother Aman Verma is the first climber from India to reach semi-final stage of World Youth Championship a couple of years back. TSAF cadets have won 20 medals at national level while more than 50 at zonal and state level.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Belgian Malinois puppies for Tatanagar’s RPF dog squad||Tatanagar’s Railway Protection Force (RPF) kennel which had a lone Labrador sniffer, looks all set for some action, with the unit inducting two puppies on Tuesday. Many believe that the kennel, which had been lacking both in action and charm will soon be hustling with life. With the arrival of the Belgian Malianois puppies from Kharagpur, the number of inmates in the kennel will be boosted to three. Belgian Malinois species are considered to be most dependable and effective for any dog squad. Speaking about the new inducts, Sanjay Kumar Tiwari, inspector, Tatanagar RPF post, said, “Despite being sanctioned to have a three-member dog squad, we till date had a lone dog.” “The Belgian Malinois puppies are just a fortnight-old. After these puppies are trained, they will be inducted into the squad,” said the RPF inspector while talking to The Telegraph Online. Shushil Kumar Mahanta who is an RPF staff and the handler for the squad said the training of these puppies will begin only after they turn five months old. Following which, a slot would be booked for their training at the dog training center. “The puppies are given 32 weeks training at any of the dog training centers in the country. These puppies can be sent to BSF training Institute in Madhya Pradesh or to the RPF’s training center at Pune or newly-established CISF training Institute at Ranchi,” said Mahanta while talking to this website. The handler also pointed out that unlike a labrador or a German Shepherd that are trained for the dog squad, Belgian Malinois happen to be very aggressive. He added that the puppies could be trained for tracking, sniffing or detecting narcotics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.4 lakh get vaccinated in Jharkhand  ||Jharkhand on Monday vaccinated more than 1 lakh residents against Covid-19 for the third day in a row, adding impetus to the ongoing immunisation campaign that was hit recently by a crisis of vaccines. In all, the state administered vaccines to 1,40,385 beneficiaries, provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. The first dose of vaccine was administered to 1,09,085 residents, while at least 31,300 beneficiaries got their second jab. As many as 86,207 residents between 18 to 44 years got their first jab and 5,702 beneficiaries in this age bracket received their second jab on Monday. Jharkhand had over 5.40 lakh doses of vaccines in stock, as per data shared by the health department on Monday evening. The state has so far received 93,02,030 Covishield and Covaxin doses from the Centre and private hospitals have separately procured Sputnik V. The state, as per government data, has vaccinated 88,89,147 residents so far. The active caseload of Covid-19 dropped to 246 on Monday as the state reported at least 45 Covid recoveries against 37 fresh cases of infection. The state did not report any fresh casualties caused by the viral infection, which has claimed 5124 lives in Jharkhand so far. At least 13 districts – West Singhbhum, Saraikela, Sahebganj, Palamu, Pakur, Lohardaga, Khunti, Hazaribagh, Godda, Giridih, East Singhhum, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh cases of Covid-19 on the day, while the active caseload dropped to zero in Pakur and West Singhbhum as the only patients in the two districts recovered, the NHM stated in its daily Covid-19 bulletin. None of the 24 districts reported a double-digit-spike on Monday with Bokaro reporting the highest increase of nine cases. At least six recoveries against two cases brought the active caseload to 48, while the active caseload in East Singhbhum dropped to 16 as the district reported five recoveries against zero fresh cases. At least 27 people were battling the viral infection in Dhanbad by the end of Monday as two patients recovered there and one person was found infected on the day. On Monday, the state tested swab samples of 54,215 residents and 0.06 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2. Almost 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.45 per cent of them have recovered, while 1.47 per cent of patients could not survive. The doubling rate of Covid cases jumped to 8210.12 days in Jharkhand on Monday against the national average of 756.05 days, while the growth rate in the state remained 0.01 per cent against the national average of 0.09 per cent, government data highlighted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Left party protests Stan Swamy custodial death and farm laws||Activists of Marxist Coordination Committee along with the members of trade union Bihar Colliery Kamgar Union, on Monday staged a demonstration near the district headquarters at Randhir Verma Chowk demanding an independent probe into Father Swamy’s death under judicial custody. The protesters led by Hari Prasad Pappu, district president of Marxist Coordination Committee also expressed their ire over the three farm bills brought by Central Government as part of their demonstration and termed the changes in the labour code made by the central government as anti-labour. The agitated workers who shouted slogans against the Central Government also expressed their ire over the hike in fuel prices and resultant price rise of essential food items including mustard oil affecting each and every family. Talking to The Telegraph Online, Pappu said, “No action has been taken in connection with the death of Father Stan Swamy, a tribal right activist who became the victim of a politically motivated probe against him.” “What was the need to arrest such a philanthropic person who had even been denied even basic facilities and due medical attention leading to his death,” said Pappu. “The farm laws brought by the central government are totally against the interest of the farmers and aimed to benefit the corporate houses,” said Pappu. “The farm bills as brought by the central government will allow private parties to hoard essentials items by purchasing them instead of the government authorised agents as per the earlier practice,” said Bhushan Mahto, one of the protesters, and demanded immediate lifting of all false cases lodged against the agitating farmers and social workers during the course of their agitation against the farm bills. “We demand immediate repealing of all three farm bills and waive off all loans of farmers,”said Vivek Kumar another agitator and demanded the government provide legal status to minimum support price for foodgrains. The protesters also expressed their anger over the denial of reservation to the people of deprived sections of society and charged that the central government has denied the opportunity to more than 11,000 candidates of Other Backward Caster to become doctors in the last four years by making clandestine changes in the reservation provisions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
27-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: Kanpur gem trader arrested for illegal trade||Jamshedpur: A Kanpur-based gem trader was arrested along with two others from Ghurabandha thana area of Ghatsila subdivision in the district for illegally trading in precious gems. The gem trader identified as Vivek Kumar Gupta was arrested while he was striking a deal with a local emerald miner and an agent at a place in Ashti village, about seven kms away from the emerald mines. The police have seized 170 grams of emerald while arresting the three, the other two being identified as Sanatan Shyamal and Mohammed Nizamuddin, residents of Ghurabandha and Mango respectively. Police have also seized a car and a motorcycle from the Ashti village during the arrest. The Ghurabandha thana OC, Prabhat Kumar said that they had got a tip off that two persons, including a gem trader from outside the state are likely to meet a local villager in connection with the precious stones dealing at Ashti village this morning. "Acting on the information, we had swung into action and remained watchful at the Ashti village. This being a tribal-dominated village, we did not have to face much difficulty in tracing the outsiders who were found after a little wait. During the search, we found a stock of emeralds from the trio who were taken into custody immediately, " said Kumar to The Telegraph Online. The OC said during interrogation, it was established that Sanatan would do the mining emerald illegally and would sell the precious stone to outside gem traders through the Mango-based agent, Nizamuddin on a regular basis. The three were sent to Ghatsila Sub-jail after their production before a judicial magistrate in the afternoon. The emerald mines which falls under the forest area is yet to be leased out for mining and does attract a large number of local villagers for illegal mining. "We had taken necessary steps to stop the illegal mining of emerald with the help of the forest department and the police. But still some villagers do manage to collect the precious stone from the emerald deposit illegally.  The process of leasing out the mines is on," said district mining officer, Mohammed Nadeem Shafi to The Telegraph Online. (Kumud Jenamani) Dhanbad: Two unidentified bike borne criminals robbed cash worth Rs 2lakh from a retired BCCL employee on Monday at around 1 pm. The incident took place at Luby Circular Road when, Satish Chandra, 62, was returning home at Lodna in Jharia after withdrawing cash from Koylanagar Branch of State Bank of India. As soon as he reached near Luby Circular Road two unidentified youths who came on a bike from behind pushed him to the ground and fled after snatching the bag containing Rs 2 lakh cash. He later lodged an FIR in Dhanbad Sadar Police station.  (Praduman Choubey) Dhanbad: Two new CNG stations, established with the help of GAIL Gas Limited, will be inaugurated on Tuesday, including one at Nirsa Service Station at Nirsa block and another at Gupta Petol Pump of Putki. Sagar Saxena of GAIL Gas Limited said that GAIL Gas Limited has plans to establish altogether 15 CNG stations across the district and provide piped natural gas connections to 51,000 households. (Praduman Choubey)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-92
