29-07-2021||Calcutta||Ten persons arrested for running fake call centre ||Ten persons were arrested on Monday for allegedly running an illegal call centre from a building on Tiljala Road. A police officer said: “The racketeers, posing as representatives of the Reliance Jio survey department, were calling people to inform them that their terrace had been chosen to set up a 5G mobile-tower, for which they would get  Rs 20 lakh and a monthly rent of Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000.” The potential targets were allegedly asked to deposit Rs 10,799 if they wanted to let their terrace be used. “Based on a specific tip off, a flat on the fourth floor of a building on Tiljala Road was raided from where 10 persons were arrested,” said an officer of south east division. The police said they suspect the group of men had cheated several people to the tune of Rs 5 crore. An officer said they carried out the verification of all the bank accounts where the victims had been depositing money and found that all the accounts had been opened with alleged fake documents. “It is apparent that there are more people involved in the racket. The people who were making the calls were only at the front, but there are those who collected the phone numbers, opened bank accounts and withdrew cash from the ATMs. We are we are trying to locate them also,” said an officer of Karaya police station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
29-07-2021||Calcutta||Panel issues refund order to four hospitals ||The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Wednesday asked several private hospitals to refund part of the amounts paid by patients’ families as the bills had been prepared ignoring the panel’s advisories on rates and discounts. Ohio Hospital in New Town has to return Rs 1,61,864 to the family of an elderly couple who had passed away at the hospital after suffering from Covid, said retired judge Ashim Banerjee, the commission’s chairperson. “The hospital did not offer discounts on pharmacy products and consumables…,’ said Banerjee. “A more surprising fact is that the hospital had charged for physiotherapy when one of the patients was in ICU. How is this possible?” Nabajiban Hospital in Shyambazar has to return Rs 35,000 to the family of a 46-year-old man who was admitted with Covid and passed away. Banerjee said Nabajiban had charged more than the stipulated rate for PPE kits. Ispat Cooperative Hospital in Sonarpur has to return Rs 2.38 lakh to a patient who was admitted there with Covid. “The daily ICU charge at the hospital was Rs 60,000 and daily general bed charge was Rs 30,000. The patient was billed Rs 85,000 for doctors’ consultation for a 10-day stay. We... asked them to return Rs 2.38 lakh to the patient,” Banerjee said. Health World Hospital in Durgapur has to pay Rs 50,000 to any philanthropic organisation as penalty for not providing adequate services to an 81-year-old man, who passed away at the hospital. The man’s family said he did not get help when he had to go to the washroom and was not served food at the right time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
29-07-2021||Calcutta||Man arrested for snatching gold chains from 3 women in New Town||A 33-year-old man, Mohammad Shaban, alias Raj, was arrested for allegedly snatching gold chains from at least three women in New Town over the past couple of weeks. “Shaban and his three accomplices would ride on two motorbikes. The moment they spotted a woman walking alone, they would ride up behind her and snatch chains or any other jewellery,” said a police officer. He was produced before a court in Barasat that sent him to police custody on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
29-07-2021||Calcutta||Vaccine doses run out, 400 turned away in Bidhannagar sub-divisional hospital||A family waited for the Covid shot outside Bidhannagar Sub-divisional Hospital for more than 11 hours on Wednesday only to be told there were no doses left for them. At least 400 men and women who had queued up outside the Salt Lake hospital during the day for their second Covid shot were turned away as the centre had run out of doses. Many of those in the queue had turned up as early as 3am and were told around noon to go home. Lake Town resident Tapan Das said he and several of his neighbours had queued up at 3am. “We had learnt that the centre was administering second doses. However, in the afternoon, hospital employees stepped out and told us they had run out of doses,” he said. Rajkumar Yadav, a Rajarhat resident, said he had joined the queue around 4.30am. Past 3.30pm, he was told he would not get the shot. “We waited for more than 11 hours and were told that there were no vaccines left and to try again later,” he said. Yadav, a driver by profession, said he wanted to take the shot at a government centre with his family of five because he could not afford to take it at a private facility. A hospital official said: “We had received around 100 doses of Covaxin and Covishield each on Wednesday. But over 500 people had queued up.” After learning that they would not be inoculated, the people in the queue started protesting. Many tried to enter the hospital by opening the collapsible gate, which had been locked. “The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation has decided to administer only second doses of Covaxin and Covishield for now to ensure that no one misses out on the second jab,” said a senior official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation's health department on Wednesday. “No second dose recipient will be turned away,” he said. Officials of the civic body’s health department said they had no option but to turn people away if doses got exhausted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
29-07-2021||Calcutta||State health dept launches centre for treatment of hepatitis at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital||The state health department on Wednesday launched a centre at the RG Kar Medical College and Hospital to screen, test and provide treatment for viral hepatitis. This is the second centre in Calcutta where all viral hepatitis-related services will be provided free. The other centre functions from SSKM Hospital. The College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati runs a free hepatitis centre, said a senior health department official. A helpline number was also launched on Wednesday where people suffering from the disease or those who want to get tested for the disease can call. The number —7044041011 — will be operational from 10am to 5pm, Monday to Saturday. It will be operated by Liver Foundation. A screening, testing and treatment programme for the inmates of the correctional homes in the state was also launched on Wednesday. Several doctors and health services administrators called viral hepatitis "a silent killer" where the symptoms manifest very late. The common symptoms include yellowing of the skin and eye whites, diarrhea, nausea, loss of appetite, among others. But doctors advised that people who are in vulnerable group - those undergoing regular dialysis, those who suffer from thalassemia and have to undergo regular blood transfusion and those who suffer from haemophilia - must get screened for viral hepatitis. Health care workers and those who donate blood frequently too must get screened for the disease, they said. Ajay Chakraborty, the state's director of health services, said that there were 28lakh people suffering from hepatitis B in Bengal and 7 lakh suffering from hepatitis C. "Since this disease does not kill within a short time people are not that aware of its ability to impact humans. People infected with the disease have to deal with a lot of pain and suffering. Viral hepatitis is a silent killer. The disease can lead to liver cancer and cirrhosis of liver," Chakraborty said. Another doctor of the health department said that the numbers cited by Chakraborty reflected only those who have been identified as suffering from the disease. There could be lakhs of others who are yet to be identified. The website of the World Health Organisation (WHO) mentioned that it estimated "296 million people were living with chronic hepatitis B infection in 2019, with 1.5 million new infections each year" across the globe. WHO's website added that "In highly endemic areas, hepatitis B is most commonly spread from mother to child at birth (perinatal transmission) or through horizontal transmission (exposure to infected blood)". Hepatitis B also spreads by "needlestick injury, tattooing, piercing and exposure to infected blood and body fluids, such as saliva and menstrual, vaginal and seminal fluids. Transmission of the virus may also occur through the reuse of contaminated needles and syringes or sharp objects…Sexual transmission is more prevalent in unvaccinated persons with multiple sexual partners". According to the WHO, Hepatitis C, another viral hepatitis infection that can also lead to cirrhosis and cancer is transmitted primarily by "the reuse or inadequate sterilization of medical equipment, especially syringes and needles in healthcare settings; the transfusion of unscreened blood and blood products; and injecting drug use through the sharing of injection equipment". Doctors of the state health department said there was hope against both the infections. "Hepatitis C is curable while there is vaccine against Hepatitis B. We are urging people to come to the centres opened by the state government to come and undergo screening. We are conducting the tests and also providing free treatment and medicines to those diagnosed with viral hepatitis from these centres," said Pallab Bhattacharya, the state programme officer for National Viral Hepatitis Control Programme. The RG Kar clinic will remain open every Monday and Thursday, between 9am and 2pn, said Kingshuk Dhar, the head of gastroenterology at the hospital.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
29-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal tiger count in Sunderbans steady at 96||Two cyclones in successive years have failed to dislodge the Bengal tiger from its terrain, suggests a study. Experts pointed out that the numbers in the study are a proof of the famed adaptability of the Bengal tiger, which counts as home the Sunderbans, one of the most difficult terrains on the planet. The 2020-21 census shared by the Bengal administration on Wednesday, on the eve of the International Tiger Day, counted at least 96 tigers in the Indian territory of the Sunderbans. The 2019-20 census had also counted as many big cats in the Indian terrain of the mangrove delta. The state conducts a tiger census every year. The national census happens once every four years. While forest officials welcomed what they called a “stable population despite natural odds”, some of them warned that the increase in human dependence on forests because of the pandemic was a threat to a thriving tiger population. “Cyclone Amphan had left an unparalleled trail of destruction in 2020. This year, Cyclone Yaas triggered massive inundation of low-lying areas. But the tiger count has not gone down. This is a testament to the adaptability of the Sunderbans tiger,” said V.K. Yadav, the chief wildlife warden of Bengal. The Sunderbans tigers are extremely tough because they have to survive in the inhospitable terrain. In the past two years, one tiger had to be captured from a fringe village because it was straying into human habitat. At least two tigers have died because of “natural causes”, according to the forest department. The latest number excluded cubs under the age of one year. “The Sunderbans tigers are among the toughest and most adaptable predators on the planet. They might have moved to relatively higher land during or before the storm or figured another way to survive. They can sense natural calamities,” said Tapas Das, the field director of the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve. The tigers also survived a depletion in their prey base because the two cyclones are believed to have killed many herbivore animals, said another official. The Sunderbans Tiger Reserve (STR), with its four ranges — Sajnekhali Wildlife Sanctuary, Basirhat, National Park East and National Park West — spans an area of over 2,500sq km. The tiger habitat in the South 24-Parganas division comprises Matla, Raidighi and Ramganga ranges, measuring around 1,100sq km. The latest census found 74 tigers in the STR area and 22 in the South 24-Parganas region. A total of 1,307 camera trap units were installed at 726 locations for the census, said an official. The photographs, each clicked by a pair of cameras were analysed by software capable of identifying tigers by their stripes. “The stripes of each tiger are unique. The software can identify individual tigers by their stripes,” said the official. The 2018 tiger census had pegged the number of big cats in the Sunderbans at 88, a dozen more than the findings of the last national count in 2014. A section of forest officials and wildlife activists pointed out that while it was a relief that the tiger population was stable, the picture was far from rosy. “More and more people in the Sunderbans are turning to the forests for livelihood because the pandemic has robbed them of their income. The people are illegally entering the forest creeks to catch crabs and fish, risking their lives. The intrusion has led to a spurt in human-wildlife conflict,” said a wildlife activist. Over 25 people have died in tiger attacks since March 2020, according to the forest department. “Tigers are extremely secretive animals. They avoid breeding if they sense human presence in their habitat. If the instances of people entering the forests do not come down, it will be detrimental for the breeding of tigers,” said a veteran forest official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
29-07-2021||Calcutta||State expert committee asks all labs to ramp up Covid testing||The number of daily Covid tests in Bengal has gone down from 60,000 in June to just above 40,000 now, prompting doctors to call for stepping up testing to detect cases early and contain the spread of the virus. The expert committee on Covid-19, set up by the state government, has instructed all testing labs in government hospitals and medical colleges and clinics run by the Calcutta Municipal Corporation to ramp up testing immediately. “Patients with complaints of diarrhoea, mild fever and persistent cough need to be screened as intensively as those complaining of sudden loss of smell and taste. We have urged all testing centres to increase the number of tests immediately,” said Gopal Krishna Dhali, who is leading a 10-member expert committee on Covid 19 in the state. “The false sense of security is misleading. The real numbers will help the state government identify any emerging trend (in the epidemic) and the health department prepare better.” According to the health department data, the number of tests for Covid-19 has slid from 60,113 on June 13 to 45,122 on July 28 — a fall by 14,991 in just about a month and a half. The fall in the number of tests, experts said, is leading to a fall in the number of reported cases and encouraging a section of the people to drop their guard from a false sense of security. This at a time when several private hospitals in the city are seeing a rise in the number of Covid patients, including those in need of intensive care. Public health experts have called the trend dangerous, particularly because a growing number of people have stopped abiding by the mask mandate and other Covid protocols. Metro reported on Wednesday about an abrupt rise in the number of Covid patients, including critical ones, being admitted to private hospitals in Calcutta. Some of the hospitals said they were planning to increase the number of critical care beds in August. Officials at testing labs in a number of government Covid hospitals, including the Calcutta Medical College and Hospital and MR Bangur Hospital, said the flow of swabs had reduced drastically with patients refusing to turn up for tests. “So far most critical Covid patients in Calcutta died after being admitted to hospital. If there aren’t adequate numbers of tests, we will suddenly start recording deaths without any admission,” said Yogiraj Ray, an infectious disease specialist and a member of the expert committee. “Without tests how can doctors handle any epidemic situation?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
29-07-2021||Calcutta||At Father Stan Swamy’s prayer, call to defend falsely accused||A resolve to “weed out injustice, defend the falsely accused, speak out for the voiceless, and bring justice to the wronged” was strengthened during a prayer service for Father Stan Swamy at the Archbishop's House on Wednesday evening. Prayers for “justice and peace” were held in churches across the city at 6pm. The Archbishop of Calcutta, Thomas D’Souza, attended the prayer at Morning Star College in Barrackpore. Hymns were sung and candles were lit and in some churches Father Stan's life and work were remembered during the prayer. The 84-year-old, ailing Jesuit priest passed away while in custody after being repeatedly denied bail. His death was announced while a court was hearing his prayer for bail on health grounds. Many allege the death of Father Stan, who worked for years among some of India’s poorest of the poor, amounted to institutional murder. “Today we strengthen our resolve to stand up and weed out injustice, defend the falsely accused, speak out for the voiceless, and bring justice to the wronged for we are all brothers and sisters…. Anyone in need is our neighbour and, as Christians, we will stand with all who are wronged, treated unequally and unjustly. Thank you, Father Stan, for your inspiration,” said Father Dominic Gomes, the vicar general of the archdiocese of Calcutta, who conducted the prayer at the Archbishop’s House. Father Gomes later told Metro that it was no longer enough to be “onlookers or silent observers”. It is “time for action” to fight injustice, he said. “Silence in the face of blatant injustice is cowardice,” Father Gomes said during the prayer. “Father Stan and many like him, with whom we stand in solidarity today, show us that between the pre-dominant world culture of ‘silence and/or violence’ there is a way of ‘active non-violence’.” The Jesuit Provincial of India, Reverend Stanislaus D'Souza, had on Tuesday urged people to mark July 28 as National Justice Day and to pay “deep respects” and carry forward the legacy of Father Stan. Father Dominic Savio, the principal of St Xavier’s College, Calcutta, described Father Stan as a “crusader of peace”. He quoted Reverend Stanislaus D’Souza at a prayer service at the college: “It (Father Stan’s death) is an opportunity for us to pause, ponder and proceed boldly on our way.” At all the services, the speakers reminded the audience that Father Stan struggled for the oppressed through legal, constitutional and peaceful means. “His (Father Stan Swamy) was a struggle for all the oppressed everywhere totally through legal, constitutional and peaceful means. He was never a proponent of violence.… In life and death he remains a crusader of peace and reconciliation following the path of Jesus. Thus he remains a model for us all for reconciliation and peace, for justice and equality, for fraternity and harmony,” said Father Savio. “We are here to pray for justice, peace, harmony, equality in the world, in India, in our place, in our hearts.” At St Xavier’s College, the prayer was organised together with St Xavier’s Collegiate School. Priests, college staff and members of St Xavier’s College (Calcutta) Alumni Association and Alumnorum Societas (St Xavier’s School Old Boys’ Association) joined the prayer. Father Thamacin Arulappan, the principal of St Xavier’s Collegiate School, and Father Jeyaraj Veluswamy, rector, were among those who offered their prayers. The Catholic Association of Bengal held a service at Prabhu Jessu Girja, where “candles of hope were lit”. “We pray that many other Stan Swamys are born and we carry forward what he left behind,” said Angelina Mantosh Jasnani, the president of the association. At the Archbishop’s House, Father Gomes urged people to stand up for equality and justice in small ways in the parishes. “It is applicable not only on public platforms, but that we all in our small and humble ways make a difference to the lives of those around us,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
29-07-2021||Calcutta||Dissatisfied ISC students raise objections, seek recalculation of marks ||ISC (Class XII) students in several schools have raised objections to the marks awarded to them in the board results and are applying for “dispute resolution” that will look at possible calculation errors. Many of the students who are seeking a recalculation are high scorers who are upset with their board results and feel they should have got more, school heads said. The council had cancelled this year’s ICSE and ISC exams because of the Covid pandemic and asked for the average marks of Classes XI and XII. In at least one school, students felt that those who had appeared for the pre-board exams online scored more than those who wrote the paper in school. The ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) results were published by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) on Saturday. Since then, several schools have received recalculation applications from students. In La Martiniere for Boys, 50 ISC students have applied for dispute resolution, about 30 in St Xavier’s Collegiate School, around 15 in Loreto House, 12-odd in Don Bosco Park Circus, about 12 in Delhi Public School New Town, 10 in Calcutta Girls’ High School,  and several in Sri Sri Academy, MP Birla Foundation Higher Secondary School and St James’ School. Several school heads said students were upset with maths, commerce, accounts and science subjects’ marks. Several schools are still getting applications. The last date for schools to forward the requests to the CISCE is August 1. “Since colleges are considering marks for admission and will not conduct admission tests, even one or two marks will make a big difference for students,” said Basanti Biswas, principal, Calcutta Girls’. Several teachers said good students were feeling they would have done better had the board exams been held. “Students who got very high marks (above 95) in school exams would want similar marks in the boards. They are applying (for recalculation) because their performance in the last two years have been considered in the absence of exams,” said Sonali Sen, principal, Delhi Public School New Town. “The above-average students who appeared in offline exams (pre-boards) have applied (for recalculation of marks). They are looking at the marks of students who appeared in online exams and feel they deserve better scores,” said Father Thamacin Arulappan, principal, St Xavier’s Collegiate School. The council has given students the option of dispute resolution — if a candidate has objections regarding the “computation of marks”, he or she can send a written application to the school. The council had asked schools to review all such applications and forward them to the CISCE with their comments and supporting documents only if they were satisfied with the contentions. The dispute mechanism is “only for the correction of calculation errors,” the council had said. “When we receive an application we simply do not recommend (it to the council). We do so only after studying the request. The requests have come from above-average students whose marks have dipped in some subjects,” said John Stephen, acting principal, La Martiniere for Boys. The council has also given students the provision to apply for improvement exams by August 1. The exams will be held in August or September, subject to the “prevailing conditions in the country at the time”. “We have more students wanting to appear for improvement exams (compared to dispute resolution). Our children study hard in the last leg and because our assessment is strict, they score more in the boards than what they score in internal exams, which is why they want an improvement exam,” said Father Bikash Mondal, principal, Don Bosco Park Circus. Parents are also making inquiries about when the improvement exams will be held because of the fear of rise in Covid infection. They are worried that if the Covid situation worsens, it would be difficult for the students to sit for physical exams. “It is a valid query from the parents and we are in touch with the council. But as of now they could apply if they want to appear for improvement exams,” said Suvina Shunglu, principal, Sri Sri Academy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-36
29-07-2021||Business||Govt permits 100 per cent FDI in oil PSUs approved for disinvestment; to aid BPCL sale   ||The government on Thursday permitted 100 per cent foreign investment under the automatic route in oil and gas PSUs which have received in-principle approval for strategic disinvestment. The move would facilitate privatisation of India's second biggest oil refiner Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL). The government is privatising BPCL and selling its entire 52.98 per cent stake in the company. According to a press note of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT), a new clause has been added to the FDI policy for oil and natural gas sector. “Foreign investment up to 100 per cent under the automatic route is allowed in case an 'in-principle' approval for strategic disinvestment of a PSU has been granted by the government,” it said. The decision regarding this was taken by the Union Cabinet last week. Two out of the three companies that have put in an initial expression of interest (EoI) for buying out the government's entire 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL are foreign entities. The FDI limit in PSU-promoted oil refineries will continue at 49 per cent -- a limit that was set in March 2008. As of now, the government is selling the stake in only BPCL. Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), the nation's largest, is the only other oil refining and marketing company under direct government control. Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd (HPCL) is now a subsidiary of state-owned Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC). The government had in March 2008 raised the FDI limit in oil refineries promoted by public sector companies from 26 per cent to 49 per cent. The firm acquiring the government's 52.98 per cent stake in BPCL will also have to make an open offer to buy an additional 26 per cent stake from other stakeholders at the same price, as per the takeover rules. Mining-to-oil conglomerate Vedanta and US-based private equity firms Apollo Global and I Squared Capital's arm Think Gas are in the race to buy the government's stake in BPCL.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
29-07-2021||Business||Sensex jumps 209 points to close at 52,653||Snapping its three-session losing streak, equity benchmark Sensex rose 209 points on Thursday following gains in Tata Steel, SBI and Reliance Industries amid a positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index climbed 209.36 points or 0.40 per cent to close at 52,653.07, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 69.05 points or 0.44 per cent to 15,778.45. Tata Steel was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rallying nearly 7 per cent, followed by Bajaj Finserv, SBI, HCL Tech, Sun Pharma, Bajaj Finance and Reliance Industries. On the other hand, Maruti, PowerGrid, Bajaj Auto and ITC were among the laggards. "Domestic equites recovered as positive global cues and strong buying in metal and IT stocks supported markets," said Binod Modi, Head - Strategy at Reliance Securities. Further, short-covering in select heavyweights also aided rebound. Auto, FMCG and pharma remained sluggish, while most key sectoral indices traded in green. Notably, strong buying was seen in quality mid-cap and small-cap stocks after the recent fall, while volatility index contracted by 5 per cent, he added. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with gains. Equities in Europe were also trading on a positive note in mid-session deals. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.43 per cent to USD 74.19 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 200 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex jumped over 200 points in early trade on Thursday, tracking gains in index majors Reliance Industries, Infosys and HCL Tech amid a largely positive trend in global markets. The 30-share BSE index was trading 224.95 points or 0.43 per cent higher at 52,668.66 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty rose 62.05 points or 0.39 per cent to 15,771.45. HCL Tech was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 2 per cent, followed by Titan, Tech Mahindra, M&M, Asian Paints, Reliance Industries and IndusInd Bank. On the other hand, Maruti, Bajaj Auto, HDFC and PowerGrid were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex ended 135.05 points or 0.26 per cent lower at 52,443.71, while Nifty slipped 37.05 points or 0.24 per cent to 15,709.40. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 2,274.77 crore on Wednesday, as per provisional exchange data. According to V K Vijayakumar, Chief Investment Strategist at Geojit Financial Services, a major trend that has emerged post-COVID is the rise of the retail investor. Retail investors now account for 45 per cent of cash market transactions on Indian exchanges, a big jump from 33 per cent five years ago. "During this period the share of FIIs has fallen sharply - from 23 per cent to 11 per cent. This domination of retail over FIIs is the reason why markets are not correcting sharply even when FIIs sell continuously. FIIs have sold shares worth Rs 6,100 crore this week. "But it is a fact that most retail investors are driven by sentiments and momentum, not fundamentals," he said. Meanwhile, in another boost to the bulls, the Fed has kept the rates unchanged and reiterated that it is "nowhere near considering a rate hike." Also, the bounce back in Hong Kong and Shanghai indices suggests that the Chinese tech sell-off is a temporary issue and unlikely to become a contagion impacting global markets, he added. In a statement issued after its latest policy meeting, the US Fed said it's keeping its benchmark short-term rate pegged at nearly zero, where it has remained since the pandemic tore through the economy in March 2020. Equities on Wall Street ended on a missed note in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude advanced 0.30 per cent to USD 74.09 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||West Bengal government amends realty rules||The Mamata Banerjee government has notified rules to fill up the vacuum created by a Supreme Court  judgment that struck down the state legislation governing the real estate industry in Bengal. A gazette notification framing rules under West Bengal Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Rules, 2021 kicked off the process to establish regulatory and appellate authorities to monitor and govern real estate activity in the state. Once the authorities become fully functional over the next few weeks, they would bring relief to both the buyers and the sellers. While the buyers will have a forum to get redressal of their grievances, builders will be able to register new projects and bring them to the market. In May, the apex court struck down as “unconstitutional” the West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Act, 2017 (HIRA) on the grounds that it has encroached into existing parliamentary enactment RERA (Real Estate Regulation Act) 2016 for regulating real estate activities and protecting the interests of home buyers. However, the court did not revoke the projects registered or approved before the judgment. Confirming the development, Onkar Singh Meena, secretary, housing department, said: “Rules have been published. Safeguarding the interests of homebuyers has always been a priority and will continue to do so.” Experts said the rules appeared to plug the gap between the state legislation and the model central Act. “WBHIRA had narrowed the ‘force majeure’ provision with the addition of ‘or any other circumstances as may be prescribed’ clause which could have otherwise defended the promoter in the case of non-performance of a contractual obligation. This additional latitude provided by WBHIRA is no longer available to the builders,” said Sucharita Basu, managing partner of Aquilaw. “Key modifications by WBHIRA included an expanded definition of the garage/parking space, which could impact common area availability. With the state having conformed to the central Act, these issues are no longer present,” Mahi Agarwal, sector head and assistant vice-president of Icra, added. Nandu Belani, president of builders’ body Credai Bengal, said the Act would allow builders to tap central funds under the SWAMIH scheme which allows bridge funding to complete delayed projects. Till now, only RERA-approved projects could get funds from the scheme. Now projects in Bengal will also get access to it,” Belani said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Sanofi India to sell nutraceuticals business to Universal Nutriscience||Drug firm Sanofi India on Wednesday said its board has approved its plan to sell the nutraceuticals business to Universal Nutriscience for Rs 587 crore. “The board of directors of Sanofi India has approved a transaction for the slump sale and transfer of the company’s nutraceuticals business on a going concern basis to Universal Nutriscience for a consideration of Rs 587 crore, including debt like obligations,” the company said in a communication to the bourses. Sanofi added the transaction is likely to be completed within the next three months, subject to the fulfilment of conditions as set out in the business transfer agreement. Sanofi’s nutraceuticals business comprises 16 brands and 30 stock-keeping units (SKUs). “These, along with related business assets and liabilities, including contracts, intellectual property rights, inventory, and all employees associated with this business will transition to Universal Nutriscience,’’ the company added. Shares of Sanofi India on Wednesday closed 1.80 per cent, or Rs 142.95, higher at Rs 8,102.85 on the BSE. The company said the decision to divest will help it to invest and focus on the strategic growth pillars, while allowing the nutraceuticals business and the people associated with it to significantly benefit in a firm specialised in nutraceuticals and wellness. Sanofi India added that it undertook a thorough competitive auction process with a view to obtain the best possible transaction terms. “We have carefully selected Universal Nutriscience whose mission is to grow the business to provide more patients with increased access to the range of nutraceuticals,’’ said Rajaram Narayanan, managing director of Sanofi India.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Maruti Suzuki reports consolidated net profit of Rs 475 crore||The country’s largest car maker Maruti Suzuki India (MSI) has reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 475 crore for the first quarter ended June 30 despite the double whammy of the second Covid wave and a shortage of spare parts affecting production. The auto major had suffered a consolidated net loss of Rs 268 crore in the April-June quarter of 2020-21. “While all the parameters this quarter were substantially better than Q1 of 2020-21, a comparison is not meaningful because Q1 last year had a higher degree of disruption because of the pandemic,” the company said in a statement. The car maker said during the first quarter its sales and production were adversely impacted because of the second wave. However, the situation was not as bad as the April-June quarter of the last fiscal. While sales have picked up compared to the peak days of the pandemic last year, they remain far below the previous high in the first quarter of 2019. During April-June 2021, the company sold 3.43 lakh cars. More than 3 lakh of these were sold within India, while about 45,000 units were exported. MSI’s total revenue from operations stood at Rs 17,776 crore in the first quarter against Rs 4,111 crore in the year-ago period. Shares of the company closed 1.26 per cent down at Rs 7,150.20 apiece on the BSE. Meanwhile, MSI said its board has decided to confer the title of “Honorary chairman” on Osamu Suzuki, who retired from the board of Suzuki Motor Corporation in June 2021. He, however, continues to remain on the board of MSI.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Jewellers ask govt to extend deadline for mandatory hallmarking of old stocks||Jewellers have asked the government to extend the deadline for mandatory hallmarking of old stocks by a year till August 21, 2022, because of the fewer number of hallmarking centres in the country. The All India Jewellers & Goldsmith Federation (AIJGF), in a communication to commerce minister Piyush Goyal, said it was impossible to obtain hallmark on each piece of the old stock because of the discrepancy between the huge number of jewellers and the limited number of hallmarking centres. AIJGF national president Pankaj Arora said there are 933 hallmark centres and about 65,000 registered jewellers. Even if all the centres work in full swing, a huge number of the old stock will not be able to get the mandatory hallmark within the stipulated timeline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Bharti Airtel scraps entry-level prepaid plan of Rs 49||Bharti Airtel on Wednesday scrapped its entry-level prepaid plan of Rs 49, with the minimum recharge now fixed at Rs 79, the first entry-level tariff hike in two years. This move by the country’s second largest telecom operator comes just days after it increased the cost of some of its postpaid plans. In the Rs 79-pack, Bharti is offering 200MB data and talk time worth Rs 64 at the rate of one paise per second for both STD and local calls. It comes with a validity of 28 days. The revision is effective from July 29. Airtel had 352.9 million subscribers in April, according to Trai data. “The company’s prepaid packs will now start from Rs 79  and offer up to four times more outgoing minutes of usage along with double data. The change is in line with the company’s focus on offering superior connectivity solutions,” Bharti Airtel said in a regulatory filing to the stock exchanges. The announcement sent Airtel’s shares rising over 5 per cent. On the BSE, the Bharti Airtel scrip ended 5.08 per cent, or Rs 27.45, higher at Rs 567.90. With pre-paid customers accounting for 95 per cent of its subscribers, the higher entry-level package should raise Airtel’s average revenue per user (ARPU). Analysts said it could also result in other players such as Vodafone Idea following suit. It is not immediately clear whether Jio will do the same. The cheapest plan under Reliance Jio is Rs 75 — for its JioPhone users — which comes with a validity of 28 days and 3GB data. Bharti Airtel chairman Sunil Mittal has been saying that the industry’s tariffs need to go up amid “tremendous stress” in the telecom sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Rakesh Jhunjhunwala to launch ultra-low-cost airline||Ace investor Rakesh Jhunjhunwala is planning to enter India’s aviation sector by launching an ultra-low-cost airline. In an interview to Bloomberg Television, he said  the new airline will be called Akasa Air and he would invest $35 million in the venture. The aim is to have 70 aircraft over the next four years for the airline. Jhunjhunwala said he would hold a 40 per cent stake in the carrier and he expects to receive an approval from the aviation ministry in the next 15 days. The move comes at a time the aviation sector is adversely hit by the restrictions on travel during the pandemic. However, even before Covid-19 struck, domestic airline companies were in a difficult situation. Fuel is a large part of their costs and the carriers were unable to fully pass on any increase in prices to their customers. Kingfisher Airlines stopped operations in 2012 and Jet Airways, which has been revived recently, has not been flying since 2019.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Union cabinet approves amendments to Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act ||The Union cabinet on Wednesday approved amendments to the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation Act that assures a payoff of up to Rs 5 lakh within 90 days after a moratorium is imposed on a bank. At present, depositors have to wait for liquidation or passage of a resolution to get insurance. This can take up to 8-10 years. This will not be the situation now and payment has to be made within 90 days, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman said. “First 45 days will be taken by the banks to collect the information and the next 45 days to check. Then on the 91st or 92nd day or around that time, the payment will be made,” Sitharaman said while announcing the cabinet decision here. The Bill will be tabled during the current session. Last year, the government raised the insurance limit after 27 years. The payoff is effective from February 4, 2020. The finance minister said the new limit will cover 98.3 per cent of bank accounts and 60.9 per cent of deposits, which is higher than the global average. Sitharaman said the premium charged for giving the cover is currently 10 paisa for every Rs 100 of deposits. This is being raised to 12 paisa now and can be changed further up but with the concurrence of the RBI and the finance ministry within a limit. H.V.R Iyengar, the sixth governor of the RBI who served from March 1, 1957 to February 28, 1962, introduced deposit insurance in 1962, making the country one of the earliest countries to experiment with such a cover. The government raised the limit five-fold to provide support to the depositors of Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank. Following the collapse of PMC Bank, Yes Bank and Lakshmi Vilas Bank came under stress, leading to the restructuring . The cover is provided by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the RBI. LLP changes The cabinet on Wednesday also cleared amendments to the Limited Liability Partnership (LLP) Act, to decriminalise various provisions under the law and foster the ease of doing business in the country. The Lok Sabha approved the first batch of supplementary demands authorising the government to spend an additional Rs 23,675 crore, including Rs 17,000 crore on health.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||Business||Sebi toying with the idea of scrapping the concept of promoter||The securities market regulator is toying with the idea of scrapping the concept of promoter in favour of a new classification defining ownership of companies: the controlling shareholder. “The concept of promoters has existed in India for years and concentrated ownership still predominant in our country. But over time, with high levels of private equity or venture capital funding, increasing startup culture and the rise of new age companies, there is a rising trend of companies with diversified shareholding, ” said Ajay Tyagi, chairman of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Sebi). “In many cases, these have resulted in professional management with no promoter. In these circumstances, the concept of a controlling shareholder will be a more logical way to identify the person in charge,” Tyagi said. The Sebi chief is really pushing for an idea that the market regulator had articulated in a discussion paper floated in May. Titled “Review of the regulatory framework of promoter, promoter group and group companies”, the paper suggested that the concept of promoter ought to be replaced with a new cognomen — person in control. The discussion paper had said that the investor landscape in India was changing rapidly and, unlike in the past, the concentration of ownership and controlling rights do not vest completely in the hands of the promoters or the promoter group. There has been a significant increase in the number of private equity and institutional investors who invest in companies and take up substantial shareholding and, in some cases, control by arming themselves with some special rights. “We are analysing the feedback to our paper before we take an appropriate view,” Tyagi said at an event organised by the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci). He admitted that there were some legacy issues that would need to be sorted out before the new concept was adopted. Tyagi said the regulator was also contemplating reforms in initial public offerings (IPOs), particularly with respect to book building, the provisions relating to price bands and new regulations of preferential issues. Similarly, its primary market advisory committee (PMAC) is considering whether it ought to issue a framework for SPACs (special purpose acquisition companies). SPACs have no commercial operations but are established to raise capital through IPOs with the purpose of using the proceeds to identify and merge with a target company. SPACs are usually formed by private equity funds or financial institutions, with expertise in a particular industry or business sector, with investment for initial working capital and issue related expenses. Such companies have recently become popular in the US. In India, a SPAC was recently allowed for the Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT). Tyagi said some concerns had been raised about these vehicles and the PMAC was examining what safeguards could be introduced to prevent irregularities. Tyagi said companies once used to float IPOs to raise project financing. That is rarely the case now. A very large number of IPOs are really meant to provide an exit option to existing investors.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-126
29-07-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi brainstormed with Congress leaders on Prashant Kishor joining party||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi brainstormed with senior party leaders recently on the pros and cons of poll strategist Prashant Kishor joining the party, sources said on Thursday.  Senior Congress leaders A K Antony, Mallikarjun Kharge, Kamal Nath, Ambika Soni, Harish Rawat, K C Venugopal and some others attended the meeting held at Gandhi's residence here on July 22, they added.  The main agenda of the meeting convened by Gandhi was to discuss the pros and cons of having the poll strategist in the party and what role should be assigned to him if he joins the Congress, the sources said.  Most of the leaders who attended the meeting agreed that Kishor joining the Congress would be beneficial for the party, they added.  Prior to this meeting, Kishor met Gandhi on July 13. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra was also present at that meeting. Since then, there has been speculation about the poll strategist joining the Congress.  There has been no official word on it from the party or from Kishor.  After the West Bengal Assembly polls earlier this year, Kishor had said he would quit working as an election strategist. He had joined the Janata Dal (United) a few years ago, but had parted ways with the Nitish Kumar-led party subsequently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
29-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Government responsible for Parliament logjam, says Congress||Accusing the BJP dispensation of being responsible for the logjam in Parliament, the Congress on Thursday said the government was "avoiding" discussion on the Pegasus snooping issue in both the Houses as it has "much to hide". It also accused the BJP MPs of "collectively insulting" Parliament by their behaviour in the meeting of the Standing Committee on Information and Technology which was postponed on Wednesday due to lack of quorum. Referring to the government's proposal of working out a solution for the smooth running of Parliament, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said, "I am making a proclamation here, you start the discussion in Parliament today and by tomorrow we will discuss everything else. Why are you avoiding Pegasus?" He said the government was not answering the simple question whether it had bought Israeli Pegasus spyware to snoop upon Indians or not. "The government is not only hiding, they have much to hide, they have no answers, they have no basis for not even having a discussion inside Parliament," Singhvi told reporters. "The government is avoiding a discussion in Parliament as it knows that we will pin them down." The Congress spokesperson claimed that he does not understand how the opposition is being blamed for the logjam as it is clearly the government that is avoiding a discussion on the Pegasus issue inside Parliament whereas many countries have ordered investigations into the matter. Parliament has failed to transact any business due to opposition uproar over the Pegasus and farmers issues ever since the Monsoon Session started on July 19. Singhvi alleged the government is "feeding the media blaming the opposition on the current impasse in Parliament because it wants to avoid the real answer on whether it has acquired Pegasus and whether it uses it against any person". That is the only question that is relevant, he said. "Please consider who is hiding, who is running, who is filibustering. The government has done all of this. Having done all of this, they are blaming us. You did something wrong because of which you are hiding," Singhvi alleged. "Did you acquire Pegasus software and did you use it against anyone? If yes, please disclose their names. This question can be answered by yes or no," he said, adding the government has instead given 10 answers alleging that this is a conspiracy and a hoax. Referring to the lack of quorum for a meeting of the Standing Committee on Information and Technology, Singhvi said that he has never seen 10 people of the ruling party standing and saying that they are present but will not mark their presence. A number of members of the committee sat in Parliament on Wednesday to discuss 'Citizens' safety and date protection'. However, BJP members of the panel who were present in the meeting room didn't sign the attendance register in protest leading to a lack of quorum. "It is collectively an insult to the institution of Parliament. They are not only hiding. They have much to hide. They have no answers, no basis for discussion," the Congress leader alleged. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. Opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers -- Prahlad Singh Patel and Railways and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw, businessman Anil Ambani, a former CBI chief, and at least 40 journalists are on the list on the leaked database of NSO. It is, however, not established that all the phones were hacked.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
29-07-2021||India||We support all peace initiatives in Afghanistan: India||India on Thursday said it has a steadfast policy to support a sovereign, democratic and peaceful Afghanistan and is in touch with various stakeholders within and outside the war-ravaged country, including regional and international partners. The comments by Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan in the Rajya Sabha came in a written reply to a question a day after India and the United States strongly pitched for an immediate intra-Afghan peace process to end violence in the country and find a political settlement. Muraleedharan said India supports all peace initiatives leading towards a lasting political settlement through an inclusive Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled process. Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said at a media briefing that a unilateral imposition of will by any party will not be democratic and cannot lead to stability, noting that India is closely monitoring the developments in Afghanistan. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the US began withdrawing its troops on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces from the country and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. ”As a contiguous neighbour and strategic partner, India has a steadfast policy to support a sovereign, democratic and peaceful Afghanistan, where the interests of all sections of the Afghan society, including women, children and minorities, are protected,” Muraleedharan said. ”India supports all peace initiatives leading towards a lasting political settlement through an inclusive Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled process, which would lead to peace and stability in the region,” he added. Muraleedharan also referred to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's online participation in the inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha in September last year. ”The external affairs minister participated in the inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha held in September 2020. The government is in touch with various stakeholders within and outside Afghanistan, including regional and international partners,” he said. On September 12 last year, an Indian delegation attended the inaugural ceremony of the intra-Afghan negotiations featuring various stakeholders, including the Afghan government and the Taliban, in Doha. Jaishankar joined it through a video-conference. Bagchi said India and the world want to see an independent, sovereign, democratic and stable Afghanistan, at peace with itself and its neighbours.     ”Unilateral imposition of will by any party will not be democratic, cannot lead to stability and cannot provide legitimacy. Gains over the last two decades should be preserved,” he said. The evolving situation in Afghanistan figured prominently in the talks between Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken here on Wednesday. Blinken said there can be no military solution to the Afghan conflict and India has and will continue to make vital contributions to Afghanistan's stability and development as a leader and a critical American partner in the region. The US Secretary of State said both India and the US “largely” see the Afghan conflict in the same light, warning that an Afghanistan that does not respect the rights of its people and commits atrocities against them would become a “pariah state”. India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly USD 3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process that is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. It has also been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of the people of the country, including those from the minority community, for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
29-07-2021||India||Covid: Kerala records 22,000 cases for 3rd day; central team to aid in pandemic management||Kerala reported over 22,000 coronavirus cases for the third day in a row on Thursday, even as a central team will be rushing to the state to aid it in effective management of the situation. Meanwhile, researchers said that due to Kerala's steady R-factor growth, the state will remain in the top spot for the next couple of weeks vis-a-vis new infections. The R-factor indicates the speed at which the viral infection is spreading in the country and an analysis by researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences in Chennai suggests Kerala has more worries in store. The smaller the value of R is, the faster the disease is on the decline. Conversely, if R is greater than 1, the number of infected people is increasing in each round-- technically, this is what is called the epidemic phase. The bigger the number is than one, the faster the rate of spreading of the disease and Kerala has the highest number of active cases and continues to have an R-value around 1.11. "So looks like it (Kerala) will remain in the top spot for the next couple of weeks. The Northeast continues to have a very bad situation with most states having R-value more than 1," said Sitabhra Sinha of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, who is leading the team. Kerala on Thursday logged 22,064 new covid-19 cases and 128 deaths, taking the caseload to 33,49,365 and the death toll to 16,585. It reported 22,129 cases on Tuesday and 22,056 on Wednesday. State Health minister Veena George on Thursday said 1,63,098 samples were tested in the last 24 hours and the test positivity rate was 13.53 per cent. George said 16,649 people recuperated from the disease on Thursday, taking the number of those cured to 31,77,453. Currently, there are 1,54,820 people under treatment and 4,54,080 under observation of which 27,480 are in isolation wards of various hospitals. There are 323 local self government bodies in the state with a TPR above 15 per cent, an official release said. As its infection rate picks up pace, the Union Health Ministry announced deputing a six-member team to Kerala for effective covid-19 management. The team headed by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director S K Singh will reach Kerala on Friday and visit some districts reporting a high case positivity rate, the Health Ministry said in a statement. In a tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, "the Central government is sending six-member team to Kerala headed by NCDC Director. As a large number of COVID cases are still being reported in Kerala, the team will aid state's ongoing efforts in COVID-19 management." The ministry's statement said the team will work closely with Kerala health authorities, take stock of the ground situation and recommend necessary public health interventions to contain the spread of the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
29-07-2021||India||175 tourists stuck in Lahaul-Spiti after cloudburst and landslides, govt plans to airlift them||As many as 175 tourists are stranded in Himachal Pradesh's Lahaul-Spiti following a cloudburst and landslides triggered by heavy rainfall, a senior disaster management official said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar has sought helicopter support from the state government for their evacuation, a district spokesperson said. State Disaster Management Director Sudesh Kumar Mokhta said sorties with a state government helicopter have been planned for Friday due to weather conditions. He said among the 175 stranded in Udaipur's Pattan Valley are 60 women and 16 children. Their evacuation through road seems difficult as the route via Pangi is not expected to be ready by Friday evening, he said. Several roads and bridges have been damaged in the district due to bad weather. In an SMS to PTI, a tourist from Punjab's Hoshiarpur, Ravindra Sood, said, "More than 100 tourists have been stranded in Trilokinat and 35 in Fudan villages due to recent cloudburst in Jhalman, Shansha and Thirot areas in Lauhal Valley." Sood said the number of people stranded at Jhalwan and Udaipur villages is yet to be known and the road was damaged at several places between Kirting and Thirot. Earlier Sood told PTI that the telephone network was not working properly. When contacted, Lahaul-Spiti Deputy Commissioner Neeraj Kumar said those stranded have taken shelter at a temple and are getting adequate food. According to the list provided by the DC, 72 people are stuck at Trilokinat. Of them, 57 are from Kullu, seven each from Punjab and Mandi and one from Ladakh. Of the seven from Punjab, five are from Hoshiarpur and two from Sangrur, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
29-07-2021||India||Photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was executed by Taliban: Report||Pulitzer Prize-winning Indian photojournalist Danish Siddiqui was not simply killed in a crossfire in Afghanistan, nor was he simply collateral damage, but was "brutally murdered" by the Taliban after verifying his identity, according to a report published in a US-based magazine on Thursday. Siddiqui, 38, was on assignment in Afghanistan when he died. The award-winning journalist was killed while covering clashes between Afghan troops and the Taliban in Spin Boldak district of Kandahar city. According to the Washington Examiner report, Siddiqui travelled with an Afghan National Army team to the Spin Boldak region to cover fighting between Afghan forces and the Taliban to control the lucrative border crossing with Pakistan. When they got to within one-third of a mile of the customs post, a Taliban attack split the team, with the commander and a few men separated from Siddiqui, who remained with three other Afghan troops. During this assault, shrapnel hit Siddiqui, and so he and his team went to a local mosque where he received first aid. As word spread, however, that a journalist was in the mosque, the Taliban attacked. The local investigation suggests the Taliban attacked the mosque only because of Siddiqui's presence there, the report said. Siddiqui was alive when the Taliban captured him. The Taliban verified Siddiqui's identity and then executed him, as well as those with him. The commander and the remainder of his team died as they tried to rescue him, it said. While a widely circulated public photograph shows Siddiqui's face recognizable, I reviewed other photographs and a video of Siddiqui's body provided to me by a source in the Indian government that show the Taliban beat Siddiqui around the head and then riddled his body with bullets, wrote the writer Micheal Rubin, who is a senior fellow at the American Enterprise Institute. The Taliban's decision to hunt down, execute Siddiqui, and then mutilate his corpse shows that they do not respect the rules of war or conventions that govern the behaviour of the global community., the report said. Siddiqui won the Pulitzer Prize in 2018 as part of the Reuters team for their coverage of the Rohingya crisis. He had extensively covered the Afghanistan conflict, the Hong Kong protests and other major events in Asia, Middle East, and Europe. Siddiqui was laid to rest at the Jamia Millia Islamia graveyard where a sea of mourners gathered to pay their last respects. His body arrived at the Delhi airport in the evening of July 18 and was later brought to his residence in Jamia Nagar where a huge crowd, including his family and friends, had gathered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
29-07-2021||India||With 2,052 new Covid-19 cases, Karnataka reports 34 per cent spike from Wednesday's tally||Karnataka has reported 2,052 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 35 deaths, taking the total number of infections to 29,01,247 and the toll to 36,491, the health department said on Thursday. The new cases today were 34 per cent more than Wednesday's tally of 1,531. Bengaluru, the capital city, clocked 505 cases, also 34 per cent more than Wednesday's count of 376. The day also saw 1,332 discharges, continuing to outnumber the fresh cases, taking the total number of recoveries in the state so far to 28,41,479. Out of 2,052 new cases reported on Thursday, 506 were from Bengaluru Urban, as the city saw 257 discharges and only 9 deaths. Total number of active cases in the state is at 23,253. Out of 35 deaths reported on Thursday 9 are from Bengaluru Urban, Dakshina Kannada 8, Chamarajanagara, Kolara, Mysuru, Uttara Kannada 2, followed by others. Among the districts where new cases were reported, Bengaluru Urban accounted for 506, Dakshina Kannada 396, Udupi 174, Mysuru 157, Hassan 136, followed by others. Bengaluru Urban district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 12,26,463, followed by Mysuru 1,72,637 and Tumakuru 1,17,667. Cumulatively a total of 3.83 crore samples have been tested in the state so far, out of which 1,48,861 were tested on Thursday alone. As for vaccination, 1,00,224 doses of coronavirus vaccines were administered in the state till 3.30 pm today. This has taken the total number of doses administered to 2,97,01,032. Following a stringent lockdown put in place during the second wave of Covid infections during which people struggled to find hospital beds, medicines and oxygen cylinders, the Karnataka government relaxed the curbs as the cases dropped. From July 19, it also allowed cinema theatres to open and reduced the duration of night curfew by an hour. Colleges and universities were given the go-ahead to hold offline classes from July 26. Bengaluru is now back to its busy look with roads full of traffic at peak hours. Full seating has been allowed on buses and trains. Places of worship can conduct rituals now. The state has, meanwhile, had a change of guard with veteran BJP leader B S Yediyurappa stepping down as Chief Minister and Basavaraj Bommai taking charge. Speaking to NDTV, Bommai said that Covid, along with the flood situation, were his two immediate priorities.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
29-07-2021||India||Athawale seeks two-year suspension for MPs creating ruckus in Parliament||Union minister Ramdas Athawale on Thursday urged the central government to formulate a law that provides for two-year suspension of any member of Parliament, who creates ruckus in the House. He said this kind of action was necessary to rein in the lawmakers, who disrupt proceedings and waste the country's time and money. "The Union government is ready to discuss various issues in Parliament, but the opposition has been creating ruckus in the House for the last three days," he said in a statement issued here in the evening. These members even left their seats and rushed to the Well and wasted precious time and money of the country. The Union government should formulate a new law with a provision to suspend a ruckus-creating parliamentarian for two years, the Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment said. This law should be applicable to the ruling party's lawmakers as well, he said. "It is wrong to disrupt the proceedings of the House for such a long time," he added. Both the Houses of Parliament have been witnessing repeated adjournments during the ongoing Monsoon session due to continuous protests by the opposition members over various issues, including the Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws and price rise. On the Pegasus row, Athawale said the Modi government had won a clear mandate and hence it does not need to snoop on anyone. "There is no need to tap phone calls either. The allegations related to Pegasus spyware and its alleged links with the Centre are baseless, he said. On West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's visit to Delhi to initiate talks with opposition parties to stitch together a united front against the ruling BJP, Athawale said, "I am not sure how many political leaders will stand behind Mamata Banerjee against BJP-led NDA in 2024 general election. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will lead the coalition again and come to power." About setting up a permanent base camp of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in flood-hit Raigad district of Maharashtra, he said if the state sends a proposal about it to the central government, he would personally follow it up with Union Home Minister Amit Shah.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
29-07-2021||India||Delhi's vaccine stock to last four days, says bulletin||The national capital's stock of anti-coronavirus vaccine will last for four days, according to a COVID Vaccination Bulletin issued by the Delhi government on Thursday. As of Thursday morning, the balance stock of Covaxin and Covishield were 2,17,030 and 6,09,610 doses respectively. The bulletin noted that only 20 per cent of Covaxin stock could be used for the first dose since it was limited and had irregular delivery cycles. Covishield could only be used for the second dose till July 31, since the stock was limited and many in the 18-44 year age group would be qualifying for the second dose of vaccine in the coming weeks, it said. In all, the Delhi government has received 97,36,740 doses of vaccine to date, out of which 24,18,670 doses were of Covaxin, and the remaining Covishield. According to the bulletin, 1,60,070 doses of Covishield were added to the stock on Wednesday. Delhi has administered 98,37,195 doses of vaccine, including those given at private facilities, out of which 73,36,519 were first doses and 25,00,676 second jabs. On Wednesday, 57,752 vaccine doses were administered. Of these, 11,593 were first doses and 46,159 were second ones. Delhi's current vaccination capacity is 1,77,443 doses per day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
29-07-2021||India||Goa CM draws flak for insensitive comment on rape victims||Under pressure from the opposition over the gang rape of two girls, Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has drawn flak over his statement in the Assembly that the parents should "introspect" why their children were out on a beach late at night. One of the accused who is a government employee has been suspended, the chief minister informed the House on Thursday. Four men, one of them a driver with the agriculture department, allegedly posed as policemen and raped two girls after beating up the boys who were with them on Benaulim beach on Sunday. All the accused have been arrested. But Sawant's statements in the Assembly on Wednesday where he appeared to blame the parents led to angry reactions. When 14-year-olds stay on the beach the whole night, the parents need to introspect. Just because children don't listen, we cannot put the responsibility on the government and police, he had said during a debate in the House. The chief minister, who also holds the home portfolio, further said that parents have a responsibility to ensure the safety of their children. State Congress spokesperson Altone D'Costa said the law and order situation has deteriorated in Goa. "Why should we fear while moving around at night? Criminals should be in jail and law-abiding citizens should be out freely moving around, he said. Goa Forward Party MLA Vijai Sardesai said the safety of citizens is the responsibility of police and government. "If they can't provide it to us, the CM has no right to sit in the post, he said. It is shocking that @goacm is blaming parents for allowing their children to venture out in the night claiming that it is not safe. if State govt can't assure us our security, who can give it? Goa has a history of being safe state for women, that tag is being lost in @BJP4Goa rule," independent MLA Rohan Khaunte tweeted. Defending the police during the discussion on Wednesday, Sawant had also pointed out that of the 10 youngsters who went to the beach for a party, four -- the teenage victims and two boys -- stayed on the beach the whole night. Teens, particularly minors, should not be spending the nights on beaches," he added. A legislator had claimed that an influential person was trying to protect the accused. Sawant told the House during the zero hour on Thursday that one of the accused who is a government servant has been suspended, and the process to dismiss him was underway. Director General of Police Mukesh Kumar Meena told reporters that patrolling along the beaches and isolated spots has been intensified to prevent such incidents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-07-2021||India||SC to Centre: Put period of incarceration in public domain||Details about period of incarceration of inmates must be put in public domain to facilitate release of such convicts by making them aware of their rights on premature release by taking benefits of remission, parole and furlough, the Supreme Court has said. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana has already sought a response from the Delhi government on creating a portal for providing details about the period of incarceration undergone by inmates in prisons. The bench, also comprising Justice Surya Kant, was not impressed with the argument of the Delhi government that there were concerns of infringement of right to privacy of inmates if the details, such as period of incarceration, are put in public domain. What are the privacy issues? We do not understand. No, no. This must be available to common public also...suppose a person is in jail for last 20 years. Don't you think that you must apprise that person about the right to seek release by taking recourse of parole, furlough..., the bench told Additional Solicitor General Jayant Sud who was appearing for the Delhi government. During the hearing, the law officer said that in Delhi prisons, e-kiosk' have been set up where the inmates themselves can go and check details like the period of incarceration. "Let me call a meeting of concerned authorities and examine this issue for evolving a mechanism to help entitled convicts in seeking remission," the CJI said on Wednesday. The bench, which dismissed the appeal of one Mukesh Kumar filed against an order of July 16, 2007 of the Delhi High Court by which he was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment in a murder case, however, kept the case pending to deal with the larger issue of providing information on period of incarceration in public domain. It has now posted the matter after four weeks. Earlier, the top court had asked the city government to apprise it of the time frame within which it would create a portal for providing details about the period of incarceration undergone by inmates in prisons. Prior to this, it had asked the Delhi government to inform it about the latest policy on pre-mature release of the convicts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-07-2021||India||Agoda Launches Covid-19 Isolation Stay Options Throughout India||International digital travel platform Agoda has leveraged its technology expertise to help people in India easily search and find quarantine or alternative stay options during this latest phase of the pandemic.Agoda has created two distinct new channels for the public to source COVID-19 quarantine stays as a means to help Indians cut through the information clutter and quickly find a place to stay.  In the first channel (https://www.agoda.com/travel-guides/India/isolation-hotels-in-india-covid-19-safe-hotels-quarantine), Agoda has curated a list of hotels from its accommodation partner network that are providing “hospi-tel” services, that is, accepting Covid-19 positive guests to isolate until recovery. Guests who have tested positive for COVID-19 and have stable vitals can now isolate within any of the listed 100+ hotels, located in 23 cities across India. The properties have a range of price points and offer additional services as part of the package price and are equipped with amenities like COVID-19 nursing support, three daily meals, oxygen support and other services catering to the guest’s wellbeing, throughout their recovery. Guests will find a contact list of hotels/hospitals (hospi-tels)  on the dedicated link on Agoda’s website and can call and pay directly to the property. Agoda’s second dedicated platform aligns with its alternative quarantine product successfully rolled out in Thailand, Hong Kong, and the Philippines, which allows members of the public who are COVID negative, including public facing front liners, who wish to protect their families and live close to work.  With more than 450+ hotels in cities such as New Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Kolkata, and towns including Mohali, Raipur, and Nashik to name a few, Indians returning home, travelling between states or self-isolating can now book their stay into a hotel to quarantine for as long as they wish via Agoda. Guests must provide evidence of COVID-19 negative reports at check-in. "We want to make it as easy as possible for Indians looking for somewhere to isolate to be able to do so. We hope to help, by doing what we do best, using our tech to connect our partner hotels with guests, and making hotel bookings quick and stress-free through our platform,” said Tarik Fadil, Associate Vice President, Partner Services, Indian Subcontinent and North Southeast Asia. “Our teams have worked tirelessly over the past few weeks to curate a list of hotels to accommodate COVID positive patients as they fight through the illness and protect their loved ones by isolating. We hope that the comprehensive list of hotels will alleviate some stress for Indians,” continued Tarik. The digital booking platforms for both quarantine packages as well as isolation stays are now live, with more property options expected to join the program in the coming months. For regular travelers, Agoda has introduced pandemic-friendly products like GoLocal Tonight, HygienePlus and EasyCancel in 2020, prioritising new travel preferences in India and across the world||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-07-2021||India||Heavy rain brings down mercury in Delhi-NCR region||Heavy rains lashed several parts of the Delhi-NCR region on Thursday bringing the mercury down, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. The rains also led to waterlogging and traffic snarls at many places of the national capital. The maximum temperature settled at 27.6 degrees Celsius -- seven notches below normal, the weather office said. The minimum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory was 24 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, the IMD said. The relative humidity recorded at 5.30 pm was 100 per cent, it said. The weatherman has predicted "generally cloudy sky with moderate rain" on Friday. The maximum and minimum temperature would be 25 and 32 degrees Celsius, respectively, it added. The IMD had predicted thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain over entire Delhi and adjoining areas. It had tweeted at 3.44 pm that thunderstorm with light to moderate intensity rain would occur over Delhi and adjoining areas including Faridabad, Ballabhgarh, Mahendergarh, Narnaul, Kosli, Charkhi Dadri, Jhajjar, Nuh, Sohna and many other places. MeT department officials on Wednesday had said Delhi is in for a week-long spell of "light to moderate" rain with the monsoon trough passing through the region. The monsoon, which arrived in Delhi on July 13 making it the most-delayed in 19 years, is now drenching Delhi, flooding low-lying areas and causing long traffic snarls. On Friday, heavy rains caused waterlogging at several places in Delhi, including Civil Lines, Hauz Khas, Moti Bagh and Jor Bagh. Many Delhiites took to Twitter and complained about waterlogging and traffic jams due to the fresh spell of rainfall. "Pouring rain gives respite from sweltering heat but brings Delhi to its knees with waterlogging, crawling traffic, mammoth jam on roads and stuck vehicles & exposes the tall claims of politicians of every hue & colour," tweeted Niraj Kumar Singh. CA Kanj Goel tweeted, "Is it the Paris, which you talked about during election campaign @ArvindKejriwal @msisodia @raghav_chadha @aajtak @ZeeNews @ndtv @republic @Republic_Bharat This is hauz khas what about backward Colony God knows.#rain #delhi #waterlocking". Delhi's air quality was in the 'satisfactory' category on Thursday evening. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 5 pm at 64. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-07-2021||India||New NEP major factor in 'mahayagna' of nation building, says PM Modi||As the new National Education Policy (NEP) completed one year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said it is one of the major factors in the grand exercise of nation-building and assures the youth that the country supports their aspirations. Modi said in the last one year, teachers, principals and policymakers of the country have worked very hard in implementing the National Education Policy on the ground. Addressing a programme on the completion of one year of the NEP, the prime minister said what new heights "we will achieve in the future will depend on what kind of education we are giving to our youth at present". "India's new National Education Policy is one of the major factors in the 'mahayagna' (great exercise) of nation-building," Modi said. The new NEP assures the youth that the country is now completely with them and with their aspirations, he said. Modi said the Artificial Intelligence (AI) programme which has just been launched will make the youth future-oriented and open the way for an AI-driven economy. Highlighting that the NEP also gives importance to mother tongue and local languages, Modi said he was happy that 14 engineering colleges in eight states are going to start studies in five Indian languages -- Hindi, Tamil, Telugu, Marathi and Bangla. Education Minister Dharmendra Pradhan as well as some chief ministers also participated in the event. The NEP, which was approved by the Union Cabinet last year at a meeting presided by Prime Minister Modi, replaced the National Policy on Education framed in 1986. It is aimed at paving the way for transformational reforms in school and higher education systems to make India a global knowledge superpower.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-07-2021||India||Multiplex chain PVR Cinemas all set to reopen from July 30||Multiplex chain PVR Cinemas on Thursday announced that its theatres will be reopening from July 30 with all of its staff fully vaccinated against Covid-19. In a statement, PVR said that its cinemas will resume operations from July 30 in states and union territories that have allowed theatres to reopen. As the country witnesses a steady decline in the number of Covid-19 cases, states like Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana have permitted the resumption of operations in cinema halls. In Delhi, theatres were allowed to reopen from Monday at 50 per cent occupancy. To encourage and thank people who got vaccinated during the nationwide vaccination drive, PVR has introduced a Jab Offer' for the customers. As part of the scheme, one vaccinated guest can get another ticket free on select content as well as one F&B Combo free with the purchase of another in the first week of reopening. The multiplex chain said it will continue to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs), mandated by the Ministry of Information & Broadcasting, as part of normal safety and hygiene standards. PVR will be screening some of the major Hollywood titles that are set to release in the country in the coming weeks. This include The Suicide Squad (August 5), Mortal Kombat (July 30) and The Conjuring: The Devil Made Me Devil Do It (August 13), as well as NBCUniversal's titles Promising Young Woman (August 6), Old (August 13), Fast & Furious 9 (August 19), The Croods: A New Age and Nobody (August 27). Ajay Bijli, Chairman and Managing Director at PVR Ltd, said that after the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, the company's focus has been on vaccinating its entire staff. "We are excited to re-open and the slate for this year looks promising. The strategy is to showcase maximum content across screens to meet the pent-up demand. So, with big-ticket Bollywood and Regional films awaiting announcement by producers and internationally released Hollywood content as cinemas open up post the second wave, we expect the movie going habits to return among patrons," he said in a statement. "The focus now will be to encourage vaccination alongside introducing our new offerings as we begin to win back the confidence of our audience back to big screen entertainment," he added. In addition to vaccinated staff, PVR will continue to maintain stringent hygiene protocols, social distancing and food safety measures, along with minimal human contact across all touchpoints. Chequered seating with only 50 per cent occupancy as per state government protocols, social distancing marked queuing, digital contactless transactions, operating 50 per cent of the restroom facilities, installation of fibre and glass shields and regular sanitisation of its premises are some of the safety initiatives that it follows. The company has also motivated its staff to come forward and vaccinate themselves and their dependents by reimbursing the cost of vaccination following the national vaccination drive to ensure they are 100 per cent vaccinated before cinemas reopen. Gautam Dutta, CEO of PVR Limited, said the company is excited to welcome customers back to theatres and offer them the "real cinema experience". "It is a very heart-warming development for us and ensuring the safety and security of our customers and employees is our foremost responsibility. All the ground level staff, employees across our cinemas is 100 per cent Vaccinated. "PVR has always endeavoured to offer unique experiences and we certainly look forward to welcoming our patrons with fresh content, innovative and attractive offers on both tickets and F&B to enjoy movies exclusively with one's friends and family," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-07-2021||India||Met office issues red, orange alerts for Rajasthan||The Meteorological department has issued red and orange alerts for heavy rains in several districts of Rajasthan on Friday. The active southwest monsoon will gain more intensity in the coming days due to which heavy to very heavy rain (115 to 204 mm) in Nagaur, Sikar and Ajmer districts is likely and a red alert has been issued for these places, the Met department said. Heavy rain is also expected in Jaipur, Jhunjhunu, Tonk, Kota, Bhilwara, Baran, Churu and Jhalawar districts for which the department has issued an orange alert. In last 24 hours, heavy rainfall was recorded in Bari, Rajkheda and Baseri of Dholpur district. Bari (Dholpur) recorded highest 85 mm rain followed by 70 mm in Karauli, 40 mm in Bharatpur tehsil and 30 mm in Kotkasim of Alwar. Jaipur recorded 3.3 mm during the period. A red alert indicates heavy to extremely heavy rains of over 20 cm in 24 hours, while an orange alert means very heavy rains from 6 cm to 20 cm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-07-2021||India||Delhi High Court directs ED to take no coercive action against Newsclick founder||The Delhi High Court Thursday directed that no coercive action be taken by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) against Newsclick founder and editor-in-chief in connection with a money laundering case subject to his joining the investigation. Justice Mukta Gupta said the interim protection granted to Prabir Purkayastha will be in force till the next date of hearing, September 2. Till the next date of hearing, no coercive action be taken (against the applicant) in bail application... subject to him joining the investigation, the judge ordered. Hearing in Purkayastha's plea for anticipatory bail in money laundering case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) was adjourned on the request made by ED's counsel. The court recorded that the ED was yet to supply a copy of its ECIR to the parties concerned. The high court had on June 21 directed the ED not to take coercive action against the news portal as well as its editor-in-chief in connection with the case. It had also issued notice to the ED on the news portal's plea seeking a copy of the ECIR lodged by it in the case. The interim protection was subsequently extended on July 5 till July 29. The money laundering case arises out of a Delhi Police FIR alleging that PPK Newsclick Studio Pvt Ltd received Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) of Rs 9.59 crore from Worldwide Media Holdings LLC USA during the financial year 2018-19. The FIR claimed that the investment was made by greatly overvaluing the shares of the petitioner company to avoid the alleged cap of 26 per cent of FDI in a digital news website. It further alleged that over 45 per cent of this investment was diverted/siphoned off for the payment of salary/consultancy, rent and other expenses, which are alleged to have been made for ulterior motives.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-07-2021||India||Delhi records 51 fresh Covid cases, zero casualty in a day||No death due to Covid-19 was recorded in Delhi on Thursday, while 51 fresh cases were reported with a positivity rate of 0.08 per cent, according to data shared by the city health department. This is the third time, since the starting of the second wave of the pandemic in the national capital, that zero fatality has been logged in a day. On July 18 and July 24 too, no death due to COVID-19 was recorded, according to official data, while 51 and 66 cases were reported, respectively. On March 2 this year, the national capital had reported zero death due to the virus. On that day, the number of single-day infections stood at 217 and the positivity rate was 0.33 per cent. The second wave swept the city during April-May period. On Thursday, the city registered 51 cases and zero fatality, while the positivity rate stood at 0.08 per cent, according to the latest bulletin. The death toll in the city on Wednesday had stood at 25,049. On Wednesday, the city had registered 67 cases and three fatalities, while the positivity rate was 0.09 per cent. The infection rate which had reached to 36 per cent in the last week of April, has come down to 0.08 per cent now. On February 16, ninety-four people were diagnosed Covid positive while the daily tally was 96 on January 27, according to official figures. Despite fall in daily cases in the last several days, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently cautioned that the chances of the third wave of the COVID-19 pandemic were quite real, while he asserted that his government was preparing on a "war-footing" to combat it. The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) recently had passed a colour-coded response action plan under which curbs will be implemented in accordance with the severity of the COVID-19 situation here to deal with a possible third wave of the pandemic. Delhi had been reeling under a brutal second wave of the pandemic that is sweeping the country, claiming a massive number of lives daily, with the recent oxygen supply shortage issue at various hospitals, adding to the woes. Since April 19, both daily cases and single-day deaths count had been spiralling up, with over 28,000 cases and 277 deaths recorded on April 20; rising to 306 fatalities on April 22. On May 3, the city registered a record 448 deaths, as per the official data. However, the number of cases have shown a downward trend and the positivity rate too has been shrinking in the last several days. The number of deaths per day, has also been showing a decline in the last couple of days. On May 15, Kejriwal had said, "The virus is reducing in Delhi slowly and steadily, and I hope it diminishes completely and does not rise again. However, we are not going to become negligent in anyway", while sounding a tone of caution. Meanwhile, the DDMA last week announced further lifting of restrictions, in view of the improved coronavirus situation. Following the relaxations in norms, the Delhi Metro is running with full seating capacity from July 26, with still no provision for standing travel for commuters. A total of 67,368 tests, including 46,425 RT-PCR tests and 20,943 rapid antigen tests, were conducted a day ago, according to the health bulletin on Thursday. The number of cumulative cases on Thursday stood at 14,36,144. Over 14.1 lakh patients have recovered from the virus. The number of active cases decreased to 554 on Thursday from 573 a day before, the bulletin said. The number of people under home isolation slightly increased to 169 from 165 on Wednesday while the number of containment zones marginally increased to 299 from 292 a day before, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-07-2021||India||US: Bill introduced to end programme allowing foreign students to stay after studies||A group of US lawmakers has reintroduced a legislation in the House of Representatives to eliminate a programme that allows foreign students to stay in the country for work after the completion of their studies under certain conditions, a bill if passed into law can affect tens and thousands of Indians studying in this country. Congressman Paul A Gosar along with Congressman Mo Brooks, Andy Biggs and Matt Gaetz introduced the Fairness for High-Skilled Americans Act, a legislation that would amend the Immigration and Nationality Act on the Optional Practice Training (OPT). What country creates a programme, but not a law, that rewards its businesses to fire citizen workers and replace them with foreign labour to pay the foreign labour less? The United States. The programme is called OPT and it reflects a complete abandonment of our own workers, Gosar said. He first introduced the Fairness for High-Skilled Americans Act in the 116th Congress and has twice signed amicus briefs in support of American workers in a lawsuit against the Department of Homeland Security to eliminate the OPT. The OPT is a guest worker programme administered by the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). There are about 80,000 Indian students in the US on OPT. The bill has to pass through the Senate before it can be sent to the President to sign into law. However, passing the bill through Senate is not that easy given that the Democrats are in majority in both the Chambers of the US Congress. Gosar alleges that the OPT circumvents the H-1B cap by allowing over 100,000 aliens admitted as foreign students to work for up to three years in the US after graduation. These foreign workers are exempt from payroll taxes, making them at least 10-15 per cent cheaper than a comparable American worker, he argued. Landing that first job out of college will only become more difficult for young Americans as our universities formalise the role they play in crowding out opportunities once reserved for American graduates. For this reason, the OPT must be eliminated, stated Kevin Lynn, Founder of US Techworkers. The OPT openly undercuts American workers, particularly higher-skilled workers and recent college graduates, by giving employers an actual tax incentive to hire compliant, inexpensive foreign labour under the guise of "student training, said Rosemary Jenks, Director of Government Relations, Numbers USA. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-379
29-07-2021||India||Anti-Modi agenda alone won't sustain Opposition front to take on BJP, says Moily||An anti-Narendra Modi agenda alone will not help sustain an opposition front to take on the BJP, senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily cautioned on Thursday, calling for drawing up a common minimum programme for parties to work together. The former Union Minister also warned that such a front will not take off if parties debate on which leader or political outfit should lead it at this stage itself. "They (opposition parties) should not bother about leadership now," Moily told. "If they start debating as to who should become its leader, which political party should lead, it will not take off," the former Karnataka Chief Minister said. He welcomed West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's meeting with the Congress chief Sonia Gandhi in the national capital on Wednesday, and her comments on the need for opposition parties to work together. On perception in some quarters that only an anti-Modi sentiment is bringing opposition outfits together, Moily said: "That alone should not be projected. Anti-individualism will not take take any political front forward." "That's what they (the then opposition parties) used to do -- anti-Indira Gandhi. That did not succeed," he said. Moily said the opposition agenda should not be based on personal issues. "It should be based upon ideological issues." He spoke out against adopting a policy of "opposition-for-opposition-sake" and a "negative approach". "Opposition parties should unite and come to a basic understanding.It should be principled opposition.They should draw up a common minimum programme as a result of unity.Otherwise, people will not trust us," Moily said. Without a common minimum programme, an opposition front will not take off, according to him. "The national debate should be on sustenance of democracy, secularism, and taking the country forward and also against the 'negative agenda' of the present government," Moily said. He said no party in the opposition front should oppose entry of any outfit wanting to come onboard.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-07-2021||India||Delhi Assembly passes resolution against Asthana’s appointment, terms it 'unconstitutional'||The ruling AAP on Thursday slammed the Centre over the appointment of Rakesh Asthana as the Commissioner of Delhi Police, alleging the move was aimed at "harassing" the party leaders. Raising the issue in a short duration discussion on the first day of the Monsoon session of the Delhi Assembly, AAP MLA Sanjiv Jha moved a resolution terming Asthana's appointment as "unconstitutional" and against Supreme Court directions. The resolution expressed "disapproval" against the controversial Gujarat-cadre officer being "forced upon Delhi" as its police commissioner. The Union government had on Tuesday appointed Asthana as the Delhi Police commissioner, giving him a one-year extension on the new post days before his retirement. Asthana, a 1984-batch IPS officer, was serving as the director-general of the Border Security Force and was due to retire on July 31. Jha also questioned Asthana's knowledge of Delhi and policing in the city as he was a Gujarat-cadre officer. Participating in the debate, AAP MLAs Gulab Singh, Akhilesh Pati Tripathi, Somnath Bharti and B S Joon, supported Jha's resolution and alleged that Asthana was brought to Delhi to "muzzle and harass the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) . Tripathi asserted that AAP leaders and workers were not scared by Asthana's appointment and added, "We are born out of revolution. We are not like the Congressmen in Gujarat." AAP MLA Bharti questioned the purpose behind Asthana's appointment, alleging that he has been brought to harass AAP MLAs, councilors and the chief minister". Meanwhile, Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri called Asthana an "honest and decorated" IPS officer who was awarded the President's Police Medal twice. "Rakesh Asthana successfully investigated the Godhara carnage and Purulia arms drop cases. He also investigated the land scam related to the son-in-law of a political party chief. The House should welcome his appointment," he said. In his reply over the debate in the House, Delhi Home Minister Satyendar Jain dared Bidhuri for action against the "son-in-law" he was not naming and added that the BJP and Congress are "two sides of the same coin". He supported the resolution, saying the central government should not have defied the Supreme Court directions while making the appointment. The resolution was accepted by the House with a voice vote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-07-2021||India||Govt announces 27% reservation for OBCs in medical, dental courses||The government on Thursday announced a 27-per cent quota for OBCs and 10 per cent reservation for the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) category in the All-India Quota (AIQ) scheme for undergraduate and postgraduate medical and dental courses from the current academic year, 2021-22. Hailing the "landmark decision" taken by his government, Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: "This will immensely help thousands of our youth every year get better opportunities and create a new paradigm of social justice in our country." Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya also lauded the "historic decision". "A historic decision has been taken by the government in the field of medical education in the country. Under All India Quota, 27 per cent reservation will be given to OBC students and 10 per cent to weaker income group (EWS) students in undergraduate/post graduate, medical and dental education," he said in a tweet. The Prime Minister, at a meeting held on Monday, had directed the Union ministries concerned to facilitate an effective solution to this long-pending issue, a statement issued by the health ministry said. "This decision would benefit nearly 1,500 OBC students in MBBS and 2,500 OBC students in postgraduation and also around 550 EWS students in MBBS and around 1,000 EWS students in postgraduation," it added. "The present government is committed to providing due reservation both to the backward category as well as the EWS category. The Union government has now taken a historic decision to provide for 27 per cent reservation for OBCs and 10 per cent reservation for EWS in the AIQ scheme," the ministry stated. OBC students from across the country shall now be able to take the benefit of this reservation in the AIQ scheme to compete for seats in any state. Being a central scheme, the Central List of OBCs shall be used for the purpose. The AIQ scheme was introduced in 1986 under the Supreme Court's directions to provide for domicile-free merit-based opportunities to students from any state aspiring to study in a good medical college in another state. The all-India quota consists of 15 per cent of the total available UG seats and 50 per cent of the total available PG seats in government medical colleges. Initially, there was no reservation in the AIQ scheme up to 2007. In 2007, the Supreme Court introduced 15 per cent reservation for the Scheduled Castes (SCs) and a 7.5-per cent quota for the Scheduled Tribes (STs) in the scheme. When the Central Educational Institutions (Reservation in Admission) Act became effective in 2007, providing for a uniform 27 per cent reservation to the Other Backward Classes (OBCs), the same was implemented in all the central educational institutions such as the Safdarjung Hospital, the Lady Hardinge Medical College, the Aligarh Muslim University and the Banaras Hindu University. However, it was not extended to the AIQ seats of the state medical and dental colleges. In order to provide benefits to students belonging to the EWS category in admission to higher educational institutions, a constitutional amendment was made in 2019, which enabled the provision of 10 per cent reservation for the category, the statement said. Accordingly, the number of seats in the medical and dental colleges was increased over the next two years (2019-20 and 2020-21) to accommodate this additional 10 per cent EWS reservation so that the total number of seats available for the unreserved category does not reduce. In the AIQ seats, however, this benefit was not extended so far, the statement said. "Therefore, along with the 27 per cent reservation for OBCs, 10 per cent reservation for EWS is also being extended in AIQ seats for all the undergraduate/postgraduate medical/dental courses from the current academic year 2021-22. "The above decision is the reflection of the government's commitment to provide due reservation for backward and EWS category students," it added. The decision is also in sync with the significant reforms carried out in the field of medical education since 2014, the statement underlined. Over the last six years, the number of MBBS seats in the country has increased by 56 per cent from 54,348 in 2014 to 84,649 in 2020 and that of PG seats has gone up by 80 per cent from 30,191 in 2014 to 54,275 in 2020. In the same period, 179 new medical colleges have been established and the country currently has 558 (289 government and 269 private) medical colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-07-2021||India||Jyotiraditya Scindia attacks Opposition for indulging in LS sloganeering||Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia on Thursday attacked the opposition in Lok Sabha for indulging in sloganeering instead of participating in the discussions at a time when the country is facing the Covid pandemic. Moving the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021 for consideration and passage, he said that the Modi government is committed for the welfare of farmers and development of the country. “During the pandemic, instead of discussion, the House is witnessing sloganeering...We will convert this crisis into an opportunity and provide all possible facilities to farmers and people," he said. The bill was later passed without any debate amid din. Since July 19, the House is witnessing continuous uproar over Pegasus snooping and the three contentious farm laws, leading to repeated adjournments. The House has not been able to function properly and several the bills including supplementary demand for grants were passed without any discussion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-07-2021||India||Cong protest against AAP govt over water crisis, poor Covid management||Workers and leaders of the Delhi Congress held a protest on Thursday against the city government over various issues, including poor management of the Covid-19 pandemic, price rise and water crisis. The protest was held under the leadership of Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee president Anil Kumar. According to the police, around 100 to 150 people started their protest march from Vikas Bhawan in north Delhi's Civil Lines are. The protesters marched to Sant Parmanand Hospital and then tried to move towards Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal's residence where they were stopped, the police said. The Delhi Traffic Police said the road has been blocked for vehicular movement. "Traffic movement is closed from Chandgiram Akhara towards IP College (Both Carriageway) due to demonstration," it tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-07-2021||India||NCP accuses BJP of misleading people over Centre’s flood relief package for Maharashtra||The NCP on Thursday accused the opposition BJP of misleading the people over the flood relief package for Maharashtra as announced by Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. Mahesh Tapase, chief spokesperson of the NCP, which is a constituent in the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, made the allegation in a statement. "The Union agriculture minister has announced a relief package of Rs 701 crore, but it is for the flood-affected people (in Maharashtra) in 2020. It means, the Centre has given the relief amount almost a year later. However, the BJP is misleading the people that the aid is for the people who were affected by the last week's floods," he said. It means that of the entire relief amount of Rs 3,701 crore, the Union government has sanctioned Rs 701 crore only. There is no assistance announced by it for the people who are affected now, he said. The NCP leader said that the assessment of damage was underway and the state government would finalise its report as soon as possible. Ratnagiri, Raigad districts in the coastal Konkan region and Kolhapur and Satara districts in western Maharashtra were the worst-affected parts in the state due to the floods and heavy rains that triggered landslides at multiple locations. So far, 213 people have died in the last week's rain-related incidents in the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-07-2021||India||Mamata calls on Gadkari, discusses projects in Bengal||Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee met Union Minister of Transport Nitin Gadkari here on Thursday and discussed several infrastructure projects in the state with him in a bid to invite global investors. Banerjee, who is in Delhi to initiate talks with opposition parties to stitch together a united front against the ruling BJP, brought up pending road and transport projects, including the deep-sea port at Tajpur, in her discussions with Gadkari, sources said. The sea port, located nearly 200 km from Kolkata, is expected to draw an investment of Rs 15,000 crore and generate 25,000 jobs in West Bengal. The sources said Banerjee will also meet ministers of key departments such as petroleum, aviation, railways and commerce soon to discuss various development projects in the state. "Chief Minister of West Bengal Sushri @MamataOfficial called on Union Minister Shri @nitin_gadkari Ji today. In the presence of officials they reviewed various road projects being undertaken in the state," Gadkari's office said in a tweet. The sources said the Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo also presented a report to the Union minister on the construction of rural roads in West Bengal under the third phase of the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-07-2021||India||Lok Sabha proceedings adjourned for the day amid Opposition protest||Lok Sabha on Thursday passed two bills before the proceedings were adjourned for the day amid continuous protests by Opposition members over the Pegasus spying row and farmers' issue. The Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill 2021 and The Inland Vessels Bill, 2021 were passed without debate. When the House met at 2 pm, Kirit Premjibhai Solanki, who was chairing the proceedings, took up the two bills. He urged the protesting members to go back to their seats. Amid din, Civil Aviation Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia moved the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (Amendment) Bill, 2021. Similarly, Ports, Shipping and Waterways Minister Sarbananda Sonowal moved the Inland Vessels Bill, 2021, which seeks to provide safety of navigation, protection of life and cargo and prevention of pollution that may be caused. Earlier in the day, Speaker Om Birla had expressed his displeasure over the unruly behaviour by some Opposition members, and said he was "very hurt" over Wednesday's incident. On Wednesday, when papers were being laid in the House, Congress members Gurjeet Aujala, TN Prathapan, Hibi Eden and some others had thrown business papers of the day as well as torn pieces of paper and placards at the Chair. A piece of the torn placard landed in the press gallery just above the Speaker's podium. As Opposition continued their protest on Pegasus snooping controversy and three farm bills, Birla adjourned the House till 11.30 am. After the Question Hour ended at 12 noon, Rajendra Agrawal, who was chairing the proceedings of the House, asked protesting members to go back to their respective seats. "We are starting Zero Hour, please go back to your seats," he appealed to the members. Soon after he adjourned the House till 12:30 pm. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha, said the Opposition has not been able to put forth its point due to the stubborn attitude of the government. Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the members, who resorted to tearing papers, don't even want to apologise.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-07-2021||India||BMC to launch home vaccination of bed-ridden citizens from Friday||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said it will begin home vaccination of bed-ridden people in the city against coronavirus on an experimental basis from Friday. The initiative will be rolled out first in the K-east administrative ward covering the western suburbs of Andheri east, Marol, Chakala and others, it said. In a statement issued on Thursday afternoon, the BMC said that the citizens, who are bed-ridden due to various physical or medical reasons, will be vaccinated under this exercise starting July 30. These citizens will be administered Covaxin doses as per the directives of the expert committee and the vaccination process will be carried out in the presence of experts, wherein all necessary precautions will be undertaken, it said. The civic body said there was a demand for home vaccination of citizens, who are bed-ridden due to various physical or medical reasons and are unable to visit the vaccination centres. It added that the medical certificate stating that the person, who is to be vaccinated, will have to remain bed-ridden for at least the next six months, is required to be submitted to the administration along with the consent of that person or a relative. The vaccination of bed-ridden citizens will be done with the help of Project Mumbai, a non-government organization, the BMC said. After the completion of the home vaccination process in K-east ward, the factors that are required to be included in the next phase of this exercise will be considered, it said. The BMC has asked people to e-mail the information about those bed-ridden citizens to covidvacc2bedridden@gmail.com. It said it has so far received details of 4,466 such citizens.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-07-2021||India||India in touch with stakeholders to support peaceful Afghanistan, says Centre||India on Thursday said it has a steadfast policy to support a sovereign, democratic and peaceful Afghanistan and it is in touch with various stakeholders within and outside Afghanistan including regional and international partners. The comments by the Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan in Rajya Sabha came a day after India and the US strongly pitched for an immediate intra-Afghan peace process to end the violence in Afghanistan and find a political settlement. Muraleedharan said India supports all peace initiatives leading towards a lasting political settlement through an inclusive Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled process. The Taliban has been making rapid advances across Afghanistan by resorting to widespread violence since the US began withdrawing its troops on May 1. The US has already pulled back the majority of its forces and is looking to complete the drawdown by August 31. "As a contiguous neighbour and strategic partner, India has a steadfast policy to support sovereign, democratic and peaceful Afghanistan, where the interest of all sections of Afghan society including women, children and minorities are protected," he said. "India supports all peace initiatives leading towards a lasting political settlement through an inclusive Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan controlled process which would lead to peace and stability in the region," the minister said. He also referred to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar's online participation in September last year in the inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha "The external affairs minister participated in the inaugural session of the intra-Afghan negotiations in Doha held in September 2020. The government is in touch with various stakeholders within and outside Afghanistan, including regional and international partners," Muraleedharan said. On September 12, an Indian delegation attended the inaugural ceremony of the intra-Afghan negotiations featuring various stakeholders including the Afghan government and the Taliban in Doha. Jaishankar joined it through video conference. The evolving situation in Afghanistan figured prominently during talks bewteen Jaishankar and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken here on Wednesday. Blinken said there can be no military solution to the Afghan conflict and India has and will continue to make vital contributions to Afghanistan's stability and development as a leader and a critical American partner in the region. The US Secretary of State said that both India and the US "largely" see Afghan conflict in the same light, warning that an Afghanistan that does not respect the rights of its people and commits atrocities against them would become a "pariah state". India has been a major stakeholder in the peace and stability of Afghanistan. It has already invested nearly USD 3 billion in aid and reconstruction activities in the country. India has been supporting a national peace and reconciliation process which is Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. It has also been calling upon all sections of the political spectrum in Afghanistan to work together to meet the aspirations of all people in that country including those from the minority community for a prosperous and safe future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-380
29-07-2021||India||Chhota Rajan admitted to AIIMS with stomach ache||Jailed gangster Chhota Rajan was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here after he complained of a stomach ache, officials said Thursday. A senior jail official said, "Rajan was having a stomach ache and was admitted to AIIMS Tuesday. He is likely to be discharged today. However, no official communication has been received on his discharge." Rajan, 61, was admitted at the hospital in on April 24 also after he had tested positive for COVID-19 in Tihar Jail two days earlier. He was brought back to the jail after his recovery. Rajan is lodged at the high-security prison since his arrest upon his deportation from Bali in Indonesia in 2015.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-07-2021||India||BJP MP accuses TMC member of name-calling him, raises matter in Lok Sabha||BJP MP Nishikant Dubey on Thursday raised in the Lok Sabha the issue of a TMC member allegedly calling him a 'Bihari Gunda' during a Parliamentary committee meeting. "I want to draw attention of all members of this House. This is my 13th year as an MP and the way I was called 'Bihari Gunda' at the Parliamentary committee meeting yesterday by a woman, by Trinamool Congress, I have not seen this in my life," Dubey said, amid din in the House due to protests by opposition over Pegasus and farm bill issues. "What is our mistake? Our mistake is in developing this country. We have worked as labourers, as Hindi-speaking people whether from Uttar Pradesh or Madhya Pradesh... we have worked hard. We have learnt sessions from Lord Ram," Dubey said. However, Dubey did not name the TMC member. As Dubey was speaking, Rajendra Agrawal, who was chairing the proceedings, adjourned the House till 12:30 pm. As the House reassembled at 12:30 pm, Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal urged the Chair to allow Dubey to complete the issue he was raising before the House got adjourned. However, Agrawal called for papers to be laid on the table. As opposition slogan shouting continued, Agrawal adjourned the proceedings till 2 pm. The meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology, chaired by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, on Wednesday was set to question government officials on the Pegasus spyware issue. However, the meeting was postponed due to lack of quorum. Even though the meeting did not take place, the gathering of BJP and opposition party members witnessed drama. Dubey had alleged that Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra called him a 'Bihari Gunda'. Dubey, in a tweet on Wednesday tagged TMC supremo and West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and alleged that Moitra's comments show her party's attitude towards the people of Bihar and the Hindi-speaking parts of the country. Moitra denied the charge, saying Dubey was not even present for the meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-07-2021||India||Juhi Chawla withdraws HC plea over dismissal of 5G lawsuit||Bollywood actress Juhi Chawla Thursday withdrew from the Delhi High Court her plea in connection with the dismissal of her lawsuit against 5G wireless network technology. Justice Jayant Nath allowed the withdrawal of the plea after a statement made by Chawla's counsel, advocate Deepak Khosla. Learned counsel for the plaintiff (Chawla) wants to withdraw the application with liberty to avail remedy before the appellate court. Application is dismissed as withdrawn, the court said. Chawla had moved the application seeking that her lawsuit against 5G rollout be declared rejected instead of dismissed . Chawla's counsel argued that the plaint, which never went up to the level of suit, could only be rejected or returned in terms of the Civil Procedure Code, and not dismissed. The court had then also granted a week's time for deposit of Rs 20 lakh costs after Chawla decided to not press the application for its waiver. Application for refund of court fees was also withdrawn by Chawla. In June, the court had described the lawsuit by Chawla and two others against 5G roll out as "defective", "abuse of process of law" and filed for "gaining publicity" and dismissed it with costs of Rs 20 lakh. Justice J R Midha said the plaint in which questions have been raised about health hazards due to the 5G technology was "not maintainable" and was "stuffed with unnecessary Scandalous, frivolous and vexatious averments" which are liable to be struck down. The court said the suit filed by actress-environmentalist and others was to gain publicity which was clear as Chawla circulated the video conferencing link of the hearing on her social media account which resulted in the repeated disruptions thrice by unknown miscreants who continued disruptions despite repeated warnings.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-07-2021||India||Delhi Assembly suspends BJP MLA over derogatory remarks||Delhi Assembly Speaker Ram Niwas Goel suspended BJP MLA Om Prakash Sharma from the House for the day for making derogatory remarks against AAP MLAs on the first day of the monsoon session on Thursday. The speaker also marshalled out Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislators Vijender Gupta and Anil Bajpai for defying his directives and not letting the House function. Goel expressed his anguish and "deep pain" over depriving the house committees of their powers by the Centre. He gave a ruling that two hours of sitting of the House will be devoted to the Question Hour and special mentions under Rule 280. He stipulated that the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLAs will get 160 minutes while the opposition BJP legislators will be allowed 20 minutes to speak. "I will not allow the Opposition MLAs to speak for even one second extra than 20 minutes as per the House rules," he said while lamenting that the BJP legislators did not oppose divesting the house committees of their powers. As soon as the proceedings of the first day of the Assembly's monsoon session began, the BJP MLAs demanded to be heard during the Question Hour. They trooped into the well of the House and started shouting. Following this, some whip MLAs of the ruling AAP also entered the well, creating a pandemonium-like situation. The speaker asked the members to return to their seats and "let the House function" but the BJP MLAs did not relent. The speaker then asked the marshals to escort Gupta and Bajpai out of the House. In the melee, BJP's Sharma allegedly made derogatory remarks against some AAP MLAs and asked them to "remain in their limits". Taking cognizance of this, Goel asked Sharma to tender an apology. As the BJP legislator refused to oblige, he was suspended for the day. "Your remarks 'remain in the limits' to other members of the House are objectionable and since you did not apologise, I suspend Om Prakash Sharma for the entire day from the House," the speaker said while issuing the ruling. The BJP has eight MLAs in the 70-member Assembly dominated by the ruling AAP that has 62 members in the House. According to the list of business for the House on Thursday, AAP's Sanjiv Jha will initiate a short-duration discussion on the "appointment of the Delhi police commissioner in violation of Supreme Court directions". AAP MLA Bhavna Gaur will table a motion for conferring Bharat Ratna on late environmentalist Sunderlal Bahuguna, a demand earlier raised by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-07-2021||India||Water levels in Yamuna rise after heavy rains in catchment areas of Delhi||The water level in the Yamuna in Delhi on Thursday rose to 203.37 metres, close to the warning mark of 204.50 metres after heavy rains in the upper catchment areas of the river, officials said. The administration had sounded an alert in the low-lying areas close to the river floodplains on Tuesday and the situation is being monitored round the clock, they said. "The water level was recorded at 203.37 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 10:30 am," an official of the Irrigation and Flood Control Department said. The Yamuna has swollen because of rains in Delhi and the upper catchment areas, he said, adding that more water is being released from the Hathnikund barrage into the river in Haryana's Yamunanagar district. "The flow rate peaked to 1.60 lakh cusecs in the last 24 hours, the highest so far this year," the official said. The water discharged from the barrage normally takes two-three days to reach the capital. Water was being released into the Yamuna at the rate of 85,879 cusecs at 10 am on Thursday. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in the catchment areas. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litres per second. The water level may rise further as there is a prediction of rains in the catchment areas, the official said. In 2019, the flow rate had peaked at 8.28 lakh cusecs on August 18 and 19, and the water level in the Yamuna had touched 206.60 metres, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 metres. The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas. In 2013, the river had swelled to 207.32 metres. In 1978, the water level in the Yamuna rose to a record 207.49 metres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-07-2021||India||Hundreds of blackbucks crossing road in Gujarat goes viral; watch video||A video showing hundreds of blackbucks crossing a road near the Blackbuck National Park in Gujarat's Bhavnagar district has gone viral on social media platforms, and the spectacle drew praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The viral video was shared by the official Twitter handle of the Gujarat Information Department on Wednesday. "Over 3,000 blackbucks were seen crossing the road at Bhavnagar's Blackbuck National Park," the department tweeted. PM Modi commented "Excellent" on the one-minute video shared by the Information Department. Blackbucks are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act. According to the national park's range forest officer Ankur Patel, blackbucks keep moving from one place to another, and the video was shot a few days back by a Gram Rakshak Dal (GRD) jawan stationed at a police check post on Dholera-Bhavnagar highway. The road seen in the video connects the highway to Velavadar village and the National Park, Patel said. "The land seen on both sides of that internal road belongs to the forest department. While going back home after his night duty, the GRD jawan saw the blackbucks crossing the road in the morning and captured the amazing sight on his mobile phone and shared it on social media," the official said. The Blackbuck National Park remains shut for tourists from June 15 to October 16, he said. As per a rough estimate, there are around 3,000 blackbucks in the national park and 4,000 in the reserve forest areas and wastelands nearby, the official said. "In the viral video, 700 to 800 blackbucks could be seen. Since majority of them were females or sub-adults, their colour was brown. Only adult males are black" he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-07-2021||India||Kerala extends weekend lockdown amid worrying surge in Covid-19 cases||Amid a concerning surge in daily Covid-19 cases, the Kerala government has decided to extend the weekend lockdown in the state in a bid to curb infections. The Union Health Ministry will depute a six-member team to Kerala for effective Covid-19 management as the state reports a spike in daily cases. The team headed by National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Director S K Singh will reach Kerala Friday and visit some districts reporting a high case positivity rate, the Health Ministry said in a statement. In a tweet, Union Health Minister Mansukh Mandaviya said, "The Central government is sending six-member team to Kerala headed by NCDC Director. As a large number of Covid cases are still being reported in Kerala, the team will aid state's ongoing efforts in Covid-19 management." The ministry's statement said the team will work closely with state health authorities, take a stock of the ground situation and recommend necessary public health interventions to contain the spread of the virus. With an active caseload of 1.54 lakh as of latest update, Kerala accounts for 37.1 per cent of the total active cases in the country. Average daily cases being reported in the state are above 17,443. The state has also reported a high case positivity of 12.93 per cent cumulatively and 11.97 per cent weekly. Six districts are reporting more than 10 per cent weekly positivity, the statement stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-07-2021||India||Brazil suspends decision to import Covaxin doses from India||After suspending the proposed clinical trials of Bharat Biotech's Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin and a request for Emergency Use Authorisation, Brazil now has suspended its decision to import four million doses of the jab into that country. According to a statement issued by the National Health Surveillance Agency of Brazil, Anvisa its Collegiate Board on Tuesday took a decision to suspend the exceptional and temporary authorisation for import and distribution of Covaxin after Bharat Biotech informed the South America government about the termination of its pact with its Brazilian partners. "The Collegiate Board of Anvisaunanimously decided, on Tuesday (27/7), to provisionally suspend the exceptional and temporary authorisation for import and distribution of the vaccine against Covid-19-Covaxin, requested by the Ministry of Health," Anvisa said in statement posted on its website. Bharat Biotech on July 23 said it terminated the MoU it entered with Precisa Medicamentos and Envixia Pharmaceuticals LLC for its Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin for the Brazilian market. The termination of the MoU came after the deal with the Brazilian government for the supply of 20 million doses of Covaxin landed in controversy and attracted investigation by authorities in that country. "The measure prevails until there is new information that allows us to conclude that the legal and technical security of maintaining the decision that authorised the importation is maintained," Anvisa further said in a roughly translated version of Portuguese of the statement. Though the exceptional and temporary importation of the vaccine had been authorized on June 4, at the ninth Extraordinary Meeting of the Collegiate Board of Anvisa, Brazil never imported the jab. Bharat Biotech will continue to work diligently with Anvisa, to complete the regulatory approval process for Covaxin, Bharat Biotech had said while announcing the termination of its pact with its Brazilian partners.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-07-2021||India||Centre not allowing open discussions on issues of national importance at Parliament, says Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday asked the government not to waste more time of Parliament and let the Opposition raise issues of inflation, farmers and Pegasus in the House. He also said that the foundation of India's democracy is that Parliamentarians should be the voice of the people and discuss issues of national importance, but the Modi government is not allowing this to happen. The Opposition has been demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping issue and the repeal of the new farm laws in Parliament. "The foundation of our democracy is that Parliamentarians should be the voice of the people and should discuss issues of national importance. The Modi government is not allowing the Opposition to do this work. Don't waste more time of the Parliament, let them talk about inflation, farmers and Pegasus," Gandhi said on Twitter. There continues to be a deadlock in Parliament over the Pegasus snooping issue with the opposition demanding a discussion and a Supreme Court-monitored probe into it while the government is saying it has not done any snooping. Opposition members have been giving adjournment notices in both houses of Parliament to allow the Pegasus issue to be discussed, which have been rejected by the chair. Congress and other Opposition leaders have given such notices on Thursday also. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-07-2021||India||Covid-19: India records 43,509 cases, 640 deaths in 24 hoursa||India logged 43,509 new coronavirus infections taking the total tally of Covid-19 cases to 3,15,28,114, while the active cases registered an increase for the second consecutive day, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. The death toll climbed to 4,22,662 with 640 fresh fatalities. The active cases have increased to 4,03,840 and comprise 1.28 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.38 per cent, the data updated at 8 am showed. The daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.52 per cent, the ministry said, adding the weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.38 per cent. An increase of 4,404 cases has been recorded in the active Covid-19 caseload in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 3,07,01,612, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data stated. Cumulative vaccine doses administered so far has reached 45.07 crore under the nationwide vaccination drive. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore on May 4 and three crore on June 23. As many as 17,28,795 tests were conducted on Wednesday taking the total cumulative tests conducted so far for detection of Covid-19 in the country to 46,26,29,773. The ministry said the 640 new fatalities include 286 from Maharashtra and 131 from Kerala. A total of 4,22,662 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 1,32,145 from Maharashtra, 36,456 from Karnataka, 33,995 from Tamil Nadu, 25,049 from Delhi, 22,755 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,109 from Bengal and 16,286 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-381
29-07-2021||India||Pegasus: 14 parties vow to fight the spyware battle together||As many as 14 parties stood shoulder to shoulder on Wednesday and vowed to fight the Pegasus battle together, less than 24 hours after Prime Minister Narendra Modi sought to drive a wedge in the Opposition by singling out the Congress as the disruptor of parliamentary proceedings. The monsoon rain in the capital provided a political metaphor with Opposition leaders sharing umbrella space as they marched around 2km from Parliament to Vijay Chowk. “The entire Opposition is standing here today because our voice is suppressed inside Parliament,” Congress MP Rahul Gandhi said, addressing the media with the leaders of 13 other parties. Trinamul Congress members were absent, but the party is with the rest of the Opposition on the Pegasus controversy. “We are asking one question: Has the government purchased Pegasus, yes or no? Did the government use Pegasus on our own people, yes or no? We are clearly told that no discussion will be allowed on Pegasus,” Rahul added. The others present said the Opposition would fight the battle together. In recent memory, so many Opposition voices have not spoken from under the same umbrella — so to speak — in the capital, certainly not the day after the Prime Minister himself had tried to divide them. On Tuesday, Modi had told the BJP MPs to “expose the Congress before the people and the media”, saying it was not allowing Parliament to function. The Prime Minister had glossed over the fact that other Opposition parties like the DMK, Trinamul Congress and the Left were also protesting and stalling Parliament. At Vijay Chowk on Wednesday, the Samajwadi Party’s Ram Gopal Verma responded to Modi’s charge. “There can’t be a bigger lie than the government’s claim that the Opposition doesn’t want Parliament to function,” Verma said. “We are demanding a discussion, giving notices every day, but the government says, ‘No discussion on Pegasus’. The Pegasus snooping can steal our military secrets. We must have a structured debate,” he added. The Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut said: “As Rahulji said, they have attacked our democracy. It’s a betrayal, it’s back-stabbing as they did it on the sly. This is a national security issue and if this will not be discussed in Parliament, what else (would be)?” NCP lawmaker Supriya Sule alleged that the government had snooped on the wives and children of ministers. The CPI’s Binoy Viswam compared the alleged surveillance regime to Hitler’s Germany. The Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Manoj Jha wondered how the government could brush aside the opinion of parties that represented 60 per cent of the population. He said the people would find a way out if the government failed to act democratically. DMK leader T.R. Balu too countered the government allegation that the Opposition didn’t want any discussion, saying the treasury benches wanted to use Parliament only for their own business. It is too early to say whether the consensus on the Pegasus controversy would become the launch pad for a more durable understanding in the months to come. But the parallel with the Bofors-era Opposition mood -– when concerted action that germinated in Parliament had flowered into a wider backlash against the then government -– was hard to miss. Rahul said the government’s refusal to allow a parliamentary discussion on the Pegasus controversy suggested it had done something “dangerous for the country”. “Narendra Modi and (home minister) Amit Shah have hit the soul of India’s democracy. They are not allowing a discussion in Parliament because it is obvious the government has done something wrong, something which is dangerous for the country,” the former Congress president said. “Otherwise, they would have said, ‘Come, let’s have the discussion’.” The Opposition leaders were talking to the media after a concerted move by all the Opposition parties in Parliament had failed to get the government to agree to a discussion on the controversy. The Pegasus Project media exposé suggests that the phone numbers of many politicians, judges, rights activists, journalists and other Indians were earmarked for potential hacking and some were indeed hacked through the Israeli spyware Pegasus, which is sold only to governments. Rahul said: “I want to ask the youth of India --- Modi has inserted a weapon in your phone. That weapon was used against me, against other leaders, against the Supreme Court, activists, media. Why should this issue not be allowed to be discussed in Parliament? “This weapon was used against India. This weapon should have been used against terrorists and anti-national forces. We are asking Modi-Shah, why did they use this weapon against India’s democratic institutions? Why did they attack India’s democracy?” Rahul went on: “We are being accused of disrupting Parliament. We are only doing our duty. If we agree to take up other issues, the Pegasus issue will be over. “For us, Pegasus is related to nationalism. What has been done is treason. Modi and Shah have committed an anti-national act.... This is not merely a privacy issue. We want a discussion which should be replied to by either the Prime Minister or the home minister, and (we want) a Supreme Court-monitored inquiry.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
29-07-2021||India||Mamata hopes for a stronger political opposition for 2024 polls||The BJP may appear to be very healthy but the Opposition parties will be politically stronger and the next general election will be one of hope, Mamata Banerjee said on Wednesday, an hour before she met Sonia Gandhi at her 10 Janpath residence with the objective of strengthening the Opposition alliance. “The BJP may look very healthy, but from the political angle, the Opposition will be stronger this time…. We hope that the 2024 elections will be Hope 24,” the Bengal chief minister told reporters in New Delhi in the afternoon. Since landing in Delhi on Monday, Mamata has been advocating a united fight against the BJP. At the media interaction and then during a brief reaction after meeting Sonia, she explained her mission. Hope 24 achievable: The central theme of Mamata’s argument has been the changing mood in the country over the past couple of years. She took care to explain how rising prices, the Covid mismanagement and the Pegasus intrusion have worked against the BJP. Mamata said: “A lot of people who used to support them don’t anymore.” “We have seen a lot of ‘achchhe din (good days)’, now we want to see ‘sachche din (days of truth)’…. Have faith in the people of this country,” she added. While she stressed that a united Opposition was needed to capitalise on this mood, she had to face a volley of questions around the nuts and bolts of an Opposition alliance. As Mamata had made a similar attempt before the 2019 Lok Sabha polls by bringing together representatives of 23 Opposition parties at a rally in Calcutta, questions on the failed experiment also flew thick and fast during the 75-minute interaction. “Things have changed since then…. You know what was Narendra Modi’s popularity in 2019 and if you do a survey now, you will get to know what’s the situation now,” she said in an attempt to underscore that “Hope 24” is an achievable target. In order to buttress her argument that the BJP can be defeated, she referred to Trinamul’s victory over the BJP in the recently held Bengal Assembly polls, which showed that Modi and Amit Shah are not invincible. “If Bengal can do it, so can other states,” Mamata said during the interaction held at the residence of party MP Sukhendu Shekhar Roy. “Puro desh-e khela hobe (the match will be played across the country),” she said, repeating her winning slogan in the Bengal polls. Congress question: As any discussion on an anti-BJP front is incomplete without the Congress, Mamata had to face a flurry of questions — like its record of engineering the collapse of several non-Congress governments — on the role of the grand old party in the proposed front. “I think Soniaji wants Opposition unity. She has invited me for tea and I will go straight from here,” said the Bengal chief minister, who recounted her association with the Congress president since the days of Rajiv Gandhi. The manner in which she fielded the questions on the Congress — despite its poor show in subsequent polls and the leadership crisis in the party — and her meeting with Sonia were perceived as the first attempt towards bringing all the non-BJP parties together. “We had a nice meeting and Rahulji was also present. We discussed the political situation in general. We also discussed the Pegasus issue and the Covid situation in the country,” Mamata said, emerging from the 40-minute meeting. “If the BJP has to be defeated, all the Opposition parties have to come together,” she added while talking to reporters outside 10 Janpath. Cautious Mamata: Since Mamata mooted the proposal for an Opposition platform to take on the BJP in her July 21 address and her party subsequently raised the anti-BJP pitch in Parliament, the Bengal chief minister has got the tag of the main architect of the proposed front. If there is one striking theme of Mamata’s Delhi trip this time, it’s her repeated insistence that she is neither the face of the front nor its main force. “I am a cadre,” Mamata told the news conference. “I want to help in belling the cat…. I am not a VIP,” she added, making it clear that she was not interested in proposing a pole position for herself in the front. The clarification was significant as Trinamul MPs had earlier in the day proposed at a meeting that she should lead the fight against the BJP and be the face of the Opposition. Aware that such an endorsement may come in the way of the front even before its broad contours are defined, Mamata has been cautious on the question of leadership of the alliance. “I am not a political astrologer who can answer questions on leadership of the front…. Everything will depend on the situation,” she said. When pointed out that a fight against Modi without a face may hurt the prospects of the Opposition front, she replied: “The country will fight against Modi…. A lot of faces will come up to save our democracy.” Inclusive approach: More and more parties are likely to join the fight against the BJP in the coming days, Mamata hinted while answering questions on whether attempts would be made to woo some of the BJP allies or parties friendly with the saffron camp in the proposed front. “I maintain good relations with Jaganmohan Reddy, Naveen Patnaik and Chandrababu Naidu…. Some of them may not be with us today, but it doesn’t mean that they won’t come together,” Mamata said. “If a political storm comes, it can sweep away a lot of things,” she added, predicting that a momentum against the BJP is about to develop. According to Mamata, efforts should be made in states like Uttar Pradesh so that parties like the BSP and the SP join hands in the fight against the BJP. Explaining the need for expanding the breadth of the alliance against the BJP, she referred to the recent experience in the Bengal polls that witnessed a triangular fight among the BJP, Trinamul and the Congress-CPM alliance. “The Congress and the CPM should have thought who their primary enemy is,” Mamata said. The chief minister stressed that the regional parties are going to play a larger role in the coming days. “The regional parties are very strong and they should play a lead role,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
29-07-2021||India||Catholics mark National Justice Day by paying homage to Stan Swamy||Catholic institutions across India marked National Justice Day on Wednesday, paying homage to Father Stan Swamy who died in custody while awaiting bail in a terrorism case. “During his bail plea, Stan didn’t ask for mercy. He asked for his right, which was bail,” Delhi University professor Apoorvanand said at a public meeting at the Sacred Heart Cathedral in the capital. “He said, ‘Give me bail and I live with my people in Ranchi, or let me die in (Navi Mumbai’s) Taloja Jail’. Demonstrations were held in several states, including Bengal, Jharkhand, Goa, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala. In Calcutta, a prayer service for Fr Stan was held at the Archbishop’s House. Activist and former bureaucrat Harsh Mander, who participated at a vigil in New Delhi, told The Telegraph: “It is a sad commentary on where we have reached as a republic when someone who has spent his life in the service of the people — not by providing for their needs but speaking out on their behalf — someone who is a national hero, should die this way.” He added: “We have laws that allow a complete denial of natural justice…. The character of our State is revealed by those it considers enemies, like Stan who led the poor and the dispossessed against State power…. And we have witnessed the sheer cruelty of actors within the criminal justice system…. It was not jail authorities but prisoners who cared for him like a father.” Fr Stan, a Parkinson’s patient, died of multiple ailments blamed on poor treatment of a Covid infection he had contracted during his nine-month stay in jail. In Jamshedpur, nearly 1,000 priests, nuns, sympathisers and rights defenders took part in a silent protest with lighted candles and placards at various Jesuit institutions. “The death of Fr Stan is not an end in itself but an opportunity to reaffirm our faith in our nation’s Constitution and awaken the consciousness of the masses,” said Fr Gerald D’Souza, the administrator at Loyola High School in Jamshedpur. “We had given instructions that there should not be any sloganeering and no disturbance to any public movement,” Fr D’Souza added. “We gathered with the lights in our hands to show our solidarity with… all the Jesuits in the country and support the cause for which Fr Stan lived and died,” said Leena Mukherjee, an employee of Mercy Hospital. In Dindigul, Tamil Nadu, Father Stan’s ashes were carried in an urn for multiple events, including a church service, beginning at Beschi Illam where he had joined the Jesuits in 1957. Later in the day, a memorial service was held at St Joseph’s Cathedral, Dindigul, followed by a public event outside the church where political leaders and local personalities paid their respects. In Goa, memorials and large protest meetings were held in several places including St. Alex Church in Calangute, Our Lady of Immaculate Conception Church in Panjim, Holy Spirit Church in Margao, and Our Lady of Snows Church, Rachol. Jerald D’Souza, director of St Joseph’s College of Law who helped organise an event in Bangalore in Father Stan’s memory, told this newspaper: “Some ask, why should a priest do any work besides pious or religious practices? They (those who ask this question) fail to see the larger issues with democracy and the rule of law that affect the whole system. “They tend to follow the misleading reports in the mainstream media. The court’s withdrawal of its observations on Fr Stan led people to believe he had done something wrong. Despite this, many have come together in solidarity as his death is a wake-up call to many of us.” Last week, a Bombay High Court judge had withdrawn his oral observations praising Father Stan’s work in response to a prosecutor’s request.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
29-07-2021||India||Covid: Centre asks states to provide data on prevalence of antibodies||The Centre has asked all states to determine what proportions of people have acquired antibodies against Covid-19 in their districts amid wide variation across states — from over 75 per cent in Bihar, Gujarat and Rajasthan to 44 per cent in Kerala. The Union health ministry said on Wednesday that it had asked all states to generate district-level data on prevalence of antibodies — a possible signature of protection from the coronavirus — that could be used to guide vaccination campaigns and public health measures. The ministry also released state-level data from a nationwide survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) that health experts say suggest that some states such as Assam, Kerala and Maharashtra remain particularly vulnerable to continued spread of the virus. The survey that sampled people from 70 districts in 21 states has found antibody prevalence ranging from 79 per cent in Madhya Pradesh, 76 per cent in Rajasthan and Bihar and 75 per cent in Gujarat to 44 per cent in Kerala, 50 per cent in Assam and 58 per cent in Maharashtra. Nearly 61 per cent of the samples tested in Bengal were positive for antibodies. The states with large proportions of people with antibodies — implying prior Covid-19 infections — are likely to have experienced runaway infections during the epidemic’s two waves, health experts said. On the other hand, the experts said, states such as Kerala or Maharashtra that show lower proportions of people with antibodies appear to have taken stronger containment and public health measures that have protected people from the virus. “But lower antibody prevalence means more people are susceptible to the infection in such states — so they’re more likely to see continued transmission or even surges,” said Manoj Murhekar, director of the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology (NIE), Chennai, the institution that led the nationwide survey in June-July. Health experts have said Kerala’s low seropositivity, or antibody prevalence, is likely contributing to the current rise in daily new infections in the state. The ICMR survey, however, was not designed to capture antibody prevalence data at the district level that could vary widely within states. In Tamil Nadu, for instance, Chennai has an antibody prevalence rate greater than 75 per cent, but in some districts, the number is less than 50 per cent, data generated by the state reveal. Experts say district-level data could guide both vaccination campaigns and preparatory measures. “Districts with lower seropositivity levels (antibody prevalence) could be prioritised for vaccinations,” Murhekar said. State authorities could also channel healthcare resources into districts with low seropositivity that are at greater risk of continuing infections or localised surges. The high prevalence in some states suggests their populations might be approaching herd immunity threshold — a point at which so many people are infected that the virus finds it hard to spread any further in that population — but only district-level data can confirm that. “Overall, it looks like populations in some states are protected,” said Tarun Bhatnagar, a senior epidemiologist at the NIE. “But only district-level data will give us a clear picture. It is possible we’ll continue to see localised spread and surges — a large nationwide wave appears unlikely, unless the virus mutates again.” Bhatnagar said a fast vaccination campaign itself would lower the risk of more mutations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
29-07-2021||India||BJP lawmakers abort parliamentary panel meet on Pegasus||Dissenting BJP lawmakers and absentee government officials on Wednesday forced a parliamentary panel to indefinitely postpone a scheduled meeting on the Pegasus snooping allegations, Opposition members alleged. As the House IT panel met on Parliament premises, the BJP members allegedly refused to sign the attendance register. This ensured a lack of quorum — the minimum attendance needed for a meeting to be officially relevant. Also, the IT and home ministry officials summoned by the committee to answer questions about the snooping charges made “excuses” to stay away, an Opposition MP alleged. No new date has been set for the meeting. Wednesday’s scuttling of the panel meeting comes at a time the government has refused a discussion on the Pegasus controversy in Parliament, betraying its jitters. The parliamentary panel on information technology, headed by former Union minister and Congress member Shashi Tharoor, was to take up the Pegasus allegations under the broad agenda of “Citizens’ data security and privacy”. The BJP members arrived for the meeting but refused to sign the register objecting to the committee’s intention of discussing the Pegasus controversy. The quorum required for the 31-member panel is 10 but only nine members signed the register, sources said. They said the BJP members of the parliamentary panel had since Tuesday begun efforts to scuttle Wednesday’s meeting. On Tuesday, they had boycotted a meeting of the panel on a cinematography-related subject and approached the Lok Sabha Speaker demanding Tharoor’s removal as chairman for trying to take up the Pegasus issue. On Wednesday, a BJP member of the panel, Nishikant Dubey, submitted a privilege notice in the Lok Sabha against Tharoor, accusing him of unilaterally fixing the agenda for the panel’s meetings to suit his “political masters”. He demanded Tharoor’s removal. The agenda for Wednesday’s meeting had, however, been notified by the Lok Sabha secretariat a week ago. Congress MP Karti P. Chidambaram and Trinamul MP Mahua Moitra, who are members of the House IT panel, hit out at the BJP. “@BJP4India members come to the IT Committee & refuse to sign the register to deny a quorum,” Karti tweeted. “Further, all the witnesses called from MiEIT (ministry of electronics and information technology) & MHA (ministry of home affairs) wrote in excuses & didn’t appear as called to testify. It’s very clear that #Pegasus is a no go area for this government.” In a second tweet, Karti said: “The @BJP4India wants to expunge #Pegasus from any debate, scrutiny or enquiry! What are they so afraid of?” Moitra tweeted: “Heights of desperation by @BJP & minions. Nishikant Dubey files privilege motion against @ShashiTharoor just to prevent IT Comm from grilling MHA on Pegasus.” Among the BJP members of the panel are Tejasvi Surya and Locket Chatterjee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
29-07-2021||India||Opposition protests over Farm laws and Pegasus in Lok Sabha||The Opposition on Wednesday protested vehemently as the Lok Sabha Speaker conducted proceedings amid the clamour for a probe into the Pegasus snooping controversy and repeal of the controversial farm laws, completing a week of agitation in the House as the government shows no sign of relenting. The Opposition MPs, mainly from the Congress, tore papers and threw them towards the Speaker’s chair and the Treasury benches after completion of the Question Hour amid the din. The Congress MPs appeared to be particularly angry over their leader Rahul Gandhi not being allowed to speak on Pegasus during the post-noon Zero Hour. After Speaker Om Birla left at noon upon the completion of the Question Hour, BJP MP Rajendra Agrawal was appointed to conduct the proceedings, triggering the first of the day’s multiple adjournments. For the past seven days since the start of the monsoon session, the Lok Sabha has not been able to transact substantial business because of the Opposition’s sustained protests over the Pegasus phone snooping, the farm laws and other issues. On Wednesday, however, Speaker Birla went through with the Question Hour amid loud slogan-shouting and waving of placards against the government. The Speaker did not take any disciplinary action against the Opposition members who hurled balled-up pieces of paper at the Chair. Speaking to reporters later, junior parliamentary affairs minister Arjun Ram Meghwal said “some action would surely be taken”. The government has been fighting shy of a debate on Pegasus, saying that the information technology minister has already made a statement before Parliament. The Opposition has been demanding a discussion in the House and a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the allegations of snooping on judges, journalists, politicians, activists and others using the Israeli spyware Pegasus. The government’s uneasiness over Pegasus was evident yet again on Wednesday when BJP parliamentarian Nishikant Dubey submitted a privilege notice to the Lok Sabha Speaker against Congress MP Shashi Tharoor to demand his removal as chairman of the parliamentary panel on information technology. Tharoor has been pressing for the committee to take up the Pegasus snooping case and summon government officials. Dubey and the other BJP members on the panel are desperate to scuttle any such discussion. The Tharoor-headed panel’s scheduled meeting on Wednesday was postponed due to lack of quorum as BJP members protested and didn’t sign the attendance register. In the 32-member panel, the majority are BJP MPs. Seeking the Chair’s permission to move a privilege motion against Tharoor, Dubey claimed that while the Congress was not allowing any discussion in the House, it wanted the parliamentary panel to take up the Pegasus issue. In his notice, Dubey accused Tharoor of selecting the panel’s agenda to suit his “political masters” and demanded that he be removed. The Chair said the notice had been received and it was being examined by the Speaker. A privilege motion can be moved only if the Speaker finds merit in the notice and refers it to the privilege committee of the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
29-07-2021||India||Techie held for murder of girlfriend in Odisha||An engineer working in a software company was detained by Odisha police on Wednesday for allegedly murdering his girlfriend by setting her on fire after an altercation over marriage. The incident took place on Tuesday evening at Pratappur village in Ganjam district, around 280km from here. The victim, identified as Subhasmita Khadanga, 25, was rescued by the police from a secluded house on Tuesday evening with critical burn injuries at Pratappur, the native village of accused Krushna Chandra Sahu, 28. Though the police rushed her to the MKCG Hospital in Berhampur, she succumbed to her injuries while undergoing treatment on Tuesday night. Police have seized two spirit bottles and a match box from the spot. Police sources said Sahu and Subhasmita were in a relationship for over a year. While Sahu worked in a software company in Bhubaneswar, the girl was employed in a pathology lab in Ganjam district. They said Subhasmita was insisting on marriage but Sahu was trying to stall it. Police sources said Subhasmita came to Pratappur on Tuesday evening on the invitation of the accused. Both of them met in a secluded house and got embroiled in a heated argument over marriage for an hour. Later, the altercation took an ugly turn and Sahu allegedly set her ablaze. According to the police, Subashmita in her dying declaration said: “When I pleaded with him to marry me, he refused stating that his marriage has been fixed and that he is about to marry the daughter of his uncle.” In Ganjam district, men marrying the daughters of maternal uncles is common. Police said Subhasmita said in her dying declaration that while they were having an argument over the issue of marriage, Sahu got enraged and poured spirit on her and set her ablaze. Purusottampur sub-divisional police officer Suryamani Pradhan told The Telegraph: “Based on the dying declaration of the deceased, we detained BTech engineer Krushna Chandra Sahu. Interrogation is on and it will continue late into the night. Once the interrogation is over, we will take the next course of action. The accused had a love affair with the deceased.” However, Sahu denied the charges on Wednesday. “I was not present when the incident took place. I was busy with my work on my laptop. Subhasmita was mentally deranged. She was undergoing treatment under a psychiatrist in Bhubaneswar. She had even attempted to kill me by giving me poison. All these allegations against me are false,” he told reporters in Ganjam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
29-07-2021||India||RJD claims Tejaswi will replace Nitish Kumar before August 15||The Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) dropped a bombshell on Wednesday by claiming that its leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will replace Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and hoist the national flag on Independence Day. “Tejashwi will become the chief minister and hoist the national flag on August 15. Just keep watching what happens in the next few days. A new era will unfold on Independence Day,” said Bhai Virendra, RJD MLA and chief spokesperson of the state unit. The statement added fuel to fire during the monsoon session of the Assembly and drew sharp reactions from the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA). Virendra said his assertion was based on the fact that smaller constituents of the NDA like former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular and animal husbandry and fisheries minister Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insaan Party have been openly voicing their dissatisfaction with their position. Both the parties have four MLAs each in the 243-member Bihar Assembly. Though not a large figure, their strength becomes significant because the Nitish-led NDA government is in power with a thin majority. It has 126 legislators and the support of an independent MLA. The Opposition Grand Alliance of the RJD, Congress and Left parties has 110 MLAs. Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has five lawmakers while one seat is vacant. In such a scenario, if Manjhi and Sahni’s parties withdraw support to the NDA or throw their lot with the Opposition alliance, it could spell doom for the ruling dispensation. The majority figure in the Assembly is 122. The RJD is the largest party in the Assembly with 75 MLAs, and the imminent return of its national president Lalu Prasad to Patna is being eagerly awaited. The arrival of the master strategist and charismatic politician could create new political equations in Bihar, sources said. Virendra’s statements came on a day the RJD boycotted the Question Hour of the Assembly session over its demand for Nitish’s apology and strict action against police officers for manhandling Opposition MLAs in the House on March 23 during the budget session while they were demanding withdrawal of the Bihar Special Armed Police Bill, 2021, which conferred unbridled powers to the police. Many RJD legislators came wearing helmets to highlight the safety and security issues in the Assembly. Nitish’s Janata Dal United (JDU) and the BJP dismissed the RJD’s claim and asserted that it was a ploy to save itself from a split. “The RJD is living in illusion. This is the reason behind its wild claims. The people of Bihar have not forgotten the misrule and mayhem they had to suffer when the party was in power for 15 years,” JDU chief spokesperson and former minister Neeraj Kumar said. BJP legislator Nawal Kishore Yadav claimed that the RJD was “making such nonsensical statements to ensure that its MLAs stay with it instead of crossing over to other parties”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
29-07-2021||India||Bihar govt suspends 17 officials for failing to curb illegal sand mining ||The Bihar government has suspended 17 officials, including two IPS officers, for failing to curb illegal sand mining and its trade in the state. Notifications issued by the home department on Tuesday night said that IPS officers Sudhir Kumar Porika and Rakesh Kumar Dubey were being suspended with immediate effect in the light of a report by the economic offences unit of Bihar police for not discharging their duties with regard to illicit mining, storage and transportation of sand in Aurangabad and Bhojpur districts. Porika and Dubey were the superintendents of police of Aurangabad and Bhojpur, respectively. The two officers were transferred earlier this month and had been waiting for posting since then. Both the police officers have been charged with helping those involved in illegal sand mining and transportation, not keeping effective control on junior officers and allegations of suspicious behaviour. Some of the suspended officials are from the Bihar administrative service and mines and geology department posted in the two districts. Others include four deputy superintendents of police and a sub-divisional officer. “We are developing a strategy to check the sand mafia in the state. Raids are being conducted and action against the mafia is being taken on a daily basis. We are going to take tougher actions. Just wait and watch,” mines and geology minister Janak Ram said on Wednesday. Janak also said that 4,180 raids have been conducted, 750 FIRs registered and 538 people arrested till June 30 this year as part of the state government’s crackdown on illegal sand mining. Illegal sand mining is carried out by a well entrenched and well-oiled mafia without any permission from the state government, causing loss of thousands of crores of rupees to the exchequer every year. An alleged nexus with senior government officers and politicians allows the sand mafia to carry out its activities with impunity. Aurangabad, Rohtas and Bhojpur are the worst affected districts by the illegal mining because they lie along the Sone river, which yields the maximum sand in the state. The sand extracted from the Sone is considered to be of the best quality for construction purposes, and is exported to neighbouring states like Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand. The mafia has become so brazen that it uses earthmovers, trucks and several men to dig out the sand from the river basin without any fear of punishment. However, the government’s action seems to be focused on some of the affected districts though illegal sand mining is going on unchecked in Jehanabad, Gaya, Banka, Jamui and several other districts, sources said. Many big and small rivers in these districts possess good quality sand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
29-07-2021||India||Blocked sale of Mumbai mansion to Poonawallas on Blinken agenda||Earlier this year, when secretary of state Antony J. Blinken was up for confirmation in Washington, he was hit with a strange question about a piece of property 8,000 miles away on the Arabian Sea. Lincoln House, a former maharajah’s palace and US consulate in Mumbai, was supposed to have been sold six years ago for $110 million (Rs 819 crore). Ever since, the US has been trying to transfer the property to the Poonawalla family, now among the major makers of Covid-19 vaccines, but for unknown reasons the Indian government has been blocking it. The dispute is “an unnecessary irritant in bilateral ties,” Senator James E. Risch said in a written question to Blinken during the confirmation hearing. “Do you commit to making the resolution of the Lincoln House issue a priority with India, and to directing the US ambassador to India to do the same?” “Yes,” Blinken said, and this week he will have a chance to prove his word. He is in India for his first trip to the country as secretary of state, and congressional and administration officials say he intends to bring up this mouldering mansion that is becoming something of a diplomatic black hole. High level diplomatic correspondence reveals how much attention this single property has consumed. Former secretary of state Mike Pompeo vented his frustration last year in a letter to India’s foreign minister, writing “the Government of India has never provided us any credible legal response or explanation of why it has blocked the transfer”. “Regrettably,” Pompeo added, “the Lincoln House saga does not live up to the standards of our relationship.” A year later, with maintenance bills running up, Lincoln House still sits unsold, its high walls crumbling, paint chipping off, rust streaks running down to the sidewalk, an  eyesore. A rambling, haunted-looking, cream-coloured building, it lies in one of Mumbai’s most desirable enclaves — Breach Candy — just a stone’s throw from where soft waves tumble into the shore. Officials in the administration of Prime Minister Narendra Modi have met requests to discuss the matter with impenetrable silence. More than a half a dozen officials, from the foreign ministry’s chief spokesman to the Mumbai collector  to the principal director-general of the Press Information Bureau, which handles queries concerning Modi’s office, declined to comment. American officials are beyond annoyed. The way they see it, there are no legal reasons to block the sale, and India and the US are supposed to be friends. US officials interviewed by The New York Times seemed perplexed by the hold-up. They suspect Modi’s government doesn’t like the idea of the US making so much money off the deal, which would be one of the biggest house sales in Indian history. Or possibly the Modi government wants to prevent Lincoln House from going to the Poonawallas, who are not among the handful of Indian billionaires known to be Modi stalwarts. Or maybe officials feel uncomfortable with a foreign government simply selling off an iconic piece of Indian history. The three-storey mansion was built in the 1930s in Indian-Deco style by the Maharajah of Wankaner, one of the hundreds of princely states that existed under British rule. M.K. Ranjitsinh was the grandson of the maharajah who built it. “It was very modern for its time,” he said of the home, which had a swimming pool, a cannon out front and a wooden dance floor. But after Independence in 1947, the maharajahs lost their privileges. The upkeep for the house became too much for a minor aristocrat. So in 1959, the Wankaner family sold the rights to the property (Lincoln House is actually on a 900-year-plus lease) to the American government for Rs 16.5 lakh, which would have been around $350,000 at the time. In 2011, the US opened a modern consulate in Mumbai. It was time to say goodbye to Lincoln House. A few years later, when it was put on the market, the Poonawallas snapped it up. The family runs the Serum Institute of India, the world’s largest manufacturer of vaccines, based in Pune. With a penchant for Ferraris and racehorses, the Poonawallas are known for living large and said they planned to use the 50,000-square foot space as a weekend home. In October 2015, India’s foreign ministry gave the US government explicit permission for the deal in a letter saying: “This ministry would like to convey its approval for the sale.” But soon after, another branch of the Indian government, the defence estates officer, objected, saying the Americans had failed to give notice of the sale and cessation of use of the property within a mandated 20-day period. American officials countered that they hadn’t finalised the transaction or stopped using the property and therefore hadn’t broken rules. After the Indian government continued to frustrate the sale, many American officials, including two ambassadors and Pompeo, weighed in, arguing that the sale should go through and urging the Modi administration to help make it happen. US senators sent two letters to Modi. They never received a reply. If the deal is not finalised by the end of August, the Poonawallas have the right to back out, according to the contract. If they do, the American government then faces an expensive question: Now what? There aren’t too many other buyers who can drop $110 million on a home. And because Lincoln House is a heritage property, it would be difficult to knock it down and redevelop. American officials are beginning to worry it could be a total loss. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-382
29-07-2021||India||Congress objects to Rakesh Asthana's appointment||The Congress has objected to the appointment of IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi police commissioner four days before his retirement, alleging that the Narendra Modi government’s decision was in violation of a Supreme Court guideline. Asthana, a Gujarat-cadre officer, was to retire on July 31. He was appointed Delhi police chief on Tuesday. Delhi police, who report to the Union home ministry, usually get a boss from the AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram-Union Territory) cadre. Asthana was seen as a favourite for appointment as CBI director earlier this year, sources said, but got ruled out when Chief Justice N.V. Ramana cited a Supreme Court guideline that no officer with less than six months of service left should be appointed as a police chief. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “Asthana, the blue-eyed boy of the Prime Minister, was appointed Delhi police chief with a Union home ministry notification calling it ‘a special case in public interest’…. it is another instance of blatant disregard for the Supreme Court.” Khera added: “Also, the civil services in India have cadres that are state or region-specific. Vacancies in Delhi are filled from the AGMUT cadre….  Could the government not find any efficient officer within the AGMUT cadre?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
29-07-2021||India||IISER scientist's study peeks into Sun's 'stellar midlife crisis'||Calcutta scientists have proposed an explanation for a mysterious phenomenon called the stellar midlife crisis under which the Sun and many other stars display abrupt, dramatic declines in their output of high energy particles and radiation. Astrophysicist Dibyendu Nandi and his colleagues at the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER), Calcutta, have provided a possible theoretical foundation for the unexplained decline in stellar activity that occurs in stars past their middle age. Multiple earlier studies over the past decade have suggested that the Sun is currently passing through what solar physicists call a “weakened magnetic braking” phase at about its midlife of around 4.5 billion years. Astronomers have also made similar observations with other stars in the galaxy. The Sun and other stars constantly spew electrically-charged particles also called the stellar wind. This steady drain causes stars to slow down their rotation over billions of years. The slower rotation in turn alters the stars’ magnetic fields and reduces activity — sunspots, flares, outbursts — over time. Solar physicists expected the slowdown to occur at a steady pace. But the recent observations have indicated that the rate of slowdown dramatically declines in stars in their middle age. “The observations just did not match the theory — there was no explanation for why the stars abruptly depart from their expected behaviour around middle age,” said Nandi, associate professor at the IISER Centre for Excellence in Space Sciences. Now, Nandi and his collaborators Bindesh Tripathi and Soumitro Banerjee have shown that when certain stars approach their middle age, their magnetic field generation mechanism in them abruptly becomes sub-critical, or less efficient. This change allows a middle-aged star such as the Sun to switch into a low activity mode. “Our hypothesis of a sub-critical magnetic dynamo of solar-like stars provides a self-consistent physical basis for a diversity of solar-stellar phenomenon such as why stars past their midlife do not spin down as fast as they did in their youth,” Nandi said. Tripathi, a student from Nepal who had worked at IISER-CESSI for a Masters project and is currently at the University of Wisconsin-Madison in the US, is the first author of the study published on Wednesday in the Monthly Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society. The study provides key insights into the existence of low activity episodes in the recent history of the Sun, also called the grand minima — when almost no sunspots are visible. One such grand minima had occurred between 1645 and 1715 when very few sunspots had been observed. The researchers say their explanation also provides a theoretical basis for recent observations indicating that the Sun is slipping into a low activity future.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
29-07-2021||India||Beijing questions America's 'one-man, one-vote' style of democracy||China on Wednesday questioned the “one-man, one-vote” style of democracy in place in the US and India in view of American secretary of state Antony Blinken’s remarks in New Delhi. Asked for a response to Blinken’s comments on democracy being under threat without directly referring to China, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said: “I want to stress that democracy is a common value shared by all, not a patent owned by any country. To achieve democracy, there are various ways rather than a fixed formula or a standard answer. One man, one vote and a multi-party system is not the sole form of democracy.” Zhao said democracy should not be used as a label or tool to belittle or smear other countries or stoke confrontations. “Which country is a democracy and which an autocracy should not be determined by a very small number of countries. Debasing others while elevating oneself in itself is not democratic at all.” “Some self-proclaimed democracies are deeply troubled at home by wealth disparity, social division, racial divide and political polarisation”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
29-07-2021||India||Washington’s China agenda appears to dominate Blinken’s India visit||Washington’s China agenda appeared to dominate US secretary of state Antony Blinken’s India visit on Wednesday. Not only did he meet a representative of the Dalai Lama in New Delhi, he also underscored the need for democracies to demonstrate their ability to deliver to the people, and sought to temper comments on India's democracy with a reference to the challenges faced on this front at home. Reuters quoted an unnamed state department official as telling reporters travelling with Blinken that the secretary briefly met Ngodup Dongchung Lama, a representative of the Central Tibetan Administration — the official name of the Tibetan government in exile. This was apart from Blinken’s interaction with Geshe Damdul Dorjee, the director of Tibet House, the cultural centre of the Dalai Lama founded in 1965, during a closed-door meeting with civil society leaders where issues like the Citizenship Amendment Act and the prolonged farmers’ protests are said to have come up. These two meetings are likely to anger China, which considers the Dalai Lama as a separatist. While it was evident that Blinken had raised human rights issues and democracy in India during his meetings, he did not say this openly even when asked a pointed question on the country’s “democratic backslide”, strengthening the perception in certain quarters of Washington that the Joe Biden administration is not taking up these issues strongly enough because of the importance it attaches to India’s role in its bid to counter the growing Chinese footprint and does not want to jeopardise that geo-strategic objective. It was external affairs minister S. Jaishankar who was more revealing after volunteering to reply to the question posed to Blinken at a media conference. Jaishankar’s reply made it amply clear that Blinken had echoed concerns in various western capitals about the state of democracy in India in recent years. After Blinken’s long-winding reply to the question on India’s democratic backslide in which he said no democracy, including the US, was perfect and that democracy in both countries was a work in progress, Jaishankar stepped in to say: “The quest for a more perfect union applies as much to the Indian democracy as it does to the American one; indeed to all democracies. “Number two, it is the moral obligation of all polities to really right wrongs when they have been done, including historically, and many of the decisions and policies you have seen in the last few years fall in that category. Third, freedoms are important. We all value them but never equate freedom with non-governance or lack of governance or poor governance.” In his opening remarks, Blinken said: “Our bilateral relationships are strengthened by our shared values. As two of the world’s leading democracies, we take seriously our responsibilities to deliver freedom, equality and opportunity to all of our people, and we know that we must constantly do more on these fronts and neither of us has achieved the ideals that we set for ourselves. Part of the promise of democracy is the constant striving for better, as America’s founders put it, ‘to form a more perfect union’.” Responding to a reference of offering the partnership with India as a democratic alternative to China, Blinken said the shared democratic traditions were part of Wednesday’s conversation. “The relationship between our two countries is so important and so strong because it’s a relationship between our democracies...,” he said, stressing the need for democracies to display they can deliver to the people. “We view Indian democracy as a force for good in defence of a free and open Indo-Pacific, indeed a free and open world. We also recognise that every democracy is a work in progress,” Blinken said. China has described the US agenda in the Indo-Pacific by setting up the Quad with Australia, India and Japan as an Asian Nato, suggesting it is a military alliance. The claim was again countered by Blinken on Wednesday. Apart from Jaishankar, Blinken met national security adviser Ajit Doval and called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Good to meet US Secretary of State @SecBlinken today. I welcome President Biden’s strong commitment to strengthen the India-US Strategic Partnership, which is anchored in our shared democratic values and is a force for global good,” Modi tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-383
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Rain owing to low pressure over Bangladesh, Bengal affects normal life in city||Heavy overnight rain owing to a well-marked low pressure over Bangladesh and West Bengal affected normal life in the city and some southern districts in the state on Thursday, inundating low-lying areas. The weatherman has forecast heavy to very heavy rain in Calcutta till Friday morning. Some thoroughfares and low-lying areas of the city were inundated due to continuous rain since Wednesday evening. The Met department has predicted heavy to very heavy rain with an extremely heavy downpour at some places in south Bengal districts till Friday, owing to the well-marked low-pressure area that is likely to move westwards across West Bengal, Jharkhand, and Bihar. Continuous rain caused the mud under the tracks to slide at Kharagpur yard of South Eastern Railway, slightly affecting the movement of goods trains, an official said. Rainwater flowing above the rails was reported from Haldia and Tikiapara yard in West Bengal, and at Bhadrak in Odisha, SER spokesperson Niraj Kumar said. "Passenger train movement was not affected owing to these incidents," Kumar told PTI. He said that restoration work was going on at Kharagpur in the presence of senior officers of SER. Kharagpur town received the maximum rainfall in the last 24 hours till 8.30 am on Thursday at 260 mm, followed by Medinipur (230 mm), the headquarters of Paschim Medinipur district. The port town of Haldia in Purba Medinipur received 216 mm rain, while Canning in South 24 Parganas got 186 mm rain during the same period, the Met department said. Calcutta recorded 76 mm rainfall during the period while adjoining Salt Lake received 50 mm. The weatherman predicted heavy to very heavy rain with an extremely heavy downpour at some places in North 24 Parganas, South 24 Parganas, Purba Medinipur, Paschim Medinipur, Jhargram, and Howrah districts till Friday morning. Heavy to very heavy rain will also occur at Hooghly, Bankura, Purulia, Purba, and Paschim Bardhaman till Friday, it said. Purulia district in the western part of the state is likely to receive heavy to very heavy rain till Saturday morning. Heavy rain will continue in North and South 24 Parganas, Bankura, Paschim Bardhaman, and Paschim Medinipur districts till Saturday morning, the Met office said. The heavy downpour may cause a rise in water levels of rivers, and waterlogging of low-lying areas in the southern districts of the state, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal extends Covid curbs till August 15, allows govt programmes||Keeping in mind the warning of experts about a possible third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Bengal government on Thursday extended the existing restrictions till August 15, but also announced certain relaxations. The administration allowed government programmes at indoor facilities with 50 per cent seating capacity, according to an order. Buses, taxis, autorickshaws have been permitted to operate with 50 per cent capacity. Offices, both government and private, are also allowed to function with half the manpower, it said The restrictions, imposed on May 16, were last extended till July 30. All the district administrations were asked to ensure strict compliance of directives related to wearing of masks and social distancing. "Any violation of the restriction measures will be liable to be proceeded against as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and relevant sections of the IPC," the order stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Column of wind on river Hooghly ||Residents of Diamond Harbour in South 24-Parganas saw a giant column of wind on river Hooghly on Wednesday evening. Eyewitnesses said the column seemed to “roam” on the river surface for around five minutes before it vanished. Eyewitness Rejaul Mallik said it created panic when it seemed like it was approaching the embankment. “I saw it around 4.45pm and it was gone within five minutes,” said Mallik. “I’d never seen such a thing earlier.” On June 10, residents of Sagar island found a similar column of wind on river Hooghly. G.K. Das, the director of the India Meteorological Department, Calcutta, said that such cylindrical wind columns happen owing to low pressure. “We call such system  a waterspout. Such a cylindrical system occurs during low pressure and usually ends up in the river. It may have impact if it hits the land as a cyclone,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Distress alert device a must on boats: Bengal government||The Bengal government has made it mandatory for boats and trawlers out for deep-sea fishing to install distress alert transmitters (DATs) so that the vessel operators can alert Chennai’s Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (MRCC) in case of an emergency. The state government had issued a similar order in 2011 and provided the device to around 2,400 fishing boats. But the increasing trend of fishing boat capsizing in the Bay of Bengal prompted the state government to make mandatory the installation of the device in boats at the earliest. There are around 10,000 boats registered in South 24-Parganas district. Sources in the Indian Coast Guard said that the DAT was a satellite-based alert transmitter to be used in distress situations like capsize, fire, medical emergency and drowning. In case of emergency, the fishing boat transmits a short message about its location and type of emergency to the MRCC, which in turn alerts the Coast Guard personnel. The decision for mandatory installation of all registered boats was adopted during a meeting between the fisheries department and members of the Fishermen Welfare Association at the South 24-Parganas district magistrate’s office in Alipore on Wednesday. State fisheries minister Akhil Giri and officials of the Coast Guard and the disaster management department attended the meeting. that was held on a day a boat capsized  on the Bay of Bengal close to the Bangladesh border. Sources in the fisheries department said a boat named ‘Tarama’ from Kakdwip sank in the sea owing to a breach on its floor. All the 15 fishermen on the boat were rescued by boats sailing nearby. Earlier on July 14, in a similar boat capsize around 25km away from the Frazerganj coastal line, 14 fishermen who were trapped inside the bottom cabin died. Speaking to The Telegraph, state fisheries minister Akhil Giri said: “We do not want such accidents any more. The decision for mandatory installation of the DAT system is a step to prevent such accidents.” At the meeting, it was decided that the state government would soon select a modern DAT device and advise boat owners to install it in their vessels at their own cost. “We will select the appropriate device and ask boat owners to install it. We are hopeful that a boat owner who spends over Rs 50 lakh on a fishing boat can afford to install a device that costs around Rs 15,000 for safety,” minister Giri told The Telegraph. He added that he would soon hold a meeting with fisheries department official to frame a timeline to implement it. Bijan Maity, joint secretary of West Bengal United Fishermen’s Association said: “It is a good initiative. This decision was earlier taken but a casual approach in its implementation left the situation unchanged. We have appealed to the minister to ensure that the decision does not remain only on paper.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Tripura BJP fears losing the next Assembly elections: Trinamul ||The alleged “house arrest” of poll consultant Prashant Kishor’s I-PAC team members in a hotel by the BJP-led Tripura government only reflects its fear of losing the next Assembly elections, a three-member Trinamul delegation said in Agartala on Wednesday. The Trinamul delegation  that reached Agartala on Wednesday morning, to assess the political situation, comprised Bengal ministers Moloy Ghatak and Bratya Basu and former MP Ritabrata Banerjee. “The I-PAC members only came to conduct a survey. They had Covid-19 (negative) test reports but still were detained and FIRs were filed against them. This only reflected the fear of the ruling BJP of losing the next election,” Basu said. Seventeen I-PAC members had reached Agartala on July 17 and five on July 20. Tripura government sources said all the 22 I-PAC members had tested negative and they now to free to move around. They were tested for Covid-19 on Sunday night and were told to stay put in their hotel rooms till test results came in. Tripura government officials also denied detaining the I-PAC members or filing any FIR against them. Trinamul, which does not have any MLA in the 60-member Tripura assembly, is trying to create a space for itself by exploiting the “anti-incumbency” factor against the ruling BJP-IPFT combine, which had comprehensively won the 2018 Assembly polls to end the Left Front’s 25-year reign. Former MP Banerjee said Bengal chief minister and Trinamul chief Mamata Banerjee would be the “face of the Opposition political parties” under whose leadership the BJP would be dethroned both in Tripura and Delhi.“The BJP will lose Tripura in 2023 and the country in 2024 by united political forces,” Banerjee said. The delegation also said they would name a state committee for Tripura and Trinamul national general secretary Abhishek Banerjee would visit the state soon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Police attacked, NH12 blocked over teacher arrests in North Dinajpur||Nearly 60 people, including some local Trinamul leaders in Karandighi, North Dinajpur, protested the arrest of two teachers accused of stealing funds, by blocking NH12 on Tuesday night and attacking a police station early on Wednesday. Nine policemen were injured. Nine protesters were arrested for attacking policemen and for blocking a national highway, the district police chief said. The protesters had been demanding the release of two teachers of state-aided high schools, arrested on Tuesday afternoon, for siphoning money given by the state government as scholarships to physically challenged and minority community students. The arrests of Sakir Ali, a computer teacher of Raghabpur High School, and Ehsaan Ali, a contract teacher of Sabdhan High school, galvanised people to gather in front of the police station, demanding the duo’s release. “When this protest did not work, the demonstrators, some of whom were intoxicated, blocked NH12 near the police station at midnight. This continued till 4am on Wednesday. Suddenly, protesters armed with bricks, stones and sticks attacked the police station,” said Sumit Kumar, the North Dinajpur SP. Nine policemen, including the inspector-in-charge, were injured. The policemen chased the attackers with batons who fled. The highway was cleared. Among those arrested include Badiruddin, the pradhan of Trinamul-run Lahutara panchayat in Karandighi block. It has been also found that two Trinamul leaders of the block, including a youth leader, led the protests and the attack, said sources. The incident left district Trinamul leaders in an awkward position. “We have come to know some Trinamul workers were present at the protest in front of the police station. But we have to find out if they were involved in the attack,” said Kanaialal Agarwala, the district Trinamul president. Sayantan Basu, a state general secretary of the BJP in Raiganj, highlighted the incident. “A group of Trinamul leaders in Karandighi have taken the law in their own hands and attacked the police. It was done to hide the scam in which many of these leaders are involved.” The teacher duo and the other nine were produced at a local court in Islampur. The court has sent the teachers to police custody for 12 days and nine protesters to judicial custody for nine days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Eleven Trinamul members freed, three  ‘captors’ held in Malda||Police rescued all 11 abducted Trinamul members of Daulatnagar panchayat under Harishchandrapur-II block of the district — two late on Tuesday night from the area and nine early on Wednesday from near the Bihar interstate border. The nine were being taken in vehicles towards neighbouring Bihar. “Our officers could intercept them near the interstate border,” a senior police officer said. “All panchayat members have been rescued. Three persons (with the members in vehicles) have been arrested and a probe is on,” he added, but was tight-lipped when asked if weapons were found on the three. On Tuesday, 11 members were allegedly abducted by a group of people, including the Trinamul pradhan of the panchayat Najibur Rahman and another Trinamul leader, Ashraful Haque, who is the husband of the sabhapati (chief) of Harishchandrapur-II panchayat samiti. One more member could escape. “We were on way to the BDO office for the verification of our signatures that we had put on an application to seek the removal of the pradhan (Najibur) through a no-confidence motion. We did not know we’d have to face such consequences,” said Abdul Gaffar, one of the rescued members. After the incident, Trinamul supporters had resorted to protests, demanding the police rescue the abducted members and arrest the culprits. Later in the day, BDO Bijay Giri filed a complaint with the police. Police on Tuesday late night spotted two members, who fled from the captors, from a locality in Harishchandrapur. Police teams checked vehicles in the area. Early on Wednesday, the remaining nine were found. Those arrested have been identified as Anarul Haque, Anarul Haji and Ansarul Sheikh of Harishchandrapur. Najibur, the pradhan accused of orchestrating the abduction, has gone into hiding. However, co-accused Ashraful spoke to newspersons over phone on Wednesday and dismissed the abduction charges as baseless. “It is nothing but an attempt by some local leaders to malign my image,” he said. The arrests, Trinamul insiders said, would help them control the perception damage in Malda after the loss of face owing to the abduction. “It is good that the police have rescued all the members and arrested some persons. Trinamul will not intervene in the probe in any manner,” said a district Trinamul leader. “Trinamul leaders have taken the strategy of saving those who had planned the abduction. They are highlighting the arrests of those who, we believe, were only carrying out orders,” said Sudipta Chatterjee, a state committee member of Malda BJP.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Siliguri Municipal Corporation introduces 22 waste disposal vehicles||The Siliguri Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Wednesday introduced 22 vehicles which would be engaged by the conservancy department for prompt collection and disposal of waste across Siliguri and meet the target to develop it a “waste-free city”. Gautam Deb, the chairman of the board of administrators (BoA) of the SMC, flagged off the new vehicles — eight covered vans and 14 erickshaw vans — as part of the plan to streamline conservancy services provided by the civic body across the town. Sources said around Rs 1 crore was spent on these vehicles. “We are streamlining the waste management system of the civic area in an organised manner. Our target is to provide the residents a ‘waste free city’ in another six months’ time,” said Deb. During the past few years, When the Left was in power at the SMC, residents from different walks of life have time and again pointed to the abysmal conservancy services by the civic body. “Heaps of garbage, especially in the commercial areas, would lie for days and there was hardly any regular initiative by the then Left board to keep the town clean. We want Siliguri to be clean and are putting all efforts to intensify the conservancy service,” said Ranjan Sarkar, a member of the BoA. Every day, around four metric tons of waste is collected from 47 wards in Siliguri. of the city and are sent to the dumping ground located off Eastern Bypass, in the northeast end of Siliguri. “The new vehicles will collect and dispose which will be used in collection and disposal of garbage from all five borough offices of the SMC,” said a source. The civic body in association with the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority has taken up a project of around Rs 18 crore for proper disposal of waste. “The project is in progress and we hope the services will ould considerably improve during the next few months,” said Deb.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||500 parakeets seized in Malda, one arrested||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) seized over 500 birds from a Calcuttabound train and arrested a person in this connection from Malda Town station on Tuesday night. V.B. Sharma, an inspector of the RPF, said hundreds of birds, mostly parakeets and a hill mynah — a rare avian species — were recovered from a coach of the Jogbani Express that runs between Jogbani in Bihar and Calcutta. “We raided the train at Malda Town station and recovered the birds kept in seven cages from a sleeper coach. We have arrested Sheikh Sahid who is suspected to be associated with a bird smuggling racket. He has revealed that the birds were loaded on the train at Katihar station. He was supposed to get down at Burdwan. We will interrogate him further to find out where the consignment was to be delivered,” Sharma added. The RPF sources said altogether 510 birds were kept in the cages. “The smuggler had covered the heads of the birds to prevent the birds from chirping. The RPF has done a good job,” said Subhasish Sengupta, an ornithologist based in Malda. Later, the RPF handed over the birds and Sahid to officials of the state forest department.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||All India Matua Mahasangha leader threatens to dump BJP||A senior leader of the All India Matua Mahasangha on Wednesday said the sect would withdraw its support to the BJP if its demand for the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act was further delayed. The statement came a day after Union home minister of state Nityananda Rai had told the Lok Sabha that the ministry had sought another extension by six months to frame rules of the CAA. Told about the extension, Mohitosh Baidya, the general-secretary of the Mahasangha, headed by BJP MP and junior Union minister Santanu Thakur, said on Wednesday: “This doesn’t sound right…. We will take back our support if this goes on.” Baidya, who is also the spokesperson for the Mahasangha, was a part of the Matua delegation that accompanied Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Orakandi in Bangladesh in March this year. Orakandi was the birthplace of Matua sect founder Harichand Thakur. Baidya, like many other members of the sect, was hopeful that the Union government would finally frame rules of the CAA and implement it in Bengal once the earlier time-frame of July 9 expired. The Committees on Subordinate Legislation, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, had granted an extension of time up to April 9 and July 9, respectively, to frame the rules. However, Rai said on Tuesday that the ministry had sought permission for a further extension till January 9, 2022. “From what I hear, one would need to prove his Indian citizenship through parental and own documents once the rules are framed and the official work begins. This is not what we had demanded. Our demand is clear. We want unconditional citizenship…,” Baidya added. The Matuas, a group of lower-caste Hindu refugees from Bangladesh, have contributed largely to the growth of the BJP in Bengal. As the implementation of the CAA is further delayed, unrest has started brewing within the sect. “It is true the delay has put many people in despair and they also called us for a clarification. But we urged them to have patience,” admitted Subrata Thakur, the elder brother of Santanu and president of the Mahasangha. “Implementation of the Act, framing laws, is no small task since Covid-19 has spoiled many working days…,” he added. Mukutmani Adhikari, BJP MLA from Ranaghat South and the Nadia south unit chief of the Mahasangha, however, said there was no other option for the Matuas right now than to wait. Additional reporting by Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: 815 more cases, 14 deaths in Bengal||Bengal on Wednesday logged 815 new Covid-19 cases, 811 recoveries and 14 deaths. Active cases fell by 10 to 11,370 on Wednesday, the 38th straight day of the slide. Calcutta logged 81 new cases and North 24-Parganas 114. So, Wednesday was the first time after a 20-day gap when one of Bengal’s 23 districts reported a three-digit figure.Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures of new cases, North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Purulia single-digit figures. Bengal’s recovery rate is 98.07 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.35. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19 per cent while that of the nation is 1.34. Thirteen districts, including Calcutta, logged zero deaths on Wednesday. Jalpaiguri, South Dinajpur, Nadia, West Midnapore, East Burdwan, Hooghly, North and South 24-Parganas reported one each. Bengal’s daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.81 per cent on Wednesday. Bengal now has nearly 15.26 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes over 14.96 lakh recoveries and 18,109 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-154
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Academic writes in Trinamul daily, surname catches eye||An article on “woman power in Bengal politics” is drawing the attention of many people who are not regular readers of Jago Bangla, the Trinamul Congress’s mouthpiece, because of the roots of the writer. The article is penned by Ajanta Biswas, an associate professor of history at the Rabindra Bharati University in Calcutta. What has caught the eye of several social media users and Left sympathisers is the fact that Ajanta is the daughter of the late Anil Biswas, who as CPM state secretary was one of the most powerful figures in Bengal. The article is the first of a series on women political figures. The series begins with freedom fighter Basanti Devi and is scheduled to end with Mamata Banerjee, whose desire to become chief minister was once mocked by Anil Biswas. The article is accompanied by images of the freedom fighters Deshbandhu Chittaranjan Das, his wife Basanti Devi and Sarojini Naidu. A sentence above the picture reads: “Basanti Devi thekey Mamata Bandyopadhyay (From Basantidevi to Mamata Banerjee).” Ajanta’s first article, titled “Bangorajneetitey Naarishakti (Woman power in Bengal politics)”, is not on Mamata but primarily deals with women patriots such as Basanti Devi and Sarojini Naidu. Sources said the chief minister’s role would be discussed in the next issue. Kunal Ghosh, a Trinamul general secretary who oversees the operations of the daily, said Ajanta had shared the article with him a few days ago. Ghosh found the article interesting and published it with Ajanta’s nod. “One shouldn’t find politics in this. The piece is rich in historical facts and analysis, which is why it has been published. It is true Ajanta’s father was an able politician, but she herself is a competent academic as well.” Ajanta is a CPM cardholder. Such members usually need permission to write for any publication outside the party fora. CPM sources said they were not aware of Ajanta seeking such permission. This newspaper could not contact Ajanta for corroboration in spite of making several phone calls and sending text messages. CPM state committee member and former legislator Sujan Chakraborty said he had heard about the article but was not aware of the content. “We will have to see it first. Can’t comment on this right now,” Chakraborty added. Another CPM state committee member said: “It is shocking for us. How can someone who is a member of our party write for a publication run by our political rival? She knew where her article was going to be published and I see a political motive behind this.” Ajanta is a member of the Left-backed West Bengal College and Teachers’ Association. She had been an active member of the Student’s Federation of India, the CPM’s students’ wing, at the erstwhile Presidency College.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Raju Bista seeks 'permanent political solution' for the Darjeeling hills in Lok Sabha||Darjeeling MP Raju Bista on Wednesday told Parliament that the BJP was committed to finding a “permanent political solution” for the Darjeeling hills keeping in mind the recurring demand for Gorkhaland from the region. He said although the region comprising the hills, Terai and the Dooars was among the highest revenue generating regions, they all remained grossly underdeveloped. “For generations, people from here have been discriminated against and deprived by the West Bengal government,” said Bista. The MP said because of deprivation, discrimination and lack of democracy, the demand for Gorkhaland was often raised in the region. “However, Gorkhaland state is not just a demand for development but it is also related to the identity crisis faced by 1.5 crore Gorkhas across India,” said Bista. Bista said “recognising” the recurring demand of the statehood, the BJP was committed to “finding a permanent political solution” for the region. “I request the central government to expedite the process for a permanent political solution,” said Bista. Before requesting the Centre to expedite the process of finding a “permanent political solution”, Bista alleged that there was a lack of grassroots democracy in the region and especially the Darjeeling hills as bureaucrats and people associated with the Trinamul Congress were running local bodies. “No panchayat elections have been held since 2001 (in Darjeeling) and since 2017, the GTA is being run by selected nominee without holding polls,” said Bista.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
29-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid-19: Third wave fear prompts push for more tests in Bengal||The Bengal health department has directed all district administrations to increase the number of Covid-19 tests because of the possibility of a third wave of the pandemic and cases of Delta and UK variants being reported in the state. Apart from testing, health officials have been asked to increase vaccination mainly with a target to finish the second doses pending in the state. “It has been found that the number of Covid tests have decreased in districts after the slump in cases during the second wave of the pandemic. Every district and testing centres have a specific target to test persons for Covid but many districts are meeting only half of it,” said a senior health official. After two north Bengal districts — Darjeeling and Kalimpong — reported cases of Delta and UK variants of Covid-19, East Midnapore also logged a case of Delta variant on Wednesday. Sources said the East Midnapore district health department had sent 27 samples of Covid-19 cases for genome sequencing earlier this month to Kalyani’s National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, in which a Delta variant was confirmed. However, the UK variant of the novel coronavirus has not been reported in south Bengal. Worried over the cases of Delta variant emerging in Bengal, the state government has directed districts to take necessary measures immediately to control it. The East Midnapore district administration has called a meeting of 223 gram panchayat chiefs immediately after the district reported the Delta variant. “Delta spreads fast and the World Health Organisation (WHO) has declared it as a variant of concern (VOC),” said a health official. Bibhas Roy, the East Midnapore chief medical officer of health, said he had directed increased tests after the variant was found in the district. “We are very serious after a sample was found positive with the Delta variant. We have asked officials to increase the number of tests,” said Roy. Health officials in several districts said though the state government had asked them to increase tests, there was shortage of testing kits across Bengal. “Drive to vaccinate tourists coming to tourist spots like Digha was taken and it was decided that random tests for Covid would be carried out. But practically, it has not been possible because of the lack of kits,” said health official in Nandigram health district. The situation at other tourist destinations in the state is no different.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-155
29-07-2021||North East||Assam issues travel advisory asking people to not travel to Mizoram||Assam government has issued a travel advisory on Thursday to ensure the safety and security of the people of Assam, Assam Tribune reported. The development comes days after six policemen and a civilian were killed, and 50 others injured in an attack allegedly by Mizoram Police personnel and civilians from across the Assam-Mizoram border. The said advisory issued by the Department of Home and Political Affairs, stated that even after the incident, certain Mizo society, students and youth organisations are constantly issuing provocative statements against the state of Assam and its people. Given the critical prevailing situation, people of Assam are advised not to travel to Mizoram as any threat to personnel safety of people of Assam cannot be accepted. It also mentioned that people of Assam staying in Mizoram due to work-related compulsion should exercise utmost caution. An Assam-based organisation, the Bir Lachit Sena, on Thursday said it will enforce an indefinite economic blockade against Mizoram from Saturday, disallowing entry of people from the neighbouring state. The outfit said the blockade will be imposed at Jorabat on the outskirts of Guwahati, and vehicles carrying even essential commodities will not be allowed to pass from Mizoram. Members of the organisation also staged a demonstration in front of the Mizoram House here and demanded its closure.  No one from Mizoram should be allowed to come to Assam. At the same time, we urge the state government to provide protection to people of Assam in Mizoram and, if required, bring them back, a Bir Lachit Sena member said.  Similar economic blockades against the bordering state have been enforced by different organisations in Cachar and neighbouring districts since the day of the violence on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
29-07-2021||North East||Assam-Mizoram border clash: Murder FIR on Mizoram police||Assam police on Wednesday registered a case against “Mizoram police and some persons” over the killing of six Assam cops in the inter-state border clash on July 26, hardening their stand amid efforts by the Union home ministry to ease the tensions. Assam special director-general of police G.P. Singh said the FIR was filed under various sections of the IPC, including Sections 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder). Singh said Assam police had also prepared a picture gallery of the Mizoram cops and civilians who had opened fire. On Wednesday, the chief secretaries and DGPs of Assam and Mizoram attended a meeting chaired by Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla in New Delhi. It was decided that central armed police forces would be deployed on the inter-state border. The two states will work out an arrangement in coordination with the Union home ministry within a reasonable timeframe to facilitate the functioning of the neutral force, a statement signed by Assam chief secretary Jishnu Barua, his Mizoram counterpart Lalnunmawia Chuaungo and Union home ministry additional secretary (Northeast) Piyush Goyal said. Mizo Students’ Union president J. Lalmuanzuala on Wednesday wrote an open letter to Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, accusing him of having “initiated violence against civilians in Mizoram knowing fully well that your actions can hamper the cordial relationship we have with the Indian Union for your selfish motives to take away the land that our ancestors had fought for through blood and sweat. This has led to the unfortunate loss of seven precious lives.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-16
29-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Watch them||Migrant workers have become symbols of all that is not well with the Indian economy and society. Covid-19 brought their precarious living conditions to light. They have low wages, live in spaces far away from home, and have no job security and little access to government welfare schemes or healthcare facilities; even their identities as citizens are not always documented properly. The Centre had been stalling addressing this problem for a long time. Now, pushed by the Supreme Court, the nation has been promised a comprehensive database of migrant workers in the coming months. The data will enable the set of entitled benefits to flow to the targeted beneficiaries. The database could serve as the beginning of a more comprehensive social safety net for millions of migrant workers. It could also serve as data with which to target specific sets of workers who, presumably, have dubious identities or are involved in criminal activities. For instance, the Tamil Nadu government has recently decided to create a state-level database of migrants who come from other states. This, according to the state government, will help weed out illegal immigrants who allegedly are not Indian nationals or are criminals. It seems that the objective of data collation is not to enable a deprived constituency but, rather, intimidate it. Indeed, given the climate of social exclusion in India, there is no guarantee that the national database, once created, will not be abused too. This is not to suggest that illegal immigration or crime is to be condoned. However, there are other ways and means available to governments to tackle these issues. Therefore, creating a database of migrants cannot be a justifiable objective. There is another complex issue at stake here. It pertains to the treatment of workers as migrants. They are citizens of India — certainly the overwhelming majority of them — who legitimately travel from their homes to other states to seek employment. The set of people referred to — derisively? — as migrants are poor, vulnerable citizens who ought to be able to access welfare benefits and be provided with security in accordance with labour laws and unemployment support. Much would depend though on how technology is used to give them legitimacy in the era of digital surveillance.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
29-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Simone Biles withdraws from Tokyo Olympics, B.S. Yediyurappa resigns||Mind over matter Sir — The decision of the American gymnast, Simone Biles, to withdraw from the Tokyo Olympics during the artistic gymnastics team final took the world by surprise. Although it was initially reported that she had quit because of an injury, it was later clarified that Biles pulled out because of mental health concerns. The precedent for such an important move was recently set by the tennis star, Naomi Osaka, who withdrew from the French Open to prioritize her mental health. It takes incredible courage, especially for female athletes, to voluntarily withdraw from or sit out big competitions on grounds of mental health, primarily because of the criticism they inevitably receive, as Osaka did. They are, however, setting an important example for other sportspersons to follow. Rashika Gupta,Calcutta End of an era Sir — After prolonged suspense, B.S. Yediyurappa resigned from his post as the chief minister of Karnataka during a function celebrating the second anniversary of his government (“Southern spice”, July 28). The change in leadership did not come as a surprise; it was preceded by months of speculation. However, the claim that Yediyurappa stepped down voluntarily on health grounds is not true. To anyone paying attention to his outgoing speech, it was obvious that Yediyurappa was reluctant to step away from his position. Although Yediyurappa thanked Narendra Modi and Amit Shah, he also mentioned that he was not allowed to form the cabinet for a month and a half after the elections in spite of Karnataka being devastated by floods and rain. This hints at his glacial relations with the central leadership. The septuagenarian has sent out a clear message to his political detractors and the party high command that he is not among those who will join the margdarshak mandal, considered a ‘retirement home’ for party leaders who have crossed the age of 75. He has also made it clear that he will remain active in state politics and will not accept any assignment outside Karnataka. It is not yet known what the political calculations might have been for the ouster of the Lingayat strongman who is single-handedly responsible for building the presence of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the southern state. It remains to be seen how the BJP attempts to placate the Lingayat community which is miffed over the removal of its tallest leader. The claim that the BJP is ‘a party with a difference’ has been proved false by such an unceremonious change of guard. The saffron party is clearly blighted by factionalism, tussles for power and the practice of cutting regional leaders to size. In the light of all this, will the BJP be able to win the 2023 assembly elections and retain power in the state? G. David Milton,Maruthancode, Tamil Nadu Sir — The resignation of B.S. Yediyurappa has shifted the political dynamics in Karnataka. Basavaraj Bommai has now taken oath as the 23rd chief minister of the state. With the assembly elections just two years away, it would be important for the new chief minister to show that he is committed to honest and transparent leadership, unlike Yediyurappa, whose tenures were plagued by accusations of corruption. Although it is more than clear that the BJP is trying to pacify the Lingayat community with Bommai, Yediyurappa continues to be their most prominent leader, with the community’s seers rallying behind him. There is no doubt that the BJP in Karnataka will witness an intense power struggle in the coming months. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Strong regional leaders have always worried the central command of major political parties in India. The emergence of regional leaders in the Congress after the demise of Indira Gandhi had caused much consternation among the party high command. Now it seems that the same worry might be plaguing BJP leaders. Since coming to power in 2014, the BJP has attempted to concentrate power in just a few hands. However, certain leaders, like B.S. Yediyurappa in Karnataka, had always commanded respect among the common people. It is clear that Yediyurappa had become too powerful; the BJP wanted to take him down a peg or two. While Yogi Adityanath is similarly powerful in Uttar Pradesh, he is far more committed to the Hindutva doctrine, thus endearing him to the high command. The removal of Yediyurappa from a position of power does not bode well for the BJP. As the most popular party leader in Karnataka, he has the potential to determine the results of the next assembly polls. R. Narayanan, Navi Mumbai Sir — The saffron party has often publicly accused the Congress leadership of being subservient to the whims of the Gandhis. But is the BJP under Narendra Modi and Amit Shah any different? B.S. Yediyurappa may have said that the decision to step down as chief minister was voluntary, but this is far from the truth. His speech was indicative of his less-than-friendly relations with the BJP high command. The current situation in Karnataka is quite volatile. The Lingayat community will be sure to make its displeasure known in the next elections. Ravichandran Iyer,Chennai||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
29-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Fault lines||Restive borders are usually associated with international boundaries. That may not be the case always. The shocking violence — it spilled blood — that erupted when security personnel of Assam and Mizoram clashed on the inter-state border is a reminder of the urgent need to address fault lines pertaining to contestations over domestic territory. Incidentally, these clashes are not unprecedented. Northeastern states — Assam and Nagaland, Nagaland and Manipur, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh — have witnessed periodic conflagrations over strips of land. The history of most of these disagreements can be traced back to the colonial era when commercial and political interests of the raj influenced cartographic interventions. It is a pity that neither the exercise of state reorganization, in which language was prioritized over all other imperatives, nor successive elected dispensations have succeeded in dousing these simmering fires. It would be naïve to assume that it is only the Northeast that is vulnerable to this phenomenon. The Union home ministry has identified cases of ‘boundary wars’ involving Maharashtra and Karnataka, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh and so on. The prize for these battles need not be land. Riverine boundaries and the sharing of water have also sparked contests: Tamil Nadu and Karnataka have an uneasy relationship over the claims on the Cauvery. A resolution of these festering crises requires patient, consultative engagements. It is unfortunate that the chief ministers of Assam and Mizoram, Himanta Biswa Sarma and Zoramthanga, respectively, chose to up the ante instead. Mr Sarma’s attribution of the bloodshed to ‘non-State’ actors in Mizoram is unfortunate and is unlikely to soothe frayed nerves. The fracas is a source of embarrassment for the National Democratic Alliance government in Delhi. It took place a couple of days after the home minister’s meeting with representatives of the region to — the irony is glaring — find a solution to conflicting territorial claims. That the Mizo National Front is also a partner in the Bharatiya Janata Party-led North East Democratic Alliance does not speak much about the NEDA’s credibility as a platform of dialogue. The Constitution provides instruments to address such problems. They must be complemented by judicial wisdom and, most importantly, public representation if a dispute resolution engagement is to succeed. The domestic flames must be put out at a time when India’s international border with a giant neighbour — China — remains piping hot.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
29-07-2021||Opinion||Do not extinguish the light||Noor, a name that literally means light. Noor, a young woman full of light. Noor, a kind soul who was taken away by a murder so gruesome that it has shaken Pakistan. Noor, whose parents are going through the worst trauma, the kind that no parent should ever have to go through. Noor, a woman who was tortured before her brutal murder. Noor, your death has left us in darkness. It has shown us that there is no light at the end of the tunnel. Noor, your murder has made all of us women cry in horror. It has made us scream in agony. Noor, we have failed you and your parents. We cannot apologize enough. We cannot, we just cannot express in words what we are feeling. Noor Mukadam was beheaded by Zahir Zakir Jaffer in Islamabad last week during the Eid holidays. According to the journalist, Salman Masood, Noor’s killer “is a man she knew for more than a decade”. Zahir, the son of an influential businessman, held Noor captive for almost a couple of days at his house before murdering her. Noor’s father has demanded justice for his 27-year-old daughter. A couple of weeks before Noor’s murder, a harrowing video went viral on social media in which a man, Usman Mirza, was seen beating up and harassing a young couple and stripping them naked in front of several male accomplices at a private property in Islamabad. He also subjected them to sexual assault. Mirza was arrested along with his accomplices. He has a history of harassing and blackmailing women. When the video went viral, we wondered if anything could be worse than this. But we heard many other stories that were even more traumatizing. A 30-year-old woman, Naseem Bibi, was raped in front of her 14-month-old son just a few days ago. Both were stabbed by the rapist and murderer. Both mother and child succumbed to their injuries. Earlier this month, a woman was shot dead by her husband in front of their children; they were also injured. This month, a mother of four was tortured and killed by her husband in Hyderabad. Her name was Quratulain. And then there was Noor; her death has shattered us all. But this vicious cycle never ends. Every day we see a new hashtag on social media demanding justice for a child and/or a woman. An editorial in The News rightly calls violence against women an epidemic. It is an epidemic that seems to have no end in sight. In 2016, a young law student, Khadija Siddiqi, was stabbed 23 times by Shah Hussain, who was later convicted. But Hussain has been granted an early release from jail. Khadija says the Punjab government has granted him an extraordinary remission of 1.5 years. “State to be blamed,” tweeted Khadija. Such is the sorry state of affairs in a country where violence against women is on the rise. It seems that nobody cares about the safety and security of women, be it the State or society. Fingers are pointed at women in most, if not all, cases. What was she wearing? Why did she go there? Why didn’t she speak up? Why didn’t she tell anyone? Why... why... why? Questions, only for women, only for the victims and survivors, only for their families. No questions for the perpetrators of these heinous crimes. No questions for the rapists, the murderers, the harassers, the attackers. Questions are reserved for the vulnerable, always. When women speak up, hardly anyone believes them. When women tell their stories, they face an ugly backlash and pushback from society. Being a woman in a patriarchal society is exhausting. Sometimes we get angry, but mostly, we are just tired of being angry. We have had enough of rape apologies, we have had enough of being questioned for our every move, we have had enough of toxic masculinity, we have had enough of being told how to sit, how to talk, how to dress, when to go out — we have had enough. Period. Women are not safe in their own homes, on the roads, in their friends’ homes, at workplaces. Women are just not safe anywhere. And most importantly, women are on their own. Will we ever feel safe? At the moment, there is not much hope. But maybe, just maybe, one day we will be able to live our lives without any fear. For now, we have to keep raising our voices for all the Noors, Saimas, Quratulains, Naseems and countless others. We hope that they all find justice, for themselves and for us. Mehmal Sarfraz is a journalist based in Lahore; mehmal.s@gmail.com||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
29-07-2021||Opinion||Other voices||As both rage and outrage continue to build over the Pegasus surveillance scandal; as connections are made between the unauthorized hacking of phones and the insertion of malware into the laptops of those accused and arrested in the Bhima Koregaon case; as the death of Father Stan Swamy raises vital questions about the intent and (mis)use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act; as the studied indifference of the Central government towards the ongoing farmers’ protest (now in its 10th month) becomes a matter of scandal and shame for any right-thinking individual who professes faith in democracy — in short, as the fates of those who refuse to toe the line so sedulously being propagated by our rulers become a matter of daily headlines, one thing becomes increasingly clear: our present government at the Centre is perhaps the most intolerant of any we have seen when it comes to dealing with any form of dissent. Such intolerance appears in many avatars, ranging from mockery and boorish abuse to incarceration and what is now being labelled ‘soft torture’. As the sangh parivar single-mindedly pursues its agenda of Hindu-Hindi-Hindustan, one can see a clear articulation, in the discourse of culture and society, no less than in the discourse of politics, of a straightforward division of the bewilderingly complex reality of India into the neat binary of ‘Us’ versus ‘Them’, or, if one prefers, ‘Self’ versus ‘Other’. This simple, some might say simplistic, dichotomy enables the ruling dispensation to club together activists, academics, journalists, members of Opposition political parties and a host of others who may  hold very diverse views on a range of issues, into a near-monolithic category of anti-national, unpatriotic trouble-makers who are hell-bent on derailing the triumphant march of India that is Bharat to the status of a global superpower, a vishwaguru (world-teacher/leader) that lesser nations would do well to emulate. At just such a juncture, it may be instructive to look at Indian history through the prism of dissent; to examine how those who have rejected officially-sanctioned manners and mores have shaped and made us who and what we are today. In the Prologue — titled “Is Dissent Necessary?” — to her recent monograph, Voices of Dissent: An Essay, Romila Thapar reminds us that “[t]here should always be, invariably, in every modern society, the right of the citizen to dissent as part of the right to free speech... However much we may wish otherwise, Indian society — as indeed every other society — has not been a seamless harmonious entity, with little or no contradictions... Dissenting voices have been many, and have had a much wider articulation in the past than we are willing to concede.” The makers of independent India clearly recognized this, and made the right to dissent, in the words of a distinguished former Supreme Court judge, “the biggest right and... the most important right granted by the Constitution.” The Preamble to our Constitution grants to all Indian citizens “LIBERTY of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship.” The “Right to Freedom”, under the section on Fundamental Rights, grants all citizens the right “to freedom of speech and expression; to assemble peaceably and without arms; to form associations or unions or co-operative societies”, among others. Taken together, these rights allow, one might even say encourage, the expression of dissent, not at the level of the individual, but through collective, organized means. Of course, dissenters, no matter how influential they may later turn out to be, are seldom welcomed by the powers that be. Here is Thapar again: “Those in authority generally see themselves as the established Self, and they are the ones who set up the dichotomous identity of the Self vis-à-vis the Other. Generally, it is the one who questions the Self that is described as the Other. This binary determines Otherness, helps crystallize status and power, and distances those without either.” Despite such opposition, dissent has been around since at least Vedic times, with the figure of the “the Dasi-putra Brahmana, the Brahmana Who Is the Son of a Dasi” appearing two millennia before the birth of Christ (another influential dissenter, albeit from another culture). In later years, dissenting beliefs/opinions became crystallized, and given names and designations such as Buddhism, Jainism, Bhakti, Sufi, or, nearer our times, what Thapar calls “Samajist Hinduism” (think of the Arya Samaj or the Brahmo Samaj). Our freedom movement was predicated on dissent, with its leaders willing to serve jail terms as the price for dissenting with prevailing laws and practices. But that was at a time when we were under foreign domination, and any opposition to colonial rule can quite rightly be seen as a species of dissent. What of dissent in a free and, at least notionally, democratic society? Dissent is not the same thing as disagreement, or a difference of opinion. In his Foreword to T.M. Krishna’s recently-published The Spirit of Enquiry: Notes of Dissent, Pratap Bhanu Mehta makes the pertinent, but oft-neglected, point that “[t]he antonym of dissent is not agreement, it is consent.” He goes on to add, in the context of Krishna’s “notes of dissent”, that genuine dissent must exhibit two qualities — it must be undertaken “in the name of a ‘higher rule’” and should not be motivated by “a grammar of anarchy or the hubris of individualism, or rebelliousness for its own sake”; and, second, it must be “motivated by a consistent political and social outlook”. When the dissenter withholds consent, she/he does so not for her/his own sake, but for something beyond mere individual gain. The civil rights movement in the United States of America or the anti-apartheid movement in South Africa displayed such traits, and it is no coincidence that the leaders of both looked to Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi — perhaps the most influential dissenter of the last century — as their inspiration. Dissent necessarily needs an ethics, even if it is one that evolves in the course of a (dissenting) movement, and it also needs to point towards alternatives to the position, or positions, to which it does not give consent. This is what makes dissent so threatening to established authority. In course of time, dissenters may even be co-opted into the pantheon of the establishment (think of how the Buddha was made into an avatar of Vishnu). In our own times, dissent is either bought off or sought to be minimized and dismissed as mere difference of opinion. When neither of these tactics is successful, you simply lock up the dissenter and throw away the key. But in doing so, you miss out on the opportunity of engaging in dialogue, which is perhaps the only way in which a true, working democracy can sustain and renew itself. Samantak Das is professor of Comparative Literature, Jadavpur University, and has been working as a volunteer for a rural development NGO for the last 30 years||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-60
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel launches country’s first residential sport climbing academy||Tata Steel inaugurated India’s first residential sport climbing academy, Tata Steel Adventure Foundation Sport Climbing Academy, on the occasion of Bharat Ratna JRD Tata`s 117th birth anniversary on Thursday. The academy aims at helping athletes achieve their dreams, by providing them professional training and support and make the country proud by helping them reach the highest international milestone, the Olympic podium in sport climbing. Chanakya Chaudhary, vice-president (Corporate Services), Tata Steel inaugurated the facility amidst select guests. The academy is housed inside JRD Tata Sports Complex. Sport climbing is an extension of rock climbing and is a popular sport across all the continents of the world. It made its debut in the Tokyo 2021 Olympics for the first time. Although there are no Indian athletes in the ongoing games, TSAF hopes to have athletes from its academy in Olympics 2024/2028. Athletes will get access to professional training support, accommodation, education, food, counselling, travel for international training, gear and infrastructure and everything else that is required for them to bring out their best performance and compete against the best in the world. The vision is to make it the best training facility and ecosystem in the world. Tata Steel has already set up academies for football, archery and hockey in Jamshedpur. Ten cadets (all from TSAF) have been inducted into the cradle as the first batch. They include Aman Verma, Anisha Verma, Talim Ansari, Suraj Singh Thakur, Jonga Purty, Sachin Saroj, Abhishek Rawat, Ronit Banra, Kiran Singh Thakur and Vridula Abhale. All are from Jamshedpur and surrounding areas. All these 10 cadets are already honing their skills at a training centre run by the elite adventure outfit. Tata Group has always been a pioneer when it comes to encouraging and promoting sports in India. The first climbing wall in India was established in New Delhi with the support of JRD Tata. "Our focus would be on sub-junior and junior age groups. The induction would be done on the basis of sport climbers in nationals events. We'll also judge the potential by going to competitons for talent hunting," said Hemant Gupta, head of TSAF. He added the cadets would be given accommodation at thr sports hostel inside JRD Tata Sports omplex. The cadets would pass out every 3-4 years depending upon their performance. According to him, they have spotted some talents during the national qualifying trials for selecting the national squad for the World Youth Championship scheduled in Voronezh, Russia next month. The trial concluded in Jamshedpur on Wednesday. TSAF has installed 5 modular climbing walls at rural schools around Jamshedpur to increase the reach and awareness of the sport. TSAF started developing sport climbing in 2015. The efforts resulted in East zone winning the national trophy in 2019. It was the first time in the history of 25 years where TSAF cadets scored 91% of the winning points. Cadets from TSAF training center are amongst the best performing athletes in India. Anisha Verma is the current national record holder in speed climbing in the female category. Her brother Aman Verma is the first climber from India to reach the semi-final stage at World Youth Championship, a couple of years back. TSAF cadets have won 20 medals at national level and more than 50 medals at zonal and state level. Angling Club remembers JRD Tata Jamshedpur Angling Club garlanded the picture of JRD Tata at a simple function near the Beldih Lake. Cross country for special athletes Special Olympics Jharkhand paid tribute to JRD Tata by hosting a cross country for intellectually impaired at JRD Tata Sports Complex. Around 40 special athletes participated in the event.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad judge's death: BJP demands CBI probe, attacks Hemant government for lawlessness in state||The Opposition BJP on Thursday demanded a CBI probe into the alleged murder of Dhanbad judicial officer Uttam Anand, who was hit by a speeding auto rickshaw when he was on his morning walk near Randhir Verma chowk on Wednesday. The incident caused a massive uproar among the legal fraternity prompting the Jharkhand high court to take cognizance over the prevailing law and order situation in the state. The divisional bench of the high court of chief justice Ravi Ranjan and Sujit Narayan Prasad while hearing a case in this regard on Thursday morning through an online mode rapped state police stating that the two back to back incident of attack on members of legal fraternity appears that the ‘fourth pillar of democracy’ is under attack. Notably, a Ranchi lawyer Manoj Jha was on July 26 murdered by unidentified criminals in Tamar. Attacking the Hemant Soren dispensation of failing to maintain law and order in the state, BJP president and Rajya Sabha MP Deepak Prakash said that the murder of the judge is testimony to the fact that no one is safe in this state anymore. He said, “We demand a CBI probe into this case. There is no law and order situation anymore in Jharkhand. Few months back, a female cop was killed in Sahebganj district, then an advocate got murdered and now a judicial officer. When such people are being killed, imagine the plight of common people.`` He claimed that in the 19 months since the JMM-Congress-RJD government came to power, the state has recorded 3000 murders. “The figures are unprecedented. This is an indication that jungle raj is returning back to this state,” he said. Meanwhile, state police has constituted a Special Investigating Team (SIT) under the aegis of ADG (operations) Sanjay Anand Latekar. In Dhanbad, addressing media on Thursday evening, Dhanbad SSP Sanjiv Kumar said that they have recovered an auto which hit the deceased from Mangrudih in Giridih district last night and arrested the driver Lakhan Verma and Rahul Verma who was in the auto when the incident occurred.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad judge’s death: Auto seized; driver, accomplice arrested||Police have arrested an auto driver, his accomplice and seized the vehicle that was used to hit Dhanbad judicial officer Uttam Anand while he was on a morning walk on Wednesday, stepping up investigations into his death that has led to a nationwide outrage among the legal fraternity which believes he was murdered. The Supreme Court, which was informed of the circumstances of Anand’s death on Thursday morning and told that he was hearing a case concerning sharpshooters allegedly working at the behest of a UP ganglord, has taken cognizance. Chief Justice N.V. Ramana said the Jharkhand High Court would be monitoring the investigations and that he had also spoken to the Jharkhand Chief Justice. Later, Jharkhand High Court took suo motu cognisance of Anand’s death on Thursday and rapped the state government for poor law and order in the state. A bench of Chief Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice Sujit Narayan Prasad observed that even in states such as those of the northeast known for insurgencies, judicial officers and advocates were safe, but in Jharkhand the situation seemed different. “The incident was an attack on the justice system,” the bench said, and maintained that the murder of advocate Manoj Jha on July 26 in Ranchi and that of Anand were indicative that the fourth pillar of democracy was under attack as never before. Dhanbad police, that had set up a special investigation team headed by city SP R Ramkumar on Wednesday, revealed that the two were arrested in the wee hours of Thursday. "Based on all available evidence and CCTV footage, police launched a search operation for the auto-rickshaw and its driver. Finally, we were able to arrest the driver, Lakhan Verma of Sonarpatti, and another person, Rahul Verma of Jorapokhar," said Dhanbad SSP Kumar. Dhanbad police have, however, refused to divulge further details of their investigations. They have also indicated their unwillingness to comment on the motive of the killing given the sensitive nature of the case. Kumar said, “We are investigating the case from all angles. But as the case is sensitive we are not in a position to share any details with regard to our findings until the investigation is completed." He said Coal Belt DIG Mayur Patel had also inspected the site of the incident and had issued necessary instructions to a local forensics team that is also part of the investigations. Asked if the arrested duo had criminal antecedents, Kumar said they may have been involved in a theft earlier, but that police were still collecting details. "We are collecting details as a theft case seems to have been lodged in their names,” he said. Uttam Anand was additional district sessions judge (VIII) of Dhanbad. CCTV footage shows an autorickshaw speeding towards Anand while he was walking on the left side of the road and then hitting him. Anand’s family members had lodged an FIR on Wednesday, calling his death an act of murder. But Kumar has clarified that his family had not named any suspect.  "A case under section 302 IPC has been registered, but nobody has been named in the case,” he said. The auto rickshaw was recovered by police from Giridih district on Thursday and brought to Dhanbad police station where the forensics team conducted a thorough scan. The forensics team visited the site of the accident on Thursday  morning once again and collected more evidence. The auto, police said, bears a route sticker (Dhanbad to Patherdih) on the windscreen and has a heart hologram. Under the aegis of Bank More Chamber of Commerce, traders of Dhanbad district took out a candle light march on Thursday to demand an urgent investigation into the judicial officer’s death so that the culprits could be booked immediately. Members of the BJP youth wing burnt an effigy of chief minister Hemant Soren near the Dhanbad district headquarters, blaming him for the deteriorating law and order situation in the coal belt.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||CII holds virtual annual event on environmental sustainability ||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in association with Citizens Foundation on Thursday organised the fifth edition of its annual flagship event, Green Conclave on the theme "Greener and Better Tomorrow." The conclave was organised on a virtual platform. The fifth edition of the Green Conclave deliberated on some important environmental sustainability issues. The forum highlighted and tried to address some immediate gaps where policy intervention can help accelerate implementation of a circular economy, promote resource efficiency and help create a climate resilient Indian Industry. Addressing the conclave Praveen Jha, additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and director (Extension Forestry), South Chotanagpur, stated that in the recent past, extreme climate events such as drought, floods, extreme temperatures have been ruining lives. The direct impact on human life is tremendous and there have been almost five lakh human deaths across the world in the past 20 years. The additional death due to malnutrition, diarrhea, malaria and heat stress would be to the tune of 2,50,000, he said. "There is an urgent need to reduce air pollution and also provide safe drinking water , he said, adding that the Union urban development ministry in the National Clean Air Programme -2020 has stated that there must be a reduction in air pollution by 30 per cent by 2024. Addressing the conclave, Tapas Sahu, vice-chairman, CII Jharkhand State Council and managing director  of  Highco Engineers Pvt Ltd said that in the era of globalization, industries, irrespective of the sector, size or location, should reduce the environmental impacts of their processes and products, by using resources more efficiently, phasing out toxic substances, substituting fossil fuels with renewable energy sources, enhancing corporate responsibility and reducing risks to the environment, climate and people. He pointed out that cities today are facing multiple challenges, emerging from an ever increasing demand for services, crumbling infrastructure and climate change. "Access to safe water, fresh air and sanitation to all is one of the key challenges," he explained. Navin Prakash Srivastava, general manager, SAIL - Bokaro Steel Plant said,"  Our nature has the ability to clean itself, only there is a need to reduce human intervention. Health and environment, both are interconnected and we have to restore the ecosystem. As an industry, we have to be proactive and reduce our carbon footprints." Peeyush Mohit, chief operating officer, O2 Power Private Limited, Prashant Krishnan, head - Environment, Tata Motors Ltd, Siddheshwar Saha, DGM, Tata Cummins Pvt Ltd, Gaurav Anand, chief manager - Business Excellence, Tata Steel Utilities and Infrastructure Services Ltd and several other speakers addressed the conclave.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad judge was hearing case of UP gang leader arrested for murder ||District and session judge Uttam Anand, who died under suspicious circumatances after being knocked down by a speeding auto while he was on his morning walk on Wednesday, was hearing a case concerning UP gangsters, a fact cited by a lawyer to the Supreme Court on Thursday to appeal for a thorough investigation into what the legal fraternity has alleged was murder. Anand was hearing the January 29, 2017 case on the murder of Ranjay Singh, a close aide of former Dhanbad MLA Sanjeev Singh, who is languishing in jail as the main conspirator in the murder of Niraj Singh. Recently, Anand cancelled the bail application of UP- based shooters Abhinav Singh and Ravi Thakur, two members of a gang headed by Aman Singh, who is under arrest for firing the first bullet on Niraj Singh. Aman Singh, was shifted to Hotwar Jail of Ranchi from Dhanbad Divisional jail earlier this year, is also accused of running extortion rackets and attacking over 30 traders, real state players, politicians, private mine excavators and mining officials. Abhinav Singh is a sharp shooter belonging to the Aman Singh gang. He was arrested from Lucknow on February 10, 2021. During the course of his interrogation by Dhanbad police after he was brought here, he admitted his involvement in a number of attacks against businessman, private miners and politicians on the instruction of Aman Singh. Abhinav also claimed tha they had plans to kill Rajesh Gupta, a close aide of Baghmara MLA Dhullu Mahto. Police had also taken Aman Singh on remand for three days from February 10 to 12. Aman was questioned about Abhinav's claims, but he said he did not know Abhinav. Dhanbad police have arrested a number Aman Singh gang members on several occasions,  including Manjit Singh, a resident of Govindpur; Javed Akhtar, a resident of Gajuatand; Ravi Kumar Thakur, a resident of Tetulmari; Bablu Kumar Mishra, a resident of Putki; and Sheikh Mohammad a resident of Luby Circular Road. Bhola Sao, a resident of Chouthai Kulhi locality of Jharia and member of Aman Singh gang was also arrested by police on  May 31 from Ranchi in connection with the murder of  Ashraful Hasan, a property dealer of Wasseypur, who was killed near Jabbar Masjid on May 12 in connection with an exotrtion demand of Aman Singh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Judge's death: glare on Dhanbad corporation for dithering on CCTV coverage ||The death of district and sessions judge Uttam Anand while on his morning walk in Dhanbad on Wednesday has brought into sharp focus the local civic authorities' dithering over installing CCTV cameras across the district, an initiative that would have  helped police better probe the incident which has now been turned into a murder investigation. Anand's family has lodged a muder FIR with police after CCTV footage showed an autorickshaw intentionally hitting the judicial officer near Golf Ground less than 500 meter from his house at Judge Colony of Hirapur. The brief clip shows him collapsing to his left while the auto speeds away. “Had the CCTV camera been present at all the squares of the district, the movement of the autorickshaw before and after the incident could have been tracked leading to speedy investigation in the case. The  driver could have been easily identified,” said Surendra Arora, former president of Bank More Chamber of Commerce. In 2017, a total of 110 cameras were installed by Dhanbad Municipal Corporation during the tenure of former mayor Chandrashekhar Agarwal with the help of Jamshedpur based agency Maple PC and Peripherals Private Limited at a cost of Rs 3.28crore at 27 squares of district. These included Pan Tilt Zoom Cameras which can rotate to different angles,  besides bullet cameras and automatic number plate recognition cameras (ANPR).  Out of 27 locations where cameras were installed as per the survey of Dhanbad police, 16 were  entry and exit points of the district. The agency which installed the cameras was also entrusted with the task of maintenance for five years. On Novemebr 30, 2018, the DMC at its board meeting held under the chairmanship of Agarwal, passed a proposal for the installation of 100 more cameras at 33 new locations of the district. Some of these plavced were were beyond the entry points of the town for which an estimate was to be prepared. But, neither the estimate nor the the cameras were installed. Talking to The Telegraph Online on Thursday, Hemant Kumar, manager (Technical Marketing) of Maple PC and Peripherals Private Limited said, “Though we are maintaining the existing cameras in Dhanbad at 27 sites as per the five-year agreement with DMC, we are also facing some pending payment issues.” Jay Mahto, assistant engineer (Electrical) of DMC, said, “No tender has so far been issued for the installation of more cameras at new sites as the estimate have not been prepared.” He however refused to elaborate on the issue. After the accident, a passerby, Pawan Pandey who witnessed judicial officer Anand  lying in a pool of blood, rushed him to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital where he died during the course of treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand chief justice looking into 'killing' of Dhanbad judge, says SC||The Supreme Court Thursday said the Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court has already taken up the matter related to the alleged killing of a judicial officer of Dhanbad and concerned officers in the case have been asked to be present before it. A bench of Chief Justice N V Ramana and Justice Surya Kant said this after senior advocate Vikas Singh, who is also the president of Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA), mentioned the matter and said this is a brazen attack on the independence of judiciary. Singh said an investigation in the case must be entrusted to the CBI as the killing of a judicial officer, apparently for not granting bail to a gangster is an assault on the judicial system. "We are aware of the incident and we appreciate the efforts of SCBA. I have spoken to the Chief Justice of the Jharkhand High Court. He has taken up the case and has asked the officers to be present there. The matter is going on there. Leave it there," the CJI told Singh. Interference by the apex court in the matter at this stage may not be necessary as the high court has already taken it up on the judicial side, the bench said. Singh, while saying that video of the incident was also shot, told the bench that if "somebody is killed for not granting bail to a gangster, then there will be no judiciary in the country". He was referring to the fact that Uttam Anand was hearing the murder case of Ranjay Singh, close aide of Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh, and had recently rejected the bail petitions of two members of Aman Singh’s gang, a notorious criminal of Uttar Pradesh. On Wednesday morning, a judicial officer was killed in Jharkhand's Dhanbad district after being hit by a vehicle, police had said. District and Sessions Judge-8 of Dhanbad court, Uttam Anand, was out on morning walk when the incident happened at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district court in the Sadar police station area, a senior police officer had said. Around 5 am, a vehicle hit him from the rear and fled, Senior Superintendent of Police Sanjiv Kumar had said. The judge was found to be lying in a pool of blood by an auto-rickshaw driver, who took him to the Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College and Hospital where he succumbed to the injuries, the officer had said. Prior to mentioning the matter before the CJI-led bench, Singh mentioned it before a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud. Singh termed the incident shocking and said the apex court should take cognisance of the matter. Justice Chandrachud told Singh to mention the matter before the CJI. When Singh said mentioning may not be allowed before the CJI, Justice Chandrachud assured him that he would use his "good office" to bring the matter to the notice of the CJI. After mentioning the matter before the CJI, Singh appeared before Justice Chandrachud-led bench to argue another case which was listed for hearing. Justice M R Shah, who was part of the bench headed by Justice Chandrachud, asked Singh why was the video of the incident was shot as it could be used as evidence. Singh said persons involved in this wanted to terrorize people by shooting the video. This is tyranny. This was brazen and they wanted to terrorize people. The video is not shot from any CCTV cameras but from a video camera as people can be heard talking and it was even zoomed in several times, he said. When Justice Shah said what could be the reason behind the incident, Singh said the judicial officer had passed unpleasant bail order against some gangster. "Anyway, I have mentioned this before the CJI, who said that he has talked to the Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court. The chief justice of high court is taking up the matter on the judicial side," Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Police launch murder probe into Dhanbad judge's death||CCTV footage showing an autorickshaw intentionally hitting Justice Uttam Anand, additional district and Session Judge of Dhanbad, from behind on a deserted road has raised doubts over his death on Wednesday morning while he was on his regular morning walk. His family has now registered a complaint of murder with the police. The incident took place near Golf Ground less than 500 meter from his house at Judge Colony of Hirapur, when he was out for his daily morning walk during which, an unidentified four-wheeler hit him. A passerby Pawan Pandey who witnessed the judge lying in a pool of blood rushed him to Sahid Nirmal Mahto Memorial Medical College and Hospital where he died during the course of treatment. The body remained unidentified in the hospital for some time and a few people suspected the body to be of a policeman after which office bearers of the Police Men’s Association also reached at the SNMMCH but could not identify as any of its members. Family members of the deceased Judge meanwhile raised an alarm at around 7 am when he didn’t return home and informed the police. Police later launched a search for the judge and as per the information provided by police family members and staff deputed at the house of Anand reached SNMMCH where his bodyguard identified his dead body. A high-level team of police led by city SP, R Ramkumar who also reached the site of the incident and collected some evidence from the site, and photography and videography of the incident site was also carried out as part of the investigation into the death. Bansidhar Tiwari, District and Session judge of Sahebganj, had on Wednesday demanded Jharkhand High Court conduct a high-level probe into the incident as the CCTV footage clearly indicated some foul play behind his death. The murder case of Ranjay Singh, close aide of Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh was pending in his court and Justice Anand had recently rejected the bail petitions of two members of Aman Singh’s gang, a notorious criminal of Uttar Pradesh. Hemant Sikarwal, member of Jharkhand Bar Council, termed the incident as intentional murder of a seating judge and demanded a CBI probe into the incident. Health and Family Welfare Minister Banna Gupta on Wednesday also sought a report in connection with the death of Justice Uttam Anand from Dhanbad Deputy Commissioner Sadeep Kumar and Senior Superintendent of Police, Sanjeev Kumar. Senior civil lawyer of Dhanbad Swapan Mukherjee in his message on social media said,“Shocked and deeply pained to learn about the tragic and premature death of Sri Uttam Anand, District Judge of Dhanbad. I, on behalf of Bar Association Dhanbad condole his death.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Vaccination slows down again, only 60,000 get jabs in Jharkhand||The immunisation campaign against Covid-19 witnessed a drop in momentum on Wednesday in Jharkhand as the state managed to inoculate about 60,000-odd residents after achieving daily vaccination numbers of over 1 lakh earlier this week. As per provisional data released by the National Health Mission (NHM), at least 48,746 Jharkhand residents were administered the first dose of vaccine on Wednesday, while 12,271 beneficiaries got their second jab. As many as 39,309 residents in the age bracket of 18 to 44 years received their first jab, while 2,716 residents from the same age group got their second dose, a report from the NHM stated. On Wednesday, the state also received the schedule of vaccine supply from the Centre in the month of August. According to the schedule, Jharkhand will receive 2,74,480 Covishield doses on August 7 and 78,930 Covaxin doses on August 8. On August 11, August 14 and August 15, the state will receive 2,64,200, 2,74,480 and 2,64,200 doses of Covishield respectively. In the second half of the month, at least 90,210 Covaxin doses will be delivered to Jharkhand on August 18, followed by 2,74,480 Covishield doses on August 19. According to the schedule, the state will receive 87,390 Covaxin doses on August 22 and 3,30,250 Covishield doses on August 25. At least 4,62,360 Covishield doses will reach the state on August 26, while 81,750 Covaxin doses will be delivered by the Centre on August 27. Jharkhand reported another Covid death on Wednesday, which took the toll in the state to 5,126, a separate bulletin from NHM highlighted. The new casualty occurred in East Singhbhum, which has reported 1,042 Covid fatalities so far. The active caseload of Covid-19, however, dropped to 237 as at least 36 patients recovered, while 27 people were found infected in the state. As per NHM data, Bokaro reported the highest spike of six cases, and the active caseload there also rose to 21 as only five patients recovered from the infection. At least 10 districts – West Singhbhum, Simdega, Saraikela, Palamau, Pakur, Jamtara, Gumla, Garhwa, Dumka and Chatra – did not report fresh Covid cases on Wednesday. At least seven recoveries against four cases brought the active caseload in Ranchi down to 41, while two recoveries against one case brought the active caseload in East Singhbhum down to 13. The state on Wednesday tested swab samples of 58,148 residents and 0.04 per cent of them were found infected by SARS-CoV-2. Over 3.47 lakh people have been infected by the deadly virus in Jharkhand so far and 98.45 per cent of the patients recovered, while 1.47 per cent died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro Railway Station gets first child helpline||Adra Railway Division’s railway manager Navin Kumar inaugurated the first Child Help Desk at Platform Number-1 of Bokaro Railway Station on Wednesday. Bokaro railway station is one of the most lucrative stations of the South Eastern Railway and has a high footfall of passengers. Jharkhand is witnessing a rise in child trafficking cases, the child help desk will help in curbing it. The DRM informed that there were 95 minors rescued at Bokaro Railway Station by Railway Protection Force (RPF) in the past three years. The trafficking figures and runaway has increased during the Covid pandemic as locals here are lured for job opportunities outside the state. This leads to their exploitation. Bokaro is the only railway station of Adra Railway Division that falls in Jharkhand. Divisional Railway Manager, Navin Kumar along with Divisional Security Commissioner, RPF, Migom Doley inaugurated the Child Help Desk in presence of other officers of railway and RPF. The members of Childline also participate in the function. Child Help Desk is being set up by railway but will be run by Childline, an NGO working for child labour, child trafficking, child abuse, homeless child, etc. The railways has installed the kiosk near RPF Booth. The staff of Childline will remain available round-the-clock. “Child Help desks are being set up at railway stations to rescue children found wandering alone in trains or at stations. It aims at eradicating the exploitation of children and giving them protection and legal assistance,” said the DRM. Childline will extend protection and legal aid to children arriving by train besides helping find missing children. “The child help desk is set for those needing assistance including lost, abandoned, trafficked, and runaway children,” said Migom Doley. Officer in-charge of RPF Post, Bokaro, Rajkumar Sao said "in Adra division, a total of 124 Lady RPF (consisting of 9 SIs, 03 ASI's and 104 Constable) personnel have been posted out of which 03 lady SIs and 26 lady constables at Bokaro, who are working in team of Meri Saheli and Nanhe Farishetey as well as escorting of trains."   In the year-2019, RPF had rescued a total of 111 boys and girls (72 Boys and 39 Girls) out of which 21 (12 Boys & 09 Girls) were rescued at Bokaro. In the year 2020, total 47 (32 Boys and 15 Girls) minors have been rescued out of which 08 (04 Boys & 07 Girls including 03 adults female) were rescued at Bokaro. Then the frequency of train movement was restricted due to lockdown.   In the year 2021 up to July 27, a total 103 (44 Boys and 59 Girls) were rescued by RPF out of which 66 (27 Boys including 03 adult male and 39 Girls including 18 adult female) were rescued in Bokaro. Apart from that the cases of crime against passengers have been reduced.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-90
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad residents write to Hemant demanding private radio operators||Dhanbad residents on Wednesday wrote to Chief Minister Heman Soren and Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Anurag Thakur demanding inclusion of private FM radio operators in the list of broadcasters of the district, perturbed over the prolonged delay. Surendra Arora, a social activist and former president of Federation of  Dhanbad Zila Chamber of Commerce who sent tweets to the two leaders in this regard on Wednesday, claimed while the residents of Ranchi and Jamshedpur are availing the services of several private FM operators providing wide range of entertainment options, the residents of Dhanbad could only listen to Vividh Bharti programmes due to lack of any private FM operators in Dhanbad. “Entertainment brings happiness which is the most powerful medicine that helps our mental health and well being,” said Arora and added that it also means downing the monotony of life. Further stressing on the demand for the inclusion of private FM service operators, Arora said, “Broadcast radio today reaches a staggering 99 percent of population and rural India relies overwhelmingly on it for information.” He added that audio programmes can easily surmount the barriers linked to literacy. Notably, the demand for a radio station in Dhanbad was long pending and finally the radio station was established on 2.5 acres of land in Narayanpura Mouza of Dhanbad five years ago. Lack of transmitter at the radio station however was a major hurdle in the launching of the railway station despite the establishment of station but the transmitter was also installed during 2019 after which broad casting of Vividh Bharti programmes began but the private FM Radio operators are yet to launch their operation in Dhanbad. Echoing sentiments, Md Sohrab, another trader of Purana Bazar locality said,“ Radio personalities the experience of listeners, driving them to use their imagination while deciphering what’s unfolding.” “Radio being the cheaper medium of broadcasting allows broadcasting in a wide variety of languages, dialects and  creative forms,” said Sohrab and added that the local radio stations have a more significant role to play .||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
29-07-2021||Jharkhand||Banna Gupta seeks Padma awards for Shibu Soren, Kartik Oraon||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday requesting that tribal leaders Shibu Soren and late Kartik Oraon should be conferred the Padma Vibhushan, the second highest civilian award, during the Republic Day function in 2022. Gupta, the Jamshedpur West Congress MLA, in his letter also expressed happiness that the Union government had conferred the Padma Bhushan to tribal leader and former Lok Sabha deputy Speaker Karia Munda in 2019 and the Padma Vibhushan to former Lok Sabha Speaker late P. A. Sangma in 2017. The letter says that Shibu Soren, an eight-time parliamentarian and former Union coal minister, is the most popular leader among tribals in Jharkhand. He is the father of Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren. “Shibu Soren is looked upon with highest regards by tribals of not only Jharkhand but also neighbouring states of Odisha, Assam, Bengal and Bihar and has an image of a great revolutionary against exploitation of tribals. He had raised voices against social injustice and local alcohol consumption among tribals and deserves Padma Vibhushan for tribal development work,” the letter says. It adds: “Baba Kartik Oraon in Gumla district was one of the most highly qualified tribal leader and had represented Lohardaga parliamentary constituency on three occasions and was Union minister for aviation and communication in Union government and led a committed life for the upliftment of tribal populace and toiled endlessly for the cause of protection and preservation of tribal life and culture. It was Kartik Oraon’s effort that Birsa Agriculture University was established and instrumental in creation of tribal sub-plan.” “Conferring of Padma Vibhushan to these two tribal leaders will not only make 3.5 crore populace of Jharkhand happy but also help people of the state proud about the achievement of these two great leaders,” the letter states. Gupta had earlier in July demanded that the scientists who helped in developing the indigenous Covid-19 vaccines should be conferred with the Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian honour. Sources said Gupta’s appeal is aimed at placating both the JMM and Congress and also score brownie points among tribals for raising the demand for the awards to two leaders who are looked up to with respect. Padma Vibhushan is awarded every year during the Republic Day function for exceptional and distinguished service from the recommendations forwarded by the state governments and independent bodies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-91
