30-07-2021||Calcutta||Mili Dutta's garden has kept her busy, peaceful and hopeful during the pandemic||Mili Dutta’s flat has one of the most beautiful views of the township — her veranda oversees the Metro viaduct. But then daily commuters using the Metro may just as eagerly be waiting to pass her home too. For even a fleeting glance of her colourful flowers and shapely foliage can brighten their day. My forte and my pride are my Orchids. In winter, I grow Petunias and Chrysanthemums, in summers I have Alamondas and cacti but rare and difficult-to grow Orchids blooms in my balcony round the year. My fascination with these flowers began when I visited Thailand some 15 years ago. I saw and loved the Orchids there so much that I brought some home. My husband would keep going back for work and kept getting more varieties of Orchids to add to our collection. Back then, Orchids were rare in Calcutta and so I had enquired about their upkeep in Thailand itself. I watered them carefully, added coconut husks and can proudly say that every one of them thrived in my verandah. Ironically, it’s Orchids that I got from Kalimpong that died! I also grow Oranges that bear tons of fruits. They aren’t too sweet and so we’d let them stay on the branches till they dried up and fell off. But last winter, my husband decided to eat them after all. He ate them daily and it must have been a chore as a single plant this time bore more than 100 Oranges. I had entered this plant in a flower show too. The rules required a minimum of two pots but I didn’t know that and had taken that single plant. Even then the judges were so impressed they gave me a special prize for it! I was pleased and asked them to start a new category for Orchids so I could present my specialities. The plants attract different kinds of birds, butterflies and, in the pre-Covid era, even neighbours who would join me for tea in the balcony. My daughter and husband love plants too although my husband prefers clicking their photographs more. Even if a pumpkin or bitter gourd starts growing, he documents them at every stage of growth. The pandemic has hit my family hard and I have lost many relatives to it. But I have been able to overcome the losses and much of the credit goes to the garden that keeps me busy, peaceful and hopeful. If you have a garden you tend to yourself, send your address and contact number to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Forest festival week: Gift from Bidhannagar Horticultural Society||It was a tough to call to take, since most of the members of Bidhannagar Horticultural Society are senior citizens. “But then we asked members to vote and 90 per cent wanted a Forest Week celebration after all,” said secretary Arijit Poddar. “We couldn’t hold it last year and everyone missed it sorely.” So on July 18, a sapling distribution ceremony was held in the open air parking space of an AD Block building where member Saumitra Maiti lives. Members had been asked to send the organisers their choice of plants and so the distribution was simpler and faster. To maintain Covid protocol, members were encouraged to pick up their saplings and leave without crowding. More than 100 members showed up and they were given four saplings each. “We gave expensive items like Roses and rare plants like Biliti Dhone Pata, spices like pepper and cardamom and even fruits like Banana and Lemons. “I’ve placed a request for Hibiscus, Jhumkolata, Gondhoraj Lebu and Adenium,” smiled Ratna Saha of HB Block. “Those who are passionate about plants wait for this occasion the whole year. We are always excited to add to our collection. I’m glad the organisers managed to pull it off despite the pandemic.” She also arranged to meet and exchange home-grown Lilies there with Kalyani Kundu, another member she met on the society’s WhatsApp group. The society also gifted 60 saplings to a bamboo garden that has come up in New Town. “It’s for a good cause and so we’re gifting them 30 Bamboos, 15 Rangans and 15 Lantenas. Nayan Mitra, founder director of Sustainable Advancements, the company that is looking after the BE Block plot in New Town, drove away that day with a car full of greenery. “It means a lot to have this society help us and join our efforts to increase the greenery and oxygen around us. The more the stakeholders, the greater the ripple effect,” she said. Over a 100 saplings each were distributed from the AA Block community hall and from outside BD Market recently. The drive was organised by Ward 41 along with the block associations.  The state lost a huge number of trees during the Amphan cyclone last year and we have to try and plant enough new trees to replace the lost ones,” said ward co-ordinator Ratna Bhaumik. Fruit and flowering trees like Lemon, Amla, Guava and Hibiscus were given out.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Green drives mark forest festival week ||It’s not just residents who care about the environment; shopkeepers did their bit to spread greenery too. The traders of IA Market held a week-long drive. The first day of the event was graced by chief guests MLA and minister Sujit Bose, chairperson, board of administrators of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty and ward co-ordinator Minu Das Chakraborty but other eminent personalities were invited the rest of the week. “We distributed 10 trees from the market for seven days, on a first-come first-serve basis,” said Rishiraj Ghosh, secretary of Bidhan Nagar IA Market Traders’ Association. “Interested customers were given coupons and asked to collect them at a designated time to avoid crowding.” They also launched a mobile campaign on one of their friends’ cars. The bright red car had banners all over, bearing afforestation messages and it was driven around the township the rest of the week. Audio messages were played from a loudspeaker in the car. “One needs lots of permissions to fell trees but none to plant. So we wanted to inspire people to plant as many trees as possible,” said Ghosh. The shopkeepers will be planting trees themselves as a long-term project but want to carefully choose the spots so they can nurture them to maturity. The project was held in collaboration with the East Point Organisation for Social Development, a Kestopur-based group that many IA Market traders are associated with. More Bon Mahotsav week coverage in the next edition of Branching Out||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Summer Camp in Covid times||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||New containment zones on list, but barricades not in all||At least three new micro-containment zones have been marked in different blocks of Salt Lake by the district administration on July 25, taking the total number of containment zones in the planned area of Salt Lake to 11. But although a flat has been earmarked as a micro-containment zone in Sraboni Abasan, no traffic guardrails or policemen were spotted there as is the case in most other addresses housing Covid-positive patients across Salt Lake. The housing complex has high-ranking government officials as residents. Neighbours alleged that in the absence of barricades, the contained residents were freely moving out. When this irregularity was pointed out by The Telegraph Salt Lake, an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said guardrails were not placed in front of the apartment as all the residents were government officials who needed to step out for important work. “Blocking the entry is going to create a hindrance for them,” said the official, his response putting a question mark against the very concept of a micro-containment zone. Incidentally, when a family tested Covid positive some weeks ago in D Block of Labony Abasan, the building entrance was barricaded with guard rails tied to bamboo poles. The barricade was removed after 21 days. Apart from Sraboni Abasan, a house in DA Block has got added to the list after several members of the same family tested positive for Covid-19. “We have given the residents our contact numbers so that they can get in touch with us for essentials as well as medical emergencies. We have asked them not to step out,” said the official. A flat in EE Block and a house in AH Block have also been identified as fresh containment areas. The Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation (BMC) area has still the highest number of micro containment zones in North 24-Parganas with 18, while Barasat comes second with 11. There are seven zones in Habra and Khardah Municipality has five. Rajarhat block has three along with Kamarhati Municipality. As of now, Covid numbers in the BMC area are low. Around eight to 15 new cases are being reported on an average every day, and there have been no Covid-related deaths reported in the past week, officials said. Should a micro-containment zone be barricaded even if it is an apartment block?Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Door-to-door scan for unvaccinated residents||A door-to-door survey is on by the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation to compile data on residents of its 41 wards and determine how many residents have yet to receive the first jab of the Covid-19 vaccine. According to an official of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, the drive has already started and in Salt Lake civic teams are visiting different blocks in all three sectors of the township. The drive is being conducted so that the civic body has concrete figures on the number of unvaccinated residents across all age groups. “We shall then send in a request for the specific number of doses required to the state health department. As it is, we are getting limited quantity of vaccines and our centres are finding it tough to deal with the number of people walking into health centres to get the shots,” the official said. An official of the civic body’s health department said the corporation-run clinic and several camps organised across wards have administered around 80,000 shots. These figures are inclusive of both the first and second doses. An official of the Bidhannagar sub-divisional hospital said they, on the other hand, have administered around 50,000 shots since the vaccine drive began and that the figure includes regular residents as well as special categories like polling personnel and police. The civic official said that this, combined with the doses given by private hospitals, takes the figure up to nearly 2.8 lakh vaccines to have already been administered. “However the figures also include those who are not residents of any ward of the civic body but have taken their shots here,” the official added. Apart from the figures collected by the civic body, several blocks in Salt Lake had tied up with private hospitals and conducted paid vaccination camps at community halls. Most of the primary health centres had to be shut due to shortage of vaccines, but BMC officials said they had been vaccinating frontline workers, hawkers and street vendors, and several wards had been organising vaccination camps to administer the second dose. Jabs at home Some councillors are also drawing up lists of residents who need jabs at their doorstep, even though there has not been any formal notice about conducting these. Neelanjana Manna, co-ordinator of Ward 33, says about 300 people in her ward are still in need of the first dose. “I have appealed for more camps in my area as there are domestic helps, drivers and the like who would benefit from free vaccines. There is also a need for jabs at the doorstep for residents who are immobile and unable to reach camps at community halls,” she said. Collecting this information would require co-operation from block committees. “This is because neither are the aged tech savvy enough to register themselves for any such online surveys nor would they like it if we showed up at their doorsteps when a contagious infection like Covid is raging. “A head count of immobile residents will be tough but we have to do it,” Manna said. Tulsi Sinha Roy is ready with her homework. “There are two residents in my ward – a lady in Labony Estate and another in CD Block – who are immobile due to their advanced age. Several vaccination camps have been held in my area but these ladies will not be able to go over. We have to provide them vaccination at home and I have already informed the corporation’s health department about it.” The chairperson of the board of the corporation’s administrators, Krishna Chakraborty, admits to the need for such a service, “but we cannot go outside the purview of the rules set by the government. As and when such a facility is allowed we shall go ahead with vaccination at home,” she said. Are you facing problems getting vaccinated in Salt Lake or New Town? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||15 minutes daily in the sun||After more than a year of hiding behind four walls, residents, it appears, are suffering from Vitamin D deficiency. This was an observation by Soham Mandal, consultant orthopaedic surgeon, at a free orthopaedic camp held at CK-CL Block community hall on July 24. “Indians as it is tend to suffer from low calcium and Vitamin D levels in their bodies and the lockdowns have further reduced their exposure to the sun. So I’m not surprised that the most common ailments I’m getting today are knee and lower back pains. They are all related,” said the doctor who practises at AMRI Salt Lake among other hospitals. At least 15 minutes of daily exposure to the sun was necessary. “It can be at any time of the day while the sun is up but it is best if the back and arms are exposed,” Mandal said. The camp was organised by Rotary Club of Calcutta Universe and over 100 people had come to get themselves screened. Some patients came with old X-rays and prescriptions, some came with new complaints and a few just for a check-up. “Check-ups are particularly important for women, as they tend to get osteoporosis after 60 years of age. But 60 is too late to start medication. They need to consult a doctor at 40 and get their vitamin D and bone mineral density (BMD) levels tested. A BMD test is used to measure the levels of calcium and other minerals in one’s bones. If the levels are found to be low, calcium supplements can be started before osteoporosis sets in,” said the doctor. While a healthy diet devoid of junk food and comprising milk and eggs was recommended, Mandal said they might not be enough to prevent deficiencies. “This is why such camps are all the more necessary so doctors can be consulted.” The camp was attended by MLA and minister Sujit Bose and chairperson of the board of the administrators, Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, Krishna Chakraborty. “I used to play football and cricket back in the day and know how crippling leg pain can be,” said Bose. “It’s commendable that this organisation is providing help to those in pain and that too for free.” Chakraborty cited how common it was to see grandmothers suffering from arthritis and commended the group on their effort to help the needy. “Indeed, many of our well-wishers were informed about today’s camp but they were forced to wish us success from home. They could not come as they are immobile from leg pain,” said president of Rotary Club of Calcutta Universe, Digbijoy Chakraborty. “We want to change this with awareness. We also want to hold health camps in different disciplines over time.” The vice-president of the club, Shanti Ranjan Paul, is also secretary of Bidhannagar CK-CL Block Residents’ Association. The camp took place at the block’s community centre. “It was a win-win situation for me. As I am well acquainted with my block residents, many of them could avail of this facility and the club too fulfiled its motive of serving a good number of people,” he said. Besides doctor’s consultation, a BMI machine brought in by the organisers aroused curiosity. A person had to stand on the machine, that looked like a weighing scale, and hold out a handle, that was attached to it, at arm’s length. The machine then did the math and revealed the person’s BMI (Body Mass Index), body fat percentage, resting metabolism and “body age”. “My body age came 13 years older than my biological age,” said Tapash Sen, of CL Block. “I also have some sports injuries from my childhood, that I neglected. They bother me now. But these tests have been a wake-up call for me and I shall carry out the tests that the orthopaedic advised me today and follow up with treatment.” Some medical representatives also distributed common medicines that the doctors prescribed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Tribute to Bards over three evenings||• New Town-based cultural group Sanskriti hosted a three-day online Rabindra-Nazruljayanti with participants from across the township. The show began with an inaugural group song Mahabiswe mahakashe led by Sunita Dasgupta and Kanika Dey. Bani Das narrated the childhood of Tagore and his Totakahini was enacted by children like Hridhhiman Sarkar, Harsha Biswas and Archita Biswas. It was directed by Madhumita Sarkar and Sunita Dasgupta. Nazrul’s Rajbondir Jabanbondi was presented by Srabanti Biswas, Nupur Gupta and Dhuryoti Gupta. A dance-recitation collage, titled “Rabindra Nazrul bhabnay nari”, was compiled and narrated by Bedasree Ghosh while others sang and danced along. “Tagore’s initial women characters in works like Sonar Badhan and Manasi were conservative but this changed in later works like Chitrangada and Strir Patra,” she explained. “Nazrul, throughout his life, wrote of equality as seen in the poem Samyobadi.” The first day’s events were co-ordinated by Sunita Dasgupta and the highlight of the second day was Tagore’s Dui Pakhi, about the conversation between a free and a caged bird. Madhura Adak of Class I danced to Kothao amar hariye jabar while her brother Bibhore and cousin Shoutrik Mitra essayed the roles of the caged and free birds respectively. “We rehearsed so much that my voice cracked during the show!” Shoutrik confessed later. The same day Lichuchor was enacted by tots Krisav Makar and Rayan Mondal and a collage titled “Sadhre ajike praner sadhan” was presented with recitation by Biswas and Nafisa Yasmin, and dance by Asmita Biswas, Shree Mukherjee, Rupanjana Sarkar etc. Sakhi bhalobasa kare koi, on different shades of love, had recitation by  Hasi Dutta, Biswas, Yasmin and dance by Sanghamitra Banerjee, Paromita Mullick etc. More music was presented by Gouri Chatterjee, Subrata Nandi, Rina Roy and others. The third day began with a chorus of the Nazrulgeeti Anjali laho mor sangeete by Mithu Das, Madhumita Sarkar and Mithu Roy while Ushasi Nandi presented Amar hiyar majhe with narration and visuals of landmark moments of Tagore’s lives. Krishnendu Kishore Biswas recited self-composed poems on both the bards  and a chorus of Akash bhara surjo tara was presented by Aparna Biswas, Sumita Mondal, Swapna Mondal etc. Child artist Anish Raha played the harmonium and sang Nazrul’s Tumi amar sakalbelar phool. Piyali Dasgupta, an elderly member of the group, danced to Tumi robey nirobe. “I used to dance long back and am feeling very happy that I could perform today,” she later said. The show concluded with the presentation titled Rituranga, an array of colourful dances on seasons. The narration was by Bedasree Ghosh to the dance of Ayesha Chowdhury, Sushmita Seal, Biswas Manali and others. The concept of the show was by Biswas and Sharmila De had edited and clubbed all the performances together using video clips that were sent to her beforehand. “The main objective behind this show was to accommodate as many participants as possible. People are depressed because of the pandemic and an online show gives them the chance to perform something,” said Biswas, who also anchored the show. If you want to get a programme featured in this column, write in to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6, Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta - 700001 or call 22600115 on  Wednesday evening or e-mail to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Facebook group to promote local mart||In a pandemic-hit world where customers are shifting online, a community market in New Town has climbed onto the social media bandwagon in a bid to catch eyeballs. A public group, called CB Market, has been created on Facebook which has already garnered close to 300 members. It has regular posts on various shops and their products on display for the day, from fruits, vegetables and fish to items of home decor and hair cutting. The group was floated by Biplab Pandit who owns the Decona interior designing and furniture store on the ground floor. “CB Market in Action Area 1 is the most popular of the 10 community markets run by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority. But amid the pandemic, footfall is taking a hit because of the increased tendency of residents to buy things online. The rise in the number of vegetable cycle van sellers parking in the streets nearby is also stopping residents from stepping in. This is hurting stall owners like us who have paid lakhs to the NKDA,” said Pandit. The group, he hopes, will increase awareness about the variety of products and services available in the market across its two floors. “There are 40 shops that are open, including a ladies tailor and a hair-cutting salon . But even those who come are used to visiting just one or two stalls. They don’t even know what is selling in the shop next door, leave alone on a different floor,” he pointed out. The other purpose would be to provide visual enticement for buyers. “A picture of the morning’s fresh catch at the fishmonger’s usually gets good response and translates to orders.” Though Pandit himself has a furniture store, he gets his shop attendant Manas Maity to take pictures of other stalls and post in the group. “If I have to succeed, I need more people to visit this market. That is why I am taking the trouble to publicise products sold at other stalls too. Many of the fruit or vegetable sellers do not have a smart phone or are unaware of the benefits of social media. If there is no immediate impact, they give up,” said the youth who has an MBA degree. It is for the same purpose that he is offering services like air-conditioner, geyser and chimney maintenance. “There is hardly any profit in these services but they serve to increase my shop’s popularity,” he added. The group is gaining in popularity. While it had 119 members at the start of the month, the number rose to 287 on July 28. Manotosh Mondal, who owns multiple stalls at the market selling fruits, vegetables and meat, is happy that the Facebook group has been created. “I used to offer home delivery services from earlier. I am getting more calls now to deliver at doorsteps, especially after the morning’s display of fish is posted. Many of the callers ask for items that I do not sell. But if it is something simple like a packet of biscuits or so, I get it picked up from another shop and send it across simply to help the caller,” he said. But there are irritants too. Some ask for the day’s rate in the comment section, expecting an instant reply. “We expect them to come to the market to buy whatever they want, so why ask for the rates from home? Is it to compare with online delivery rates?” a fish monger exclaimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Pandemic push to elders’ tech skills||A year and a half ago, the high point of their birthdays would be a phone call from children and grandchildren living abroad. Now their birthdays are incomplete without a video chat on Zoom with 50 relatives from around the world. Video conferencing has always been around but it took a pandemic to get senior citizens to use them. Many of them have shed inhibitions and self-doubt and are experimenting with technology. They are paying bills online, tuning into religious shows on YouTube, watching serials on OTT platforms and performing at cultural programmes virtually. First smart phone Maushumi Basu of BE Block got her first smart phone during the pandemic. “My son gifted it to me and our caretaker taught me how to use it. I never felt the need for this gadget before but now I realise how bored I would have been without it during the lockdown,” says the lady who is as comfortable using WhatsApp as she is shopping for home decor items online. Her husband hasn’t warmed up to the device but he listens to classical music with her when she plays it on YouTube. Rina Chandra decided to get a smart phone during the pandemic too. “Every one had one in hand except me! I was beginning to feel backdated,” smiles the septuagenarian of BD Block who still drives herself around. Chandra has now joined the WhatsApp group of the horticultural society she is a member of and browses YouTube to learn more about growing plants. “I’m still no expert at using the phone but there’s no one to teach me. One of these days I’ll devote an entire day to giving myself a crash course on it. Winds of change “In just a year senior citizens have become more open to technology. Previously they would dismiss anything new saying they wouldn’t be able to use it but now at least they are trying,” says Sharmistha Sen Das who runs Paritosh Sen Memorial Elderly Care Society. After the lockdown last year, she started a WhatsApp group for members and started encouraging them to share songs, recitations and hold discussions on various festivals. This was a substitute of the monthly meetings they would have before the pandemic. “I had to individually call up members and direct them on how to use the app and in the first few video conferences someone’s audio or video elements went missing but now they have become experts,” says Sen Das. But there are many, she says, who do not use smart phone or still need help in getting registered on the CoWin app for their vaccines. Sutapa Majumdar used to teach music to other senior citizens at Swapno Bhor till the pandemic struck. “When the lockdown happened, I retreated into a shell. Students kept asking me to teach them online but I would refuse. I had neither conducted such classes before nor was I interested in the idea. I knew I wouldn’t be satisfied without seeing the students’ faces up close,” says the lady who kept resisting for months. In August, she finally decided to try out a class on a WhatsApp group with seven students and it turned out to be better than she expected. “Now I hold four such group classes and students are joining even from Mumbai and Pune. I’ve got a fresh lease of life thanks to online classes,” Majumdar smiles. Serial to spiritual Basu has given up television and watches shows on OTT platforms at her preferred time slots. Avijit Chaudhury is attending his Buddhist meetings and chanting mantras virtually. “It’s not rocket science. With my basic knowledge of smart phones I downloaded Zoom in the beginning of the lockdown and now attend everything from spiritual classes to annual general meetings on it. My wife Anuradha listens to Hemanta Mukherjee songs on YouTube while cooking,” says the CK Block resident. Majumdar was not too Net savvy last Durga puja but this time she plans to watch live streaming of Chandipath and rituals from maths. Age no bar IB Block’s nonagenarian Chandrasekhar Bose has had a smart phone for the past few years but only got time to explore it during the pandemic. He recorded a video speech of over half an hour duration on it that was shared at an online event last year and he has been added to so many WhatsApp groups that he barely has time to read all the messages now. EC Block’s Mihir Kumar Chatterjee celebrated his 100th recently with 50 relatives on a two hour-long Zoom call. While he doesn’t use a smart phone himself, he was helped by a neighbour’s son who lent his laptop for the needful. Learning curve Sithi Kana Ghatak admits that two or three-year-olds these days are adept at using smart phones. “But we senior citizens take longer to pick up. Our block is full of retired people and naturally, there was an initial resistance when I suggested virtual programmes,” says the convenor of New Town CD’s Block’s cultural association. But Ghatak’s daughter and other youths helped the elderly to download the necessary apps. “We try to hold as many events as possible to keep them engaged and now virtual meets are a piece of cake for them. We have even performed virtual audio dramas that were aired on Radio New Town Ghatak,” she says the lady who has started two Facebook pages recently. Neighbours, children, grandchildren, caretakers have all played important roles in empowering the elderly. “Our children can get impatient if we take time to learn these things,” says Sonali Basak of DB Block. Basak has spearheaded many a virtual cultural show for her ladies group Gulabi Gang. “In such cases I tell my friends they cannot give up. When our kids were little we too took pains to teach them the alphabet and now the roles have reversed.” If newcomers to their group fail to understand the technology she asks them to go over to the nearest fellow member’s house and learn. “But what I’m clear about is that no one dare say ‘amar daara hobe na’. If I can do it, they can do it,” says the lady who learnt Zoom and Skype from her son-in-law and Facebook Live from a friend’s son. “Even if we don’t join Tik Tok or Instagram, video conferencing, WhatsApp and Facebook are basics that we must all know lest we fall behind.” Dilip Syam stays busy enough with WhatsApp and so has not ventured into Facebook but he is grateful to the platform as his daughter used it to locate his long lost friend. “Now we have video conferences with friends from Salt Lake, New Town, Mumbai and London whenever we miss one another,” smiles the resident of Sanjeeva Town Bunglow Estate. Shopping online For Kali Prasad Saha online shopping was a way out of ennui during the lockdown. “I have a green thumb but wasn’t being able to step out of home to buy plants or fertilisers,” says the resident of New Town’s CE Block. “Then one day I clicked an ad on Facebook and it took to a lovely site for plants.” Soon Saha was buying plants and supplies online. “Since cash on delivery wasn’t available for purchases under Rs 2,000 I started paying online too,” he says. “The system is so convenient now that I shop online very often now.” Basu says her children were reluctant to let her shop online, saying she may click something wrong. “But with time I’ve become an expert shopper. Everyone loves my choice and I sniff out the best deals,” smiles the lady who has been buying plants, bottles, bed covers et al. Ditto with Basak, who is shopping online so much that her children are teasing her about it. “I share my birthday with my elder daughter who lives in Bangalore and this year she sent me a garment steamer and I too sent her a microwave that I bought online! I’m so happy I could do it on my own,” she beams with pride. Basak’s younger daughter lives in New Town and keeps dropping by. “I could easily hand her gifts but the excitement of shopping online is such that I prefer sending them directly to her. Why, the other day I sent her a sil nora,” says the lady who also teaches dance online. But many like Chandra refuse to buy things without the touch-and-feel experience. Fruits, vegetables and groceries are available on the Net too but many elderly citizens said they get the convenience of home delivery from cycle carts that go door-to-door these days. Cyber alert Many senior citizens refrain from online payments too. “We don’t have debit or credit cards,” says Majumdar. “During the lockdown we would request youths in the neighbourhood to encash cheques for us. As for bills, our son pays them online from Bangalore. My husband and I do not want to dabble with online payment as we aren’t familiar with it. What if we click something wrong?” Syam has switched to online bill payments but is always alert. “A friend of mine lost Rs 1.5 lakh through cybercrime. We elderly are a more trusting breed and hence susceptible to these,” he says. Basak now pays bills online, transfers money online, uses mobile wallets…. “With practice I have become confident and don’t need anyone to help me make these payments anymore,” says the lady who lives alone in DB Block. “If there is one positive about the pandemic, it is that it has made us independent.” Learning curve Sithi Kana Ghatak admits that two or three-year-olds these days are adept at using smart phones. “But we senior citizens take longer to pick such things up. Our block is full of retired people and naturally, there was an initial resistance when I suggested virtual programmes,” says the convenor of New Town CD’s Block’s cultural association. But Ghatak’s daughter and other youths helped the elderly download the necessary apps. “We try to hold as many events as possible to keep them engaged and now virtual meets are a piece of cake for them. We have even performed virtual audio dramas that were aired on Radio New Town,” she says the lady who has started two Facebook pages recently. Neighbours, children, grandchildren, caretakers have all played important roles in empowering the elderly. “Our children can get impatient if we take time to learn these things,” says Sonali Basak of DB Block. Basak has spearheaded many a virtual cultural show for her ladies group Gulabi Gang. “In such cases, I tell my friends they cannot give up. When our kids were little we too took pains to teach them the alphabet and now the roles have reversed.” If newcomers to their group fail to understand the technology, she asks them to go over to the nearest fellow member’s house and learn. “But what I’m clear about is that no one dare say ‘amar dwara hobe na’. If I can do it, they can do it too,” says the lady who learnt how to Zoom and Skype from her son-in-law and Facebook Live from a friend’s son. “Even if we don’t join Tik Tok or Instagram, video conferencing, WhatsApp and Facebook are basics that we must all know lest we fall behind.” Dilip Syam stays busy enough with WhatsApp and so has not ventured into Facebook but he is grateful to the platform as his daughter used it to locate his long-lost friend. “Now we have video conferences with friends from Salt Lake, New Town, Mumbai and London whenever we miss one another,” smiles the resident of Sanjeeva Town The Bungalow Estate. Shopping online For Kali Prasad Saha, online shopping was a way out of ennui during the lockdown. “I have a green thumb but wasn’t being able to step out of home to buy plants or fertilisers,” says the resident of New Town’s CE Block. “Then one day I clicked on an ad on Facebook and it took me to a lovely site for plants.” Soon Saha was buying plants and supplies online. “Since cash on delivery wasn’t available for purchases under Rs 2,000, I started paying online too,” he says. “The system is so convenient that I shop online very often now.” Basu says her children were reluctant to let her shop online, saying she might click something wrong. “But with time I’ve become an expert shopper. Everyone loves my choice and I sniff out the best deals,” smiles the lady who has been buying plants, bottles, bed covers et al. Ditto with Basak, who is shopping online so much that her children are teasing her about it. “I share my birthday with my elder daughter who lives in Bangalore and this year she sent me a garment steamer and I too sent her a microwave that I bought online! I’m so happy I could do it on my own,” she beams with pride. Basak’s younger daughter lives in New Town and keeps dropping by. “I could easily hand her gifts but the excitement of shopping online is such that I prefer sending them directly to her. Why, the other day I sent her a sil nora,” says the lady who also takes dance classes online. But many like Chandra refuse to buy things without the touch-and-feel experience. Fruits, vegetables and groceries are available on the Net too but many elderly citizens said they get the convenience of home delivery from cycle carts that go door-to-door these days. Cyber alert Many senior citizens refrain from online payments too. “We don’t have debit or credit cards,” says Majumdar. “During the lockdown we would request youths in the neighbourhood to encash cheques for us. As for bills, our son pays them online from Bangalore. My husband and I do not want to dabble with online payment as we aren’t familiar with the process. What if we click something wrong?” Syam has switched to online bill payments but is always alert. “A friend of mine lost Rs 1.5 lakh through cyber crime. We elderly are a more trusting breed and hence susceptible to these frauds,” he says. Basak now pays bills online, transfers money online, uses mobile wallets... “With practice, I have become confident and don’t need anyone to help me make these payments anymore,” says the lady who lives alone in DB Block. “If there is one positive about the pandemic, it is that it has made us independent.” Have you or any senior citizen you know picked up technological skills in recent times? Write to The Telegraph Salt Lake, 6 Prafulla Sarkar Street, Calcutta 700001 or email to saltlake@abp.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Vehicle late fines waived till end of the year in Bengal||The state government said on Thursday late fines would not be charged for failing to renew driving licence, road permit, fitness test certificate and learner’s licence till December 31. The late fine for not renewing permits could be up to Rs 5,000 a year and that for not taking a fitness test could cost a vehicle’s owner Rs 18,000 a year. For several bus and minibus owners the waiver comes as a shot in the arm since running a vehicle without a valid fitness certificate would otherwise invite a fine of Rs 5,000, police said. “The fine for running a bus or a minibus without a valid fitness certificate for a second time is Rs 10,000,” said Sajal Maity, a private bus owner from Kidderpore. “Most bus operators failed to get their vehicles tested because of lack of funds.” Earlier this month, the government had announced a waiver of road tax for transport vehicles till December.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Bengal government vetoes Jadavpur University screening proposal||The education department has struck down Jadavpur University’s proposal to screen students for admission to undergraduate science courses based on plusII marks and online interviews/group discussions. The government has asked all colleges and universities to screen students based on plusII marks only. JU vicechancellor Suranjan Das had written to the department last Friday, seeking the government’s opinion on the screening proposal. A letter addressed to Das and signed by a special secretary of the department on July 28 says: “With reference to your… dated 23.07.21 on the above mentioned subject, I am directed to request you to kindly follow this office memorandum No… dated 13.07.21. In connection with other points as mentioned in the letter, which have not been covered in those two memorandums, I am directed to request you to follow the existing norms”. The VC declined to comment. The university’s admission committee that met on July 16 resolved 20 per cent weightage be given to online group discussion/viva voce “to select candidates from a long list of candidates who had got same numbers in the subjects of the previous examinations passed”. The committee was of the view: “university must be allowed a bit of autonomy to select quality candidates with natural inclination and inclination to study a particular subject”. Partha Pratim Roy, an associate professor of the physics department, who is also the secretary of the teachers’ association, said the department curbed the autonomy of the university by rejecting the proposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-34
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Celebrating Jesuit service to society through education||Rev Fr Dominic Savio SJ, the principal of St Xavier’s College (Autonomous), writes  on St Ignatius of Loyola  and the service rendered by the Society of Jesus, which he had founded. The feast of St Ignatius is celebrated on July 31 and 2021 is the 500th year of the Cannonball Moment in his life. July 31 every year marks the celebration of the Feast of St Ignatius of Loyola, the founder of the Society of Jesus. Ignatius was reared to be a courtier in the service of the Crown. His desire was to win fame as a soldier of great valour. Sensual, proud, belligerent, he was the typical self-seeking young man of his time. Then an incident took place that transformed his life totally. It is known as the Cannonball Moment and it took place on May 20, 1521. This year, we are celebrating the Ignatian Year to commemorate the 500th year of the Cannonball Moment in the life of St Ignatius. The Spanish and the French were fighting for the control of Pamplona in north-eastern Spain. Ignatius led a band of Spanish troops who were ready to surrender. Only Ignatius continued to hold off the French until a French cannonball shattered his right leg. With his fall, the battle ended. The Spanish troops surrendered. But the French army, admiring the valour of Ignatius, instead of imprisoning him, carried him back to his castle in Loyola about 100km away. There his condition worsened. His leg had been set wrong. He had his leg broken and set again. The surgery was excruciating but he endured it. During his convalescence, he wanted books to read, but instead of the chivalric romances he had asked for, he was given the Life of Christ and Lives of Saints. Overcoming his initial dislike, he was overwhelmed by the exploits of the Saints and thought they were worth imitating. This was the beginning of his transformation. He decided not to serve earthly kings any more, but to serve only the Heavenly King, as he felt God’s immense and unconditional love transforming him. God gave him a New Vision. Instead of self-seeking, he decided to seek what God wanted of him. It was to love and serve God in all things and in all persons. His values, thoughts and actions changed. This was his real transformation and it eventually led to the birth of the Society of Jesus or the Jesuits in 1540. Over the next 20 years, from 1521, Ignatius went through many deep spiritual experiences as he tried to serve and bring people closer to God. He spent about 11 years in Spain and Paris studying to become a priest. At the University of Paris he had six committed companions who, motivated by him, were also deeply transformed to love and serve God. With them, Ignatius formed The Society of Jesus (S.J.) or the Jesuits in 1540. Himself transformed, Ignatius transformed many others who in turn brought immense spiritual transformation throughout Europe and Asia of that time. One of them was Francis Xavier. He came to India in 1542 and preached the message to love and serve God in our brothers and sisters. At great personal risk, he also zealously carried this message to South-east Asia and Japan. His sacred body is now preserved in the Church of Bom Jesus in Goa. For the last 480 years, the Jesuits, their associates and their students have continued this mission of service to all. It is sustained through our commitment to social uplift and justice for the downtrodden, the poor, the landless and displaced, the marginalised, and to spirituality that brings people closer to Nature and to God. This mission, consciously responsive to contemporary needs, empowers the Jesuits to become “Men for Others”, and their associates and students to become “Men and Women for Others”. The success of the mission has been achieved in many ways, most importantly, through Education with emphasis on Education for the poor, the oppressed and indigenous peoples as that has always played a pivotal role in the transformation of society. Jesuits are the first religious group to operate schools, colleges and universities as a principal and distinct service. When Ignatius died in 1556, the Jesuits were already operating a network of 74 schools and colleges on three continents. Today, our service to society through Education spans the globe. In India, the Jesuits run 839 Schools, and 61 Higher Education Institutions, including universities, autonomous and non-autonomous colleges, research centres, management institutes, BEd colleges, engineering and law colleges, and colleges of theology and philosophy. As we grow into the future, we look back for inspiration. That is why on this 500th year of commemoration of that Transforming Cannonball Moment, we go back to the Vision given by God to Ignatius to love and serve Him in all. Re-living that moment will revive, inspire and challenge us to love and serve all in this Ignatian year so that we too will see all persons and things new in God, as Ignatius did. This Jesuit love and service for God in all brothers and sisters has now been prioritised in the New Vision which focuses on four spheres, called Universal Apostolic Preferences: to care for Mother Earth; to accompany the young and students in the creation of a hope-filled future; to walk with the poor, marginalised, displaced, in a mission of reconciliation and justice; to transform people through spiritual means, so that we all love and serve God in our brothers and sisters. In this context, this is what our Superior General Rev Father Arturo Sosa, S.J. has said: “This Ignatian year offers us a great opportunity. It is a call to allow God to work on our Transformation. We ask for the grace to be renewed by God. We wish to discover a new enthusiasm inside ourselves; a new life, a new way to follow God. That is why our theme for the year: to see all things new in God. The whole year we will be guided by this New Vision, the Four  Universal Apostolic Preferences,  for transformation for each  of us, for our communities, our institutions and all our works. We ask for God’s Grace of a real change in our day to day life-mission. I specially address our companions and associates in this mission, the ordinary people, religious and those from other beliefs or human convictions, who participate in the same struggle. Many of you feel a deep commitment to this inspiration. I thank God for that grace and I thank each of you for your enthusiasm and closeness. To young people and students I say: We want to learn to accompany you. We want to learn from you. Each one of you is unique, born with a special purpose. Ignatius struggled to discover the meaning of his life. In him you can find inspiration as you struggle to make your life meaningful and as you ask how you can contribute to building a better world, where the dignity of people is respected and where you live in a joy-filled harmony with nature. I express our desire to accompany you through what we do and most especially through who we are — people willing to share our time, our dreams.” With this new vision in this Ignatian year, let us usher in a new era, inspired by St Ignatius, St Francis Xavier and all the other Jesuits who set the path before us, holding hands with all persons of goodwill so as to love and serve God in all.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Covid-19: Ten held in hookah bars in Bhowanipore||Two hookah bars in Bhowanipore were raided on Wednesday night and 10 persons arrested for violating Covid restrictions imposed by the state government. Three of the accused were picked up from a bar on Elgin Road and the rest from one on Ashton Road. Around 100 people were allegedly in the two hookah bars together when police reached there. “Most of them fled,” said an officer. The state government has ordered all bars, including hookah bars, to close at 8pm as part of the efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus. “We have asked for CCTV footage of the bars,” said an officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Downpour causes waterlogging across several parts of the city||Downpour over prolonged periods caused waterlogging across several parts of Calcutta and some of the busiest hospitals in the eastern part of the city once again turned into islands as roads leading to them went under water on Thursday. Large parts of Kasba, Mukundapur and New Garia, among other pockets, were inundated. The roads outside AMRI’s Mukundapur unit and an eye hospital opposite Avidipta I housing complex, and the one leading to the RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) were under ankle-deep water. Patients or their families who came walking to AMRI’s gate had to wade through ankle-deep water. The medicine shops around the hospital, too, had water outside them. An official of AMRI’s Mukundapur unit said only about half of those who had booked slots for Covid jabs on Thursday turned up. The footfall at the outdoor clinic, too, was less than usual. “This is a routine affair outside our hospital. The water takes five to six hours to recede after rain stops completely,” said the official. The scene was the same outside Netralayam, an eye hospital on Mukundapur Main Road, stretches of which were under knee-deep water. Those who had to walk the last stretch on their way to the hospital were most inconvenienced. The same was the fate of the patients and their families visiting the RTIICS. “Fortunately, there was no water inside the campus this time, unlike last time when the volume of rain was very high,” said an official of the hospital. Metro has earlier reported about the poor drainage system of the area, where some of the busiest private hospitals of the city are located. The areas around the hospitals get waterlogged multiple times every monsoon. The problem has persisted for over a decade but the civic body has not been able to find a solution yet. An engineer of the Calcutta Municipal Corporation (CMC) said high volume of rain was the primary reason for waterlogging in Mukundpur and elsewhere in the city. “It rained almost continuously since Wednesday night. That has led to waterlogging. But the problem is less severe than last time,” said the engineer of the civic drainage department. Many homes in Kasba, Mukundapur and New Garia were flooded and water seeped into the underground reservoirs of some homes. CMC sources said that between 10pm on Wednesday and 8pm on Thursday, Ballygunge received 115mm of rain, Jodhpur Park 129mm; Kalighat 91.40mm; Mominpur 104mm and Ultadanga 105mm of rain. The sluice gates that allow water from parts of central and north Calcutta to drain out into the Hooghly could not be opened for nearly five hours in the afternoon because of high tide in the river. The CMC was expecting water to recede fast after the sluice gates were opened around 6pm. But heavy rain in many pockets since the evening made the prospect of water receding fast bleak. “If it rains heavily overnight, waterlogging will be inevitable in some more areas,” said a CMC engineer. Pockets of north and central Calcutta also got inundated. Long stretches of BB Ganguly Street, stretches of CR Avenue and a stretch of the Park Circus-Science City connector (nearly the China Town gate) were flooded. Water entered the Mohammad Ali Park fire station.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Heavy rain triggers power cuts in South 24-Parganas, puts CU students under duress||Power cuts in places like Canning and Kakdwip in South 24-Parganas triggered by heavy rain posed problems for students of Calcutta University who had to email or upload their answer scripts after writing their final semester exams on Thursday. Many students of Bankim Sardar College in Canning could not upload or mail their answer scripts because charge had drained out of their phones by the time the three-hour exams ended at 1pm. Students are required to scan the hand written A-4 size answers scripts and email them to their college or upload them on the college’s portal. Some students of Sundarban Mahavidyalaya in Kakdwip had to wade through flooded streets to hand the answer scripts to the college authorities because power outage made it impossible for them to mail or upload the scripts. The undergraduate final-year students of CU are writing the theory papers of BA and BSc courses, which started on July 29. The exams will continue till July 31. At Bankim Sardar College, about 12 per cent of the examinees could not submit the answer  scripts on time because of power woes, said principal Tilak Chatterjee. “The problem was faced by those who stay on the other side of the Matla, adjoining Gosaba and Basanti,” he said. The downpour that started on Wednesday and continued through much of Thursday caused the power outage. “Barely 2-3 per cent power remained on the phones minutes before the exams were to end. Many students called departmental heads for help. They sought time till they could get the phones recharged,” the principal said. According to UGC rules, a student has to upload answer scripts or email them within 15 minutes of the completion of an examination. An official of the college said they received the scripts at 4pm. A teacher said a bigger worry loomed as students were unsure about writing the exams on Friday because there was no end to the power outage. Chatterjee has written to CU pro-vice-chancellor (academic) Ashis Chatterjee about the problems the students faced. Repeated calls to the pro-VC went unanswered.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
30-07-2021||Calcutta||Three policemen of Kasba PS have been found 'guilty' for not allowing two men to report a crime ||Three policemen of Kasba police station have been found “guilty” for not allowing two men to report a crime at the police station because they were wearing shorts, according to an inquiry by a senior officer. Departmental proceedings have been initiated against a sub-inspector who was the duty officer at the time. The officer allegedly said the two men should wear trousers because there were women at the police station. A constable has been fined Rs 1,000 and a civic volunteer has been benched for 10 days as punishment for allegedly stopping the two men at the entrance to the police station on the ground they were wearing “inappropriate” clothes. Police did not formally name the three cops. The incident had happened on July 17 when Barnik Datta, 33, a resident of Picnic Garden Road, and his friend Avishek De Biswas, 31, from Deshapriya Park, went to Kasba police station to report a theft at Datta’s family temple. First, they were stopped at the main gate of the police station and told they should come back wearing “proper trousers”. The duty officer, too, had given them the same advice citing the presence of women in the police station. The two had to leave. Datta returned to the police station wearing full plants, after which his complaint was registered. The three cops were produced at the office of the deputy commissioner (south suburban division) on Thursday for the final hearing of the inquiry. “We have tried to sensitise them about the matter. It had sent a wrong signal about the entire force and we would not like anyone else to repeat this mistake,” said a senior police officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
30-07-2021||Calcutta||July’s heaviest rain floods Calcutta, kills one||Almost incessant rainfall since Wednesday night submerged several parts of the city, damaged homes and led to at least one death because of suspected electrocution. The weather in Calcutta is set to improve from the second half of Friday. A 56-year-old man was reportedly electrocuted to death in a north Calcutta garage on Wednesday night. Police said Kashinath Jyoti used to live in the garage space on the ground floor of a three-storey residential building on Darpanarayan Tagore Street. He was electrocuted around 9.15pm, when he was trying to roll down the shutter of the garage, the police said. Two men survived electrocution at the Alipore chief judicial magistrate’s court on Thursday afternoon. The men — both law clerks — received electric shock while trying to wade through stagnant water in the court compound around 1.25pm, police said. An eyewitness said some bystanders dragged them out of the water. Arijit Mukhopadhyay, 25 and Supratim Barik, 24, were rushed to a private hospital in Alipore. They were treated and discharged from the hospital. Another man was injured after a portion of the top-floor balcony of a three-story house in the Girish Park area caved in on Thursday morning. The house stands on Kailash Kabiraj Street. Narendra Nath Jha, 45, was taken to a hospital from where he was discharged later in the day, the police said. In the evening, a portion of the top floor of a three-storey residential building in Shib Narayan Das Lane in north Calcutta collapsed and a portion of a wall of the top floor of a three-storey building in Balaram Majumder Street, also in the north, caved in. No one was injured. A tree was uprooted at the intersection of Park Street and Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road around 10am. The tree brought down a signal post and a mesh of overhead wires along with it. The Met office recorded over 100mm of rain in Alipore between 8.30pm on Wednesday and 8.30pm on Thursday, the most in 24 hours this July. The rain was triggered by a low-pressure area that had formed over the north Bay of Bengal off the Bangladesh coast. The system intensified into a well-marked low-pressure area and was stationed over Bangladesh for most of Wednesday and the first half of Thursday. It was moving westwards and was over the Bengal-Bangladesh border on Thursday evening. “The system is set to head towards Jharkhand via Bengal. It would pass over North 24-Parganas, Burdwan, Birbhum and adjoining western districts of Bengal before moving through Deoghar, Dhanbad and Gaya,” said G.K. Das, director, India Meteorological Department, Calcutta. The weather in Calcutta is set to improve from the second half of Friday. The sky is expected to remain cloudy and one or two spells of rain are likely. But the rain will not be non-stop like Thurs-day, said a Met official. The western districts of Bengal are likely to get heavy rain on Friday. Under the influence of the system, the sky was cloudy in patches over Calcutta throughout Wednesday. But it’s real impact was felt from Wednesday evening. Multiple sharp spells of rain lashed the city since Wednesday night. By the time most Calcuttans were out of their bed on Thursday, several low-lying areas were already under water. As the day progressed, the roads became deserted and shops closed early. The number of vehicles also went considerably down in the second half of the day and those who stepped out had a trying time returning home. Train services — only staff special trains are plying because of the Covid-19 curbs — between BBD Bag and Prinsep Ghat were stalled for a long time because of technical problems following the downpour. Metro Railway services were unaffected but the passenger count was quite low, said an official. July is usually the rainiest month of the year. But in the absence of rain-bearing systems over the Bay, the city had registered a rain deficit of around 25 per cent till the third week of July. The latest downpour, however, wiped out the deficit, said a Met official. “This was the first low-pressure area to have an impact over south Bengal this month,” Das said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-35
30-07-2021||Business||Govt introduces Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill in Rajya Sabha||The government on Friday introduced the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill in the Rajya Sabha, which aims to provide timely support to depositors of stressed banks.  Minister of State for Finance Bhagwat Karad introduced the Bill, which seeks to provide immediate relief to thousands of depositors who have their money parked in stressed lenders.  The Bill has proposed that even if a bank is temporarily unable to fulfil its obligations due to restrictions such as moratorium, depositors can access their deposits to the extent of the deposit insurance cover through interim payments by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC). For this, the Bill seeks to insert a new Section in the DICGC Act, 1961.  It also seeks to amend Section 15 of the DICGC Act to enable the Corporation to increase the ceiling on the amount of premium, with the prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).  Besides, it will also provide that the DICGC may defer or vary the receipt of repayments due to it from the insured bank and to empower the Corporation to charge penal interest in case of delay in repayment by the banks to the Corporation.  Though the RBI and the central government keep monitoring the health of all banks, there have been numerous recent cases of banks, especially cooperative banks, being unable to fulfil their obligations towards depositors due to the imposition of moratorium by the RBI.  Earlier this week, the Union Cabinet cleared amendments to the DICGC Act.  Last year, the government had increased insurance cover on deposits by five times to Rs 5 lakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
30-07-2021||Business||Centre's fiscal deficit touches 18.2 pc of annual target at end of June ||The central government's fiscal deficit stood at Rs 2.74 lakh crore or 18.2 per cent of the full year's Budget estimate at the end of June, according to data released by the Controller General of Accounts (CGA) on Friday. The fiscal deficit at the end of June 2020 was 83.2 per cent of the Budget Estimates (BE) of 2020-21. In absolute terms, the fiscal deficit was at Rs 2,74,245 crore at the end of June. For the current financial year, the government expects the fiscal deficit at 6.8 per cent of GDP or Rs 15,06,812 crore. The fiscal deficit or the gap between expenditure and revenue for 2020-21 was 9.3 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), better than 9.5 per cent projected in the revised estimates in the Budget in February. As per CGA data, the government received Rs 5.47 lakh crore (27.7 per cent of corresponding BE 2021-22 of total receipts) up to June 2021. The amount comprises Rs 4.12 lakh crore of tax revenues, Rs 1.27 lakh crore of non-tax revenues and Rs 7,402 crore of non-debt capital receipts. The receipts were 6.8 per cent of BE at the end of June 2020. Non-debt capital receipts consists of recovery of loans worth Rs 3,406 crore and disinvestment proceeds of Rs 3,996 crore. Further, Rs 1,17,524 crore was transferred to state governments as devolution of share of taxes by the Government of India up to June 2021. At the end of June, CGA said that total expenditure incurred by the government was Rs 8.21 lakh crore (23.6 per cent of corresponding BE 2021-22). Out of the total amount, Rs 7.10 lakh crore was on revenue account and Rs 1.11 lakh crore was on capital account. Out of the total revenue expenditure, Rs 1.84 lakh crore was for interest payments and about Rs 1 lakh crore was on account of major subsidies.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
30-07-2021||Business||Rakesh Jhunjhunwala's low-cost airline to revive Boeing in India||Billionaire Rakesh Jhunjhunwala's plan to launch an ultra-low-cost airline could give planemaker Boeing a chance to regain lost ground in India after the fall of one of its biggest customers, Jet Airways, two years ago, industry executives say. Mr Jhunjhunwala, known as India's Warren Buffett for his successful stock investments, plans to team up with former CEOs of IndiGo, the country's biggest carrier, and Jet Airways to tap into demand for domestic air travel. While plans to launch Akasa Air come at a time when India's aviation industry is reeling from the impact of the pandemic, with airlines losing billions of dollars, the sector's long-term prospect makes it a hot market for planemakers Boeing and Airbus. "There will be a big fight between Airbus and Boeing," said Nitin Sarin, managing partner at law firm Sarin & Co, which advises lessors and airlines. "For Boeing this is a great opportunity to step in and up their game, considering they don't have any other major operator for their 737 aircraft in India apart from SpiceJet," Sarin said, referring to Boeing's narrowbody aircraft. Boeing did not comment on Akasa's plans, but in a statement to Reuters said it always sought opportunities and talks with current and potential customers about how it can best support their fleet and operational needs. Details of the venture, including any decision on plane orders, have not been formally disclosed, but Mr Jhunjhunwala told Bloomberg he plans to have a 40 per cent stake in Akasa, which will have 70 aircraft of up to 180 seats within four years. Mr Jhunjhunwala, valued at $4.6 billion by Forbes, did not respond to an interview request. Indian skies are dominated by low-cost carriers (LCCs) including IndiGo, SpiceJet, GoFirst and AirAsia India, with the majority of them operating a fleet of Airbus' narrowbody planes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
30-07-2021||Business||Microsoft in talks to buy stake in OYO, claims sources||Microsoft is in advanced stages of discussions to pick up a stake in OYO that would value the hospitality firm at about USD 9 billion (around Rs 67,000 crore), according to sources. While the deal size is not known, sources close to the development said it will not be a significant stake. The transaction is likely to be completed before the proposed initial public offering (IPO) planned by OYO, for which no definitive timeline has been given. OYO and Microsoft did not respond to queries seeking comments on the matter. Earlier this month, OYO had raised a term loan B (TLB) funding of USD 660 million (nearly Rs 4,920 crore) from global institutional investors. The capital will be used for paring debt and other business investments. The offer was oversubscribed by 1.7 times and the company received commitments of close to USD 1 billion from leading institutional investors, OYO had said in a statement. TLB refers to a tranche of senior secured syndicated credit facility from global institutional investors. OYO is backed by marquee investors like SoftBank Vision Fund, Sequoia Capital, Lightspeed Ventures and Hero Enterprise, among others. Earlier this year, OYO Founder and Group CEO Ritesh Agarwal had said the company "is on a steady path of resurgence in 2021" and is seeing signs of recovery across India, Europe, and Southeast Asia. OYO's survival through the COVID crisis and resurgence shows that it is a company with strong fundamentals and high value potential, he had stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
30-07-2021||Business||Sensex closes modestly lower on fag-end sell-off||Equity benchmark Sensex slipped over 66 points to close at 52,586.84 on Friday, hit by fag-end selling in finance and metal stocks following sluggish investor sentiment in global markets.  The 30-share BSE index fell 66.23 points or 0.13 per cent to close at 52,586.84, while the broader NSE Nifty dipped 15.40 points or 0.10 per cent to 15,763.05.  The market remained range-bound for the most part of the session as investors kept their exposure lower due to weak global cues, traders said.  The selling pressure was witnessed towards the fag-end when European markets opened in the negative zone, they added.  Bajaj Finance was the top loser in the Sensex pack, shedding over 2.5 per cent, followed by SBI, Bajaj Finserv, Tata Steel, Asian Paints and Axis Bank.  On the other hand, Sun Pharma, Tech Mahindra, Power Grid, Bajaj Auto NTPC and HCL tech were among the gainers.  Sun Pharma surged over 10 per cent after it reported a net profit of Rs 1,444.17 crore for the quarter ended June.  Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul ended with significant losses.  Equities in Europe were also trading on a negative note in mid-session deals.  The rupee fell 13 paise to close at 74.42 against the US dollar.  Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.21 per cent to USD 75.89 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
30-07-2021||Business||Bill to amend general insurance law introduced in Lok Sabha||A bill to amend the general insurance law to allow the government to pare its stake in state-owned insurers was introduced in the Lok Sabha on Friday, but Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman insisted that it will not lead to privatisation. Introducing the General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, Sitharaman said its passage will help generate required resources from the Indian markets so that public sector general insurers can design innovative products. Several Opposition members had opposed the introduction of the bill, saying it will bring in foreign investors and entail total privatisation of PSU general insurance companies. Sitharaman said, "The apprehensions mentioned by the members are not well-founded at all. What we are trying to do in this is not to privatise. We are bringing some enabling provision so that the Government can bring in public, Indian citizens, and common people's participation in the general insurance companies." As per the statement of objects and reasons of The General Insurance Business (Nationalisation) Amendment Bill, 2021, it seeks to remove the requirement that the central government holds not less than 51 per cent of the equity capital in a specified insurer. With a view to provide for greater private participation in the public sector insurance companies and to enhance insurance penetration and social protection and better secure the interests of policyholders and contribute to faster growth of the economy, it has become necessary to amend certain provisions of the Act, as per the bill, which was introduced amid the din. Sitharaman said public-private participation in the general insurance industry will help get more resources. "Why do we need to raise the resources from the market? Our market can give the money from the retail participants who are Indian citizens. Through that, we can have greater money, bring in better technology infusion and also enable faster growth of such general insurance companies. We need money to run them," she said in the Lok Sabha. The minister said general insurance companies in the private sector have greater penetration, they raise more money from the market and therefore give a better premium for insuring the public and also have innovative packages. "Whereas public general insurance companies are not able to perform because they are always short of resources," Sitharaman said. Sitharaman in the Budget 2021-22 had announced a big-ticket privatisation agenda, including privatisation of two public sector banks and one general insurance company. "We propose to take up the privatisation of two Public Sector Banks and one General Insurance company in the year 2021-22. This would require legislative amendments," she had said. As of date, there are four general insurance companies in the public sector - National Insurance Company Limited, New India Assurance Company Limited, Oriental Insurance Company Limited and the United India Insurance Company Limited. Now, one of these will be privatised for which the government is yet to finalise the name.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
30-07-2021||Business||Sensex rises over 125 points in early trade||Equity benchmark Sensex surged over 125 points in early trade on Friday, tracking gains in index majors Tech Mahindra, TCS and HDFC twins. In a very volatile start at the markets, both the indices Sensex and Nifty - were oscillating frequently between the green and red. The 30-share index was trading 125.81 points or 0.24 per cent higher at 52,778.88 in initial deals, while the broader NSE Nifty advanced 38.55 points or 0.24 per cent to 15,817.00. Tech Mahindra was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising over 8 per cent, followed by HCL Tech, Power Grid, HDFC, Dr Reddy and M&M. Tech Mahindra on Thursday reported a 42.91 per cent growth in June quarter consolidated net profit at Rs 1,365.7 crore on higher revenue and an expansion in profit margins. Besides, TCS and HDFC Bank gained up to 0.45 per cent in early deals. On the other hand, Bajaj Finserv, SBI, Bharti Airtel and Asian Paints were among the laggards. In the previous session, Sensex climbed 209.36 points or 0.40 per cent to close at 52,653.07, while the broader NSE Nifty surged 69.05 points or 0.44 per cent to 15,778.45. Foreign institutional investors (FIIs) were net sellers in the capital market as they offloaded shares worth Rs 866.26 crore on Thursday, as per provisional exchange data. Elsewhere in Asia, bourses in Shanghai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong were in the red. Equities on Wall Street too ended on a positive note in overnight sessions. Meanwhile, international oil benchmark Brent crude declined 0.68 per cent to USD 75.53 per barrel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||Tech Mahindra reports 39 per cent rise in consolidated net profit||Tech Mahindra on Thursday reported a 39 per cent rise in consolidated net profit for the quarter ended June 30, 2021 on positive growth across its key markets and verticals accompanied by strong deal wins. The IT services firm posted a net profit of Rs 1,353.2 crore compared with Rs 972.3 crore in the same period of the previous year. During the period, the company’s total income rose to Rs 10,485 crore from Rs 9,522 crore in the year-ago period. In US dollar terms, its revenues came in at $1,383.6 million, a sequential rise of 4.1 per cent and a year-on-year rise of 14.6 per cent. In constant currency terms, revenue growth stood at 3.9 per cent over the preceding three months. However, margins stood at 18.4 per cent, a fall of 160 basis points over the January-March period. Cognizant income at $512m Cognizant has reported a 41.8 per cent increase in June quarter net income at $512 million (around Rs 3,801.7 crore). It expects to hire about one lakh people this year as the IT major looks to arrest high attrition rates in the company. The US-based company, which posted a net income of $361 million in the June 2020 quarter, has raised its FY2021 revenue growth guidance to 10.2-11.2 per cent (9-10 per cent in constant currency) on the back of strong booking momentum. Cognizant’s revenue rose 14.6 per cent (12 per cent in constant currency) at $4.6 billion from $4 billion a year ago. This is higher than the guidance of 10.5-11.5 per cent revenue growth for the June 2021 quarter. UTI AMC profit up 53% UTI Asset Management Company has reported a 53 per cent jump in its profit after tax (PAT) at Rs 155.03 crore in the June 2021 quarter. In comparison, the company had posted a PAT of Rs 101.36 crore in the same quarter of the preceding fiscal, UTI AMC said in a regulatory filing. The company reported a total income of Rs 350.11 crore compared with Rs 270.37 crore in the same quarter a year ago. Average assets under management was Rs 1,87,210 crore. LIC Housing Fin net declines Mortgage financier LIC Housing Finance on Thursday reported an 81 per cent decline in its standalone net profit at Rs 153.44 crore in the June quarter because of increased provisioning for non-performing loans. The lender had reported a profit of Rs 817.48 crore a year ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||Regulatory changes can enable institutions to tap corporate bond market further||Certain regulatory changes could enable banks, insurance companies and pension funds to tap the corporate bond market further and widen its appeal among investors. Speaking at an Assocham organised event on Thursday, Sebi wholetime member G. Mahalingam said changes such as the inclusion of corporate bonds as part of eligible assets under Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR) and as collaterals under RBI’s liquidity adjustment facility (LAF) could create a ready market for these bonds. SLR is the percentage of total demand and time liabilities that banks have to keep in certain specified assets, including cash, gold, treasury bills, dated government securities and state development loans. LAF is a facility extended by the RBI to scheduled commercial banks to avail liquidity or park excess funds with the RBI in case of excess liquidity on an overnight basis against the collateral of G-Secs, including SDLs. “While Basel guidelines provide for AAA -rated bonds to be included, today the banks are flooded with government bonds. So, they hardly ever take this as part of the liquidity coverage ratio. This mentality has to change,” Mahalingam said. Insurance companies and pension funds whose liabilities extend over a longer period of time can also consider investing in high rated corporate bonds. “Insurance companies have a liability profile which extends over a space of time. So, they are well positioned to take this kind of risk,” he said. Development of corporate bonds could play a key role raising capital at a time when banks are finding it difficult to extend long term credit due to asset liability mismatches and overburdened by stressed assets overhang. For the quarter ended June, the net outstanding amount of corporate bonds was Rs 3627667.18 crore. “I think there are quite a few things which need to change and if these changes do not take place, we cannot really hope that the corporate bond market is going to gain traction,” Mahalingam said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||Business must advance wider common good||Ben & Jerry’s, the ice cream maker, announced last week that it was ending sales in the Israeli-occupied territories, drawing a backlash from Israeli politicians and triggering one of the most contentious debates on the international stage. On Thursday, Ben & Jerry’s founders Bennett Cohen and Jerry Greenfield wrote a guest essay, titled “We’re Ben and Jerry. Men of Ice Cream, Men of Principle” in The New York Times. Cohen and Greenfield are Jewish Americans and they support the State of Israel. Yet, they thought it necessary to take a stand — a largely alien concept for businesses in India. The following is the guest essay Cohen and Greenfield wrote in The New York Times. We are the founders of Ben & Jerry’s. We are also proud Jews. It’s part of who we are and how we’ve identified ourselves for our whole lives. As our company began to expand internationally, Israel was one of our first overseas markets. We were then, and remain today, supporters of the State of Israel. But it’s possible to support Israel and oppose some of its policies, just as we’ve opposed policies of the US government. As such, we unequivocally support the decision of the company to end business in the occupied territories, which a majority of the international community, including the United Nations, has deemed an illegal occupation. While we no longer have any operational control of the company we founded in 1978, we’re proud of its action and believe it is on the right side of history. In our view, ending the sales of ice cream in the occupied territories is one of the most important decisions the company has made in its 43-year history. It was especially brave of the company. Even though it undoubtedly knew that the response would be swift and powerful, Ben & Jerry’s took the step to align its business and operations with its progressive values. That we support the company’s decision is not a contradiction nor is it anti-Semitic. In fact, we believe this act can and should be seen as advancing the concepts of justice and human rights, core tenets of Judaism. Ben & Jerry’s is a company that advocates peace. It has long called on Congress to reduce the US military budget. Ben & Jerry’s opposed the Persian Gulf war of 1991. But it wasn’t just talk. One of our very first social-mission initiatives, in 1988, was to introduce the Peace Pop. It was part of an effort to promote the idea of redirecting 1 per cent of national defence budgets around the world to fund peace-promoting activities. We see the company’s recent action as part of a similar trajectory — not as anti-Israel, but as part of a long history of being pro-peace. In its statement, the company drew a contrast between the democratic territory of Israel and the territories Israel occupies. The decision to halt sales outside Israel’s democratic borders is not a boycott of Israel. The Ben & Jerry’s statement did not endorse the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions movement (which calls for boycotts of all Israeli products and investments). The company’s stated decision to more fully align its operations with its values is not a rejection of Israel. It is a rejection of Israeli policy, which perpetuates an illegal occupation that is a barrier to peace and violates the basic human rights of the Palestinian people who live under the occupation. As Jewish supporters of the State of Israel, we fundamentally reject the notion that it is anti-Semitic to question the policies of the State of Israel. When we left the helm of the company, we signed a unique governance structure in the acquisition agreement with Unilever back in 2000. That structure is the magic behind both Ben & Jerry’s continued independence and its success. As part of the agreement, the company retained an independent board of directors with a responsibility to protect the company’s essential brand integrity and to pursue its social mission. We believe business is among the most powerful entities in society. We believe that companies have a responsibility to use their power and influence to advance the wider common good. Over the years, we’ve also come to believe that there is a spiritual aspect to business, just as there is to the lives of individuals. As you give, you receive. We hope that for Ben & Jerry’s, that is at the heart of the business. To us, that’s what this decision represents, and that is why we are proud that 43 years after starting an ice cream shop in a dilapidated gas station in Burlington, Vermont, our names are still on the package. New York Times News Service||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||Supreme Court reserves verdict in Amazon suit||The Supreme Court on Thursday reserved its verdict on Amazon Inc’s  appeal challenging the Rs 24,713-crore acquisition of Future Retail Limited (FRL) by Reliance Industries. “So we close the case now. The judgment is reserved,” a bench of justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai said after senior advocates Harish Salve and Gopal Subramanium, appearing for FRL and Amazon, respectively, concluded their submissions in the case. The crucial judgment which would have a huge bearing on the enforceability of foreign arbitral emergency awards on Indian entities is expected to be pronounced over the next fortnight. Summing up the arguments, Salve told the bench that the concept of emergency award as passed by the Singapore arbitrator was alien to the Indian concept and the same cannot be enforced on Indian companies. However, Amazon through Subramanium had maintained that FRL, which had prior enforceable contracts and arbitration agreements, was bound to implement the award passed by the Singapore Emergency Arbitrator. On February 22, the apex court had restrained NCLT from passing any final order on the Reliance-Future deal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||RBI cancels licence of Goa-based Madgaum Urban Co-operative Bank||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday cancelled the licence of Goa-based The Madgaum Urban Co-operative Bank Ltd with immediate effect. The RBI said the bank did not have adequate capital and earning prospect. Further, it would not be able to refund its existing depositors in full. Public interest would be adversely affected if the lender is allowed to carry on its banking operations. The Madgaum co-op bank will cease to carry on its operations with effect from the close of business on July 29. The banking regulator has also requested the Office of Registrar of Co-operative Societies, Goa, to issue an order to wind up the bank and appoint a liquidator. In a statement, the RBI said according to data submitted by the bank, about 99 per cent of the depositors will be fully refunded by the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC). Under the DICGC Act, a depositor can get up to Rs 5 lakh as a claim amount . The RBI had earlier put restrictions on the co-operative bank’s operations on May 2, 2019, for a period of six months. The validity of these directions was extended from time to time, with the last extension for  two months till August 2. Earlier, in September 2019, the RBI had superseded the board of PMC Bank and placed it under regulatory restrictions, including a cap on withdrawals by its customers, after detecting certain financial irregularities and mis-reporting of loans given to real estate developer HDIL. Last month, the central bank granted an in-principle approval to Centrum Financial Services and Resilient Innovations Pvt Ltd (which operates fintech startup BharatPe) to set up a small finance bank (SFB). After the SFB is formed and approval is received from the RBI, PMC Bank will be merged with the entity. Kotak view Kotak Mahindra Bank MD and CEO Uday Kotak on Thursday asked lenders not to window dress their accounts by deferring recognition of stressed assets in their books. Lenders have been blamed in the past for putting off recognition of souring assets which, in the end, blows up into a system-wide crisis. The comments in the annual report come at a time the pandemic has triggered concerns around the asset quality, but the RBI has expressed some relief after seeing lower than expected impairments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||Govt probing price of imported steel wire rods from China||The government is probing the price of imported steel wire rods from China to assess whether it should continue with the anti-dumping duty on the item. Indian companies such as RINL, SAIL and JSW have formally stated that the withdrawal of duties would lead to more dumping. In a gazette notification, the Directorate General of Trade Remedies (DGTR), under the commerce & industry ministry, said: “The domestic producers namely RINL, SAIL and JSW Steel have provided the prescribed information in the application. Further, Tata Steel Long Products and Jindal Steel and Power have supported the application,” the notification said. Domestic steel producers have said  dumping from China has continued even after the imposition of the duty and it would increase or recur if the government lifts the levy. The sunset review investigation will undertake a “likelihood analysis of dumping and injury”. A period of investigation of 18 months from October 1, 2019 to March 31, 2021, has been fixed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel reports 50 per cent jump in earnings||ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel (AM/NS) India, formerly Essar Steel Ltd, has reported a 50 per cent jump in earnings for the second quarter of 2021 at $607 million (Rs 4,500 crore) compared with the preceding three months and a 450 per cent jump over the same period last year, demonstrating a strong demand and a widening margin. The parent, ArcelorMittal, also posted its strongest quarter since 2008, reporting a 74 per cent spike in net income to $4 billion over the first quarter, backed by an all- round improvement in profitability across Europe, North America, CIS and Brazil. It had a net income of $2.28 billion in the first quarter and a loss of $559 million in the same period last year. ArcelorMittal announced a decarbonisation programme that pledges to reduce carbon-dioxide  by 25 per cent in the group and 35 per cent in Europe by 2030. Arcelor Mittal will invest $10 billion to achieve this target. India performance AM/NS India focused on the buoyant export market during the June quarter like its peers as the country faced localised lockdowns. Steel shipment was nearly flat at 1.72 million tonnes (mt) in the second quarter compared with 1.7mt in January-March . By the end of the second quarter, the business saw encouraging signs of domestic demand revival, particularly from the automotive, white goods and infrastructure sectors. Earnings before interest, depreciation, tax and amortisation (EBIDTA) stood at $607 million compared with $403 million in the first quarter and $107 million in the same period of last year, which was severely affected by the nationwide lockdown. Aditya Mittal, chairman of AM/NS India and CEO of AM, said, “AM/NS India’s progress in the 18 months since its inception is an excellent foundation to advance our plans to pursue both organic expansion and strategic opportunities in support of India’s growing economy.” The joint venture plans to expand capacity to 30mt in the country, including immediately expanding the Hazira, Gujarat plant to 8.4mt from 7.3mt. AM/NS plans to expand capacity to 14mt in the medium- and 18mt in the long-term. It has also signed an MoU with the Odisha government to set up a 12mt plant. At present, the company is expanding a pellet (an iron ore intermediary) plant in Odisha to 12mt allowing it to use low grade iron ore and reduce the cost of steel production.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||Business||Panatone Finvest to acquire 43.35% in Tejas Network||Panatone Finvest, a subsidiary of Tata Sons, is acquiring 43.35 per cent in Tejas Networks, a global optical, broadband and data networking products company, for Rs 1,850 crore. The multi-step deal will also see Panatone and some other companies of the Tata group make an open offer to acquire up to 4.03 crore equity shares of Tejas Networks, or 26 per cent of its emerging voting capital. As part of the agreement, Bangalore-based Tejas will make a preferential allotment to Panatone Finvest of 1.94 crore equity shares at a price of Rs 258 per share, aggregating Rs 500 crore. It will also issue 3.68 crore warrants (Series A warrants), each carrying a right to subscribe to one equity share at an exercise price of Rs 258 per share, aggregating Rs 950 crore. Tejas said Panatone can exercise the rights in one or more tranches over 11 months from the date of the allotment of the warrants. Panatone will be allotted another 1.55 crore warrants (Series B warrants), each carrying a right to subscribe to one equity share at an exercise price of Rs 258 per equity share, aggregating to Rs 400 crore. These warrants may be exercised in one or more tranches after 12 months of their allotment and till the 18th month. In a regulatory filing, Tejas said the Tatas will pay in cash for the preferential shares. The subscription share price will be payable at the time of subscription and the allotment of the shares. In warrants, the Tatas will pay 25 per cent of the warrant exercise price on their subscription and allotment, while the rest will be paid at the time of the allotment of the equity shares. Panatone will also acquire up to 13 lakh shares from the Tejas management at a price not exceeding Rs 258 per equity share aggregating Rs 34 crore, subject to such terms and conditions as mutually agreed between the parties, the company disclosed. Shares of Tejas Networks on Thursday got locked at the upper circuit on the announcement of the news. On the BSE they closed at Rs 246 — a gain of Rs 11.70 or 4.99 per cent. “This association provides us the necessary financial resources, global relationships and strong ecosystem to innovate and scale our business,’’ Tejas Networks chairman V. Balakrishnan said while commenting on the development. Tejas said it sees a very large opportunity in 5G and fiber-based broadband rollouts. Tejas Networks CEO and MD Sanjay Nayak and the rest of the management team will stay on with the company.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-125
30-07-2021||India||LAC: Twelfth round of China-India military talks on Saturday||After a gap of over three and a half months, India and China will hold next round of high-level military talks on Saturday with a focus on making some forward movement in the disengagement process in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh, sources in the military establishment said. India is hopeful of a positive outcome from the 12th round of Corps Commander talks in terms of disengagement in Hot Springs and Gogra, they said. The talks are scheduled to start at 10:30 AM at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, the sources said. The 11th round of military dialogue had taken place on April 9 at the Chushul border point on the Indian side of the LAC and it lasted for around 13 hours. The fresh round of talks is taking place over two weeks after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar firmly conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that the prolongation of the existing situation in eastern Ladakh was visibly impacting the bilateral ties in a "negative manner". The two foreign ministers had held a one-hour bilateral meeting on the sidelines of a conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Tajik capital city Dushanbe on July 14. In the meeting, Jaishankar told Wang that any unilateral change in the status quo along the LAC was "not acceptable" to India and that the overall ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. In the last round of military talks, both sides discussed ways to take forward the disengagement process in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang with a larger aim to bring down tensions in the region. However, there was no forward movement in the disengagement process from the Chinese side. The Indian delegation at Saturday's talks is to be led by Lt Gen PGK Menon, the Commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps. The border standoff between the Indian and Chinese militaries erupted in May last year following a violent clash in the Pangong lake areas and both sides gradually enhanced their deployment by rushing in tens of thousands of soldiers as well as heavy weaponry. As a result of a series of military and diplomatic talks, the two sides completed the withdrawal of troops and weapons from the North and South banks of Pangong lake in February in line with an agreement on disengagement. India has been insisting that resolution of outstanding issues including in Depsang, Hot Springs and Gogra is essential for overall ties between the two countries. Each side currently has around 50,000 to 60,000 troops along the LAC in the sensitive sector.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Covid: Tamil Nadu CM announces extended lockdown till August 8||Tamil Nadu chief minister M K Stalin today announced that the Covid lockdown in the state will be extended by a week, till August 8, and no fresh relaxations will be provided. Appealing to people to avoid stepping out unless necessary so that the third wave of the pandemic can be averted, the Chief Minister has asked local authorities and police to strictly enforce Covid guidelines. Yesterday, Tamil Nadu saw a slight rise in its daily Covid tally after 68 days. Chennai and Coimbatore, too, recorded a rise in cases for the third day in a row. He has also said collectors and commissioners can enforce lockdowns in specific areas if crowds gather. The Chief Minister has said action will be taken against commercial and other establishments that allow more customers than what is permitted in the Covid guidelines. Earlier, on July 16, the state government had extended the lockdown till July 31 while easing some curbs. While schools and colleges in the state continue to remain closed, Industrial Technical Institutes and typewriting schools have been allowed to function at 50 per capacity. Theatres, bars, swimming pools and zoos are still shut and political meetings and cultural events are prohibited. Tamil Nadu yesterday reported 1,859 new Covid cases and 28 deaths over the past 24 hours. The number of active cases in the state currently stands at 21,207. Over the past 10 days, the state's daily case counts have remained below the 2,000 mark. As per the Union Health Ministry data, over 2.23 crore doses of coronavirus vaccines have been administered in Tamil Nadu so far. More than 40 lakh people in the state have got both doses of the vaccines.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Democracy must go on, Mamata says  before leaving capital||"Democracy must go on", were West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's parting words as she left Delhi after a five-day visit on Friday, promising to return to the capital once every two months.  Terming her stay as "successful", Banerjee's first trip to the national capital after her resounding victory in the West Bengal assembly polls was akin to testing the waters before she waded deeper into national politics.  "The visit was successful. Met a lot of my colleagues for political reasons. We met for political purpose. Democracy must go on. Our slogan is 'save democracy, save country'. I will come here every two months, said the chief minister before leaving TMC MP and nephew Abhishek Banerjee's residence.  Banerjee also said that she supports the farmers' issue and is in touch with them.  She was referring to their protest against three agri laws, which were enacted in September last year.  "There cannot be anything better than opposition unity for a political purpose. I couldn't meet every leader that I wanted to because of Covid protocols. However, the outcome of the meetings has been good. Let us work together," the TMC supremo said.  She met some leaders of opposition parties, raising speculations about the possible united opposition before the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.  Banerjee met Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and Congress leaders like Anand Sharma, Kamal Nath and Abhishek Singhvi.  From the BJP, she met only Union Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari. She also met DMK leader Kanimozhi.  With her proclaiming, Ab poore desh mein khela hobe" (game will be on all over the country)", Banerjee seems to have blown the poll bugle for the 2024 Lok Sabha election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||CBSE class XII results: College admissions might be an 'uphill task' ||CBSE's feat of achieving the highest-ever pass percentage in class 12 has grabbed eyeballs of education experts who say college admissions might become an "uphill task" due to the high scores despite moderation. Some experts have pointed out that the allegedly "inflated" marks may be detrimental for state board students who will miss out further on chances of college admissions. The CBSE recorded the highest ever pass percentage of 99.37 in this year's class 12 results, declared on Friday, with girls outshining boys by a slender margin of 0.54 per cent. The pass percentage increased by over 10 percentage points against last year's 88.78 per cent. The results announced by the board showed that the number of candidates scoring above 95 per cent has increased from 38,686 last year to 70,004 this time. However, the number of students scoring between 90-95 percent has gone down from 1,57,934 last year to 1,50,152 this time. According to Milind Padalkar, pro chancellor, The NorthCap University, the huge number of students scoring above 95 percent, is going to increase the pressure of getting admission to highly sought-after colleges and students may be left without getting into colleges of their choice. "The colleges that see rush will have to evolve a different mechanism for acceptance. This also means the spike of students scoring high marks will have to be absorbed by various colleges who earlier were not on the consideration list of the students. Such colleges will have to gear up likewise for coming up with acceptance strategies. This might mean rising demands for colleges in general compared to last year," he told PTI. Shishir Jaipuria, Chairman, Seth Anandram Jaipuria Group of Educational Institutions, believes the excellent results indicate that college admissions will be an "uphill" task. "The results have understandably elated many students. About 99.37 percent students have passed the exam and over 70,000 of them have scored more than 95 percentile this year. This is a record high pass percentage and could be a result of the new 30-30-40 formula for academic evaluation of students,” he said. "The excellent results indicate that college admissions will be an uphill task. The college admission process will be tough as the cut-offs may increase," he added. According to Sangeeta Hajela, principal, DPS Indirapuram, to see nearly double the number of students in 95 percent and above bracket is surely noticeable phenomenon and "colleges need to rethink on their seats distribution" Narendra Shyamsukha, chairman ICA Edu SKills, said while it is a matter of rejoice for CBSE students, such inflation in marks has become a concern for students from the state boards. "The college cut-offs are going to be higher than last year as a large number of students have scored above 95 per cent in CBSE class 12 exams this year. So, if the results of the state boards don’t match up with the other boards, then students will miss out on seats in colleges and courses of our choice. Such inflation in marks will only cause unnecessary stress and disparity in the society, he said. "For the last few years, it has been seen that the first two merit lists of colleges are mostly dominated by CBSE students. Also, this will impact the admission criteria in the deemed universities, while earlier grades, extracurricular activities, and sports would have made a student get into a good college, this time colleges might look at extra skills, reasoning and creative thinking, communication skills and other qualities that makes them eligible for admissions," he added. Dheeraj Sanghi, Vice Chancellor-Designate, JK Lakshmipat University, Jaipur, said the marks allotted by the CBSE are "pretty random" and do not reflect the hard work that students put into getting the grades in class 12 like it used to happen usually. "This time college admission interviews should focus more on creative, cognitive thinking and overall aptitude and portfolio of the students," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Over 20,000 fresh Covid-19 cases in Kerala for fourth straight day||Kerala for the fourth day running recorded more than 20,000 fresh cases in the state with the test positivity rate (TPR) rising to 13.61 per cent and 116 more people succumbing to COVID-19.  With 20,772 fresh cases, the infection caseload in the state reached 33,70,137 and the 116 deaths pushed the total casualties to 16,701, a state government release said.  As many as 14,651 people have been cured of the infection, taking the total recoveries to 31,92,104 and the number of active cases in the state to 1,60,824.  In the last 24 hours, 1,52,639 samples were tested and the TPR was found to be 13.61 per cent.  So far, 2,70,49,431 samples have been tested, it said.  Some of the worst affected districts in the state are Malappuram (3670), Kozhikode (2470), Ernakulam (2306), Thrissur (2287), Palakkad (2070), Kollam (1415), Alappuzha (1214), Kannur (1123), Thiruvananthapuram (1082) and Kottayam (1030).  Of the new cases, 81 are health workers, 137 had come from outside the state and 19,622 were infected through contact with the source of contact being not clear in 932 cases, the release said.  There are currently 4,56,951 people under surveillance in various districts of the state.  Of these, 4,29,118 are in home or institutional quarantine and 27,833 in hospitals.  There are 678 areas in the state with a TPR of above 10 per cent, the release said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||ED summons Anil Deshmukh, son in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate on Friday issued fresh summons to former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and his son to appear before it next week in connection with a money laundering case probe, official sources said. The development comes on a day the Supreme Court adjourned Anil Deshmukh's plea, which sought protection from any coercive action by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the criminal case registered under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), and said it would hear his petition on August 3. The 71-year-old NCP politician and his son, Hrishikesh Deshmukh, have been asked to depose before the investigating officer of the case on August 2 at the ED's office in south Mumbai. This is the fourth summons to Anil Deshmukh. The notice has been issued under provisions of the PMLA as the agency wants to further record his statement in this case, sources said. Anil Deshmukh has skipped at least three summonses of the federal probe agency in the past for questioning in the case. His son and wife too were summoned and they also did not appear. He recently issued a video statement stating that he would appear before the ED "after" the apex court's decision on his petition. "I had received ED's summons after which I filed a petition in the Supreme Court. I will go to the ED to record my statement after the SC's decision on my petition," Anil Deshmukh had said. The summonses were issued in connection with the criminal case registered under the PMLA related to an alleged Rs 100 crore bribery-cum-extortion racket in the Maharashtra police establishment that led to Anil Deshmukh's resignation in April. The agency had last month raided his premises in Mumbai and Nagpur apart from that of his aides and some others. It subsequently arrested two of his aides in this case, personal secretary Sanjeev Palande (51) and personal assistant Kundan Shinde (45). The ED's case against Anil Deshmukh and others was made out after the CBI booked him in a corruption case related to allegations of at least Rs 100 crore bribery made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. Early this month, the agency had also attached assets worth Rs 4.20 crore of Anil Deshmukh and his family. The ED had claimed its probe found that "Deshmukh, while acting as home minister of Maharashtra, with dishonest intention has received illegal gratification of approximately Rs 4.70 crore in cash from various orchestra bar owners, through (suspended) Sachin Waze, then the assistant police inspector of Mumbai Police." Anil Deshmukh has denied any wrongdoing in these instances and his lawyers have called the ED action against him unjustified. He had said Param Bir Singh made the allegations against him after he was removed from the post of Mumbai police commissioner. The ED had earlier claimed in court that Waze recorded his statement before the agency stating he "collected" Rs 4.70 crore cash from Mumbai bar owners and "handed it over" to Anil Deshmukh's personal assistant (Shinde). The police officer is lodged in the Taloja prison in Navi Mumbai in connection with a NIA case related to the recovery of a explosives laden SUV near the residence of Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani and a linked death of businessman Mansukh Hiran. The ED said Waze also recorded his statement saying he attended a meeting at the official residence of the then home minister wherein he was given a list of bar and restaurant owners and asked "to collect Rs 3 lakh per month from each bar and restaurant" in Mumbai.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Centre asks states to conduct vaccine drive for beggars, vagabonds||The Centre has urged states and union territories to conduct special vaccination sessions for the destitute, beggars and vagabonds who may not have access to self-registration and lack resources for vaccination. In a letter to the chief secretaries of states and the administrators of UTs, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the state government may take the help of NGOs, civil society organisations and public spirited citizens/volunteers in this endeavour. Bhushan said more than 45 crore vaccine doses have been administered till date. The vaccination drive is people-centric and provisions have been made to make it accessible to all eligible priority groups irrespective of their socioeconomic status, he said in his letter dated July 29. "There is a need to keep the focus of Covid vaccination on the most vulnerable groups to ensure vaccination is equitable and accessible to all," the letter said. "The vaccination of destitutes and vagabonds who may not have access to self-registration and lack resources for vaccination, needs to be facilitated. States and UTs may adopt a targeted approach to cover this group," said the letter addressed. The ministry has already advised all states and UTs, through a letter on May 6, for providing Covid vaccination to such group of people like beggars, nomads, people residing in rehabilitation camps etc while sharing the SOPs regarding vaccination of persons who do not possess prescribed identity card, he said. "You are, therefore, requested to direct the concerned Departments of Social Justice and Empowerment and Health in your State/UT to work together to facilitate vaccination of the destitutes, beggars and vagabonds. "Concerned Departments of the State Government may take the help of NGOs/CSOs and public spirited citizens/volunteers in this endeavour. Special session may be planned for conducting the vaccination for this group of persons," the letter stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India|| When will the government give up its ostrich-like attitude, Chidamnaram asks on Pegasus row||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Friday attacked the government over the Pegasus snooping allegations, asking whether it will give up its "ostrich-like attitude" and agree to the Opposition's demand for a full discussion in Parliament on the issue. The Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been adjourned repeatedly over Opposition protests demanding a discussion on the Pegasus snooping allegations since the Monsoon Session commenced on July 19. Attacking the government, Chidambaram said another case of misuse of Pegasus spyware has been revealed now with France's national cybersecurity agency confirming that Pegasus spyware was infiltrated into phones belonging to two journalists of Mediapart, an investigative journal in France. "Mediapart is the media organization that broke the story that the Rafale aircraft deal was being probed in France," the former home minister said. "Will the government give up its ostrich-like attitude and agree to the Opposition's demand for a full discussion in Parliament on misuse of Pegasus spyware in India? How long can the government duck and hide and scoot when all that the Opposition wants is a full debate?" Chidambaram said in a series of tweets. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. Opposition leaders including Rahul Gandhi, two union ministers -- Prahlad Singh Patel and Railways and IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw -- businessman Anil Ambani, a former CBI chief, and at least 40 journalists are on the list on the leaked database of NSO. It is, however, not established that all the phones were hacked. The government has been denying all Opposition allegations in the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Maharashtra: Woman banker killed by debt-ridden ex-manager||A woman official of a private bank at Virar in Maharashtra's Palghar district was stabbed to death, while her female colleague was injured in an attack by two persons, including a debt-ridden former manager of the same branch, police said on Friday. The incident occurred at ICICI Bank's Virar east branch around 8.30 pm on Thursday. The two victims were the only persons working in the bank at that time, they said. Anil Dubey, one of the two accused arrested in the case, is a former manager of the same branch of the bank where the incident took place, senior inspector Suresh Varade of Virar police station said. The accused duo entered the bank and threatened its assistant manager Yogita Vartak and cashier Shraddha Devrukhkar - at knifepoint when they were doing some official work, he said. The accused asked them to hand over cash and jewellery and tried to flee with the booty, when the two women raised an alarm and tried to stop the robbers. However, the accused stabbed Vartak and Devrukhkar, he added. Dubey was later caught by the people, who chased him. However, his accomplice escaped from the spot, Varade said. People found Vartak lying motionless in a pool of blood inside the bank, while her colleague was badly injured. They were rushed to a hospital, where the former was declared brought dead, police said. Dubey is a former manager of the same branch of the bank where the drama unfolded. He had taken a loan of Rs 1 crore and in order to repay the amount, he conspired to loot this bank. He currently works with another private bank in Naigaon in the district, Varade said. Devrukhar was admitted to a private hospital, where she was undergoing treatment, while Vartak's body was sent for post-mortem, police said. A case has been registered against the accused under IPC sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder) and 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) at Virar police station. Police have launched a search for Dubey's accomplice.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Bombay HC grants temporary bail to Elgaar-accused Surendra Gadling||The Bombay High Court on Friday granted temporary bail to lawyer Surendra Gadling, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad-Maoist links case, to enable him to perform certain rituals for his mother who died last year. Gadling, lodged at Taloja jail in Navi Mumbai, can be out on bail from August 13 to 21, said a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and N J Jamadar. Earlier this year, he had moved the HC through his lawyers R Sathyanarayan and senior counsel Indira Jaising against a lower court's denial of emergency bail to him to attend his mother's funeral when she died of Covid-19 in August 2020. His lawyers told the HC last week that as most of his family members were either hospitalized or under home isolation then, the last rites and condolence meeting for his mother were yet to be performed. The family has decided to perform these rites on her first death anniversary on August 15, advocate Jaising told the court, seeking temporary bail for him. The court granted the request on Friday. Gadling was asked to submit his passport before the special National Investigation Agency court and also his "whole itinerary" for the period of bail. The HC also directed Gadling to furnish two sureties for Rs 50,000 each. He will have to attend the local police station at 10 am on August 16 and August 19. He can not leave Nagpur city except for immersing his mother's ashes in the Bina river on August 19, the judges said. Gadling was arrested in the Elgaar Parishad case on June 6, 2018, and has remained in prison awaiting trial since then. He and several other activists have been arrested in the case for alleged links with the Naxals.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-374
30-07-2021||India||Searches carried out after suspected drone sighting near IB in Jammu||The Jammu and Kashmir Police carried out searches in Pargwal area near the International Border (IB) here after local residents allegedly spotted a flying object believed to be a drone, officials said on Friday. The operation was launched in several villages of Pargwal late Thursday evening, shortly after a local resident noticed a blinking light in the sky at around 8.30 pm and alerted fellow villagers, they said. However, the search operation was suspended late night and resumed at around 5 am this morning. However, nothing objectionable was recovered during the operation. Three suspected Pakistani drones were also sighted simultaneously over Bari-Brahmana, Chiladya and Gagwal areas in Samba district around the same time on Thursday. A massive combing operation was carried out in the areas where the movement of the suspected drones was picked up throughout the night and in the morning. However, nothing was found on the ground, a police official said. Personnel of the Border Security Force (BSF) fired a couple of rounds towards one of the drones in Chiladya before it returned to the Pakistani side, officials said. The other two drones disappeared from the sky shortly after hovering over sensitive security installations at Bari Brahmana and along Jammu-Pathankot highway in Gagwal, they said. The latest sightings were recorded nearly a week after police shot down a Pakistani drone carrying five-kg Improvised Explosive Device (IED) material in the border belt of Kanachak near here. There has been a spurt in drone activities, especially after the bombing of Indian Air Force (IAF) Station in Jammu on June 27, resulting in injuries to two security personnel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||CBSE: Over 65,000 students await Class 12 results||The wait is not over for nearly 65,000 class 12 students whose results are yet to be declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). The board announced the results for class 12 on Friday, however, the scores of 65,184 candidates have been held back. The board exams were cancelled this year in view of the aggressive second wave of Covid-19 and the results have been prepared on basis of an alternate assessment policy announced by the CBSE. For class 12 scores, the marks of classes 10 and 11, and internal assessment during class 12, have been taken into account. "The result of about 1,060 new schools is still under process as there was no reference year. Hence, the board is looking into the interest of these candidates and their result will be declared latest by August 5," said Sanyam Bhardwaj, Controller of Examinations. These students have been placed under the "results later" category in today's announcement of scores. This year, 99.37 per cent of over 14.30 lakh students have cleared the exam. Continuing with the trend, girls have outshone boys but the margin has been reduced to 0.54 per cent from 5.96 per cent last year. The number of candidates scoring above 95 per cent has also increased from 38,686 last year to 70,004 this year. No merit list has been announced this year. "CBSE will be issuing a combined marksheet-cum-certificate to students unlike separate documents issued in previous years," Bhardwaj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||Pegasus controversy a 'non-issue', says Pralhad Joshi||As Opposition protests over alleged snooping using Pegasus spyware continue to disrupt Parliamentary proceedings, Union minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday said the controversy was a "non-issue" and that the government was ready for discussions on people-related issues. The Pegasus spyware issue has snowballed into a political controversy, disrupting Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha since the start of the Monsoon session on July 19. IT Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has given a statement on the issue in both the Houses but the Opposition parties are not satisfied and are demanding specific answers. As yet another day of Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned due to vociferous protests, Joshi, the Union Parliamentary Affairs Minister, urged the protesting members to allow the House to function while speaking during the Question Hour. While describing the Opposition's behaviour as "unfortunate", the minister said in the Lower House that the spyware issue was not a serious one. Noting that the IT Minister has already given a detailed statement on the issue in both the Houses, Joshi said the protests are over a "non-issue, non-serious issue". "There are so many issues directly related to the people of India... government is ready for discussions," he said. This week, the Lower House passed some bills without much discussion amid the din. "We don't want to pass bills without discussions," Joshi asserted. Amid uproar, Lok Sabha proceedings were adjourned for the day. Earlier, the House was adjourned for half an hour till noon. As soon as the House met for the day, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury sought to raise certain issues but was not allowed. During Question Hour, Opposition members raised slogans and displayed placards as they protested on Pegasus spyware controversy and other issues.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||70 cases of Delta Plus variant found in genome sequencing in India, Lok Sabha told||Seventy cases of coronavirus Delta Plus variant were found in genome sequencing by INSACOG, a grouping of 28 laboratories involved in the task, Union Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh said on Friday. In a written response to a question in the Lok Sabha, he said so far, 58,240 samples of SARS-CoV2 have been sequenced in the country and of these, 46,124 were analysed. A majority of these samples -- 17,169 -- were of Delta variant, Singh said. The Delta variant of SARS-CoV2 was behind the deadly second wave in the country that killed thousands and infected lakhs from March to May. It is also driving the pandemic in different parts of the world. This variant of coronavirus was first detected in India. There were 4,172 cases of the Alpha variant, followed by 217 of Beta and just one of Gamma. "A total of 70 Delta Plus strains have been found as on 23.07.2021," Singh said. In Maharashtra, 23 cases of Delta Plus variant were detected, followed by 11 in Madhya Pradesh, 10 in Tamil Nadu, four in Chandigarh, three each in Kerala and Karnataka, two each in Andhra Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and one each in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Jammu, Rajasthan, Odisha and Himachal Pradesh. In a statement on July 19, the INSACOG said there is currently no evidence of any new Delta sub-lineage that is of greater concern than Delta. Singh said INSACOG collects samples through the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) network for public health purpose to assess the impact on transmissibility and disease severity. The 28 laboratories of the Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Department of Science and Technology (DST), Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHF&W), Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Ministry of Education, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and state governments are located in 13 states and Union Territories. The overall aim of the Indian SARS-CoV-2 genomics consortium is to monitor the genomic variations in the SARS-CoV-2 in the country. Efforts in terms of expansion of INSACOG and onboarding more laboratories have been undertaken. The criteria for recognising the laboratories have been finalised. Laboratories that fulfil the criteria are recognised as INSACOG Genome Sequencing Laboratory, Singh informed the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||Why is Covid the untamed beast in Kerala? ||Two months ago, Kerala Government officials had sounded briskly confident that they had the coronavirus under control. On May 12, daily new infections had peaked at 43,529 and after that, numbers began moving steadily downwards. Over the next two to three weeks, officials insisted, cases would fall further and the second wave would be largely history. That optimism has proved premature. India’s medically best-equipped state is still struggling to wrestle the pandemic to the ground. Since troughing at 8,063 new daily cases in late June, the infection curve has moved steadily upward. The latest figures show Kerala accounting for over half the national caseload -- 22,056 cases out of 43,132 nationally on Wednesday. And that’s despite 35 per cent of the state's population having received their first vaccine and an impressive 16 per cent both jabs (way above the 8 per cent rate nationally). So what’s going on? At one level, there’s the view that the state’s high caseload may just reflect its diligence in detecting new cases. Says virologist Shahid Jameel: “The only answer I can see is Kerala is testing more widely and is reporting honestly -- and trying to keep down mortality.” Some experts, though, say more investigation is needed to see if other factors are at play. Says Sulphi Noohu, president-elect Indian Medical Association, Kerala wing: “We definitely need to study if there’s some other factor. Possibly, more genomic testing is called for” that might detect new variants, for instance. Inevitably, there’s the fear the Kerala cases could spread to neighbouring states or to other parts of the country and trigger a devastating third wave. Alarmingly, seven out of 14 Kerala districts have seen infection levels rising in the last four weeks. The state’s imposing a two-day lockdown over the coming weekend but experts say stricter movement curbs may be needed. Low mortality numbers Puzzlingly, cases have been rising despite the fact the state has done just about everything right with its “war rooms” that collect data on hospital beds and monitor patients. At the peak of the Covid-19 crisis, it was able to keep deaths at a low level and even now its mortality numbers are lower than other states, Kerala has an ageing population and there are a huge number of people who suffer from diabetes and other comorbidities. For example, Kerala on July 29 had 22,056 Covid-19 cases and Maharashtra had only 6,857. But Kerala had 131 deaths compared to Maharashtra’s 286. In fact, the argument widely accepted by even eminent virologists like Gagandeep Kang is Kerala may be a victim of its own success in not letting the pandemic accelerate out of control. This, experts say, is suggested by the latest seropositivity studies which track the number of people who have Covid-19 antibodies. In Kerala, only 44 per cent have antibodies compared to 67 per cent nationwide. The downside is it means a larger chunk of the Kerala population is still vulnerable to the infection and hitherto uninfected people now are catching the virus. Nationally, Madhya Pradesh leads the way with 79 per cent seropositivity. Then, look at Covid-19 case detection. The ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) serosurvey concluded India nationally has detected only one in 33 cases. Kerala, by contrast, has been able to capture one out of six. Maharashtra, the other state with a huge number of cases that are just coming down, is reckoned to have detected one out of 12 cases. While last year it was testing between 50,000 and 70,000 people daily, on one day this week tests touched 199,000. The Kerala government insists its ‘cluster’ testing is way more effective than what’s done in most of India. Cluster testing involves testing everyone who has had contact with a patient. Some slip-ups nevertheless But there have been slip-ups in Kerala’s Covid-19 handling just as in other parts of the country. The state relaxed social-distancing controls, first for local and then state-level elections. Last year, during Onam, the state’s main festival, people who’d stayed inside carefully suddenly got into socialising mode. Worryingly, Onam’s just round the corner now in August and officials are expecting a spike in the weeks following. Still, so far, the state has coped well despite heavy odds, State government officials point out there’s never been a bed shortage in general wards or in ICUs even during the devastating second wave. Also, Kerala, which had the existing advantage of good healthcare infrastructure, had plenty of oxygen and there has never been a risk of a shortage unlike in many other parts of India where people died for lack of oxygen. In fact, the state government drew up elaborate plans for the pandemic soon after it received India’s first patient in January 2020 – a medical student back from Wuhan. The planning included rigorous surveillance. For instance, the “route maps of all persons who tested positive were published and all primary and secondary contacts traced.” The police force was famously pulled in to control borders. Initially, the state’s efforts were so successful it won praise from the world’s press and the-then state health minister K. K. Shailaja made it to Vogue magazine’s Women of the Year list. But the numbers began to climb when people returned to the state from other parts of India. Some state government officials had expected the first wave to end around December but that didn’t happen. What’s the way forward? One proposed answer is for a long lockdown but the state government’s desperate to avoid that option because the economy’s already taken a big beating. There’s no big industry and many Kerala families are dependent on remittances that have slowed sharply due to Covid. Many people have lost Gulf jobs and others have been unable to return there. Dubai, for instance, isn’t taking people. At another level, small shopkeepers have also been hit. Says health policy expert and ex-UNDP senior advisor Pramod Kumar: “Kerala’s a consumer state and the consumption engine is remittances.” One control step Kerala chief minister P. Vijayan’s just announced is that only 50 per cent of government employees will be called into the office on many days. Also, micro-containment zones have been introduced. Lockdown only option? But these are seen as halfway measures. Jameel believes a lockdown may be the only way to bring the virus to heel. “They should consider it, at least for the top districts: Ernakulam, Mallapuram and Kozhikode,” he says. Mallapuram has been showing a 17 per cent test positivity ratio while the average test positivity ratio in the state has risen to 12.1 per cent. (Contrast that with the 0.08 per cent positivity rate of New Delhi which was devastated by the second wave). There’s another risk to not locking down fully, Jameel points out. “The approach of letting people get infected while preventing deaths is risky because 10-to-30 per cent of those infected, even asymptomatically, develop Long Covid,” creating persistent health problems like fatigue, respiratory problems or chronic pain. Initially, it was thought that ‘herd immunity’ would kick in at around 60 per cent to 65 per cent. But says the IMA’s Noohu: “We need to work out the threshold for herd immunity because we have ‘variants of concern’. It was 60 per cent to 70 per cent initially but now it may be 75 per cent to 80 per cent because of the more contagious Delta.” Plea for more vaccines Ultimately, Kerala government officials say vaccination is the only weapon to finally slay the virus and they’re furiously lobbying the Centre for a bigger share of the vaccines available. Kerala Left MPs note that between July 18 and July 24, 1.8 million state residents were jabbed and are asking for 9 million more doses to keep up the pace of delivery. Kerala ran run out of vaccines this week and it has been awaiting a new consignment. Everyone hopes the situation won’t worsen significantly from here. While cases are rising, the curve has risen more gradually than during the second wave. Kumar notes that during the 1918 Spanish Flu, “it burnt through faster in the army barracks while in the general population, it took longer.” So, it could simply be that Kerala’s rising caseload means the state is paying the price of having kept numbers at manageable levels and ensuring the pandemic didn’t, at any point, overwhelm its healthcare system.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||Remarks against allopathy: HC seeks Ramdev's stand on plea against him||The Delhi High Court Friday sought Yoga guru Ramdev's stand on a lawsuit against him by several doctors' associations for allegedly spreading misinformation by his statements against allopathy amid the COVID-19 pandemic which purportedly amounts to public nuisance. Justice Hari Shankar granted a week's time to Ramdev to file his response and said that he would not grant leave for institution of the proceedings in the absence of a reply. "Public nuisance has some consequences on the defendant. It is open to the defendant (Ramdev) to say that there is no case. Can't say that I won't give him an opportunity," the judge said. Senior advocate Akhil Sibal, appearing for the associations, argued that to grant permission to institute the suit, the court has to only look at the plea before it and need not seek the other party's response. "It is between me and the court unless it (the plea) is evidently vexatious.. merits will come after I'm permitted," Sibal stated. Senior advocate Rajiv Nayar, representing Ramdev, said that the plea was a second bite at the cherry and opposed the grant of leave. The court granted time to Nayar to file his response and said, "They (Ramdev) will file a counter for revoking the leave (if) granted. We will put it next Friday. Let them file a reply." The matter would be heard next on August 10. The associations before court are three Resident Doctors' Association of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences at Rishikesh, Patna and Bhubaneshwar, Association of Resident Doctors, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh, Union of Resident Doctors of Punjab (URDP); Resident Doctors' Association, Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical College, Meerut and Telangana Junior Doctors' Association, Hyderabad. They alleged that Ramdev was misleading and misrepresenting to the public at large that allopathy was responsible for the deaths of several people infected by COVID-19, and insinuating that allopathic doctors were causing deaths of the patients. In their plea filed through advocate Harshavardhan Kotla, the associations have submitted that the yoga guru was sowing doubts in the minds of general public with respect to the safety and efficacy of not only allopathic treatments but also COVID-19 vaccines. "Being a highly influential person, it is apprehended that Ramdev's statements can influence lakhs of people and divert them from allopathic treatment which are prescribed as the standard form of care even by the government," the plea submitted. The associations alleged in the plea that the misinformation campaign was nothing but an advertisement and marketing strategy to further the sales of the product sold by Ramdev, including Coronil which claims to be an alternative treatment for COVID-19. With the third wave of COVID-19 likely to set in August, it is imperative that Ramdev's sustained misinformation campaign be brought to a halt, the association has pleaded. The other defendants in the plea include Acharya Balkrishna and Patanjali Ayurveda. The court had on June 3 issued summons to Ramdev on a plea by the Delhi Medical Association in connection with his alleged statements against allopathic medicines and claims regarding Patanjali's Coronil kit. The court had refused to restrain Ramdev at that stage saying the allopathic profession was not so fragile. It had, however, orally asked Ramdev's counsel to tell him not to make any provocative statements.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||CBSE class 12 results: Girls outshine boys as over 99 per cent pass||Maintaining the previous trend, girls outshone boys in CBSE class 12 exams this year by a margin of 0.54 percent, while over 70,000 students scored above 95 percent marks. The results were declared by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Friday. "Girls have done better than boys by 0.54 percent. The pass percentage this year is 99.37 percent. No merit list has been announced," a senior board official said. The result for over 65,000 candidates is still being prepared and will be declared by August 5. A total of 70,004 students have scored above 95 per cent marks while 1,50,152 students have cored above 90 per cent. As many as "6149 students have been placed in compartment," the official said. The board exams were cancelled this year in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19, and the result will be announced on basis of an alternate assessment policy by the board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||Suspension of scheduled international passenger flights extended till August 31||The coronavirus-induced suspension of scheduled international passenger flights has been extended till August 31, aviation regulator DGCA said on Friday. "However, international scheduled flights may be allowed on selected routes by the competent authority on a case-to-case basis," the Directorate General of Civil Aviation added. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020, due to the coronavirus pandemic. But special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral "air bubble" arrangements with selected countries since July 2020. India has formed air bubble pacts with around 24 countries including the US, the UK, the UAE, Kenya, Bhutan and France. Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international flights can be operated by their airlines between their territories. The DGCA circular also said that the suspension does not affect the operation of international all-cargo operations and flights specifically approved by it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||My comment on rape victims taken out of context, says Goa CM||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who has drawn criticism over his remark about the gang-rape of two girls, on Friday said his statement was taken out of context, and added that the safety of minors has to be a shared responsibility . He also said that he was deeply pained by the incident and would ensure that the accused in the case get the most stringent punishment under the law . Four men, one of them a driver with the agriculture department, allegedly posed as policemen and raped two girls after beating up the boys who were with them on Benaulim beach on Sunday. All the accused have been arrested. On Wednesday, Sawant had said in the state Assembly that parents need to introspect on why their children were on the beach late at night. The chief minister, who also holds the home portfolio, had said parents have a responsibility to ensure the safety of their children and hinted that they should not let their children, particularly minors, out at night. But his remarks drew angry reactions. In a statement issued here on Friday, Sawant said, "My statement about the unfortunate incident was taken out of context." "Both - as the head of a responsible government and as a father of a 14 year old daughter, I was deeply pained and disturbed. The pain of this incident is inexplicable," he added. The chief minister said that at no point he had tried to deny the right to security provided by the law. "Goa police have been a truly professional force especially when it comes to security of women and children. They have already acted swiftly and arrested the accused, and let me assure you that I shall ensure that the culprits get the most stringent punishment under the law," he added. "The safety of our citizens is always my government's top priority," he said. "The safety of children especially the minor ones has to be a shared responsibility. Our right to security has to be strengthened further with more cautiousness. Children, especially minors, need guidance of their elders," he said. The chief minister said that there is a curfew imposed in the state, and people are restricted at public places. "So, when I spoke about a shared responsibility for minor children, it was out of concern, care and love for my fellow citizens and our children," he added. "We all love our kids. Being the chief minister, my feeling of concern is extended to all the children of Goa," Sawant said. He added that both as an individual and as the chief minister, he can never ever directly, indirectly or remotely hurt the sentiments of the fellow citizens of Goa. "I put this on record today," he said. Sawant reiterated that there would be no compromise in matters concerning the safety and security of children. "Let there be no place for misunderstanding. Let us stand united. Let us trust each other. Let us stand united as one Goa so that all such evils can be defeated with all our might," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||HC to hear pleas of FB, WhatsApp challenging new IT Rules in August||The Delhi High Court Friday said it will hear on August 27 the pleas by Facebook and WhatsApp challenging the new IT rules for social media intermediaries, requiring the messaging app to trace chats and make provisions to identify the first originator of information, on the ground that they violate the right to privacy and are unconstitutional. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh listed the matter for August 27 after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, said he was in some difficulty and urged the court to adjourn the hearing. The request was not opposed by senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for WhatsApp and Facebook respectively. The new Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 were announced by the government on February 25 and requires large social media platforms like Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp to comply with the norms by May 25. The Facebook owned WhatsApp in its plea said the requirement of intermediaries enabling the identification of the first originator of information in India upon government or court order puts end-to-end encryption and its benefits "at risk". WhatsApp LLC has urged the high court to declare Rule 4(2) of the Intermediary Rules as unconstitutional, ultra vires to the IT Act and illegal and sought that no criminal liability be imposed on it for any alleged non-compliance with Rule 4(2) which requires to enable the identification of the first originator of information. WhatsApp, which has arrayed the Centre through the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology as a party to the petition, said the traceability provision is unconstitutional and against the fundamental right to privacy. The plea said the traceability requirement forces the company to break end-to-end encryption on its messaging service, as well as the privacy principles underlying it, and infringes upon the fundamental rights to privacy and free speech of the hundreds of millions of citizens using WhatsApp to communicate privately and securely. It said WhatsApp enables government officials, law enforcement, journalists, members of ethnic or religious groups, scholars, teachers, students, and the like to exercise their right to freedom of speech and expression without fear of retaliation. WhatsApp also allows doctors and patients to discuss confidential health information with total privacy, enables clients to confide in their lawyers with the assurance that their communications are protected, and allows financial and government institutions to trust that they can communicate securely without anyone listening to their conversations, it said. "There is no way to predict which message will be the subject of such a tracing order. Therefore, the petitioner would be forced to build the ability to identify the first originator for every message sent in India on its platform upon request by the government forever. This breaks end-to-end encryption and the privacy principles underlying it, and impermissibly infringes upon users' fundamental rights to privacy and freedom of speech," the petition said. It claimed that Rule 4(2) infringes upon the fundamental right to privacy without satisfying the three-part test set forth by the Supreme Court in K S Puttaswamy judgement, that is, legality, necessity and proportionality. It also said that the rule violates the fundamental right to freedom of speech and expression as it chills even lawful speech and citizens will not speak freely for fear that their private communications will be traced and used against them, which is antithetical to the very purpose of end-to-end encryption. Rule 4(2) states that a significant social media intermediary which provides services primarily in the nature of messaging shall enable the identification of the first originator of the information on its computer resource as may be required by a judicial or government order. As per data cited by the government, India has 53 crore WhatsApp users, 44.8 crore YouTube users, 41 crore Facebook subscribers, 21 crore Instagram users, while 1.75 crore account holders are on microblogging platform Twitter. The new rules were introduced to make social media platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and Instagram -- which have seen a phenomenal surge in usage over the past few years in India -- more accountable and responsible for the content hosted on their platform. Social media companies will have to take down posts depicting nudity or morphed photos within 24 hours of receiving a complaint. Notably, the rules require significant social media intermediaries -- providing services primarily in the nature of messaging -- to enable identification of the "first originator" of the information that undermines sovereignty of India, security of the state, or public order. This could have major ramifications for players like Twitter and WhatsApp.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-375
30-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha chairman expresses concern over conduct of MPs||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu voiced strong concern on Friday over the conduct of some MPs in the Upper House of Parliament during their protest over the Pegasus snooping row and other issues, saying such conduct lowered the dignity and prestige of the House. Appealing to the members to maintain decorum and decency in the House, he said some MPs were whistling while some others used placards to block the view of ministers. A few others placed their hands over the shoulders of the marshals when the MPs of opposition parties such as the Congress and the TMC were protesting over different issues in the Well of the House. "All these things are taking the House to a new low. I am very much concerned about this," Naidu said at the start of the day's business. "I only request to all the members to see that the decency and dignity of the House is maintained. That is my earnest appeal. There is a limit to patience and we should not exhaust the patience of the House." He said the two options before him are to either allow such conduct and convert the House into a "bazaar" or take action. "House has a decorum, prestige and practice. That has to be seen," he said. While protesting over issues is fine, the dignity and the prestige of the House should not be compromised, Naidu said. MPs from opposition parties have stalled the proceedings in the Rajya Sabha since the start of the Monsoon Session of Parliament on July 19 over issues ranging from the use of Israeli-made, military-grade Pegasus spyware to snoop on political rivals, critics of the government and journalists, to contentious farm laws and the fuel price hike. "It was brought to my notice that some members are whistling in the House. 'Siti baja rahe hai apni purani aadat se' (whistling because of an old habit). This is House," Naidu said. "Secondly, some members are putting their hands on the shoulders of the marshals. I do not know what prompted them." Also, some members carrying placards are standing in front of the ministers, blocking their view, he said. "There are two ways (to deal with this) -- one, ignore this and allow this to become a bazaar (market). 'Har ek apna siti bajata rahe, bajate raho' (everyone can whistle)," Naidu said. "Second, taking action."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||No deaths due to manual scavenging reported, says Centre||No death has been reported due to manual scavenging, the Union Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry has told Parliament, drawing sharp reaction from activists who said that those people were being robbed of dignity even in their deaths. Manual scavenging is banned under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013. In response to a question in the Rajya Sabha, Union Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Ramdas Athawale has said 66,692 manual scavengers were identified. However, on how many deaths of manual scavengers have been recorded, he replied, "No such deaths have been reported due to manual scavenging." The government does not identify deaths due to manual scavenging and instead calls them deaths due to hazardous cleaning of septic tanks and sewers. During the last session of Parliament, on March 10, Athawale had said, "No deaths due to manual scavenging has been reported. However, there have been reports of death of persons while cleaning sewers or septic tanks." Activists have described the government's response as a complete lack of apathy. Bezwada Wilson, the national convener of Safai Karmachari Andolan, an organisation working to eradicate manual scavenging, said the minister had himself admitted that 340 people died while cleaning sewers. "Now, he is making a statement technically and thinking manual scavenging as dry latrines. So, he must mention in his statement very clearly that in dry latrines people may not die but here in septic tanks people die. The government is denying everything and in the same manner, he is denying deaths due to manual scavenging," he told PTI. "It is not fair on the part of the government. When we kill these people we must have the courage to say that it is due to some kind of mistake that we are going to prevent. The government is denying the fundamental right of dignity to these people and is not even counting the deaths. It is a modern form of untouchability -- ignoring the life of a Dalit," Wilson added. Sanjeev Kumar, the secretary of Dalit Adivasi Shakti Adhikar Manch, told PTI that the number of deaths is anyway underreported and the government denying it completely is highly condemnable. "In Delhi alone, there have been so many such deaths. It is very sad that the government is not acknowledging their deaths. Those who lost their lives are being robbed of dignity even in their deaths," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||Yamuna water levels rise, Delhi authorities sound alert||The Delhi administration on Friday sounded a flood alert and expedited efforts to evacuate people living in the Yamuna flood plains, as the river in the capital breached the danger mark of 205.33 metres amid heavy rains in the upper catchment areas, officials said. The water level was recorded at 205.34 metres at the Old Railway Bridge at 11 am. It was 205.22 metres at 8:30 am, 205.10 metres at 6 am and 205.17 at 7 am, an official said, adding it is likely to rise further. All the departments concerned have been alerted. The irrigation and flood control department has deployed 13 boats in different areas and put 21 others on standby, the official from the irrigation and flood control department said. With Haryana discharging more water into the river from the Hathnikund Barrage, the Delhi Police and the East Delhi district administration have started evacuating people living on the floodplains of the Yamuna in the capital. These people are being shifted to shelter homes of the city government in the Yamuna Pushta area, the official said. A flood alert is declared when the Yamuna crosses the "warning mark" of 204.50 metres. The situation is being monitored round-the-clock, a district administration official said. The river is in spate because of rains in Delhi and the upper catchment areas, a MeT department official said, adding it may swell further as more rains are predicted in northwest India. The weather department has also issued an "orange alert" for moderate rains in Delhi-NCR for the third day on the trot on Friday. According to the Delhi flood control room, the discharge rate at the Hathnikund Barrage peaked to 1.60 lakh cusecs on Tuesday afternoon, the highest this year so far. The water discharged from the barrage normally takes two-three days to reach the capital. Haryana had been releasing water from the Yumananagr-located barrage at the rate of 19,056 cusecs at 8 am. The flow rate was 25,839 cusecs at 8 pm on Thursday. Normally, the flow rate at the Hathnikund barrage is 352 cusec, but the discharge is increased after heavy rainfall in catchment areas. One cusec is equivalent to 28.32 litres per second. In 2019, the flow rate had peaked to 8.28 lakh cusec on August 18-19, and the water level of the Yamuna had hit the 206.60 metre-mark, breaching the danger mark of 205.33 metres. The Delhi government had to launch evacuation and relief operations after the overflowing river submerged many low-lying areas. In 1978, the river had swelled to the all-time record water level of 207.49 metres.In 2013, it had risen to 207.32 metres.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||SC to hear plea of senior journalist N Ram on Pegasus issue next week||The Supreme Court will next week hear a plea by senior journalists N Ram and Sashi Kumar seeking an independent probe by a sitting or a retired judge into the Pegasus snooping matter. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana on Friday took note of senior advocate Kapil Sibal's submissions that the petition, which has been numbered after filing with the apex court registry, needed an urgent hearing in view of its wide ramifications. "The issue affects the freedom of citizens," the lawyer appearing for Ram and Kumar said, and added that opposition leaders, journalists and even court staff have been put under surveillance. "It is creating waves in India and world over," Sibal said while pressing for an urgent hearing on the plea. "We will list it sometime in next week," the chief justice said. The bench agreed to Sibal's submission that the plea be listed next week except on Tuesday and Wednesday when he will be busy in other matter. According to the plea, the alleged snooping represented an attempt by agencies and organisations to muzzle the exercise of free speech and expression of dissent in India. It seeks an investigation into the hacking of phones using the Pegasus spyware. An international media consortium has reported that over 300 verified Indian mobile phone numbers were on a list of potential targets for surveillance using Israeli firm NSO's Pegasus spyware. The petition also seeks a direction to the Centre to disclose if the government or any of its agencies obtained licence for Pegasus spyware and used it, either directly or indirectly, to conduct surveillance in any manner. The petitioners claimed that investigations involving several leading publications around the world have revealed that several Indians, including journalists, lawyers, ministers, opposition politicians and activists, have been identified as potential targets for surveillance using Pegasus software. "Forensic analysis by the Security Lab of Amnesty International of several mobile phones, belonging to people targeted for surveillance, has confirmed Pegasus-induced security breaches," the petition claimed. The targeted surveillance using military-grade spyware is an unacceptable violation of the right to privacy which has been held to be a fundamental right under Articles 14 (equality before the law), 19 (freedom of speech and expression) and 21 (protection of life and personal liberty) by the Supreme Court, it added. "The hacking of phones belonging to journalists, doctors, lawyers, activists, ministers and opposition politicians seriously compromises the effective exercise of the fundamental right to free speech and expression," the petition said. "Such an act has an obvious chilling effect on expression by threatening invasion into the most core and private aspects of a person's life," it added. According to the petition, hacking of phones using the Pegasus spyware constituted a criminal offence punishable under Sections 66 (computer related offences), 66B (punishment for dishonestly receiving stolen computer resource or communication device), 66E (punishment for violation of privacy) and 66F (punishment for cyberterrorism) of the IT Act, punishable with imprisonment and/or fine. The attack prima facie constitutes an act of cyber-terrorism that has several grave political and security ramifications, especially considering that the devices of government ministers, senior political figures and constitutional functionaries which may contain sensitive information have been targeted, it added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||India records over 44,000 fresh Covid cases, 555 casualties in a day||With a single-day rise of 44,230 cases, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 3,15,72,344 on Friday, while the death toll due to the viral disease shot up to 4,23,217 with 555 more people succumbing to it, the Union health ministry said. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country registered an increase for the third consecutive day, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has gone up to 4,05,155, accounting for 1.28 per cent of the total caseload, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.38 per cent, the data showed. An increase of 1,315 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 tally in a span of 24 hours. Also, 18,16,277 tests to detect the infection were carried out on Thursday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 46,46,50,723, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.44 per cent. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.43 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 3,07,43,972, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data showed. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has reached 45.6 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40-lakh mark on September 5 and 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore COVID-19 cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 555 fresh fatalities include 190 from Maharashtra and 128 from Kerala. A total of 4,23,217 Covid deaths have been reported in the country so far, including 1,32,335 from Maharashtra, 36,491 from Karnataka, 34,023 from Tamil Nadu, 25,049 from Delhi, 22,755 from Uttar Pradesh, 18,123 from West Bengal and 16,290 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||CBSE to announce class 12 results at 2pm today||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will announce results for class 12 on Friday, according to officials. "The result will be announced at 2 PM today," a senior board official said. According to the evaluation policy decided by a 13-member panel set up by the board for preparing Class 12 results, the theory paper evaluation formula is 30 per cent weightage will be given to Class 10 marks, 30 percentage weightage to Class 11 marks and 40 per cent weightage to Class 12 marks obtained in unit test/mid-term/pre-board exams. CBSE had announced that Classes 10 and 12 exams for private candidates will be conducted from August 16 to September 15. The board ruled out declaring results of the private candidates on the basis of an alternative assessment policy like that for regular candidates, saying neither schools nor CBSE has any previous assessment record for these students. "The exams will be conducted from August 16 to September 15 and their result will also be declared in minimum possible time to avoid any difficulty to them in admission in higher education," CBSE Examination Controller Sanyam Bhardwaj said. Earlier in the day, a group of private candidates staged a protest outside the CBSE headquarters alleging disparity between them and regular candidates. The board exams were cancelled this year in view of the aggressive second wave of COVID-19, and the result will be announced on basis of an alternate assessment policy by the board.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||New Karnataka CM on Delhi visit first time after taking over from Yediyurappa||New Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai is scheduled to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi here on Friday. This is his first visit to the national capital after taking over as chief minister of the state. Bommai is also planning to meet Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh as well as BJP national president J P Nadda. Bommai, who was elected as the new leader of the BJP legislature party on Tuesday, following B S Yediyurappa's resignation, took oath as chief minister on Wednesday. On Thursday, Bommai had told reporters in Karnataka that he will discuss the issue of cabinet expansion in the state with the central leadership. "When I go to Delhi to meet the party leadership, I will also try to meet our Members of Parliament and central Ministers from Karnataka on the pending projects and issues concerning the state," he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||RBI has given us clean chit in FDI violation case: NewsClick to Delhi High Court ||Delhi High Court on Thursday agreed to record findings that NewsClick, a news website that extensively covered the farmers’ protest, said was a clean chit to it from the Reserve Bank of India over allegations of criminal breach of trust, cheating and criminal conspiracy in receiving foreign direct investment. In a related case of money-laundering, another bench of the high court extended till September 2 the protection to NewsClick from coercive action by the Enforcement Directorate, after chiding the agency for “dilly-dallying”. The ED had searched the NewsClick office and homes of its functionaries for five days in February to investigate alleged money-laundering through an FDI deal. The income-tax department recently questioned its 71-year-old editor-in-chief Prabir Purkayastha for five hours for alleged tax evasion related to the same foreign investment. The investigative news website also faces a Rs 100-crore defamation suit from the Adani group. An FIR by Delhi resident Sobhan Singh alleges the company violated FDI rules by receiving Rs 9.59 crore from a defunct US-based firm, Worldwide Media Holdings LLC, in 2018. NewsClick has said that this investment was received before the FDI cap of 26 per cent for digital media was imposed in 2019. At a hearing on Thursday of a writ petition seeking the quashing of last year’s FIR by Delhi police’s economic offences wing against the company, NewsClick’s counsel asked Justice Yogesh Khanna to record the key point in a status report given to the website by the police. Senior advocate Dayan Krishnan’s demand came after the additional standing counsel for the Delhi government, Avinder Singh, had sought a fortnight’s adjournment saying the police needed to file a status report. Realising that the status report had not been filed in court, Krishnan said: “I don’t know what mischief is happening in the department…. I have been served with the status report on email.” Singh responded: “That was done without it being a final report. If it was done, I apologise.” An electronic copy of the status report from assistant commissioner of police Anil Kumar, viewed by The Telegraph, says: “During the course of investigation reply from RBI has been received where in it is mentioned that as per the Form FCGPR (Foreign Currency-Gross Provisional Return) submitted, the foreign inward remittance, was under automatic route and there was no delay in issue of shares as well as reporting, as per the extant FEMA (Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999) regulations in case of M/s PPK New Click Studio Pvt Limited is concerned.” Justice Khanna agreed to Krishnan’s request and ordered: “The learned senior counsel for the petitioner submits they have already been supplied copy of the status report duly signed by ACP Anil Kumar on 26.07.2021 stating inter alia no cognisable offence is made out per reply of the Reserve Bank of India. The status report be filed and placed on record within two weeks from today. Any discrepancy in status report(s) may be pointed out.” The next hearing is on August 23. Another Delhi High Court bench on Thursday heard three pleas by NewsClick, including a demand for a copy of the enforcement case information report (ECIR) from the ED. NewsClick’s counsel Kapil Sibal complained the ED was yet to comply with the high court’s order to give the ECIR to his client. Failing to get a clear reply from ED prosecutor Anil Mahajan on when the ECIR would be given, Justice Mukta Gupta said: “Prosecution can’t take up this dilly-dallying stand.” Justice Gupta then extended the protection against coercive action. Earlier this month, several media outlets had published reports hinting that NewsClick was guilty, and a TV channel had flashed the names of even junior serving and former employees. The BJP had claimed that the foreign funds were meant for propaganda against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The website had said in a statement on July 18: “The selective leaks from ED regarding their investigation, which is already under challenge before the court, reflect the inherent weakness in their own investigations and the course that it will take in the courts. “Since the matter is already in the courts, NewsClick does not believe that it should participate in a media trial. It is unfortunate that the BJP, the ruling party, also sees fit to air such unfounded allegations.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||Assembly passes resolution against Rakesh Asthana’s appointment as Delhi police commissioner||The Delhi Legislative Assembly on Thursday passed a resolution against Rakesh Asthana’s appointment as Delhi police commissioner on the ground that it violated a Supreme Court judgment. The resolution, backed by the ruling Aam Aadmi Party and opposed by the BJP, expressed “strong disapproval” over the appointment that goes against a 2019 Supreme Court judgment in Prakash Singh vs Union of India that prohibited the appointment of an officer with less than six months of service left as a director-general of police (DGP). The Delhi police commissioner’s rank is equivalent to that of a DGP. Delhi police report to the Centre. Asthana, who was the DG of the Border Security Force before his current appointment, would have retired on July 31 but was given a year’s extension as the commissioner. The resolution says: “…It is beyond any reasonable understanding as to why a controversial officer who was removed by this central government from the post of special director CBI in October 2018 and was not considered fit for the post of CBI director only very recently, is being imposed on Delhi police.” The resolution added: “Given the past track record of this officer, there is reasonable apprehension that the central government will use him for foisting false cases on political rivals to create a reign of terror in the national capital. “Such a controversial individual should NOT be heading the police force in the country’s national capital.” The resolution directs the Delhi government to ask the ministry of home affairs to withdraw the notification and initiate the appointment process afresh. As a Union Territory, the Delhi Assembly has no power over the police but can seek replies and make recommendations to the Centre and the lieutenant governor, which are not binding. Last year, the CBI had given a clean chit to Asthana, a former CBI special director, in connection with a bribery scandal in 2018. The case had triggered an unprecedented public feud between Asthana and then CBI director Alok Verma. The Centre benched both after an unusual midnight raid on Asthana. Asthana was seen as a favourite for appointment as CBI director earlier this year, but got ruled out when Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana cited a Supreme Court guideline that no officer with less than six months of service left could be appointed. AAP MLA B.S. Joon, during the discussion in the Assembly, said: “If the Centre does not consider the post of DGP as equivalent to Delhi police commissioner, then it is a demotion for Asthana as he has already served as DG, BSF. And if the post of police commissioner is equal to that of a DGP, then it is a clear violation of the SC order.” Leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri of the BJP said Asthana had investigated the killing of 59 kar sevaks in Godhra in 2002 and sent the accused to jail. “He punished those who killed Ram bhakts and if someone is pained by that then what can one say,” Bidhuri added. Asthana had probed the Godhra train carnage as the deputy inspector-general of police in Gujarat. A trial court acquitted 63 of the 94 accused in 2011, including Maulana Umarji, who was described as the “mastermind” in the chargesheet.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Citizens pen open letter to CJI seeking SC intervention||Over 500 citizens from various walks of life on Thursday addressed an open letter to Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana seeking the immediate intervention of the Supreme Court to demand answers from the Centre on the Pegasus controversy. The signatories, who include some renowned rights defenders, reposed faith in a recent statement by Justice Ramana that people know that “when things go wrong, the judiciary will stand by them”. The joint letter said the alleged snooping on judges, political leaders, journalists, activists and others with the help of the Israeli spyware was a serious assault on citizens’ fundamental right to privacy, life and liberty. The letter also asked several questions. “The Supreme Court has the power and duty to ask these questions, and it must speak for us — just as you recently assured us while speaking at an event in mid-July, ‘People are confident that they will get relief and justice from the judiciary. They know that when things go wrong, the judiciary will stand by them. The Indian Supreme Court is the guardian of the largest democracy’,” the open letter said. “We hope that your office will lose no time in taking notice of this matter, and seeking time-bound answers to protect our rights and freedoms, its own credibility as an institution and in defence of our Constitution,” the signatories added. “The Pegasus project and information in public domain raises concerns for the integrity of constitutional authorities including the independence of the Supreme Court. “Human rights activists have repeatedly asserted that such hacking as well as other kinds of abuse of office has resulted in malicious prosecution, wrongful imprisonment, custodial torture, and custodial death of political prisoners,” the letter said. The signatories added: “This letter is therefore both an assessment that things have gone very wrong indeed as well as an appeal to the judiciary for meaningful reassurances from the Supreme Court that the promises to citizens of the rule of law, justice, equal rights, and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution still guide Indian democracy.” The letter urged the Supreme Court to declare a moratorium on the export, sale, transfer and use of Pegasus in India and expressed shock that the military-grade spyware, sold only to governments for counter-terrorism measures, had been used to target and carry out surveillance also on women students, academics, human rights defenders, lawyers and victims of sexual violence. The letter expressed anguish at the findings of the Pegasus Project that a Supreme Court employee and her family had allegedly been put on the list of potential targets for surveillance after she had accused the then Chief Justice of India, Ranjan Gogoi, of sexual harassment and victimisation. The signatories requested the Supreme Court to adopt a gender-just sexual harassment policy and a data protection and privacy framework that would shield people from such cyber warfare and safeguard the independence of the judiciary. It was submitted that concerns on gender equality and human rights were inextricably linked to the assurance of the right to privacy and protection from surveillance. “For women, the Pegasus scandal is deeply concerning, for speaking out against the state and men in positions of state power has meant that their lives are wrecked by such surveillance permanently,” the letter said. The signatories include crusaders for democratic freedom Aruna Roy and Anjali Bhardwaj; human rights activists Kavita Srivastava, Teesta Setalvad and Harsh Mander; lawyers Vrinda Grover and Kalpana Kannabiran; scholars Jhuma Sen, Aparna Chandra and Pratiksha Baxi; academics and scientists Zoya Hasan, Niraja Gopal Jayal, Utsa Patnaik, Jayati Ghosh, Rosemary Dzivuchu, Romila Thapar, Sukanta Chaudhuri and Ram Ramaswamy; writers Arundhati Roy, V. Geetha, Githa Hariharan and Amit Chaudhuri; musicians and artistes T.M. Krishna, Pushpamala N, Prem Chandavarkar and Vivian Sundaram; politicians Kavita Krishnan and Manoj Jha; and journalists Anuradha Bhasin, Patricia Mukhim and John Dayal. The signatories also include students and research scholars; retired government officials; retired members of the armed forces; entrepreneurs; RTI, human rights and women’s rights activists; health professionals and members of social organisations. The letter has asked the following questions: ⚫ Did any Indian entity purchase Pegasus, the Israeli spyware that only the government or government-linked agencies can buy? ⚫ If so, which entity bought the software? How was it paid for? ⚫ If it was indeed purchased, how were the targets for hacking chosen and what use was made of the information so gained? ⚫ What were the admissible justifications for such targeting, and before which constitutional authority were they presented? ⚫ Which constitutional authority oversaw or reviewed the criminal violation of the privacy of so many individuals, including journalists, politicians, lawyers, human rights activists and academics (and the SC staffer and her family members), so that they came to be on the list of Pegasus targets?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-376
30-07-2021||India||Pegasus snooping: Opposition firm on Modi govt’s clarification||The Narendra Modi government’s reluctance to immediately discuss the Pegasus snooping allegations and the Opposition’s insistence on a debate — launching a signature campaign in the Lok Sabha — continued to stymie Parliament proceedings for the eighth day. The Opposition on Thursday upped the ante on Pegasus, demanding discussions on the snooping controversy in both Houses of Parliament, but the government appeared to be fighting shy of such debates despite claiming readiness to “discuss all issues”. At a meeting of the Lok Sabha business advisory committee chaired by Speaker Om Birla, the government said the Covid situation should be discussed first but the Opposition remained firm on Pegasus, sources said. The Rajya Sabha has already discussed the pandemic in the ongoing monsoon session and the government’s wish to take it up in the Lok Sabha as well is being seen as an attempt to divert attention from the snooping row. The Congress members in the Lok Sabha launched a signature drive on Thursday to demand a discussion on Pegasus. “Tomorrow the memorandum with the signatures of Opposition MPs will be submitted to the Lok Sabha Speaker,” Congress MP Kodikunnil Suresh said. “The government is running away from a discussion on Pegasus and accusing us of stalling the House,” Suresh said. Sources in the government said that while the Centre could eventually agree to a discussion on Pegasus, it was of the opinion that the Opposition was trying to score a point by insisting that Prime Minister Modi or home minister Amit Shah address Parliament on the snooping controversy, and not any other minister. In a bid to break the stalemate, Rajya Sabha leader Piyush Goyal and parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi reached out to leader of the Opposition in the Upper House, Mallikarjun Kharge of the Congress, on Thursday. Sources claimed that at the meeting, the government showed readiness to discuss Pegasus but said newly appointed minister for electronics and information technology Ashwini Vaishnaw would reply in the House. This was not acceptable to the Opposition. Vaishnaw had earlier tried to make a statement in the Rajya Sabha but Opposition members had vehemently protested. “The Pegasus snooping is a very serious issue and none less than the Prime Minister or the home minister should clarify to Parliament,” an Opposition MP said. Government managers said they feared the Opposition was eyeing a washout of the monsoon session to gain political mileage and so the ruling side was treading carefully on accepting the demand for an immediate discussion on Pegasus. “What is the guarantee that the Opposition will let Parliament run if Pegasus is discussed? After Pegasus they can pick up other issues like repeal of farm laws to stall Parliament,” a BJP leader said. Internally, however, the government is wary of getting cornered if Pegasus is discussed in both Houses as the Opposition would press for a clear answer on whether the Centre had purchased the spyware from Israeli firm NSO and used it to snoop on judges, journalists, politicians, activists and others. The government has been evading a direct reply to the specific question on whether it had acquired Pegasus. At the same time the government doesn’t want to be seen as mothballing a discussion on Pegasus and it may deploy senior leader and defence minister Rajnath Singh to talk to the Opposition and break the deadlock, the sources said. “Rajnathji could reach out to Kharge and other Opposition leaders on Friday,” a BJP MP said. However, despite the uproarious protests by the Opposition, the government has been slowly passing bills amid the din without any discussion. On Thursday, the Centre passed two bills in just 23 minutes before the Lok Sabha was adjourned for the day.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India|| Congress asks Centre if Pegasus was bought and used on citizens||The Congress on Thursday expressed outrage at the responses of the Narendra Modi government to the Pegasus snooping controversy at a time when many countries have initiated investigations and the Israeli defence ministry has raided spyware-maker NSO Group in the wake of rising global concern. “India is the largest democracy in the world. When will we wake up? When other countries will have completed investigations and submitted their reports? Can’t we get an answer to the simplest question: Did you buy Pegasus and use it on Indian citizens? Instead of giving answers, the question itself is being described as a conspiracy. We are mystified, amazed by the government’s response,” Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said. He added: “What are the responses so far — it’s bogus, it’s a hoax, timing is suspect, everything is being done as per law, we can discuss it outside but not in Parliament. But no answer to the question whether the government had purchased Pegasus or not? The government is obviously frightened, doing everything to hide the truth.” The Congress parliamentary strategy committee met on Thursday evening amidst the continuing deadlock and decided not to let the government off the hook, dismissing the propaganda on disruption as a ploy to divert attention from the serious issue of snooping. Rajya Sabha chief whip Jairam Ramesh told The Telegraph after the meeting: “The government is adamantly refusing to have a discussion on the Pegasus issue that has grave national security implications. All Opposition parties are united in demanding a discussion with a reply by the home minister Amit Shah, if not by the Prime Minister.” The Congress sees a link between the raid on NSO by Israel’s defence ministry and the outrage expressed by French President Emmanuel Macron and expects more skeletons to tumble out in the coming days, compelling the Modi government to change its stand. A Congress leader said: “Our assessment is that Modi and Shah are rattled and using all kinds of digressions to minimise the impact of the Pegasus scandal. But there are global ramifications which make things unpredictable.” Singhvi said: “Has it ever happened that ruling party MPs have come to a parliamentary standing committee meeting and refused to mark attendance to ensure lack of quorum? They were present but didn’t sign the attendance register.” On Wednesday, BJP members didn’t mark their attendance at the meeting of the standing committee on information technology to discuss Pegasus. Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Thursday: “The foundation of our democracy is the right of the elected representative to raise people’s concerns in Parliament. Modi government is not allowing the Opposition to do this job. Don’t waste the time of Parliament any more — let us discuss inflation, farmers and Pegasus.” Posting about the French NGO, which said the “Rafale deal has systematic elements of international corruption”, and whose findings led to a judicial probe in that country, Rahul tweeted: “There has been massive corruption in the #Rafale deal. ‘If you are right and you know it, speak your mind. Even if you are a minority of one, the truth is still the truth — Mahatma Gandhi.’”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||Govt to implement OBC reservation in all-India pool medical seats ||The Centre on Thursday decided to implement reservation for the Other Backward Classes and the Economically Weaker Sections in the all-India pool seats in state medical colleges from the current academic year. “The present government is committed to providing due reservation both to the backward category as well as the EWS category. The Union government has now taken a historic decision to provide for 27 per cent reservation for OBCs and 10 per cent reservation for EWS in the AIQ scheme,” said a media release issued by the Press Information Bureau, the Centre’s publicity wing. The decision came a week after Madras High Court criticised the delay in introducing a quota for OBCs within the 15 per cent undergraduate seats and the 50 per cent postgraduate seats reserved by state medical colleges under the all-India pool, known as the All-India Quota (AIQ) scheme. The decision is expected to every year benefit nearly 1,500 OBC students in MBBS courses and 2,500 OBC students in postgraduate courses, and around 550 EWS students in MBBS programmes and 1,000 EWS students in PG programmes, the release added. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes already have quotas of 15 per cent and 7.5 per cent, respectively, in the all-India pool of medical seats. However, some OBC groups like the All India Federation of Backward Classes Employees Association expressed disappointment at the uniform reservation of 27 per cent seats for the OBCs in the all-India pool seats across states. They demanded that OBCs, SCs and STs get the same percentage of reservation in the 15 per cent all-India pool as they are offered in the remaining 85 per cent seats that are at the disposal of the states. Different states have different quotas for OBCs, SCs and STs within this 85 per cent, based on the population composition. Tamil Nadu reserves 50 per cent of these seats for OBCs, 18 per cent for SCs and 1 per cent for STs. The ruling DMK that had filed a case in Madras High Court had demanded that the state reservation policy apply to the all-India quota seats as well in Tamil Nadu medical colleges. “We want 69 per cent reservation in the all-India pool seats, including 50 per cent for OBCs. The Union health ministry had supported the implementation of a state-specific reservation policy on these seats. Now they have implemented a different formula. This is disappointing,” said G. Karunanidhy, general secretary of the federation. On July 27, 2020, Madras High Court had directed the OBC quota’s implementation in the all-India pool seats at state medical colleges. It had also ordered the setting up of an expert committee to examine the terms of implementation. The committee had favoured the implementation while leaving it to the government to take a decision on whether to offer a uniform 27 per cent OBC reservation in the all-India pool seats or opt for state-specific reservation. The Centre, however, submitted the report of the committee before the Supreme Court in a case pending since 2015, triggering allegations of deliberate delay. The case had been filed by an aspiring medical student seeking reservation in the all-India pool seats at state medical colleges. The NEET brochure for this year mentions that the OBC reservation in the all-India pool will depend on the outcome of the case in the Supreme Court. On July 19 this year, Madras High Court had held as “contumacious” the Centre’s earlier decision against implementing its judgment in favour of OBC reservation in the all-India pool in state medical colleges. Sashank Ratnoo, a Supreme Court lawyer and an expert on OBC issues, welcomed the government’s latest decision. “The matter had been lingering for long. Now the government has decided to implement the reservation. It is a welcome decision,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||18-year-old Kerala girl braves cop wrath to stand up for stranger||A teenager who took on the police for fining and berating an elderly man while enforcing the Covid protocol has become the toast of Kerala by standing up for a stranger. Gauri Nanda, 18, had asked the two policemen why they had imposed a Rs 500 fine on Shihabuddin who was in a queue outside an ATM at Chadayamangalam, Kollam, on Monday. His alleged offence was not maintaining physical distance. A video filmed by an unknown bystander has been circulating on social media. Gauri, who cleared her Plus 2 (high secondary) exams on Wednesday, said she and her mother had visited the ATM while returning from a nearby hospital. While coming out of the ATM kiosk, she saw policemen arguing with an elderly man. “I reacted when I saw a poor man being targeted in the name of Covid protocol although everyone in the queue was maintaining adequate distance from one another,” Gauri, the elder of a day labourer’s two children, told The Telegraph on Thursday. “I went up to the officer and asked what it was all about.” The video clip begins by showing Gauri and a policeman apparently arguing about something but the words are inaudible. She is then heard saying: “You (police) too are standing together (violating the protocol).” The cop retorts: “You don’t have to teach me; I know how to responsibly carry out my duties.” Gauri asks the second policeman whether there’s a need to penalise Shihabuddin. He replies: “I cannot touch you since you are a woman, else I would have pushed you away.” After that, the audio becomes unclear again. Gauri and the policemen are seen talking and gesticulating. Gauri alleged that one of the policemen used an abusive word while talking to her. “An officer using such a word enraged me and I decided not to tolerate such behaviour,” she told this newspaper. She said that when she asked why the policeman had used such a word, he told her to check a dictionary and then “come and tell me what it means”. Gauri said she then walked away. An official at the Chadayamangalam police station said Gauri had been booked in an FIR the same day under Section 117E of the Kerala Police Act (threatening, obstructing or assaulting a police officer to prevent them discharging their duties, punishable by up to three years in jail). Gauri said a member of the Kerala Women’s Commission, Shahida Kamal, had called her on Monday and assured help. Kamal told this newspaper: “We cannot stop the police from registering a case, so we only asked them not to include any non-bailable offence. We received a report from the police this afternoon saying only a bailable section had been included.” Gauri said she had not complained to the women’s commission or the police about an officer using an abusive word because her family and friends advised her not to pursue the matter. The teen had a pleasant surprise on Wednesday evening when Shihabuddin traced her address and arrived to thank her. “It was so nice of him to visit me. He promised to support me if I faced any issues over this case,” she said. Gauri said she wanted everyone to know that “we should not allow ourselves to be cowed down by anyone and there is nothing to fear if we haven’t erred”. “Gauri Nanda of Chadayamangalam is our hero. The girl has taught us what a model citizen should be in a democracy,” a man named Faizi S commented on Facebook. Unni Mukundhan, another Facebook user, wrote: “They don’t have any complaints about thousands of people queuing up outside liquor shops.” Vince KJ posted: “There is no point having several sons. We need just one daughter like this to question injustice.” Gauri plans to do a BCom at a local college and eventually become a chartered accountant.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||NEP: Students can design half their curricula under new feature||Undergraduate and postgraduate students enrolled in general stream programmes can design half their curricula themselves under a new feature of the education policy that comes into effect from the upcoming academic year, expected to start in October. Students will have to study a minimum 50 per cent of the core subjects of their academic programme, and at the parent institutions where they are enrolled. But for the other half, they can choose any combination of papers in any subject from any university — or set of universities — and pursue it online or offline. For example, a physics student enrolled with one university can map out up to half her curriculum with papers in, say, English, sociology and zoology from multiple institutions. The credits the students earn from the other universities can be deposited in an Academic Bank of Credits (ABC) and redeemed when their parent universities award their degrees. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday announced a host of initiatives, including the ABC architecture, while speaking about the National Education Policy completing a year. The ABC will be an online entity where students can operate their own Academic Bank Account, depositing with it all their academic credits earned from various courses and institutions. To make the system a success, all the Higher Educational Institutions (HEIs) will have to amend their academic rules and register with the ABC. Some academics fear the freedom given to students to decide up to half their curriculum would lead to a dilution in the value of the degrees awarded. “Registered HEIs shall encourage and enable students to customise or design their own degrees utilising courses selected by the student from among courses offered by one or more of the registered HEIs,” the regulations say. “Provided that, the student shall be required to earn at least fifty per cent of the credits from the HEI awarding the degree or diploma or certificate, provided further that, the student shall be required to earn the required number of credits in the core subject area necessary for the award of the degree or diploma or certificate, as specified by the degree-awarding HEI in which the student is enrolled.” Abha Dev Habib, a teacher at Delhi University’s Miranda House College, said the new regulations would also promote online education and reduce the need to hire teachers, thus “jeopardising (their) employment and service conditions”. “Besides, the dilution of coursework will damage the employability of the degree holders further,” she said. Richa Raj, another teacher from a DU college, regretted that the ABC was being “imposed” during a pandemic without enough discussion. She said its use for privatisation of education and the contractualisation of teaching jobs would be resisted. The new regulations are expected to benefit private institutions that lag in the infrastructure required for physical classes and whose degrees are not necessarily coveted by students. They can now teach part of the curriculum offline while the student gets the degree from a reputable government or private university.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||Army, navy and air force chiefs yet to arrive at consensus on proposed theatre commands||The chiefs of the army, navy and the air force are yet to arrive at a consensus on the proposed theatre commands of the armed forces as the Indian Air Force is said to have apprehensions about the plan, sources in the defence ministry said on Thursday. A defence ministry official said the Narendra Modi government had last week asked the tri-services chiefs to hold threadbare discussions to iron out the differences and arrive at a consensus.“Last week, the Centre asked the three services chiefs to hold discussions with chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat on the planned integrated theatre commands of the three armed forces and iron out the differences. The tri-services chiefs are not on the same page on the issue,” a defence ministry official said. Earlier this month, Gen. Rawat’s statement that the IAF was a “supporting arm” in the planned integrated theatre commands had triggered a controversy and acrimony at the higher echelons of the military leadership. Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria had disagreed with Gen. Rawat and said “airpower has a huge role”. Sources said as soon as the three chiefs agreed to the Centre’s proposal, a draft note would be sent to the cabinet committee on security for approving the creation of the theatre commands. The Narendra Modi government has formed an expert committee to carry out consultations with the three services to decide the way forward on the theaterisation of the military. Gen. Rawat has been given the task to facilitate restructuring of the military commands for optimal utilisation of resources through the establishment of unified theatre commands. Theaterisation means putting specific numbers of personnel from each of the three services under a common commander for a unified military approach through a rationalisation of manpower and resources. “The air force has reservations about unified commands because of its limited resources compared with the army’s. The IAF does not want to split its assets, which are fewer than the army’s,” said another defence ministry official. The IAF is also believed to have contended that the nature of its operations is so fluid that all of India is one theatre for it. It is also said to have issues over who would lead the theatres. Sources said the plan was to have five theatre commands. Each will have units of the army, navy and the air force, and all of them will work as a single entity, looking after specified geographical territories under an operational commander. Currently, the three armed forces have 19 commands, each assigned exclusively to one among the three forces. Sources in the government said the theatre commands were being set up under the larger mandate of ensuring synergy among the tri-services chiefs to deal with security challenges. There have been differences over the planned theaterisation amid fears that the senior positions would be taken over by the army, the largest among the three services. The army brass, who are in favour of theaterisation, contend that multiple commands lead to confusion. They cite the example of China, which has a single Western Theatre Command for the entire Indian frontier. On the other hand, India’s army alone has four commands on the China frontier — northern, western (which mainly looks after the Pakistan front), central and eastern. The IAF has three commands for the China frontier.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||Covid: Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to begin home vaccination of bed-ridden people ||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has said it will begin home vaccination of bed-ridden people in the city against the coronavirus on an experimental basis from Friday. The initiative will be rolled out first in the K-east administrative ward covering the western suburbs of Andheri East, Marol, Chakala and others, it said. In a statement issued on Thursday afternoon, the BMC said citizens bed-ridden due to various physical or medical reasons would be vaccinated under the drive from July 30. They will be administered Covaxin doses and the vaccination process will be carried out in the presence of experts, wherein all necessary precautions will be undertaken. The civic body said there was a demand for home vaccination of citizens who are bed-ridden and unable to visit the inoculation centres. It added that the medical certificate stating that the person who is to be vaccinated will have to remain bed-ridden for at least the next six months was required to be submitted to the administration along with the consent of that person or a relative.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||Four members of Nanakmatta Sahib Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee resign||Four members of the Nanakmatta Sahib Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee have resigned after a video surfaced showing schoolgirls raising pro-BJP slogans and performing folk dance on the shrine premises to welcome Uttarakhand chief minister Pushkar Singh Dhami, allegedly hurting religious sentiments. The resignations came after the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, took strong exception to the alleged act of sacrilege and sent a three-member team to Nanakmatta Sahib to look into the matter. Those who resigned on Wednesday include the head of the Nanakmatta Sahib Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee, Seva Singh, and three other members. Dhami had visited the gurdwara in Nanakmatta, around 40km from Rudrapur in Uttarakhand, to pay obeisance during his tour of Udham Singh Nagar district on July 24 to inaugurate and lay foundation stones of development projects. The chief minister’s Assembly constituency Khatima is located in Udham Singh Nagar. Dhami was accorded a warm welcome as he arrived at the shrine for the first time after assuming office along with ministers and MLAs. Schoolgirls performed folk dances of Uttarakhand to welcome him and some raised pro-BJP slogans. The Gurbani, which is supposed to be played constantly at the gurdwara, was stopped for a while. This did not go down well with Sikh devotees, who lodged a complaint with the Akal Takht in Amritsar and gathered in Nanakmatta, demanding action against those responsible for the alleged act of sacrilege. Those who have resigned have been asked to present their side before the Takht within 15 days after which a final call will be taken. A five-member panel has been constituted to look after the management of the gurdwara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||Central health team to guide public health responses to Covid in Kerala||A central health team will arrive in Kerala on Friday to guide public health responses to Covid-19 in the state that is reporting a steady rise in daily new infections and accounts for a third of India’s current active cases. The Union health ministry said on Thursday that the six-member team led by Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, New Delhi, will recommend interventions to contain the large number of new infections in the state. Kerala on Thursday had over 154,000 Covid-19 patients, about 37 per cent of India’s 397,000 active cases. Its average daily new cases have increased to about 17,000 on July 28 from 11,000 four weeks ago. The health ministry has underlined that Kerala also has a high positivity rate — the fraction found positive among those tested — of about 12 per cent, more than double the ideal of less than 5 per cent. A high positivity rate is viewed as an indicator of widespread infections. Several districts in Kerala — Palakkad, Thrissur, Wayanad, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kasargod, Kannur, Kollam, Ernakulam, and Kottayam — are among the 47 in 10 states across the country where test positivity rates are higher than 10 per cent. But sections of health experts have argued that Kerala’s high test positivity rate could also be an outcome of smart testing which is specifically directed at all close contacts and other individuals likely to test positive. Kerala’s relatively low Covid-19 seropositivity — the proportion of people with antibodies against Covid-19 — of 44 per cent, compared with over 70 per cent in states such as Bihar, Rajasthan or Uttar Pradesh, also implies a large proportion of susceptible people. Many public health experts believe the relatively low seropositivity and Kerala’s lower Covid-19 case fatality rate of 1.1 per cent, compared with the national average of 1.3 per cent, reflects an epidemic better managed than in other states. “However, the current exponential growth is a source of concern,” said a senior researcher. “Whenever and wherever the virus spreads and replicates, there is a chance of fresh mutations emerging.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||IAS reshuffle: Odisha govt appoints Vishal Dev as finance secretary||The Odisha government on Thursday effected a minor reshuffle of IAS officers. Vishal Kumar Dev, who was the principal secretary, sports and youth services, was posted as principal secretary, finance. Dev, a 1996-batch IAS officer, will replace Ashok Meena, a 1993-batch IAS officer, who has been posted as principal secretary, panchayati raj and drinking water. Special secretary to chief minister Naveen Patnaik, R. Vineel Krishna (a 2005-batch IAS officer), has been entrusted with the additional responsibility of sports and youth services. Deoranjan Kumar Singh (a 1993-batch IAS officer), who was the principal secretary, panchayati raj and drinking water, will be the principal secretary, steel and mines. Surendra Kumar (a 1993-batch IAS officer), who was the principal secretary, steel and mines, has been posted as principal secretary, general administration and public grievances with additional charge of tourism.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-377
30-07-2021||India||Bihar Covid death toll reaches 2 lakh: CPI-ML survey  ||The CPI-ML on Thursday released its provisional survey report on Covid-19 deaths in Bihar and claimed the toll during the second wave of the pandemic was around 2 lakh, about 20 times more than the figures provided by the state government. The Left party presented a copy of the report to Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha and sought a discussion in the House over the issue that has affected the emotional, financial and social well-being of a large number of families. It also demanded a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of each of the Covid-19 victims. It also accused the state government of trying to hide the death figures in a bid to absolve itself of the failure in making basic preparation to tackle the pandemic, especially during the devastating second wave in April and May this year. A CPI-ML team, including its politburo member Kavita Krishnan, had toured 14 out of 38 Bihar districts to ascertain the fatalities during the second wave of the pandemic. However, the report presented data from only nine districts — Bhojpur, Patna (rural areas), Rohtas, Siwan, Darbhanga, West Champaran, Arwal, Kaimur and Aurangabad. “Our report is a provisional one because we have been able to tabulate the data of nine districts only so far. We visited 1,693 villages in 66 blocks in these districts, collecting audio, video and documents as evidence on Covid-19 deaths. What has come up is very alarming,” CPI-ML state secretary Kunal told The Telegraph. “There were 7,200 deaths in these villages in April and May, of whom 6,420 had Covid-19 symptoms. The rest died due to natural causes or other serious illnesses. The state has 534 blocks and over 45,000 villages. If we take the average figure from our survey, the pandemic toll would be around 2 lakh in the state — around 20 times more than the government figures,” Kunal, who goes by one name, added. The report brought to light the situation in villages like Kulharia and Kolharampur in Bhojpur district, which recorded 59 and 45 Covid-19 deaths respectively, during the second wave. Party leaders said they hurried to bring out the provisional report because the monsoon session of the Assembly, which commenced on July 26, will conclude on Friday (July 30). It was important that a move was made to discuss it in the House, they said. The CPI-ML leaders also accused health minister and senior BJP leader Mangal Pandey of lying about the pandemic situation. “The health minister is telling lies about the pandemic without any shame or remorse. He is telling that no deaths occurred in the state due to scarcity of oxygen, but our survey shows otherwise. There was no proper arrangement in most of the hospitals in Bihar to deal with the situation. The government is trying to brush the actual Covid-19 toll under the carpet. It is a crime that people will never forgive,” said CPI-ML legislature party leader Mehboob Alam. According to government data, the state has reported 724,673 Covid-19 cases, including 9,639 deaths, so far. The death toll had been questioned by various individuals and organisations who moved Patna High Court. The high court also noticed inconsistencies in death figures reported by different government agencies and asked the government to conduct an audit. It led to an overnight revision of the toll from 5,478 to 9,429 in June — a 73 per cent jump in the numbers. With the high court still hearing a bunch of cases pertaining to the Covid-19 toll and alleged lack of preparation by the state government, the CPI-ML is now preparing to submit its complete report before the court in the next few days, and request its directions. There are also plans to use the video footage collected during the survey to make a documentary and release it on social media platforms. “However, this survey is not just going to be academic work. We are going to turn it into a movement and force the state government to accept the truth. Hiding the toll figures is like disrespecting the dead,” Kunal told this newspaper. The party is also helping the kin of Covid-19 victims fill up forms and submit them at the block headquarters to claim the Rs 4 lakh compensation announced by chief minister Nitish Kumar for each pandemic death.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-378
30-07-2021||West Bengal||PIL filed in Cal HC seeking Mukul Roy's removal from post of PAC chairman||A PIL seeking removal of MLA Mukul Roy from the post of Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairperson in the West Bengal Assembly was moved before the Calcutta High Court on Friday, which the state government opposed contending that the matter is in the domain of the speaker. The petitioner, BJP MLA Ambika Roy, claimed that the post of PAC chairman traditionally goes to an opposition member, but since Mukul Roy has joined the ruling Trinamool Congress after being elected on a saffron party ticket, he should be removed from the post. Appearing for the state, Advocate General Kishore Dutta opposed the prayer submitting that the speaker has the sole authority in the Assembly and it is for him to decide who was eligible for the post. Claiming that a court cannot interfere in the decisions of a speaker when it comes to business of the House, as per Article 212 of the Constitution, Dutta argued that the PIL was not maintainable and should be dismissed. A division bench comprising Acting Chief Justice Rajesh Bindal and Justice R Bharadwaj directed the petitioner to submit a short note stating why this PIL is maintainable before the court by August 4. The state will be at liberty to file its reply to it thereafter, and the case will be listed for hearing on August 10, the bench said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal: First meeting of newly formed PAC held, Mukul Roy away in Delhi||Newly appointed Public Accounts Committee (PAC) chairman Mukul Roy, who recently switched over to the TMC after winning the state elections on a BJP ticket, on Friday gave the panel's first meeting a miss as he was away in Delhi, accompanying Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. Roy was recently made the chairperson of the PAC of Bengal Assembly by Speaker Biman Banerjee. In a letter to the speaker, Roy said that he wouldn't be able to attend the PAC meeting, which was, during the day, presided over TMC MLA Tapas Roy. BJP MLAs, who had quit as chairpersons of eight other assembly committees in protest against Roy's appointment to PAC, boycotted the meeting. "This person (Roy) was made PAC chairman violating all rules and see how serious he is about the post. The chairman himself was absent from the first PAC meeting. This only shows the true colour of Mukul Roy and the ruling party," Leader of the opposition Suvendu Adhikari told reporters. Defending Roy, the TMC leadership said there is no rule that mandates the presence of chairman during the PAC meeting, if he is away attending to other emergencies. "He is occupied with some other engagements, and Roy had informed the speaker in advance. We don't need a lecture from Suvendu and his party on parliamentary regulations," Tapas Roy said. Mukul Roy, officially a BJP MLA from Krishnanagar Uttar, joined the TMC last month. He, however, did not resign as a legislator, despite being asked to do so by the saffron party. The TMC leader was elected from among twenty members of the Public Accounts Committee (PAC). Asserting that an opposition MLA is always appointed as the committee's chairman, in accordance with the norm, Adhikari said the TMC misused that rule to place Roy at the helm. "We had proposed names of six MLAs. The BJP never recommended Mukul Roy. He publicly joined the TMC recently, but that clearly wasn't taken into account," the saffron camp MLA from Nandigram stated. Adhikari further said that his party wanted eminent economist and MLA Ashok Lahiri to head the committee. "This corrupt TMC government finds ways to get their stooges elected to the top post," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Jawhar Sircar set to be elected too Rajya Sabha||Trinamul Congress candidate for Rajya Sabha by-election, Jawhar Sircar, will be elected unopposed as his nomination paper was found valid during scrutiny on Friday, sources in the Bengal Assembly secretariat said. The BJP has already announced that it would not field any candidate for the by-poll to the Upper House of Parliament, paving the way for Sircar, a former CEO of Prasar Bharati, to be elected without contest from the state. Sircar's name is expected to be officially announced as the winner on August 2, the last date of withdrawal of nomination papers. Assembly secretariat sources said that the nomination papers of Sircar were examined for over half an hour in presence of the candidate, TMC Chief Whip in the House Nirmal Ghosh and his deputy Tapas Roy. "Sircar's nomination papers were stated to be in perfect order by the returning officer," Ghosh later told reporters. The Rajya Sabha seat was vacated by former TMC leader Dinesh Trivedi earlier this year, necessitating the by-election which is supposed to be conducted on August 9. The former Prasar Bharati CEO filed his nomination as the TMC candidate on July 28. "Sircar spent nearly 42 years in public service.... His contribution shall help us serve our country even better," the TMC had said while announcing his candidature. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP, on Thursday said that the saffron party will not nominate any candidate for the Rajya Sabha seat vacated by Trivedi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal BSF personnel arrested for raping Bangladeshi woman in custody||A BSF personnel has been arrested for allegedly raping a Bangladeshi woman, nabbed while illegally crossing over into India, on the pretext of interrogating her inside a camp of the paramilitary force in West Bengal's North 24 Parganas district, police said on Friday. Acting on a complaint lodged by the survivor at Gaighata police station, the accused BSF sub-inspector was arrested on Thursday, a senior police officer said. "The incident took place on the night of July 27. After it came to light, the BSF itself handed over the jawan to the local police and placed him under suspension," a senior officer of the paramilitary force said. The survivor and another woman, both hailing from Bangladesh's Gopalganj, were arrested while illegally crossing over into India. As per the survivor's police complaint, the two women were arrested by personnel of the 158th battalion of the BSF while they were illegally entering India through the Jhaudanga border. "She has alleged that the BSF personnel took both of them to the Kharer Math camp of the paramilitary force for questioning. When nobody was around, the accused trooper raped the woman on the pretext of interrogating her," the police officer said, quoting the FIR. The BSF personnel has been booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code, and produced before the Bangaon Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court, which remanded him to two days in police custody, he said. The woman's confidential statement has been recorded by the magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC, and medical tests were conducted on her, the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid : Bengal govt extends stricter restrictions till August 15||The Mamata Banerjee government has extended the stricter restrictions until August 15 as a part of its attempt to keep the Covid situation under control. Cinemas have been allowed to operate with not more than 50 per cent seating capacity from July 31. The Covid protocols will have to be complied with. According to the order issued to extend the restrictions for another 15 days, indoor government programmes can be held with 50 per cent seating capacity. The government has laid stress on maintaining the stricter restrictions between 9pm and 5am when all outdoor activities, except emergency services, have been prohibited. The night ban covers movement of people and vehicles, barring those given exemptions. In spite of demand from various quarters to allow operation of suburban local trains, the government has decided to keep the services suspended for now. “We have not allowed any major relaxation this time as we don’t want the daily positive cases to rise abnormally. Positive cases have begun to show a rising trend,” an official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Worrying survey spurs mask-up drive in Bengal ||State police have launched large-scale raids and set up several checkpoints to penalise people roaming around without masks, the move coming after a state government survey found that only a little over half of people out on roads wore masks, and even fewer did so properly. In the survey done with help of the police in around 650 points across Bengal, findings suggested that on average a little over 51 per cent of people wore masks. Among those wearing masks, only around 60 per cent properly secured them on their faces. State government sources said after the survey report came, Nabanna top brass directed police to take strict measures to ensure people wore masks amid the threat of a third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and recent detections of the Delta and UK variants of the virus in both north and south Bengal. “The survey report was very alarming. Hence, all districts have been asked to take strict measures to make masks compulsory for people outdoors. Police have been asked to start cases against violators,” said a senior state government official. Police sources said it was not possible to start cases against everyone under the disaster management act but a campaign that in effect says “either cover your face with a mask, else face cases” has been put in place. Police in several districts have lodged hundreds of cases against people for not wearing masks. For example, East Burdwan district police on Thursday launched the ‘Mask up Burdwan’ drive in one of the biggest south Bengal towns. Police set up four new checkpoints in the town to monitor people on roads. Those without masks will reportedly face cases or at the very least an alert from the police. “We have launched Mask up Burdwan mainly to stop people coming out of their homes without masks. It is not that we will only start cases, our main goal is awareness amid the threat of a third wave. Police from checkpoints will keep vigil on people without masks,” said Kamanasish Sen, East Burdwan police chief who launched the drive. In Bankura, police set up at least a dozen check points at its tourist spots with cops keeping an eye on visitors. “We started around 60 cases yesterday (Wednesday). We are also conducting raids in markets to find out if people are wearing masks or not. We are strict in this regard,” said Dhritiman Sarkar, the Bankura police chief. Birbhum police have started over a hundred cases against people not wearing masks, said Nagendra Nath Tripathi, Birbhum police chief.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Young couple found dead under mysterious circumstances at Alipurduar residence||A young couple was found dead under mysterious circumstances at their house in Falakata of Alipurduar district on Thursday morning. Police sources said Subhajit Das, 30, and his wife Payel, 28, were found lying dead in their room, while their three-year-old daughter was spotted wailing in the bed. It has been learnt that Subhajit used to work at a private company in Bangalore and Payel was associated with a private nursing home in Falakata. As the couple did not come out of their room till late on Thursday morning, Subhajit’s mother repeatedly banged the door and screamed their names. Later, she called the neighbours for help. The police sources said their neighbours broke the door after there was no response from Subhajit or his wife. “We saw the little girl lying on the bed. Subhajit was found hanging, while Payel was seated dead in a chair,” said a resident of Collegedanga. The police have recovered the bodies. “We are waiting for the post-mortem reports to ascertain the cause of their deaths. Our officers are trying to gather information about the couple,” said Kuntal Banerjee, the additional superintendent of police, Jaigaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
30-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP MLA Neeraj Zimba hopeful of Scheduled Tribe status of 11 Gorkha communities||BJP MLA Neeraj Zimba continues to exude hope that 11 Gorkha communities will soon be accorded the Scheduled Tribe status though it is seven years since the Bengal government mooted the proposal and the Centre didn’t commit even on Thursday on granting the tag. Darjeeling MLA Zimba on Thursday took to Facebook to express his confidence that the tribal status and Gorkhaland would be become realities during the tenure of local party MP Raju Bista. “I am very confident that it will be under the tenureship of our Hon’ble MP Sri Raju Bista Ji, our Gorkhas will achieve both our demands of #Permanent_Political_Solution and #Schedule_Tribe_Status of the 11 Leftout Gorkha Tribal Communities way before 2024,” wrote Zimba. The tenure of the present Lok Sabha ends in 2024. Zimba further said: “Note: “One fine morning” is not too far.” Pratap Khati, a leader of the Akhil Bharatiya Gorkha League which is an ally of the BJP, had said last year that the 11 Gorkha communities would definitely be granted the ST status and hill people would wake up to find their status changed to the ST “one fine morning”. A response by Renuka Singh Saruta, minister of state for tribals, is virtually silent on whether the Centre would make urgent intervention to examine the claim of the Gorkhas for the ST status. Shanta Chhetri, a Rajya Sabha member of the Trinamul Congress, wanted to know the reason for the unprecedented delay (in granting the status) and the details thereof. In her written reply to Chhetri on Thursday, Saruta admitted that the Centre had received a proposal from Bengal on February 28, 2014, for the inclusion of the 11 Gorkha community in the ST list. But the minister was vague on whether the Centre would make urgent intervention and the reasons for the delay. The minister has informed that the Centre laid down modalities for deciding on the claims for the inclusion and exclusion of communities in the SC and ST list. “As per the modalities, only those proposals which have been recommended and justified by the concerned State Government/UT Administration and concurred with by Registrar General of India (RGI) and National Commission for Scheduled Tribes are to be considered and legislation amended. All action on the proposal is taken as per these approved modalities,” the reply states. Applications under the RTIs had clearly stated the RGI had rejected the proposal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Tribal woman in Jalpaiguri accuses John Barla as ‘unhelpful’ ||A 30-year-old tribal woman from a tea estate in Jalpaiguri district has accused John Barla, the Union minister of state for minority affairs and the BJP MP of Alipurduar, of inaction when she went to him with a complaint of sexual abuse against an influential person. On Wednesday, the woman filed a complaint with Debarshi Dutta, the Jalpaiguri SP, where she alleged that a businessman had sexually tormented her for around a year. Dutta said: “In the complaint, she stated Jaychand Agarwal, a businessman of Banarhat, tormented her a number of times. She has stated that she had (last year) been to John Barla, the MP, and sought his help. But the MP, according to her, did not help her, and fleeced her financially. We have arrested the businessman and started a probe.” The SP did not elaborate how the MP allegedly cheated the woman financially. Sources in Banarhat said the woman knew Agarwal who helped her in her wedding too. “Though she filed the complaint on Wednesday, she is referring to an issue that’s almost a year old. We are exploring all angles,” said a source in the district police. The woman told the media briefly: “I met John Barla seeking his help. But he did not help me. That is why I approached the police now and hope to get justice.” On Thursday, Agarwal was produced at a court in Jalpaiguri. The court sent him to police custody for two days. Barla spoke to this paper over phone from Delhi where he brushed aside the charges. “A tribal woman approached me about a year ago with a bank cheque that bounced for want of funds. I had given her all possible help. There is no question of my cheating her financially. I don’t know why such charges are being raised against me now, I suspect some political conspiracy,” he said. Recently, it was found that Barla built a house on a plot leased out by the state government to a tea company and is building a multi-storey commercial complex on another plot owned by the state PWD department. The minister, who kept mum about his properties, had earlier hit the limelight for advocating separate statehood or Union territory status for north Bengal. The woman’s allegations prompted Gangaprasad Sharma, a former district president of BJP in Alipurduar who quit the saffron camp and joined Trinamul after Assembly elections, lambasted Barla on Thursday. “It is disappointing that a woman did not get necessary help from an elected representative, who is a member of the Union cabinet now. We want the police to investigate the matter thoroughly, and if required, speak with the MP,” said Sharma.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Bengal logs 766 new Covid-19 cases, 14 more deaths||Bengal on Thursday logged 766 new infections, 822 recoveries and 14 deaths. The total number of active cases fell by 70 to 11,300, as the state saw the 39th uninterrupted day of a slide. Bengal’s Covid-19 recovery rate is at the state’s all-time high of 98.07 per cent, ahead of the national rate of 97.35. Its daily positive confirmation rate is 1.67 per cent now. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while the nation’s is 1.34 per cent. Seventeen Bengal districts logged zero deaths on Thursday, Darjeeling, Hooghly and South 24-Parganas one each. Calcutta reported three deaths and 64 new infections. With North 24-Parganas logging 106 new cases, it became the second day after a 20-day gap of a Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures of new cases. North and South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad and Purulia single-digit figures. Bengal now has over 15.26 lakh Covid-19 cases, since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes 14.97 lakh recoveries and 18,123 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Heavy rainfall disrupts livelihoods in several south Bengal districts, thousands homeless||Continuous, heavy rainfall over the past few days has disrupted life and livelihoods in at least half a dozen south Bengal districts and rendered thousands of people homeless. Large parts of Haldia and Kharagpur towns are also submerged. Sources in the Met office in Calcutta said in the past 24 hours, districts to get the most rain were South 24-Parganas, East and West Midnapores. Among towns, Midnapore, Haldia, Canning and Diamond Harbour got the highest rainfall in the state, with 230mm, 215.8mm, 185.6mm and 92.1mm, till Thursday 6am. Much of Haldia township is submerged and the dock complex inundated. Port officials said there was no power supply to Haldia dock and township since Wednesday night as most substations went under water. Frequent lightning rendered the vessel traffic management system defunct and stalled the waterway movement. There was no inward and outward vessel transport in the past 24 hours. “All possible attempts to normalise the situation at the Haldia dock complex are on ,” said Vinit Kumar, chairman, Calcutta Port. Haldia residents called the situation “scary”. “We were asleep on Wednesday night and woke up to water in our room,” said resident Naresh Das. Haldia apart, Nandigram and many other areas of East Midnapore went underwater. “It is worse than Cyclone Yaas as entire Nandigram is waterlogged. We are trying to rescue people from flooded homes,” said Abu Taher, the deputy chief of Nandigram Panchayat Samity. Most areas in Kharagpur town, including a part of the railway station, are submerged. Train services have not been disrupted, but senior officers are assessing the situation, said a senior official in South Eastern Railways. Over a hundred villages in South 24-Parganas are under water. Officials said waterlogging was reported from Gosaba, Basanti, Kultali and Sagar blocks. “We have rescued 9,265 persons and opened 76 camps in our district. There is no report of casualty or injury or embankments breached,” said P Ulaganathan, South 24-Parganas DM. In Kakdwip, no business activities could be carried out in the wholesale market of betel leaves as the market was waterlogged. Agriculture department officials in the four south Bengal districts said they feared a loss to aman paddy and vegetable cultivation as crops had submerged. In North 24-Parganas, Sandeshkhali block is the worst-hit. A major part of the Sandeshkhali town, including Nazat police station, has been inundated since Thursday. Additional inputs from Subhasish Chaudhuri||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Higher secondary council withdraws cap on Class XI seats at all state-run schools||The West Bengal Council for Higher Secondary Education on Thursday withdrew the existing cap on the number of seats in Class XI at all state-run and state-aided schools for this year. With this, a school can admit up to 400 students in each of the three streams — science, commerce and arts — in 2021. Normally, the maximum limit per stream is 275 students. The increase in Class XI seats was made as an exception considering the 100 per cent success rate in Madhyamik. Thursday’s order, signed by council secretary-in-charge Tapas Mukhopadhyay with the approval of its president Mahua Das, came as a relief for not only heads of schools but students and parents. Education department sources said Nabanna had ordered officials to ensure admission for all students who passed Madhyamik this year. The admission process starts in August. A senior official of the council said: "Many schools approached us requesting a waiver on the existing cap and an increase in the maximum quota of admission. We considered the aspect realistically and sought a decision from the state government which accorded its nod,” the official said. With a 100 per cent success rate, the number of Class XI aspirants would be around 13.66 per cent more than the previous year. “We appealed to the council to waive the restriction and increase the maximum admissibility of students to 400. We also demanded appointment of new teachers as many schools would face problems in handling such a huge number of students,” said Chandan Maiti, state general secretary of Advanced Society for Headmasters and Headmistresses. “We are happy that the council considered the issue sincerely,” added Maiti, who is the headmaster of Mathurapur Krishnachandrapur High School in South 24-Parganas. “Every year the number of qualifying students increases. An increase of barely 1 per cent puts schools like ours in a fix owing to constraints in infrastructure coupled with lack of teachers. The council should try to understand this,” Santanu Mandal, added headmaster of a high school in Nadia's Haringhata.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||BJP to not field candidate against TMC nominee Jawhar Sircar in RS bypolls||The BJP has decided not to field a candidate against Trinamul Congress nominee Jawhar Sircar in a Rajya Sabha bypoll, but a section of leaders in the saffron camp felt the party should have ensured a contest though the result was a forgone conclusion. The decision was announced by Opposition leader in the Assembly Suvendu Adhikari in a tweet on Thursday. “Today is the last date for nomination of RS by-poll in WB. BJP is not putting up any candidate for this seat. Outcome of the poll is defined and known to all. Our fight against this irrational Govt. will continue,” Adhikari tweeted. Trinamul fielded former civil servant Sircar for the seat that was vacated by Dinesh Trivedi before his switch to the BJP. Although the result in case of a contest — with Trinamul’s nearly three-fourths majority in the House — is a foregone conclusion, sections within the BJP had hoped that Sircar wouldn’t be allowed to win unopposed. “There is, indeed, zero chance for us to win this by-poll. Yet, to keep the morale of the supporters high, a candidate should’ve been fielded,” said a state BJP functionary. The Election Commission of India had declared August 9 as the date of the bypoll. According to some BJP leaders, at a time when Mamata Banerjee is gaining traction in national politics, putting up a fight against her Rajya Sabha candidate would’ve sent a robust, positive message to the workers at the grassroots. “These workers have been suffering at the hands of Trinamul goons since the Assembly poll results. They needed to see that the party left no stone unturned and was not letting shoulders droop,” said a source. BJP sources said fielding a candidate was firmly opposed by Nandigram MLA Adhikari. The former Trinamul turncoat – despite intense dislike of several influential sections within the BJP state unit – has been wielding increasing clout in his new party. A member of the BJP’s state committee said if the party had fielded a candidate, it would’ve been an opportunity to “expose” Mukul Roy. Roy, the former Number Two in Trinamul, had joined the BJP in 2017 and went on to become its MLA this summer. But he returned to his former party after the election. The BJP has been trying to get Speaker Biman Banerjee to implement the anti-defection law against Roy. However, there has been little progress so far. Since each MLA has to show his/her vote to the agent of each candidate during the Rajya Sabha polls, if the BJP had fielded a candidate and Roy hadn’t voted for that person, it would have been easier for the party to “expose” him. Revolt against Khan The BJP’s Bishnupur MP Saumitra Khan, also the state unit chief of the BJP’s youth wing, found himself mired in yet another controversy on Thursday. At least two members of the youth wing openly revolted against Khan’s decision to induct Moumita Saha as a secretary of the unit, in a conversation within its official WhatsApp group. Khan had removed them from the group.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Mamata meets Nitin Gadkari, seeks electric vehicle unit for Bengal||Mamata Banerjee on Thursday met Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari to discuss several road and infrastructure projects in the state and seek help for the electric vehicle manufacturing industry in Bengal. The Bengal chief minister, who is in Delhi to stitch together an alliance of Opposition parties against the BJP, went to Gadkari’s home in the afternoon and spent around an hour before calling the meeting “very successful”. Gadkari, with whom Mamata has been sharing a cordial relationship for years, and the chief minister first had a 30-minute one-to-one meeting. After that, state and central government officers joined the meeting, during which several projects related to Bengal came up for discussion and the Union minister pledged all possible support. “I requested that it will be good if we have a manufacturing industry in Bengal that will manufacture electric buses, electric autos, electric scooters,” Mamata told reporters after the meeting. “We are a bordering state and share borders with Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan and northeastern states. So, we need proper roads,” she added, explaining the need for better connectivity for Bengal. Sources in the state government said Mamata had gone prepared for the meeting and rolled out a long list, which included concrete embankments in the Sunderbans, elevated road corridor between Barasat and Bongaon (so that people do not face eviction), road projects linking Nalhati and Muraroi in Birbhum, Siliguri and Sevok and then Sevok and Rongpo in Sikkim. Mamata said the Union minister listened to the demands and said he would help implement the projects. Bengal chief secretary H.K. Dwivedi will be reaching Delhi on Friday, after which a meeting will be fixed for further discussions, she added. The meeting between the duo, Trinamul sources said, was significant not only because of administrative relevance. “You should not overlook the political angle... He may be a senior Union minister, but it’s common knowledge that he is not in the mainstream. The fact that he is giving Didi time and pledging all support for Bengal projects at a time she is trying to bring all the parties together against the BJP is indeed politically significant,” said a source. In her first visit to the capital since assuming the office of the chief minister for the third time in a row, Mamata did call on the Prime Minister for a “courtesy meeting”, but her primary focus has been developing a consensus for a united fight against the BJP in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls. Over the last couple of days, Mamata met Opposition leaders like Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi, Arvind Kejriwal — she met DMK leader Kanimozhi on Thursday — to discuss how all Opposition parties could be brought together for what she has called Mission Hope 24. Veteran poet and lyricist Javed Akhtar and Bollywood actress Shabana Azmi on Thursday met Mamata and endorsed her mission. “Yes, we need a change in the country the way Bengal got a change back in 2011,” said Akhtar after meeting Mamata. Asked whether he felt Mamata should lead the mission to bring about a change, he said bringing in the change was more important than who was leading it. “There are signs of divisions, violence in today’s India... We need a better democracy,” said Akhtar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Three constables of Indian Reserve Battalion injured in bomb attack in North 24-Parganas||Three constables of the Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) were injured when goons hurled bombs at them at Jagaddal town’s Phuluri More in North 24-Parganas during the wee hours of Thursday. Susanta Poddar, Dipu Barman, and Pijush Kanti Majhi, who were a part of a team of Jagaddal police station, had gone to the site on getting information about a clash between two rival groups. The three constables attached to the Barjora-based battalion of the IRB received splinter injuries on their legs and bodies. Rushed to the BN Bose subdivisional hospital in Barrackpore, they were released later. The police team had gone to the place around 2.30am, when the clash was well underway, said sources. “Our personnel were examining unexploded bombs on the road when goons attacked them. At least four bombs were hurled and exploded near them,” a cop said. The police have started a case and are trying to identify the goons from CCTV footage retrieved from cameras at nearby locations. A senior officer of Jagaddal police station said three persons had been detained for interrogation. No arrests were made. BJP leader Umasankar Singh blamed the police for the spurt in crimes in the area. Trinamul leader Sanjoy Singh ruled out political involvement behind the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||West Bengal||Sunderbans Tiger Reserve foresters felicitate 39 villagers for bravery ||Foresters in the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve on Thursday felicitated 39 residents of a remote village at Gosaba in South 24-Parganas on the occasion of International Tiger Day for their bravery in driving away a big cat without harming the animal in April this year. The foresters said the villagers had set an example at a time when people habitually turned violent against the wild animals in retaliation for attacks on humans in remote pockets of the mangroves. “The 39 villagers became an example in the conservation of tigers going beyond the man-animal conflict as they saved the tiger. We thought their bravery should be rewarded and so we felicitated them,” said Jones Justin, the deputy field director of STR. On the morning of April 9, a few residents of Lahiripur village in Gosaba discovered a fresh pugmark on the soft earth on the riverbank that led towards the nearby jungle. Sources said soon villagers came up with their weapons to find the tiger. The team of 39 instead set up a human chain before their habitat and started shouting so that the tiger couldn’t come towards them. Meanwhile, the residents informed the forest office. “There were only a few foresters, who were not enough to drive away a tiger. The villagers aged between 30-40 years assured us that they would help us drive away the tiger ,” said a forest official. The foresters first put up a net to save the human habitat from the tiger. “These 39 villagers showed their bravery as they agreed to follow the pugmark with us. We needed people as we had to shout in a high decibel to drive away the animal. It was not easy to take part in such a drive but the villagers did it. After an effort of a few hours, we became successful as the tiger swam into the river,” said a forester. The villagers said that they took the challenge to save the tiger as they knew that attacking the big cat wouldn’t solve their problem. “As we know there are tigers in our neighbouring forests, so it is our duty to save them. We are happy as the department had felicitated us,” said Nitish Mondal, a 35 year old farmer from Lahiripur area, who along with 38 others were felicitated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-153
30-07-2021||North East||Border clashes: Assam police summons Mizoram MP Vanlalvena, pastes notice at his Delhi residence||The Assam Police has summoned Mizoram's lone Rajya Sabha MP K Vanlalvena on August 1 for questioning over his alleged “threatening statement” in connection with the Monday violence along the interstate border, and pasted a notice at his Delhi residence. The Assam Police also said it will take "lawful action" against Vanlalvena who had allegedly made a “threatening” statement over the border clash in which five policemen and a civilian were killed. Official sources said a team of Assam Police CID, which has arrived in Delhi, visited Vanlalvena's residence and the Mizoram House looking for him without any success. Sources said Vanlalvena is believed to be avoiding the team. The MP was not available for comments. Since the Resident Commissioner of Mizoram reportedly refused to receive any notice served on Vanlalvena to join the Assam Police investigation, the CID team pasted the notice on his residence. “It has come to light that you have given a threatening statement in media targetting civil and police officials in connection with the incident which is a subject matter of investigation. “Therefore, there are reasonable grounds to question you to ascertain facts and circumstances from you,” the Assam Police notice read. The Mizoram MP has been asked to appear before the Officer-In-Charge of the Dholai police station in Assam's Cachar district at 11 am on August 1 “without fail”. Mizo Zirlai Pawl, a Mizo student body, accused the Assam government of “threatening” Vanlalvena, a former president of the outfit. “He has been conspired, blamed and charged against different criminal cases in connection with the Assam-Mizoram border conflict. Any problem should not happen to him. This is also information to Himanta Biswa Sarma, the CM of Assam,” the MZP said in a written statement. Sources said police do not require the approval of the Speaker or Rajya Sabha Chairman to record an MP’s statement, but need their permission, as the case may be, before arresting an MP. Earlier, Special Director General of Assam Police G P Singh had said that a team of the state CID would visit Delhi to take action against Vanlalvena, who is currently in the national capital for attending the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament. On Wednesday night, Singh has tweeted, @assampolice team including officers of CID are leaving for Delhi to take lawful action relating to conspiracy behind the incident in light of media interview of Rajya Sabha MP Sri K Vanlalvena indicative of his active role in conspiracy. The Assam Police is also trying to find out the original recording of Vanlalvena's interview to news channels and plans to examine him on his statements after the clashes. Speaking outside Parliament Wednesday, Vanlalvena reportedly said, More than 200 policemen entered our territory and they pushed back our policemen from our own posts and they gave firing orders first, before we fired. They are lucky that we didn't kill them all. If they come again, we shall kill them all. Five Assam Police personnel and a civilian were killed and over 50 others including a superintendent of police were injured when the Mizoram Police opened fire on a team of the Assam officials last Monday. Singh said the Assam Police has prepared a picture gallery which is being further updated of Mizoram Police personnel and civilian miscreants who fired at Assam Police personnel on July 26 and all of them would be brought to law. His tweeted said, @assampolice also announces a reward of INR 5 lacs for information leading to arrest of each of the individuals involved in the barbaric killing of the Assam Police personnel on July 26th 2021," The incident took place at Inner Line Reserve Forest area of Assam's Cachar district along the National Highway 306. The Mizo MP is likely to be shown photographs of the perpetrators when he appears. The Mizoram Police had said that it had fired in self-defence after personnel from the Assam Police attacked it, but the Assam Police said that post-mortem reports of cops showed that sophisticated weapons, similar to LMG, were used. It has registered a case of murder, attempt to murder, conspiracy, voluntary causing grievous hurt and under the Arms Act. On Wednesday, the central had convened a meeting of Chief Secretaries and DGPs of Assam and Mizoram where it was agreed that a neutral central force will be deployed along the disturbed Assam-Mizoram border. The meeting was chaired by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla and attended Assam Chief Secretary Jishnu Baruah and Director General of Police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta and their respective Mizoram counterparts Lalnunmawia Chuaungo and SBK Singh. The neutral force will be commanded by a senior officer of the Central Armed Police Force. Besides, in order to facilitate the functioning of the neutral force, both the governments of Assam and Mizoram will work out arrangements in coordination with the union home ministry within a reasonable time frame, a home ministry official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
30-07-2021||North East||Assam to check all vehicles entering from Mizoram for 'illicit drugs'||All vehicles entering Assam from Mizoram will be checked for "illicit drugs", the Assam government said in a notification on Thursday, days after six men of the Assam Police were killed in a gunfight between the two police forces. The statement follows earlier advisory, also issued on Thursday, where the Assam government advised its people not to travel to Mizoram as any threat to their personal safety cannot be accepted, NDTV.com reported. Justifying its move to check vehicles from Mizoram, the Assam government said that within a span of two months, 912 cases have been registered and 1,560 persons arrested and huge quantities of illicit drugs confiscated. A tweet by a senior Assam Police official, GP Singh, said the government was continuing its "offensive against drug cartels operating from Mizoram and beyond". Singh also urged people to cooperate in the interest of the "Gennext of our country". "During the drive against illlicit drugs, it has been observed that most of the drugs were routed through Assam via Mizoram from across the border," said the Assam order, adding that the "trafficking of illicit drugs via Mizoram causes great concern and threat to society". "In order to check trafficking of illicit drugs, it is felt necessary to check all vehicles entering into Assam from Mizoram. Such vehicles will be thoroughly checked by personnel of Assam Police at the point of entry at all Assam-Mizoram borders," said the order. The vehicles, it said, will be released only after the officer concerned is satisfied that no drugs were carried in them. While there has been no official reaction from the Mizoram government on the latest move by Assam, many social media users from the hill state have hit out claiming the move is intended for harassment of Mizoram residents who can access the rest of the country by road only through Assam.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
30-07-2021||North East||Assam police team reaches New Delhi to initiate 'lawful action' against Mizoram MP ||An Assam police team reached New Delhi on Thursday to initiate “lawful action” against a Mizoram MP for his allegedly incendiary comments on Monday’s border clash that left six Assam policemen dead and further strained ties between the two north-eastern states over a territory dispute. Rajya Sabha MP K. Vanlalvena from the ruling Mizo National Front had on Wednesday accused Assam police of entering Mizoram and pushing back the state’s cops from their post. He had told a TV channel: “And they (Assam police) gave firing orders first.… They are lucky we did not kill them all. If they come again, we shall kill them all.” In a statement issued on Wednesday evening, Assam police had said a team, including CID officers, would leave for Delhi to take “lawful action relating to the conspiracy in light of a media interview of Rajya Sabha MP K. Vanlalvena indicative of his active role in the conspiracy”. The permission of the Speaker or the Chairman of the House concerned needs to be obtained for initiating any action against an MP, including questioning. Assam police sources said their team, led by SSP (CID) B. Das, would first complete all official formalities before meeting Vanlalvena. “We will proceed as per the law,” a source said. Travel advisory The Assam government on Thursday issued a travel advisory asking people not to go to Mizoram and advised people from Assam working or staying in Mizoram to “exercise utmost caution”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
30-07-2021||North East||Bail for 23 Indian Political Action Committee members||A court in Agartala on Thursday granted bail to 23 members of the Indian Political Action Committee (I-Pac) after they were served notices individually to appear before Tripura police on July 31 or August 2 for alleged violation of Covid-19 protocol. The Trinamul Congress had alleged that the I-Pac team had been under house arrest at a hotel in Agartala. I-Pac is helmed by Trinamul’s poll consultant Prashant Kishor. Tripura chief minister Biplab Deb on Thursday said police were doing their work ahead of August 15 in a state with an international border. “The people of Tripura are hospitable…. The state government will not interfere in the work of the police. Others won’t either…. If a group arrives without prior intimation, the administration has a responsibility,” said Deb. “Even in our villages, if a couple of new people suddenly show up, people ask to find out who they are. That’s all that was asked, nothing more. Covid-19 restrictions are in place,” he added.O Thursday, 40-odd Congress leaders, including two former MLAs, joined Trinamul in presence of senior Trinamul leaders who reached Tripura to express solidarity with the I-Pac members. The day also saw police take over 40 Trinamul Congress workers under preventive detention, while they were staging a protest against price rise and the “illegal” detention of the I-Pac members in Kanchanpur under North Tripura district. Sources in the topmost tier of the Trinamul leadership said the party was jubilant with the “hyper-activism” against it by the BJP-led government in Tripura. “Our party has national aspirations and there are plans being worked on for forays outside Bengal’s borders. But, realistically speaking, the Bengali-dominated state of Tripura is the only place right now where we have a sound chance of winning a substantial number of seats,” said senior Trinamul leader, known for his proximity to Mamata Banerjee. “The BJP’s paranoid hyper-activism against us in Tripura has given us cause for glee. This is helping us immensely…. The momentum we have right now, and the edge in the key area of perception, if we are able to sustain and build on that, even coming to power there will not be a pipe dream,” he added. The I-Pac members were served notices under Section 51 (obstruction of discharge of official duty or not complying with official order) of the NDMA, 2005, and Section 188 (disobeying order promulgated by a public servant) of the IPC on Tuesday. “The notice was issued under Section 41 of the CrPC. After hearing both sides, the court granted unconditional bail to all the I-Pac members. There was no case against them before the notice was served to them on Tuesday,” said senior advocate Pijush Kanti Biswas. The NDMA, 2005, is being invoked to check the spread of Covid-19 in the northeastern state. Trinamul has been raising the issue of the “house arrest” since Monday. However, officials have been maintaining that they have not been detained or arrested but were only asked to stay put in their hotel till their Covid-19 test reports came in. “They can move around freely once they test negative,” said an official. All of them have tested negative. Tripura Trinamul’s senior leader Ashish Lal Singh said protesting party members in Kanchanpur were picked up around 11am and released by 4 pm. “We will be holding more protests in the days to come against the alleged misrule of the BJP-led state government,” he said. Trinamul’s Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien and Barasat MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar reached Agartala on Thursday to take stock of the organisational matters and express solidarity with the I-Pac members who have been tasked with conducting a survey on the political situation in the northeastern state, where the BJP-IPFT has been in power since 2018. The MP duo strengthened the currently visiting delegation of senior Bengal ministers Moloy Ghatak and Bratya Basu, besides Trinamul’s labour arm leader Ritabrata Banerjee. O’Brien told journalists in Agartala that there would be more visits by senior Trinamul leaders in the days to come. Criticising the detention of the I-Pac members who were on an assignment, he wondered what message Narendra Modi and Amit Shah wanted to send out. Both the MPs held separate closed-door meetings with state and district Trinamul members to know about the organisational strength, weaknesses and what needs to be done to emerge as an alternative force to the ruling dispensation, Singh said. Trinamul’s national general-secretary Abhishek Banerjee might visit Agartala on Monday, following which the party will intensify its activities in Tripura.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
30-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: Yusra Mardini's Olympics success, former judges about on anti-terrorism and sedition laws||Success story Sir — Success comes in many forms. The story of Yusra Mardini, the Syrian swimmer competing in the Tokyo Olympics, is not just one of success but also that of hope. Herself a refugee, Mardini and her sister once swam in the sea for three hours to push a sinking boat from Turkey to Lesbos, saving the lives of 18 passengers on the boat. No medal in the world would be enough to reward such grit and courage. Ayesha Datta,Howrah Law and disorder Sir — Last Saturday, four former Supreme Court judges raised concerns about the misuse of anti-terrorism laws in India (“Thoughtful”, July 26). The judge, Deepak Gupta, said that the courts should intervene and lay down guidelines on the use of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. He also noted that Manipur activist, Erendro Leichombam, was arrested on charges of sedition for speaking out against cow urine being promoted as a cure for Covid-19. It is no wonder that he asked if we were living in a “police state”. Leichombam and the journalist, Kishorchandra Wangkhem, were arrested for their comments on May 13. On May 17, an Imphal court granted them bail, but before they could be released, the government invoked the National Security Act. They were granted bail this week with different courts observing that their continued detention was in violation of the right to life and personal liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The 84-year-old activist, Stan Swamy, who died in custody on July 5, was jailed under the UAPA and repeatedly denied bail in spite of his deteriorating health. The conduct of the National Investigation Agency and the jail authorities, which denied him a sipper to drink, should also be scrutinized to stop the misuse of the UAPA. It is ironic that even after 73 years of independence, governments in India do not realize what the meanings of sedition and terrorism are. The Centre continues to divert its attention from the actual 3 per cent of terrorism cases by focusing on dissent. Further, Section 48(d) of the UAPA limits the power of judges to order a judicial review. How can a law that takes away the authority of constitutional courts to grant bail be anything but unconstitutional? S.S. Paul,Nadia Sir — The remarks of the former judges about the anti-terrorism and sedition laws are highly significant given the Centre’s propensity to misuse both in order to silence dissent. Sitting judges should take their comments into account. Pratima Bhattacharya,Calcutta||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
30-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: New classes||Differentiation among groups of people along the lines of caste, religion, gender, race and age has been an integral feature of modern societies. The Marxist school of thought has long viewed these entrenched divisions in terms of class privilege and its resultant deprivation. Significantly, newer forms of stratification are emerging in a post-pandemic world; the new ‘haves’ and ‘have-nots’, in a sense, are those who have been inoculated against the virus and those who are yet to be vaccinated. This chasm, of course, is linked to the template of an older discrimination: data suggest that by August 2020, richer countries had struck deals to buy more than two billion vaccine doses, thereby undermining efforts by low- and middle-income countries to acquire vaccines. Prejudice, too, is contributing to this new form of inequality, with minority communities around the world bearing the brunt of the skewed distribution of medical resources. For instance, in the United States of America, of the 58 per cent of recipients whose racial or ethnic backgrounds are known and who have received at least one vaccine dose, Black, Hispanic and Asian communities comprise 9 per cent, 16 per cent and 6 per cent, respectively. In India, 854 women have been given the vaccine for every 1,000 men, while African nations have succeeded in inoculating less than 1 per cent fully. These disparities, the result of old and new iniquities, seem to be fuelling other kinds of exclusion. France has approved a contested legislation that allows public access to certain indoor venues only upon the production of vaccination certificates. The chief of staff of the German chancellor has warned that unvaccinated citizens might be barred from entering recreational spaces. The European Union’s decision to enforce a ‘green pass’ to allow travel within its member states had initially recognized neither of India’s vaccines. Restrictions on ‘vaccine passports’ would put populations from developing nations and large parts of the global south at a significant disadvantage in terms of mobility. Two specific kinds of intervention must be expedited. First, the pace of vaccination among the marginalized — people and nations — must improve. The second challenge lies in removing the impediments to vaccine distribution. Global and regional blocks, such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue and the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation, ought to be looked upon as pressure groups to remove these structural and social bottlenecks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
30-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Give freely||Donation normally assumes willingness. But institutions in India often ignore the voluntary aspect, assuming that employees and subordinates will not only donate when told to do so but will also donate the amount fixed beforehand. Responding to a petition filed by the teachers of a university in West Bengal, the Calcutta High Court ruled that university authorities had the right to donate funds for relief, but they could not force employees to contribute. The teachers had petitioned against the vice-chancellor’s decision to deduct one day’s pay from the salaries of all employees without their consent for Amphan relief. The principle of consent, however, is pertinent to all institutional donations. Employees may decide on a shared amount to give for a cause, or collect funds from those who are willing. Even discussions between authorities and employees preceding fixed donations honour the principle of consent. Decisions enforced from the top are different, whether in educational institutions, government bodies or any other organization. They violate the notion of donations in spirit. Protests against the steamrolling of consent can come from the most unexpected quarters. The three armed forces donated Rs 203.67 crore to the PM-Cares fund for Covid relief ‘on a voluntary basis’, according to the defence secretary, after the proposal for donating a day’s salary had been ‘approved’ by the defence minister. But in 2018, more than 1,200 army officers refused to donate a day’s salary for flood relief, saying that the government had not first obtained the concurrence of all donors. The role of consent, however, has predictably been waning. The pandemic led to large donations to the PM-Cares fund, and public sector undertakings, public sector banks and academic institutions donated amounts made up of a day’s cut from staff salaries. In April 2020, a finance ministry circular stated that employees of government organizations were being ‘appealed to’ for one day’s salary for each month until March 2021 as a ‘voluntary’ donation. But the deductions were made directly from salaries: the circular stated that those opting out would have to notify the relevant authority in writing. Certain universities also took this stand. Identifying the unwilling was built into the ‘appeal’. The growing practice of coerced donation laced with the possibility of repercussions needs an immediate corrective through an assertion of the right to consent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
30-07-2021||Opinion||Future tense||Standing amidst the 360-degree devastation wrought by Cyclone Yaas, Bankim Mondal, from Kumirmari in the Sunderbans, echoed what Barack Obama, the former US president, said years back: “[w]hen disaster strikes, it tears the curtain away from the festering problems that we have beneath them”. But such a ‘tearing’ hardly helps the Sunderbans as governments across political lines replace the torn curtains with fresh ones (read committees and consultations) and continue to keep the problems under wraps. Post Yaas, the trend continues with the formation of several well-publicized committees. Consider Ghoramara and Mousuni, two highly vulnerable islands in western Sunderbans. More than half of the Ghoramara and two-thirds of the Mousuni riverbanks still lack effective embankments. Forget an Amphan or Yaas, even routine high tides inundate the sea-adjacent villages, putting thousands into the doldrums of daily disaster. Do we need committees and consultations to know that Ghoramara and Mousuni need effective embankments? For an effective embankment prescription, we perhaps need not look beyond the Sunderbans. After Aila struck in 2009 — a warning bell that the island with nearly five million people and unparalleled biodiversity was turning into a hotbed of climate change related activities like high intensity cyclones and rising sea level — the cry for concrete embankments became louder. The Aila embankment, a marriage of mud, brick and concrete, was cleared by a specialized task force. A decade later, 84 kilometres of Aila embankments stood strong both in the face of Amphan and Yaas, while mud embankments of over 3,000 km were breached at numerous points. Ironically, around 80 per cent of the Rs 5,000 crore cleared by the Manmohan Singh government to build 778 km of Aila embankments was returned to the Union government as the state irrigation department failed to build more Aila embankments, citing people’s refusal to give their land as the reason. The claim does not add up. Out of the 6,000 acres required for building the 778 km of Aila embankments, around 2,000 acres were acquired — close to two-third of the acquired land has not been utilized so far. While finding answers to what happened to the acquired unused land is important, the bigger question to grapple with is why the successful Aila embankment model was not replicated elsewhere in the Sunderbans, especially in areas being repeatedly impacted. No surprise that the demand for concrete embankments has resurfaced after Yaas. On countering disasters, setting effective mechanisms in place needs closer deadlines. We need to pursue holistic but pragmatic steps, rather than brainstorm on long-term, big-ticket, difficult-to-implement options. The need to study and plan for the long-term sustainability of the Sunderbans is important, but saving lives and livelihoods immediately is urgent. Many thousands have collapsed houses and have suffered livelihood losses at least three times over the last 18 months; they need to be protected now. Some experts claim that the Sunderbans do not qualify to be a human habitat, others recommend mass resettlement of millions. Academically valid discourses, but of little relevance to present reality. The physical and socio-economic resilience of the area needs to be enhanced. The disasters will increase but people should be better prepared to counter them. Can we not think of building at least one raised pucca room per family with a concrete roof, or setting up intensive water transport instead of costly bridges and legally permissible industries using local bio resources so that local people get jobs, or introducing insurance to protect lives and livelihoods, or modifying types of crops and harvesting patterns so that they adapt better with changing climatic factors? The list is long. Resurrecting the Sunderbans is difficult but not impossible if the government and experts put their heads together. Let us fix 2030, even 2025 if possible, as the deadline to have actions on ground to save the Sunderbans; the future beyond that can wait.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
30-07-2021||Opinion||The forked tongue||Two news reports appeared recently in a leading national daily. In one, the chief of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Mohan Bhagwat, waxed eloquent on India’s rich ethos of accommodation and tolerance. In a stunningly secular message, he emphasized that the DNA of all Indians is the same irrespective of religion; that the unifying factor was nationalism; that those who lynch others are working against Hindutva. The second story was a dissonant and unsentimental contradiction of Bhagwat’s homily. Speaking at a mahapanchayat in Pataudi, Gurgaon, to discuss religious conversion, love jihad and a law to control population, the spokesperson of the Bharatiya Janata Party in Haryana and Karni Sena president, Suraj Pal Amu, called for Muslims to be thrown out of this country and even launched an execrable attack on the Pataudis, accusing them of being standard-bearers of love jihad. The Indian citizen was thus confronted with two divergent versions of the philosophy of Hindutva on the same day — Bhagwat’s veneer of tolerance contrasted with Amu’s crude but candid outburst against Muslims. A leading Muslim public intellectual was quick to shower Bhagwat with encomiums for “trying to change the Sangh’s attitude towards Muslims”. He called Bhagwat a beacon of hope for Hindu-Muslim relations for his consistent stance that in our democracy, there can neither be dominance of Hindus nor of Muslims. Yet, one is tempted to ask the obvious question: why then are India’s Muslims living amidst the drumbeats of love jihad, lynching, arbitrary incarceration and hatred? Much has been made of Bhagwat’s unequivocal condemnation of mob lynching. But then, the timing of words is everything. Where were such sanctimonious voices when Mohammed Akhlaque, Hafiz Abdul Khalid, Pehlu Khan and others were being lynched in the name of cow protection? There was only complicit silence. If Bhagwat was articulating his genuine belief in Hindu-Muslim brotherhood and that Muslims are equal citizens of this country, he can — significantly — be accused of digressing from the fundamental tenets of Hindutva as conceived by V.D. Savarkar, a forceful ideologue of political Hinduism. Savarkar’s conception of the Hindu Rashtra hinged on an implacable, adversarial relationship with Muslims. In 1937, even before the Muslim League resolved to have a separate homeland for India’s Muslims, Savarkar propounded the two-nation theory on the grounds of “centuries of cultural, religious and national antagonism between the Hindus and Muslims... there are two nations in the main — the Hindus and the Muslims — in India”. Ashis Nandy, the renowned social scientist, ascribed the BJP’s runaway victory in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections to the spread of supremacist, ethnocentric Hindutva through a furtive but relentless RSS machinery that has captured the collective consciousness of the majority community. For those who believe that Bhagwat is leading an ideological transformation — a veritable perestroika — let’s survey what has happened in the last seven years when Bhagwat has been among the most influential voices in the country. Apart from the lynching of Muslims, India has become a Hindutva laboratory that has harnessed anti-conversion laws, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, and the politics of hate against the minority community. No change in heart or in thinking in the Hindutva fold is visible but, of late, a change in tactics is discernible. There has been a perceptible climb-down by a regime, which, uncaring of history, past precedent and humanitarian concern, abrogated Article 370, upheld the iniquitous CAA, used draconian laws to quell dissent, curbed the freedom of expression, and encouraged state governments to pass divisive anti-conversion laws. But things have changed dramatically in the last few months. A methodically planned Chinese aggression has already cost us considerable stretches of territory. The criminal mishandling of the pandemic has turned us into a global pariah. International agencies questioning our human rights record and the fetters on freedom of expression has put us on a sticky wicket. The body blow to the regime’s arrogance was delivered by the feisty Mamata Banerjee. All of a sudden, we have an ingratiating Centre holding talks with the Gupkar Alliance which, not long ago, had been branded ‘anti-national’ by the government. The home minister has written a lead article in a national daily extolling the virtues of democracy. Should Bhagwat’s views on communal harmony then be seen as part of these unconvincing reconciliation efforts? Mathew John is a former civil servant||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
30-07-2021||Opinion||Picture perfect||The vaccination certificate that erupted from the printer had the prime minister’s face on it. It had sundry other things as well: it said I had been vaccinated twice with the same brand of vaccine; it gave the dates of vaccination; it said I was a female of somewhat advanced age. It also spelt my name correctly. But it was the face that struck me first. I had absorbed with a kind of strained inattention the fact that Narendra Modi’s picture had been put on vaccine certificates and that the Opposition was irate, but its impact was completely unexpected. I would now have it permanently in my home, inhabiting the drawer of a table I love, ensconced among documents I must seize to take with me in case of earthquake or fire for they tell the State who I am in the State’s terms. I almost wondered if the image rode on an invisible winged horse, but I pulled myself up. No one had said they had bought the horse, had they? Just as nobody had intruded into our borders last year or has been there since. Of course, I had no choice in the matter. Words such as ‘choice’, ‘reason’ or ‘humour’ are now meaningless collections of letters scattered out of lexicons like the counters of a defeated Scrabble player. Meanwhile, the objections to Modi’s picture on vaccine certificates ran roughly thus: the vaccines did not emanate from the prime minister, scientists sweated and raced to relieve the world of suffering and loss; the government was promoting the Modi cult; it was using a devastating pandemic to its own advantage; vaccination was part of the government’s job, not a favour to its citizens — and so on. Eddies spread from the central plop in the pool, beginning with the Trinamul Congress’s complaint to the Election Commission that the model code of conduct was being violated before the assembly elections. The face was digitally masked, to be unmasked again after the results. But when states had to buy vaccines for the 18-44 age group, these certificates began to carry pictures of the chief ministers of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and West Bengal in their respective states. They were paying. A TMC leader responded to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s outcry by stating that if the BJP had not done it first they would not have done it either. But the prime minister, questioned by the Supreme Court, announced that the Centre would procure the vaccines for the 18-44 age group from June 21. So his face was back in its old place. And in their protest against Modi’s ownership of the vaccination drive through the picture-changing game, the Opposition-led governments had willy-nilly accepted the logic of ‘S/He who pays, displays’. The people pay — in every case. The inappropriateness of putting the prime minister’s image on flexes celebrating the biggest vaccination drive in the world when the drive is flagging because of vaccine shortage, or on hoardings screaming that vaccination is free as though it is a special prize for being Indian, has been emphatically pointed out. But that does not deter the government, for the party in power wishes to underline, with equal emphasis, its message of appropriation. But the prime minister’s portrait has its own meaning. It is neither misleading nor even — heaven forbid — a falsehood, but a kind of non-speech act, a term I use with profuse apologies to J.L. Austin and John Searle. The image acts, in the sense that it seems to externalize the informing presence of the spirit that moves all things Indian; the message it is pasted on, however gung-ho, is ultimately secondary. All images of ministers on notices of public sector projects or schemes for aid suggest ownership and are advertisements of the government run by the leader’s party. This can spill into the sphere of government-sponsored cultural events. The practice is not new; Indian politicians have always played on the people’s love of icons to stamp their presence, or that of their past leaders, on any programme associated with their party-led government. Pictures of past leaders were common earlier, but politicians in power have now taken over the icon-space. That may expand. During the pandemic in April 2020, bags of relief material stamped with the image of the Congress chief minister of Punjab evoked protests from the Opposition, and over 13,000 school bags stamped with the images of E.K. Palaniswami, then the Tamil Nadu chief minister, and of the late J. Jayalalithaa were packed away by the rival party just before the 2021 state elections. Accused of megalomania, Mayawati declared that her own statues of bronze, cement and marble put up during her rule in Uttar Pradesh were expressions of the people’s will, while the statues of elephants were architectural designs, not representations of her party’s symbol. Even if not so basic as Mayawati’s statues, the pictures of the prime minister continue a familiar tradition, although refined into something rich and strange. In spite of the various messages clinging to its imaginary coat-tails, the image itself refers to nothing, it just is. Its performance lies in an imagined silence, for its presence alone is transformative. This is best understood by the numerous billboards that have sprouted across Delhi showing Modi with a slightly diminutive Yogi Adityanath. These are paeans to UP as No.1 in developing smart cities and in providing employment. The prime minister’s portrait transforms a regime known for violence, oppression, joblessness, sewerage-less smart cities and, most recently, for the tragic mismanagement of the pandemic into a model for the country, while touching its chief minister with the same non-referential glory. The older tradition looks a bit silly in comparison, possessing neither such alchemy nor perhaps the inclination to spend, for instance, reportedly Rs 1.95 crore of taxpayers’ money daily on advertisements, as happened in 2019-20. The last little material detail aside, what must be acknowledged is that the BJP led by Modi has brought into our lives a new aesthetic of surreal wonder (‘is this really happening?’), a dizzying transcendence of the mundane plane where truth and falsity are almost recognizable notions. Far from the creations of Plato’s artist in the Republic, the ‘copies’ produced by this new artistry exude as much truth as the Original.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Covid: Garhwa village put on high alert after discovery of cluster||Haradag Khurd in Garhwa district- has been put on high alert post detection of as many as 21 Covid-19 positive villagers in a short span of two days after return of migrant workers from Madhya Pradesh, officials said Friday. All 21 including eight children in the age group of 2 and 12 years have been admitted to Sadar Hospital, Garhwa and their all contacts have been isolated. Among the returnees from a Madhya Pradesh colliery area where Delta plus variant of the contagion has been detected, one worker was initially found suffering from coronavirus and its suspected that the villagers might have caught the infection from him. "Initially 19 villagers were found positive. All of them have been admitted to Garhwa Sadar hospital. We are taking all possible steps to contain the spread of the virus and have kept officials on high alert in the area,," Jharkhand Additional Chief Secretary, Health, Arun Kumar Singh told PTI. Garhwa civil surgeon said two more have tested positive taking the tally of 21. Singh said the infected migrant worker had returned to Haradag Khurd under Ramana block of Garhwa from Madhya Pradesh where he worked in a collierty area, where Delta Plus variant has been detected. A total of 5,126 people have so far lost their lives due to contagion in Jharkhand which is battling the deadly second wave of Covid-19. The state over quite some time has been witnessing lesser number of new positive cases but detection of 21 cases in a short spell of time in the Garhwa village has raised concerns among the health officials. "Our surveillance team is visiting villages and we are taking all possible steps to contain the spread...Special precautions are taken in the village Haradag Khurd with a population of about 300 villagers," Garhwa Deputy Commissioner Rajesh Kumar Pathak said. Civil Surgeon, Garhwa, Dr Kamlesh Kumar said during the course routine sample collection at railway station, sample of migrant labourer Awadhesh Vishwakarma was found to be positive in the report and he was traced to village Haradag Khurd. "The health machinery swung into action and 25 persons including all his family members were subjected to tests along with two other families with whom he interacted. Twenty people were found to be positive including the migrant worker and eight children who are in the age group of 2-12 years," the Civil Surgeon informed. Officials said if required the samples would be sent to Regional Genome Sequencing Laboratory (RGSL), Institute of Life Sciences (ILS) Bhubaneshwar for WGS as Jharkhand at present does not have the machine for Genome sequencing. Whole genomic sequencing (WGS) is a laboratory process that is used to determine nearly all the approximately 3 billion nucleotides of an individuals complete DNA sequence, including non-coding sequence which is instrumental in characterising the mutations and tracking disease outbreaks. Last month, alarmed at new coronavirus strains like Delta and Alpha afflicting 328 people, the state government had ordered sending samples of patients within 48 hours of their death for genetic study to help evolve a strategy to contain their spread. Battling the deadly second wave of the Covid-19 that has claimed 5,126 lives in tribal-dominated Jharkhand, the state government is concerned as these variants like Delta, Alpha, and Kappa are said to be more transmissible. Of the 328 positive cases last month, 194 cases were of Delta variant B.1.617.2 which is a "variant of concern"". A variant can be labelled as "of concern" if it is more contagious, more deadly, or more resistant to current vaccines and treatments, the World Health Organisation has said. Twenty-nine cases were found to be of B.1.617.1 variant which has been named Kappa while 29 cases were of B.1.1.7 Alpha variant. The Alpha variant is also a strain "of concern" as it spreads more rapidly than the original strain. Chief Minister Hemant Soren has been stressing that even though the rate of recovery is more than 98 per cent in the state, the danger is not over. "According to experts, the third wave may trouble us in six to eight weeks and the state government has made preparations for it but it would not be possible without the help of people", he has said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand allows on-campus classes for senior school students||Jharkhand has decided to allow schools to resume on-campus classes for classes 9 and above and  colleges and universities to start functioning in the wake of a gradual dip in Covid cases in the state. At a meeting chaired by chief minister Hemant Soren on Friday, the government also decided to resume  interstate bus services. It has also allowed clubs to reopen. Bars  and restaurants can run till 10 pm with 50 per cent capacity. However, weekend lockdowns from Saturday evening till Monday morning will continue to be in force. After the meeting, Hemant said the government would not hesitate to reintroduce restrictions in the immediate future if  the situation warranted. “At today’s meeting, we decided  to unlock almost all sectors including education, taking into account the fall in Covid-19 cases. But use of masks and covid appropriate behavior in public places must be followed. The threat of Covid-19 is far from over even though cases are on the decline,” he said. As per the communiqué issued by the chief minister’s office, all schools from class 9 to 12 can conduct offline classes, but only with the consent of the parents. “Classes can run for a maximum of 4 hours and only till noon,” read the communiqué, adding that routine covid testing for students and teachers will be conducted by the district administration. The state government also allowed reopening of final year classes for undergraduate and post graduate students in universities and professional colleges. However, before doing so, the management of the concerned institute must ensure that at least the first dose of vaccine has been administered to the staff. This apart, colleges can also take offline exams for UG and PG final year students. National competitive exams will also be held as per  schedule. Coaching institutes can start classes only for students above 18 but the number of students must be restricted to 50 per cent of the total strength. All concerned must had at least the first dose of the vaccine. The government also allowed opening of clubs while private and public offices can function with 100 per cent capacity. “As far as the weekend lockdown is concerned, all other entities except essential services, bars, restaurants will remain closed,” said the order. The cap on the assembly of people in open spaces has also been increased to 100 while in closed spaces, it must not exceed more than 50 per cent or 100 persons, read the order. Activities or services  that are still not permitted include swimming pools, fairs and exhibitions. The  mandatory e-pass for coming into the state has also been withdrawn.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Telco shelter home abuse case: Sikh delegation demand Harpal Singh Thapper autopsy report||A delegation of Sikh community on Friday met the East Singhbhum deputy commissioner and demanded the post mortem report of Harpal Singh Thapper who died under mysterious circumstances in judicial custody at Ghaghidih Central Jail on July 16. Operator of a shelter home under Mother Teresa Welfare Trust, 46-year-old Thapper was arrested along with three others on June 16 for allegedly molesting minor girls of the Telco-based shelter home. On July 17, he was found critically ill at the central jail and soon succumbed to the injuries at MGM Medical College Hospital. Injury marks on Thapper's body, especially in the legs and back, have made family members suspect it to be a case of murder. The post mortem was done by a medical board on July 18 under videography in presence of executive magistrate, Chandra Deo Prasad after being deputed by the deputy commissioner. Led by Shailender Singh, chairman of Jharkhand State Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee, the delegates pressed the deputy commissioner, Suraj Kumar for the post mortem report as Thapper's family members suspect it to be a case murder. In a petition handed over to the deputy commissioner, the delegates have said that the officials concerned seem to have been concealing the post mortem report of Thapper in the name of investigation. "Thapper must have succumbed to the injuries sustained in Ghaghidih Central Jail where he was lodged. Though over 12 days have elapsed since the post mortem was done in a medical board, the authority concerned did not reveal anything about the findings. They are trying to hush up the case in the name of investigation," said Shailender Singh to The Telegraph Online. Shailender Singh said they demanded the post mortem report as the family members and others want to know the truth behind Thapper's death which can be known from the autopsy report. The deputy commissioner asked the delegation to obtain the certified copy of the post mortem report from the court where he had sent it for necessary action. Significantly, Thapper's widow Pushpa Rani Tirkey who was also arrested in the case and is presently lodged in Ghaghidih Central Jail has already demanded a CBI enquiry into the custodial death of her husband.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Tata Steel deploys Electric Vehicles to transport products||Tata Steel has tied up with an Indian start-up company to pursue its aspiration of deploying Electric Vehicles (EVs) for transporting steel as part of its sustainability initiative. This is the first-ever deployment of Electric Vehicles by any steel producer in the country for transportation of finished steel. Tata Steel has contracted for 27 EVs, each with a carrying capacity 35 tonnes of steel (minimum capacity). The company plans to deploy 15 EVs at its Jamshedpur plant and 12 EVs at its Sahibabad plant. The first set of EVs for Tata Steel is being put in operation between Tata Steel BSL’s Sahibabad Plant and Pilkhuwa Stockyard in Uttar Pradesh. At a virtual ceremony organised on Thursday, Tata Steel formally flagged-off the loaded vehicle at the Pilkhuwa Stockyard to move to the Sahibabad plant, 38km away. Dibyendu Bose, vice- president, Supply Chain, Tata Steel, said, “It is a great occasion for us today as we are launching Electric Vehicles to move steel on the JRD Tata’s 117th birth anniversary. This initiative is aimed at reduction of Greenhouse gas emissions and will help protect the environment in the long run.  It is the beginning of a new era for Tata Steel and the supply chain division and I wish them all success.” Peeyush Gupta, Vice President Supply Chain (Designate), said “Tata steel has been a pioneer in introducing path-breaking initiatives in the past as well. While we have multiple initiatives focussed on customer service, this is a definitive step towards our commitment to environment. This initiative is also aligned to the government’s larger climate agenda and will surely serve as a cornerstone and a way forward for the industry to follow.” The EVs being deployed comprise a 2.2 ton 230.4 kWh Lithium ion battery pack with a sophisticated cooling system and a battery management system giving it capability to operate at ambient temperatures up to 60 degrees Celsius. The battery pack would be powered by a 160-kWh charger setup which would be able to charge the battery from 0 to 100% in 90 minutes. Tata Steel’s vision is to be the global steel industry benchmark in value creation and corporate citizenship. Sustainable business practices are key enablers to achieving this vision.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Low pressure causes very heavy rain in Jharkhand||The low pressure area which originated from the Bay of Bengal moved to Gangetic West Bengal and Jharkhand resulting in heavy to very heavy rainfall in several districts of the state since Thursday night. An associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6 km above the mean sea level assisted in the rainfall activity. Met statistics revealed that Latehar topped the rain chart during the last 24 hours with very heavy rainfall of 102 mm rain. Hindgir in Hazaribagh district too recorded very heavy rain of 93 mm and so was Amarpara in Pakur district which recorded 92 mm of rain. Chatra and Balumath in Latehar district recorded around 90 mm of rain while Mandar in Ranchi district recorded 85 mm of rain. Several places in Dhanbad district including Maithon and Panchet recorded around 78 mm of rain while Nandadih in Koderma district recorded 79 mm of rain. Jamtara recorded 70 mm of rain while Lohardaga recorded 61 mm. Jamshedpur and Ghatshila, both in East singhbhum district recorded around 60 mm of rain while Ramgarh and Ranchi experienced around 50 mm of rain. Deoghar and Hazaribagh recorded around 45 mm of rain while Giridih and Pakur received around 30 mm of rain. Dumka and Daltonganj recorded around 25 mm of rain. About 20 IMD observatories recorded rainfall between 10 mm and 15 mm since last evening due to the impact of the low pressure. The sky remained overcast in most parts of the state on Friday with intermittent rains and winds blowing at an average speed of 20 Kmph. "An active monsoon coupled with the low pressure resulted in heavy to very heavy rain over Jharkhand. The low pressure is likely to move north-westwards towards southern Bihar and Uttar Pradesh during the next two to three days," said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Friday passing through Ganganagar , Narnaul,  Gaya and  some parts of West Bengal and Jharkhand. Today's satellite pictures indicated formation of a fresh low pressure area over southern parts of central Uttar Pradesh and an associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6 km above mean sea level. Weathermen said the impact of the low pressure that originated from the Bay of Bengal would gradually wane from tomorrow resulting in reduced rainfall activity. However, weathermen said a few isolated places in north western and south western parts of the state were expected to witness heavy rain in the next 24 hours. The heavy and widespread rain during the last 24 hours brought down the six per cent deficit rain to zero on Friday. Rain data suggested that so far Jharkhand has received 513.7 mm of rain against a normal of 513 mm, resulting in zero deficit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||JAC intermediate results best in 10 years||Jharkhand Academic Council declared this year’s intermediate results on Friday with the state registering its best ever performance in the last decade across all the three streams. In science, the overall pass percentage stood at 86.89, Commerce recorded 90.33, while Arts logged 90.71, according to the results announced by state education minister Jagarnath Mahto at the JAC office in Namkum in the presence senior board officials. JAC chairman Arvind Prasad Singh said that going by data of past intermediate results, the overall pass percentage of 2021 in all three disciplines were the highest since 2010. He maintained that anyone seeking a review of his/her results can apply for scrutiny with JAC till August 6. As many as 88,145 students appeared for intermediate exams in science of which 76,590 have passed with 56,445 having got a first division, 19,927 second division and 218 third division. In commerce, 33,677 students appeared for the exams of which 30,422 have passed, including 19,951 in the first division, 9,987 in the  second division and 484 in the third division. In Arts, 189,801 of 209,234 students who appeared have passed. Of them, 52,177 got a first division, 117,245 second and 20,379 third division. JAC devised a 80:20 marking pattern for both matric and intermediate exams which meant that 80 per cent weightage was given to students' past performance in class 9 and 11, and 20 per cent was based on practical exams or internal assessments by respective schools. In terms of districts, Hazaribagh (92.24%), Koderma (92.19%) and Giridih (91.94%) were the top three in overall pass percentage in science. Ranchi remained in 10th position with 85.42%, and East Singhbhum was 12th with 84.08% . Pakur was at te bottome of the list with a pass percentage of 72.65%. In commerce, Simdega (96.03%), Chatra (94.98%) and Jamtara (94.38%) were the top three performers in terms of pass percentages, E.Singhbhum (90.58%) and Ranchi (89.78%) were placed 12th and 13th, respectively, while Godda (77.38%) came last. Similarly, in aArts, Khunti (96.85%), Simdega (96.77%) and Deoghar (94.95%) topped among the districts. Ranchi (92.78%) and East Singhbhum (92.70%) stood 7th and 8th and Sahebganj (80.10) was last. Both the matric and intermediate examinations were cancelled by the state government in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Thursday, JAC published matriculation results in which overall pass percentage was 95.92.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Railways cancel trains due to heavy rains across Bengal||The South Eastern Railway (SER) on Friday cancelled and short-terminated several trains of various destinations due to incessant rain in Calcutta, Howrah and several other districts of neighbouring West Bengal since Thursday resulting in water logging on tracks and various railway yards. The SER took several measures for the convenience of affected passengers. Frequent announcements were made at all important stations for guidance of passengers. The enquiry counters were being manned by chief ticket inspectors and chief commercial inspectors of respective stations. Help Desks were opened at Howrah, Santragachi and Kharagpur railway stations. Buses were arranged at Howrah railway station for ferrying passengers to Santragachi for boarding trains. Food packets were made available to stranded passengers at all important stations. Bulk SMS were also being sent to passengers regarding cancellation/rescheduling and short termination of trains. Special counters were opened for granting refunds for cancellation of tickets. Moreover, Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) was also directed to ensure proper food and drinking water for passengers on trains. A spokesman of SER said that the situation is likely to improve on Saturday as the intensity of rain in Bengal has reduced. The heavy rain on Thursday was caused by a low pressure originating from the Bay of Bengal. Trains Cancelled # 02096 Howrah-CSMT(Mumbai) Special via Tatanagar scheduled to leave Howrah at 5.45 am. # 02517 Howrah-Titlagarh Special via Tatanagar  scheduled to leave Howrah at 6.35 am # 08011 Howrah-Adra-Chakradharpur/ Bokaro Steel City Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 12.05 am. # 02834 Howrah-Ahmedabad Special via Tatanagar scheduled to leave Howrah at 11.45 pm # 02470 Howrah-Mumbai(CSMT) Special via Tatanagar scheduled to leave Howrah at 2.35 am. # 08014 Bokaro Steel City/ Chakradharpur-Howrah Special scheduled to leave Bokaro at 8.30 am. # 03512 Asansol-Tatanagar Special scheduled to leave Asansol at 9.30 am # 03511 Tatanagar-Asansol Special scheduled to leave Tatanagar at 2.30 pm Short - termination of Trains # 02279 Pune-Howrah  Special via Tatanagar which left Pune on July 28 will be short terminated at Santragachi instead of Howrah. 02803 Ranchi – Howrah Special which left  Ranchi on July 29 will be terminated at Santragachi instead of Howrah railway station. 02809 Mumbai(CSMT) – Howrah Special which left Mumbai on  July 28 will be terminated at Santragachi instead of Howrah. # 08012 Chakradharpur – Howrah Special which left Chakradharpur on July 29 will be short terminated at Santragachi instead of Howrah. # 01051 LTT – Howrah Special via Tatanagar scheduled to arrive Howrah 6.45 am on Friday  was short terminated at Santragachi. # 02259 Mumbai (CSMT) - Howrah Special via Tatanagar scheduled to arrive Howrah at 12.25 pm on Friday was short-terminated at Santragachi. 02833 Ahmedabad – Howrah Special via Tatanagar scheduled to arrive at Howrah at 1.35  am on Friday  was short terminated at Santragachi. 02518 Titlagarh – Howrah Special via Tatanagar scheduled to arrive Howrah 6.15 pm on Friday was short terminated at Santragachi # 08027 Kharagpur-Asansol Special via Tatanagar  was terminated at Burnpur. Rescheduling of Trains # 02260 Howrah-Mumbai(CSMT) Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 2.05 pm on Friday originated from Santragachi at 2.45 pm instead of Howrah # 02804 Howrah-Ranchi Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 10.15 pm on Friday  will instead originate from Santragachi at 11 pm instead of Howrah. # 02834 Howrah-Ahmedabad Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 11.45 pm  on Friday will instead originate from Santragachi at 12.30 am on July 31 instead of Howrah. # 08011 Howrah-Chakradharpur/Bokaro Steel City Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 12.05  am on Friday originated from Santragachi at 12.50 am instead of Howrah. # 02810 Howrah-Mumbai(CSMT) Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 7.50 pm on Friday will originate from Santragachi at 8.45 pm instead of Howrah. #  01052 Howrah-LTT Special scheduled to leave Howrah at 10 pm on  July 30 will instead originate from Shalimar at 10.30 pm and not from Howrah. # 09206 Howrah-Porbandar Special via Tatanagar scheduled to leave Howrah at 9.10pm on Friday will  originate from Shalimar at 11 pm instead of Howrah # 02280 Howrah-Pune Special via Tatanagar scheduled to leave Howrah at 9.50pm  on Friday will originate from Santragachi at 11.30 pm  instead of Howrah # 02020 Ranchi-Howrah Special was  rescheduled to leave Ranchi at 6.45 pm instead of 1.45 pm on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Probe reveals auto used to attack Dhanbad judge was stolen||The autorickshaw used to run down Uttam Anand on Wednesday morning was stolen, investigations into the death of the Dhanbad judical officer have revealed, said sources in the SIT that has been set up to probe what the legal fraternity claims was murder constituing an attack on the judiciary. During interactions with police officials of Dhanbad, ADG (Operations) Sanjay Anand Latkar, who is leading a state-level special investigation team to probe the death of the judge, asked them to question the owner of the autorickshaw whihc was was stolen from the Jorapokhar area. He also asked them to scan the mobile call records of the two arrested persons, Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma and question the duo may have spoken to in the last 10 days. Latkar also wanted policemen to question the owner of the restaurant on Dhanbad Station Road where Lakhan, who drove the auto, had apparently dropped by for a drink on the previous night of the incident (Tuesday).  ADG (operations) Latkar reached Dhanbad from Ranchi on Friday after which he was joined by Bokaro IG Priya Dubey for a meeting with senior officials of Dhanbad police to be briefed on the findings of the probe so far. "We are reviewing the case at the moment," he said when the media pressed him for details. Earlier on the day, Dhanbad police took the two arrested persons on five-day remand to continue interrogating them. In the afternoon, over 50 lawyers of Dhanbad braved incessant rain since the morning to take out a march from the Dhanbad r Bar Association office to Randhir Verma Chowk to demand a thorough probe into the death of additional district judge, Uttam Anand so that the guilty are identified and punished. The protesters were led by Amrendra Sahay, President of Dhanbad Bar Association, who abstained from work and boycotted court work also demanded immediate arrest of those involved in murder of an advocate of Tamar, Manoj Kumar Jha, about a week ago. The agitating lawyers,  who were carrying banners and posters bearing slogans like “Dhanbad Bar Association pays tribute to Manoj Kumar Jha advocate and Uttam Anand Additional Session judge VIII of Dhanbad", "we demand a fair investigation and arrest of the culprits at the earliest", " we further demand enactment of an Advocates' Protection Act", held umbrellas in one hand as they marched on. Talking to the media, Sahay said, “We demand immediate legislation and implementation of an Advocates' Protection Act to ensure the safety and security of lawyers who are working in adverse conditions facing attacks. Now, even a sitting judge has been attacked and killed for the first time in Dhanbad which vindicates our stand.” “The CCTV footage indicates some conspiracy in the death of Justice Uttam Anand, who was intentionally hit by an autorickshaw and thus the case requires comprehensive investigation,” added Sahay.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Daily wager's son comes first in Jharkhand board exam ||Vivek Dutta, a resident of Kumhri village and son of a daily wage labourer, secured first position in the state in Jharkhand Academic Council Matriculation examination. Vivek, a student of Upgraded High School Brahmindwarika of Chandankyari Block, has secured the highest 98.60 per cent marks in the examination. Saraswati Kumari of Ramrudra Plus Two High School, Chas, secured the third position in the state by securing 97.60 per cent. Vivek’s father Ashutosh Dutta, who was a daily wage labourer, died in 2018. His elder brother Suraj Dutta looks after the family working as a labourer. Vivek secured 100 marks in Hindi, 98 in English, 100 in Mathematics, 97 in Sanskrit, 98 in Social Science, and 88 in Science. He was in a difficult situation as he struggled to buy books. Despite the shortage of money, Suraj bought books by taking a loan, so that Vivek's studies would not be hampered. Vivek said that his achievement is dedicated to his late father, mother, brother and teachers. Had his father been alive, he would have been very happy. Suraj said he dreams that one day his younger brother Vivek will be successful and overcome poverty. Vivek said that he is studying diligently to make his elder brother's dream come true. He wants to become an engineer. District Education Officer Neelam Aileen Toppo said, "Vivek Dutta and Saraswati Kumari have performed extremely well." She also said that the students of Bokaro district performed brilliantly in the Jharkhand Academic Council Matriculation examination. 26,032 students of the district had appeared in this examination. Out of these 24,662 students were successful in the examination. 94.73 per cent of students got success in the examination. Toppo said that in the matriculation examination, 17,450 students of different schools of the district passed in first class, 6769 students in second, and 443 students in third class.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad judge 'killing': SC seeks report from Jharkhand chief secretary within a week||The Supreme Court Friday took suo motu cognisance of the sad demise of a judge who was allegedly mowed down in Dhanbad and sought a status report within a week from Jharkhand's Chief Secretary and the DGP on the investigation into the incident. A bench headed by Chief Justice N V Ramana said the Jharkhand High Court would keep monitoring the probe. The apex court said it has been taking suo motu cognizance of attacks on judicial officers and legal fraternity across the country. The bench indicated it might seek reports from the concerned state governments. "This Dhanbad case has wider ramifications. We are getting reports that judicial officers are being attacked around the country. We intend to examine this and may seek report from all states," CJI Ramana was quoted as saying by ndtv.com. The bench, which also comprised Justice Surya Kant, issued notice to all the states and specifically sought the presence of Jharkhand Advocate General when it hears the case next week. On Thursday, the top court said the Chief Justice of Jharkhand High Court has already taken up the matter related to the alleged killing of the judicial officer. District and Sessions Judge-8 of Dhanbad court, Uttam Anand, was out on a morning walk on Wednesday when he was killed by an auto-rickshaw at Randhir Verma Chowk near the district court in the Sadar police station area, stepping up investigations into his death that has led to a nationwide outrage among the legal fraternity which believes he was murdered. Justice Anand was hearing a case concerning sharpshooters allegedly working at the behest of a UP ganglord. Dhanbad police, which had set up a special investigation team headed by city SP R Ramkumar on Wednesday, revealed that the two were arrested in the wee hours of Thursday. "Based on all available evidence and CCTV footage, police launched a search operation for the auto-rickshaw and its driver. Finally, we were able to arrest the driver, Lakhan Verma of Sonarpatti, and another person, Rahul Verma of Jorapokhar," said Dhanbad SSP Kumar. Dhanbad police have, however, refused to divulge further details of their investigations. They have also indicated their unwillingness to comment on the motive of the killing given the sensitive nature of the case. Kumar said, “We are investigating the case from all angles. But as the case is sensitive we are not in a position to share any details with regard to our findings until the investigation is completed." He said Coal Belt DIG Mayur Patel had also inspected the site of the incident and had issued necessary instructions to a local forensics team that is also part of the investigations. Asked if the arrested duo had criminal antecedents, Kumar said they may have been involved in a theft earlier, but that police were still collecting details. "We are collecting details as a theft case seems to have been lodged in their names,” he said. Anand’s family members had lodged an FIR on Wednesday, calling his death an act of murder. But Kumar has clarified that his family had not named any suspect.  "A case under section 302 IPC has been registered, but nobody has been named in the case,” he said. The auto-rickshaw was recovered by police from Giridih district on Thursday and brought to Dhanbad police station where the forensics team conducted a thorough scan. The forensics team visited the site of the accident on Thursday morning once again and collected more evidence.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Over 1.6 lakh get vaccinated in a day, the highest for Jharkhand in July  ||Jharkhand on Thursday vaccinated over 1.6 lakh residents against Covid-19, the highest in a day this month, taking the total count of those inoculated in the state closer to the 1 crore mark, provisional figures released by the health department highlighted. According to National Health Mission (NHM), the state on Thursday administered the first dose of vaccine to 1,23,989 residents, while the second jab was administered to 39,926 beneficiaries. Over 1 lakh residents in the age bracket of 18 years to 44 years got their first dose of the vaccine and close to 18,000 beneficiaries from this age group received their second jab. NHM data highlighted that the state has over 3.5 lakh vaccine doses in stock to run the immunisation programme for the remaining days of July. As per government data, close to 95 lakh Jharkhand residents have received at least one dose of the vaccine. Jharkhand witnessed a spike in the active caseload of Covid-19 on Thursday with fresh cases of infection outnumbering recoveries. As per a bulletin from NHM, at least 56 people, including 19 from Garhwa alone, tested positive for Covid-19, while only 34 patients recovered from the viral infection. The active caseload in the state reached 259 on Thursday. At least seven districts, including Ranchi, saw a spike in the active caseload. As per NHM data, at least 11 cases against six recoveries took the active caseload in Ranchi to 46, while nine cases against four recoveries took the active caseload in Bokaro to 26. Garhwa reported zero recoveries on the day and the number of patients there jumped to 20. The state, however, did not report fresh Covid casualties on Thursday and the Covid toll remained 5,126. Jharkhand tested samples of 60,755 residents  and 0.09 per cent of them were found infected. The state reported an average positivity rate of 0.06 or less in the past one week or so, which increased on Thursday. The state did not report fresh cases of Covid-induced mucormycosis on Thursday. As per data with Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), at least 104 confirmed and 58 suspected cases of black fungus have been reported in the state so far. The fungal infection has claimed at least 30 lives so far in Jharkhand, IDSP report further highlights.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||SC Bar Association seeks CBI probe into Dhanbad judge death||The alleged murder of a Jharkhand district judge on a Dhanbad street on Wednesday figured in the Supreme Court on Thursday, with the Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) alleging an attack on the “independence of the judiciary” and seeking a CBI probe. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana told SCBA president Vikas Singh he had already spoken to the chief justice of Jharkhand High Court and learnt that the high court had summoned top police officers of Dhanbad to take stock of the situation. So, no Supreme Court intervention is needed at the moment, Justice Ramana said. Singh said that if a judge got killed after rejecting a gangster’s bail plea, “this is a dangerous situation for the judiciary” and the matter highlighted the need for judges’ protection. Additional district judge Uttam Anand, who had denied bail to two alleged gangsters last week, was jogging around 5am on a two-lane road near Dhanbad city’s Magistrate Colony when an auto-rickshaw hit him from behind. He died in hospital. Initially it was thought a hit-and-run but the family lodged an FIR for murder after the police showed them the CCTV footage. A video clip on social media, which officials have confirmed as leaked CCTV footage, shows a man jogging by the roadside when an auto swerves sharply from the middle of the lane, knocks him down and speeds away. Jharkhand police said two youths had been arrested on Thursday morning and had “confessed” to hitting the judge with the auto but not admitted to murder. Judge Anand, a Hazaribagh native posted in Dhanbad six months ago, had been handling several cases of mafia killings in Dhanbad city. He had denied bail to Ravi Thakur and Anand Verma, suspected shooters who have been linked to alleged Uttar Pradesh gangsters Abhinav Singh and Aman Singh. Dhanbad senior superintendent of police Sanjeev Kumar said the auto — believed to have been stolen before the purported attack on Judge Anand — had been seized from Lakhan Kumar Verma, 24, and Rahul Verma, 20, in Giridih, 45km from Dhanbad city. The duo, residents of Jorapokhar area of Dhanbad, have been arrested. The auto owner, Suchita Devi, had on Wednesday morning lodged a police complaint saying she had woken up around 4.30am and found the three-wheeler, parked in front of her home in Dhanbad city’s Pathardih locality the previous night, had disappeared. “The two youths have confessed to having hit the judge. We are trying to ascertain if they were involved in stealing the auto-rickshaw. We cannot reveal much,” SSP Kumar said. He did not say anything about the two arrested youths’ backgrounds. State advocate-general Rajiv Ranjan told reporters in Ranchi that the high court had appointed an additional director-general of police to lead a special investigation team (SIT) to conduct a probe that the high court would monitor. The SCBA president had first raised the matter before the apex court bench of Justices D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah on Thursday, seeking a probe into the suspected murder. “If the judiciary has to be independent we have to come in very sternly to say that our judicial officers should be protected. The SCBA wants this to be taken up on the judicial side,” Vikas Singh said. But Justice Chandrachud said the matter should be mentioned before the CJI. When Singh did so, Justice Ramana said: “The high court has issued a notice to the police and district officials. They are hearing this matter today. Let them handle it. It does not require interference by us. I have spoken to the chief justice this morning.” Justice Ramana, however, appreciated the SCBA’s efforts to highlight the matter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Low pressure to trigger heavy rain in Jharkhand||A low pressure area hovering over coastal Bangladesh and neighbouring West Bengal  is likely to trigger heavy to very heavy rainfall over Jharkhand in the next 24 hours, said IMD officials on Thursday. Weathermen said the low pressure coupled with an associated cyclonic circulation was extending upto the upper tropospheric  levels. It is likely to move westwards across West Bengal, Jharkhand and Bihar during the next 48- hours. "We are expecting heavy to very heavy rainfall ( more than 100 mm in 24 hours ) especially in north eastern and central Jharkhand  in next 24 hours due to the impact of the low pressure and an associated cyclonic circulation,  which originated from the Bay of Bengal. Another cyclonic circulation was persisting over eastern Uttar Pradesh extending between 1.5 and 4.5 Km above mean sea level which will also assist in rainfall activity over Jharkhand, " said Abhishek Anand, head of Ranchi Meteorological Centre. The monsoon trough at mean sea level was on Thursday passing through Ferozpur, Rohtak , Aligarh Prayagraj and Daltonganj extending up to 0.9 Km. The forecast also indicated moderate to heavy rain in isolated pockets of Jharkhand even after the next 24 hours as the monsoon trough was passing through the state. Meanwhile, several places across the state including Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Hazaribagh, Bokaro, Ramgarh and Koderma witnessed intermittent rains on Thursday. The local IMD observatory in Jamshedpur on Thursday recorded 21 mm of rain while Ranchi recorded 9 mm. Statistics revealed that several places including Hazaribagh, Koderma, Sahibganj, Jamtara and Garhwa experienced a good spell of rain  during the past 24 hours. Data revealed that so far after the advent of monsoon Jharkhand actually received 472.5 mm of rain against a normal of 503.2 mm, a deficit of six per cent. Weathermen said the rainfall during the next 48 hours will help in reducing the rain deficit in Jharkhand. Overcast sky and rain during the last 24 hours resulted in a dip in day's reading in several districts. According to Met data, the day reading was hovering between 28 and 30 degree Celsius in most districts across the state during the last two days.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||Railways extends deadline of special train services||The South Eastern Railway on Thursday notified continuation of several long distance special trains on their existing routes and stoppages. The Hatia- Anand Vihar Special will continue to run till September 30. As per an earlier notification the special train between the two destinations was supposed to run till July 29. It's a tri-weekly train which runs on Monday, Tuesday and Thursday. The return train -  Anand Vihar -Hatia Special will now run till October 1 . The  return train runs on Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday. The Santragachi -Anand Vihar Special which runs via Tatanagar railway station will continue to run till September 27 as per the latest railway circular. The  weekly special train which runs on Monday was earlier notified to run till July 26. The Anand Vihar - Santragachi Special which runs on Tuesday will continue to run till September 28 on its usual route with no alteration in stoppages. The Howrah-Sainagar Shirdi Special, a weekly train which runs via Tatanagar railway station on Thursdays, will continue to run till September 30. The train was earlier notified to run till July 29. The return train Sainagar Shirdi-Howrah Special which runs on Saturday will now continue to run till October 2. The Hatia-Bengaluru Cantt Special, a weekly train which runs on Saturday will now continue to run till September 25. The train was earlier notified to run till July 31. The Bengaluru Cantt-Hatia Special which runs on Tuesday will now continue to run till September 28, according to the railway circular. The running of Tatanagar-Amritsar Special has been extended till September 29. The bi-weekly train used to run on Monday and Wednesday and was earlier notified to run till July 28. The opposite train Amritsar-Tatanagar Special which runs on Wednesday and Friday will now continue to run till October 1. A spokesperson of South Eastern Railway said  the running of special trains have been extended for the convenience of passengers. "We appeal to passengers to continue to follow the Covid appropriate behaviour while traveling for their own safety," said the railway spokesman.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
30-07-2021||Jharkhand||96 per cent of 4.33 lakh students pass Class X state board exams||Around 96 per cent of the 4.33 lakh students have passed the Class X state board examinations, whose results were announced by the Jharkhand Academic Council on Thursday. The total marks of the candidates were declared on the basis of an assessment formula the council had announced earlier after the board examinations were cancelled because of the pandemic. While 80 per cent weightage was given to the marks obtained by the students in their Class IX examination that was also conducted by the council, the rest 20 per cent weightage was given to practical examinations in case of science students or class assignments in case of other streams. Of the total 433,571 candidates, 415,924 (95.92 per cent) were declared to have passed the Class X examination. Of the successful candidates, 62.49 per cent got first division, 30.88 per cent passed in the second division and 2.55 per cent in third division. While 95.95 per cent of girls were successful, the pass rate of boys was 95.90 per cent, a difference of just 0.05 per cent. The most impressive success rate was, however, that of candidates belonging to most backward classes. Of the total 25,565 candidates belonging to most backward classes, 97.01 per cent were declared to have passed the examination. The success rate of 278,125 general caste candidates was 95.90 per cent, while that of Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and backward class candidates was 94.45 per cent, 95.20 per cent and 96.66 per cent respectively. The total number of girl candidates was 225,692 while the number of boys was 207,879, a difference of 17,813. Many said the drop in the number of boys appearing for the state board exams could be because the guardians preferred to send them to study in private schools affiliated to the central boards wherever possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-89
