31-07-2021||Calcutta||Several long-distance trains cancelled, delayed due to waterlogging ||Several long-distance trains were cancelled or delayed on Friday because of waterlogging on the tracks leading to Howrah station following relentless rain on Thursday. The Tikiapara carshed was inundated for a better part of Friday, leaving many Howrah-bound trains stranded. Some trains had to originate from Santragachhi and Shalimar because of the waterlogging near Howrah, said an official of the South Eastern Railway.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||ICSE, ISC improvement and compartment exams to start on August 16||The ICSE (Class X) and ISC (Class XII) improvement and compartment examinations for this year will start on August 16, the ICSE council announced on Friday evening. “The ICSE & ISC Year 2021 Improvement and Compartment Examinations will commence from 16th August 2021,” Gerry Arathoon, the chief executive and secretary of the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations, said in a statement. Students can register for the improvement and compartment exams till August 4. The exams will be held offline. Students who have relocated to other cities during the pandemic can seek a transfer of centre later to write the exam at a venue closer home. The requests for transfer of centres have to be forwarded to the council through the CAREERS portal. “The module for submitting the requests... will be activated after the candidates have been registered for the said examinations,” said Arathoon. The candidates who have sent a dispute resolution request can apply for the improvement exam. The dispute resolution is “only for the correction of calculation errors”. “The candidates who are not satisfied with the Result awarded to them using the CISCE’S Scheme for ICSE & ISC Year 2021 Examinations, may get themselves registered for the ICSE/ISC Year 2021 Improvement Examination,” said Arathoon. Unsuccessful students are allowed to appear in the compartment exams provided they meet certain criteria of the council. The council had cancelled the ICSE and ISC exams because of the pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||Weather in Calcutta improves from Friday morning||The weather in Calcutta improved from Friday morning after relentless rain on Thursday that continued well into the night. “The system that triggered the downpour was over Jharkhand and Bihar on Friday. In the absence of any fresh system, there is little chance of heavy rain over the next few days,” said a Met official. Between Thursday morning and Friday morning, the Met office recorded 150mm of rain in Alipore.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||15-year-old trafficking survivor heads child panel for an hour||A 15-year-old boy who was trafficked as a child labourer at the age of seven was made chairperson of the state commission for protection of child rights for an hour on Friday. “I was fortunate to be rescued. But many children are not so lucky,” the teenager told The Telegraph. The boy from north Bengal was trafficked by a person while he was playing with friends. He was taken to a family who forced him to work as a domestic help. “His work included mopping floors, washing clothes and looking after a baby girl in the family. He had spent a year there before being rescued,” said an official of the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Minors are forced to work as domestic workers across the state, said rights activists. The boy, who lives with his parents and siblings, was made chairperson of the panel to mark the World Day Against Trafficking in Persons. He studies in Class VII now. “History is my favourite subject,” he said. Some of his demands the commission will place before Shashi Panja, the minister in-charge for women and child development and social welfare: ⚫ The government must ensure sponsorship for children forced into labour, because of the situation at home, so they don’t have to leave school ⚫ The government must create awareness among children so they don’t interact with unknown people or accept anything from them ⚫ Traffickers should be punished strongly and fined heavily. They should be made to bear all expenses of the victim’s education. Last November, a 17-year-old girl who grew up in a red-light area became the chairperson of the state commission for protection of child rights for an hour in what officials said was a first-of-its-kind move.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||Jesuit mission at the court of Mughal emperor||I joined the Jesuit Order in 1973 and pronounced my perpetual vows of Poverty, Chastity and Obedience in 1976. For the past 48 years, I have been living and working in various capacities without any hesitation or regret. Life has been like a flowing river with immense joy, satisfaction and also with challenges. My God and my World has always been big and my principle — “think global and act local”, based on the Ignatian motto “Ad Maiorem Dei Gloriam (For the Greater Glory of God)” — has guided me all through my journey as a Jesuit. Jesuits and their co-workers across the world are celebrating the Ignatian Year from May 20, 2021, to July 31, 2022, to mark the 500th anniversary of their founder’s “cannonball moment” — that fateful day in 1521 when Ignatius the soldier, struck by a cannonball, began his transformation into Ignatius the pilgrim for Christ. St Xavier’s University, Calcutta, commenced its year-long celebrations on May 20 with an inaugural function and will conclude them on July 31, 2022, on the Feast Day of Ignatius. Pope Francis, a Jesuit himself, in his message to all the Jesuits said: “That cannonball meant that Ignatius failed in the dreams he had for his life, but God had a bigger dream for him. God’s dream for Ignatius was not about Ignatius. It was about helping souls. It was a dream of redemption, a dream of going out into the world, accompanied by Jesus, humble and poor.” This Ignatian Year presents an opportunity for all Jesuits and their co-workers to stress upon their core mission, especially in education, to form men and women for and with others. It is a time for reflection and renewal to discern a hope-filled future for young people and for our planet. Let me this time, on the occasion of Ignatius’ feast, recall the Jesuit Mission at the Court of the Mughal Emperor. Since their beginning in 1540, Jesuits have been working in many countries at the forefront of many assignments. They have been pioneers in high-level administration in courts and governments and, at the same time, they have stood with the poor and the excluded for the cause of building networks for villages and slums. That is why Malachi Martin rightly wrote on the dust jacket of his book, The Jesuits: “… In that world where faith and power clash, Jesuits have been the most fabled and fabulous, the most admired and reviled, in the practice of both. Down the four and a half centuries of their existence, Jesuits have been both a puzzle and a model for the rest of the world. Friends and enemies, Catholics and non-Catholics, have all tried to unravel ‘the power and the secret’ of these religiously trained and devoted men who stand as giants in every secular pursuit of mankind as well. “In science and art, writing and exploration and teaching — and not least in world politics — Jesuits always aimed to be the best. And they were. They had a part to play in every major political alliance in Europe and America, in Asia and Africa. They became shapers not only of religious history, but of world history. Even Nazi generals dreamed of such a cadre of men; and even Lenin envied them.” One of their ardent admirers was the great Mughal Emperor, Jalaluddin Muhammed Akbar, who was impressed by their religious and intellectual pursuits. Akbar was deeply religious, who, in the words of his son, Jahangir, “never for a moment forgot God”. More open-minded than most contemporaries, he invited to his court Islamic, Hindu, Christian, Jain and Zoroastrian scholars for religious discussions. Akbar got his first insight into the Christian character and religion from the actions of two Jesuits — Frs. Antony Vaz and Peter Dias, who had reached Bengal in 1576 from Goa. These Jesuits had severely rebuked some Portuguese merchants who had defrauded the Mughal treasury by not paying taxes. They had asked them to restitute; otherwise there would be no forgiveness for them. Akbar was greatly impressed by this news and curious about the religion, which insisted so much on honest dealings. In September 1579, Akbar’s ambassador arrived in Goa with a letter, asking for two learned Jesuit priests to be sent to Akbar’s court: “…I am sending Abdullah, my ambassador, and Dominic Perez (an Armenian Christian, the interpreter) with the request that you will send me two learned Fathers and the books of Law, especially the Gospel, that I may know the Law and its excellence….” He wanted them to provide him and his Muslim and Hindu courtiers with first-hand knowledge about Christian doctrines. The invitation elicited great hopes among the Jesuits. The Provincial chose three Jesuits for the project — Fr. Rudolf Aquaviva, who led the mission, Fr. Antony Monserrate and the Persian-born Br. Francis Henriques. They reached Fatehpur Sikri via Surat and Gwalior in February 1580 and were received with extraordinary warmth and affection by the emperor, whose attachment with them and their religion continued throughout the three years of the Jesuit Mission. The Jesuits spoke to Akbar about Christianity and debated its virtues with the ulama. Akbar evaded deeper issues of Christianity and appeared to be doubtful as to all forms of faith, unwilling to commit himself. So the Jesuits returned to Goa in 1582, thus ending the first Jesuit Mission to the court of the great Mughal emperor. Fr. Anthony Monserrate is said to be the first Jesuit geographer in India. When the team left Goa for the Mughal Mission, he was asked to keep a diary of all the events, which he did faithfully, adding greatly to its value by his geographical and astronomical observations. On his journey from Surat to Fatehpur Sikri in 1580, he made a survey and took observations for the latitudes. When Akbar marched to Kabul in 1581, against his half-brother Mirza Muhammed Hakim, he took Fr. Monserrate along for continuing the tuition of his second son, Murad. Akbar encouraged Fr. Monserrate to take observations en route. He, however, showed no interest in the data collected by Fr. Monserrate, who kept it with himself even when he returned to Goa. Later in 1804, Francis Wilford of Bengal Engineers made use of Fr. Monserrate’s manuscripts to prepare a valuable map of the countries west of Delhi. That is why Romila Thapar rightly said, “if the Jesuits had not been to India, there would be no written history of India”. Once again, after a gap of 13 years, in response to Akbar’s earnest request, Fr. Jerome Xavier (grandnephew of St. Francis Xavier) accompanied by Fr. Manuel Pinheiro and Bro. Bento de Goes, arrived in Lahore in May 1595. This time Akbar gave them permission to open a school and to build churches in Agra and Lahore. However, the king avoided the subject of religion with the Fathers on the pretext that the Jesuits needed to learn Persian before embarking on religious discussions. This Mission had more of an impact on both Mughals and the Portuguese. Akbar commissioned Fr. Jerome to translate the Life of Christ into Persian as the Dastan-i-Masih. This was completed in 1602.The Jesuits enjoyed the patronage of Akbar and his son Jahangir; but under Shah Jahan and Aurangzeb this disappeared, and they were often arrested and tortured. Akbar also married an Armenian Catholic, Mariam Zamani Begum. Mariam’s sister, Lady Juliana, was the doctor of the royal harem. Juliana was given in marriage to Prince Jean Philipe de Bourbon of Navarre of the royal house of France. It is said that Juliana built the first Church in 1600 in Agra and named Akbar’s Church, which stands till date even after 421 years. Akbar had an adopted son, Mirza-Zul-Qarnain (Zulcarnen), first son of Mirza Iscandar, an Armenian Catholic who was a cavalier at Akbar’s court. Mirza-Zul-Qarnain was a generous donor to the Jesuit Fathers and built the Jesuit College in Agra in 1603, which does not exist now. The Jesuit mission at Akbar’s court, however, cannot be considered a total failure. The Jesuit presence did help to bring about a better understanding and dialogue between Islam and Christianity. It opened up an extremely important chapter in the history of inter-religious dialogue in India, which was precisely what the circumstances had thrust upon them there. The friendship that came into existence outlived the Jesuit missionaries. Their contact created a pattern of normal relationships between the learned of different religious convictions. The Jesuit mission at the Mughal court laid the foundation for the widely spread Jesuit networks in 10 provinces (including Delhi, Patna, Ranchi, Nepal, Darjeeling, NE and Calcutta) with over 2,800 Jesuits. We wish them all a Happy Feast of their Founder today.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||VIP Road, New Town remain under knee-deep water till Friday evening||Stretches of VIP Road and large parts of New Town were under knee-deep water till Friday evening, triggering massive traffic snarls that led to more than 100 people missing their flights. Vehicles crawled on the airport-bound and the Ultadanga-bound flanks of VIP Road as a 2.5km-long stretch of the artery was flooded, following the downpour since Wednesday night. Airport officials said they had received calls from nearly 100 fliers who narrated the ordeal to them and requested them to tell airlines to let them board the flights late. “We could accommodate most of the fliers who reached late on next flights. Many passengers got delayed as VIP Road and Major Arterial Road in New Town were waterlogged,” said an airport official. Parts of New Town as well as places off VIP Road, including Kaikhali, Chinar Park and Kestopur, were under knee-deep water even 12 hours after the rain had stopped. Water from the Bagjola canal, which cuts across New Town, and the Kestopur canal, which flows along VIP Road, as well as their network channels breached their banks after the rain. All three action areas of the planned township had waterlogged streets on Friday. The parking lots of a number of housing complexes and cooperative societies in New Town as well as off VIP Road were under water. The 38km-long Bagjola canal, which carries water from Kamarhati to the Bidyadhari river and cuts through parts of Baranagar, Dum Dum, Lake Town and New Town, was to get desilted this year. “Let alone desilting, even the garbage has not been removed. The entire canal is full of garbage. To add to our worries, rampant dumping of construction materials have completely choked the gully pits,” said Samaresh Das, a member of the New Town Forum and News, an organisation of residents of the township. An official of the state irrigation department said the canal was last thoroughly desilted ahead of the monsoon in 2017. “The dredging has started but we have not reached the part that flows through New Town and Lake Town,” the official said. The worst affected areas in New Town included the blocks nearest to the canal in Action Area I, including AB, BA, BC, BD and BE blocks. In Action Area II, the road in front of City Centre II as well as the one in front of Shrachi Greenwood Elements remained flooded till late on Friday. Action Area III was badly affected, too, with the main road leading to Sukhobrishti housing complex remaining waterlogged till Friday evening. “We had to deploy extra pumps to prevent water from entering our basement parking lots,” said Ranjan Basu, the president of the Rosedale Housing Complex Flat Owners’ Association. An official of New Town Kolkata Development Auth-ority said the water from both canals had started overflowing at 9.30pm on Thursday. On VIP Road, residents of complexes like Poddar Vihar, Space Circle and others said they had a harrowing time even crossing the road. "The road in front of our complex is under knee-deep water," said Manoj Sharma, a resident of Poddar Vihar. A resident of Koyla Vihar said they had to take their cars out of their parking lot and park them in front of Haj House on VIP Road.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||JU to draw up merit list based on Class X and XII board marks||Jadavpur University will draw up the merit list for admission to undergraduate science courses based on their Class X and XII board marks, officials of the university said. The decision was taken on Thursday after the education department struck down JU’s proposal to screen students for BSc courses based on their plus-II marks and online interviews or group discussions. The government has asked all colleges and universities to screen students for admission to undergraduate science courses this year solely based on board marks. According to the eligibility criteria fixed by the admission committee of the JU science faculty, aspirants “having passed 10+2 examination... with chemistry, mathematics, physics and securing at least 75 per cent marks in average obtained in chemistry, mathematics and physics are eligible” for pursuing honours in physics, chemistry and geological science. Mathematics honours aspirants have to score at least 75 per cent in average in mathematics and two other subjects from among chemistry, physics, computer science and statistics. Those who want to study geography honours have to score 75 per cent in average in math and two other subjects from among physics, chemistry, geography, geology, statistics and economics. A member of the admission committee said marks in the Class X board exams would be considered while drawing up the merit list to break ties and get an idea about the candidate’s grasp over the subject he or she was keen on studying. “The applicants had written on-campus secondary board exams in 2019. Plus-II board exams were cancelled this year,” he said. While preparing the merit list in physics, for example, marks obtained in physical science/science in secondary/ equivalent examination (200 marks) and marks obtained in math in secondary/equivalent examination (100 marks) will be taken into account. Last year, JU had only considered science subject scores in Madhyamik for admission to undergraduate science courses for Bengal board students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Calcutta||High number of 95-plus scorers in CBSE exams may lead to tougher competition for college admission||The high number of 95-plus scorers in the CBSE Class XII exams, the results of which were declared on Friday, will lead to tougher competition for college admission in a year when marks will be the sole criterion for many higher educational institutes. Many students are relieved that they are “in the race for admission to premier colleges” but there is uncertainty about whether they will qualify. At South Point High School alone, the number of students who scored above 95 is three times that of last year — 111 as against 36. In Birla High School for Boys, 56 students scored above 95 this year — the same number as last year. In Mahadevi Birla World Academy, 44 students scored above 95 this year as against 36 students last year. In Delhi Public School Ruby Park, 142 students scored above 95 this year; the number was 111 last year. In Lakshmipat Singhania, 49 students scored above 95 this year. In Shri Shikshayatan School, 71 students scored above 95 this year. In Bhavan’s Gangabux Kanoria Vidyamandir, 86 students scored more than 95 per cent this year. In Indus Valley World School and Delhi Public School Joka, about 10 per cent and in North Point Senior Secondary School, about 5 per cent students have scored above 95 per cent. Metro reported that many students scored above 95 in ISC and several schools have said that the number is higher this year. In Bengal HS, 9,013 students scored above 90 per cent this year. “The concentration of students towards the higher end of the scale would make the fight (for a college seat) close. Students are fighting for more or less a static number of higher education seats and they can lose out for even a mark or two,” said Krishna Damani, trustee, South Point school. The CBSE pass percentage in the Bhubaneshwar region, which includes Bengal, is 99.55. In Bengal, autonomous institutes like St Xavier’s and institutes of Ramakrishna Mission are coming up with their own selection criteria not solely dependent on marks. State-aided colleges and universities, however, will screen students on the basis of marks alone. For Sreejita Das who is planning to apply to colleges in Calcutta for a chemistry course, the completion seems very tough. “There are students in my school or other schools or from other boards who have scored more than me... Since everything is dependent on marks, I am not confident of getting a college of my choice despite scoring 96.6 per cent,” she said. Teachers said that the high achievers are worried. “Possibly only a student who has scored a 100 can be confident (of getting a college of their choice). The uncertainty for many other high achievers remains because their aspirations are higher and they will apply in premier institutes. They will be eligible to apply but whether or not they get selected is not known because ultimately it is a question of numbers,” said Anjana Saha, principal, Mahadevi Birla World Academy. Students are worried that they might not get a subject of their choice. “If colleges decide on other screening criteria, say group discussions for example, to screen students, it would be a fairer way of selection,” said Bratati Bhattacharyya, secretary general, Shri Shikshayatan School. “But students should also remember that one exam result does not make their CV and they have many more years to prove themselves.” Several school heads said the marks match with what they had submitted to the board, barring a few changes. Results on hold In Calcutta, the results of 110 students of The Newtown School are on hold because they are the school’s first batch of Class XII candidates.  The results will be declared within a week’s time, the CBSE said. A school’s best results in the past three years is an essential component in calculating the 2021 CBSE marks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/calcutta/page-33
31-07-2021||Business||Ralson acquires marketing rights of Dunlop brand in India||The iconic Dunlop tyre brand is all set for a resurrection. Ludhiana-based tyre maker Ralson has acquired the marketing rights to the century-old brand and the company said it would launch “super premium” tyres for two- and three-wheelers under the Dunlop name. If successful, this will be one more attempt at bringing back the now-defunct brand which used to rule the Indian roads once. Founded by Scotsman John Boyd Dunlop in 1888, the Dunlop brand started marketing in India in 1896. After many glorious years, the company suffered setbacks in the 1980s. In the past four decades, the ownership of the Dunlop brand has changed hands three times. It came into the fold of Rama Prasad Goenka’s RPG Group in 1984 but within four years Manohar Rajaram Chhabria’s Jumbo Group took control of it. Pawan Kumar Ruia acquired Dunlop India Ltd, along with Falcon Tyres in 2005 from Jumbo, promising to revive the company and the brand multiple times but failed on every occasion. While the company faced liquidation,  Ruia shifted the ownership of the brand —  on which he had exclusive India rights —  to a promoter group company. Last year, Ruia came out with N95 masks with the Dunlop tag. Ralson seems to be taking a big bet in a fiercely competitive two- and three-wheeler tyre market. The company manufactures and sells tyres for bikes, scooters, mopeds, three-wheelers and tractors through a 2,000 plus pan-India dealership network. With this agreement, Ralson will  strengthen its position in the premium two- and three-wheeler tyre market, which is at present niche but growing at a very fast pace, Ralson India said in a statement. The company intends to first roll out the Dunlop branded tyres from its manufacturing plant in Kot Panech, Ludhiana. “The combined strength of Ralson and Dunlop will create huge possibilities to target a large share of the market with global quality products,” Ralson (India) vice-president Yogeshwar Sharma said. Ralson is also planning a foray into bus and truck tyres where the Dunlop brand name may come in handy. The company had set up a 91.8 per cent subsidiary, Ralson Tyres Limited, in 2019-20. Though the company had put on hold further investments because of the uncertain market conditions, the management may re-initiate the project in the near-term, Icra said in a report last December. A generation of Indians have been familiar with the Dunlop brand for their premium quality and technically advanced products and this will drive the inherent demand for this legacy brand, he added. Established in 1974, Ralson started with manufacturing bicycle tyres and tubes, and later forayed into automotive tyre space as well. Currently the company is among the leaders in the segment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
31-07-2021||Business||Eight core sectors' output up 8.9 per cent in June||The output of the eight core sectors grew 8.9 per cent in June, mainly because of a low base effect and uptick in the production of natural gas, steel, coal and electricity. The eight infrastructure sectors had contracted 12.4 per cent in June 2020 because of the lockdown restrictions. The production of coal jumped 7.4 per cent against (-) 15.5 per cent; natural gas output was up 20.6 per cent compared with (-) 12 per cent. Output of steel rose 25 per cent against (-) 23.2 per cent last year, while cement production rose 4.3 per cent against (-) 6.8 per cent last year. Fiscal deficit The Centre’s fiscal deficit in the April-June quarter was at an eight-year low of Rs 2.74 lakh crore, which is 18.2 per cent of the budgeted amount, because of better revenue collection and slower government spending For the current financial year, the government expects fiscal deficit at 6.8 per cent of GDP, or Rs 15,06,812 crore. In absolute terms, the fiscal deficit was at Rs 2,74,245 crore at the end of June. For the current financial year, the government expects the fiscal deficit at 6.8 percent of GDP or Rs 15,06,812 crore. The fiscal deficit or the gap between expenditure and revenue for 2020-21 was 9.3 per cent of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), better than the 9.5 per cent projected in the revised estimates in the Budget in February. As per CGA data, the government received Rs 5.47 lakh crore (27.7 percent of corresponding BE 2021-22 of total receipts) up to June 2021. The amount comprises Rs 4.12 lakh crore of tax revenues, Rs 1.27 lakh crore of non-tax revenues and Rs 7,402 crore of non-debt capital receipts. The receipts were 6.8 percent of BE at the end of June 2020. Non-debt capital receipts consist of recovery of loans worth Rs 3,406 crore and disinvestment proceeds of Rs 3,996 crore. Aditi Nayar, chief economist, ICRA said, “The sharp jump in tax and non-tax receipts and mild contraction in revenue expenditure, curtailed the Government of India's (GoI’s) fiscal deficit to an eight year low Rs. 2.7 trillion in Q1 FY2022, less than half of last-year's level of Rs. 6.6 trillion recorded during the nationwide lockdown.” Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, Care Ratings said, “Revenue generation has been better this year which is a comfort. Tax and non-tax revenue collections have been more buoyant this year. The RBI transfer which came in has also helped to attain over half of the target for non-tax revenue. The government has been slower on total expenditure which includes even capex. In terms of proportion of budgeted amounts, the spending has been lower for fertilizers, roads, while that for agriculture and food has just about been maintained.” Further, Rs 1,17,524 crore was transferred to state governments as devolution of share of taxes by the Government of India up to June 2021. At the end of June, CGA said that total expenditure incurred by the government was Rs 8.21 lakh crore (23.6 percent of corresponding BE 2021-22). Out of the total amount, Rs 7.10 lakh crore was on revenue account and Rs 1.11 lakh crore was on capital account. Out of the total revenue expenditure, Rs 1.84 lakh crore was for interest payments and about Rs 1 lakh crore was on account of major subsidies. “Change in accounting year of Reserve Bank of India has helped in higher non-tax revenue collection and its growth jumped to 738.4% in 1QFY22 which is 52.4% of FY22 (BE). If government fails to achieve big-ticket disinvestment programme in FY22, the gains visible in the 1QFY22, may not hold and government would find it difficult to attain FY22 fiscal deficit target of INR15.07 trillion,” Sunil Kumar Sinha, Principal Economist, India Ratings and Research said. Core The output of eight core sectors grew 8.9 per cent in June, mainly due to a low base effect and uptick in production of natural gas, steel, coal and electricity, official data released today showed. The eight infrastructure sectors of coal, crude oil, natural gas, refinery products, fertilisers, steel, cement and electricity had contracted by 12.4 per cent in June 2020 due to the lockdown restrictions imposed to control the spread of coronavirus infections. In May this year, these key sectors had recorded a growth of 16.3 per cent, while it was 60.9 per cent in April. According to the commerce and industry ministry data, production of coal, natural gas, refinery products, steel, cement and electricity jumped by 7.4 per cent, 20.6 per cent, 2.4 per cent, 25 per cent, 4.3 per cent and 7.2 per cent, respectively, in June 2021, as against (-) 15.5 per cent, (-) 12 per cent, (-) 8.9 per cent, (-) 23.2 per cent, (-) 6.8 percent and (-) 10 per cent in the same month last year. The crude oil output contracted by 1.8 per cent during the month under review as against a negative growth of 6 per cent in June 2020. Fertiliser segment recorded a growth of 2 per cent in June. During April-June period this fiscal, the eight sectors grew by 25.3 per cent against a contraction of 23.8 per cent in the same period last year. “While the core index rose in MoM terms in June 2021, it remained below the April 2021 level, particularly on account of cement, electricity and petroleum products, consistent with the picture of an incomplete recovery revealed by various other high frequency indicators. Moreover, the core sector index in June 2021 was a moderate 4.7% lower than the pre-covid level of June 2019, on account of all the components except fertilisers and natural gas,” Aditi Nayar, chief economist, ICRA said. She said, “We expect the IIP to expand by 12-17% in June 2021, exceeding the core sector growth, as some of the other high frequency indicators such as GST e-way bills and auto output have displayed a solid sequential uptick in that month, engendered by the relaxation of state level restrictions. Continued unlocking by the states, improved mobility and higher electricity demand, pushed up in part by the lull in rainfall, are expected to boost the core sector growth to 11-14% in July 2021.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
31-07-2021||Business||Sun Pharma posts Rs 1,444.17 crore net profit in June quarter||Drug major Sun Pharmaceutical Industries on Friday reported a consolidated net profit of Rs 1,444.17 crore for the June 2021 quarter, mainly on account of robust sales across markets. The company had posted a net loss of Rs 1,655.60 crore for the corresponding period of the previous fiscal. The better-than-expected results saw its shares surging over 10 per cent on the bourses. On the BSE, the Sun Pharma stock ended 10.06 per cent, or Rs 70.75, higher at Rs 774, leading to a market cap of Rs 1,85,703.94 crore. Consolidated sales during the period stood at Rs 9,669.4 crore, a growth of 29 per cent over the corresponding period last year and 14 per cent over the January-March quarter. Bandhan Bank profit declines Bandhan Bank has reported a 32.1 per cent lower net profit for the April-June quarter of 2021-22 at Rs 373.1 crore compared with Rs 549.8 crore in the corresponding period a year ago. The bank provisioning was higher with the rise in stressed assets. Gross non-performing asset (NPA) during the quarter was 8.2 per cent against 1.4 per cent in the year-ago period. Net NPA was 3.3 per cent compared with 0.5 per cent in the year-ago period. The bank saw fresh slippages of Rs 1,661 crore during the quarter. The bank also restructured its emerging entrepreneurs business portfolio consisting of microfinance loans worth Rs 4,057 crore and housing portfolio worth Rs 604 crore during the quarter. Exide back in the black Exide Industries on Friday posted a consolidated net profit of Rs 31.81 crore for the quarter ended June 30. The company had reported a consolidated net loss of Rs 13.56 crore in the April-June period of the previous fiscal. Revenue from operations stood at Rs 3,543 crore during the quarter against Rs 2,526 crore a year ago, Exide Industries said in a regulatory filing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-123
31-07-2021||Business||Indian Oil Corporation posts three-fold jump in Q1 profit on refining margins, inventory gains||Indian Oil Corporation has reported a three-fold jump in net profit during the April-June quarter of 2021 because of higher margins from the refining business and inventory gains. The PSU behemoth said its joint venture with Malaysia’s Petronas would diversify into natural gas and fuel retailing. The two decade-old joint venture, Indian Oil Petronas Pvt Ltd (IPPL), at present sells LPG to commercial customers at market rates. In the first quarter, IOC’s standalone net profit was Rs 5,941.37 crore against Rs 1,910.84 crore a year ago when the pandemic hammered fuel demand and squeezed margins. The profit was down 32 per cent in comparison with the preceding quarter, mostly because of the second wave of the coronavirus. IOC chairman Shrikant Madhav Vaidya said the company earned $6.58 on turning every barrel of crude oil into fuel in the June quarter compared with a loss of $1.98 per barrel in the same period last year. The refining margins included a component of inventory gain, IOC director (finance) Sandeep Gupta said without elaborating. Revenue from operations was up 74 per cent at Rs 1.55 lakh crore from a year ago. Petronas pact Vaidya said IOC and Petronas have not finalised the details of the new arrangement. IOC owns 32,303 out of 77,709 petrol pumps in the country. It also has licences to retail CNG to automobiles and piped cooking gas to households in several geographical areas. IPPL will have its own branding and marketing. The IOC chairman ruled out the possibility of IPPL cannibalising on IOC’s business. India’s energy demand is growing and will have space for all players. “The energy pie is increasing. There is place for everybody. IOC’s market share is intact and IPPL will capture new opportunities,” Vaidya said. The government, meanwhile, has launched bids for 75 small oil fields with discovered reserves across 32 areas in 11 basins and locations.  The estimated hydrocarbons is approximately 232 million tonnes of oil and oil equivalent gas. In the earlier two rounds, the government had awarded 54 contracts to 27 companies including 12 new entrants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
31-07-2021||Business||International commercial flight ban extended till August 31||The ban on international commercial flights has been extended till the end of August because of the coronavirus pandemic. The Modi government in June had announced its plan to issue 5 lakh free visas to foreign tourists.  With the extension of the flight ban, the scheme remains only on paper. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said dedicated cargo flights and flights under the bilateral air bubble pacts with select countries will continue in August. Scheduled international passenger services have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020. Special international flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May 2020 and under bilateral “air bubble” arrangements with selected countries since July. India currently has the bilateral agreements with about 28 countries, including the US, UK and France. Domestic outlook The number of active Covid-19 infections has dropped sharply since the March-May period, which has resulted in a gradual increase in domestic traffic. Aviation consultancy firm Capa India expects about 80 million domestic air passengers and 16 million international during 2021-22, up from 53 million domestic passengers and 10 million international passengers during the last fiscal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
31-07-2021||Business||Ssangyong Motor Company receives nine bids for acquisition||Troubled auto maker Ssangyong Motor Company (SYMC) has received nine bids on the final day of submitting letters of intent for its acquisition. These include US-based Cardinal One Motors, the Samra Midas (SM) group and Edison Motors Co. Ssangyong said in a statement on Friday that many of the bidders want to expand their electric vehicle business. However, it did not disclose their names. In April this year, SYMC was placed under court receivership — a mechanism in South Korea where a court decides how to revive a cash strapped company. This came after Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M) failed to find a buyer for the car maker. Reports had said US-based vehicle importer HAAH Automotive Holdings had backed down on its initial plan to acquire SYMC. M&M holds 75 per cent in SYMC and last year it had decided to stop investing in the company and reduce its stake to less than 50 per cent or even cede control in full or part. Quoting officials from the SM Group, Korean media reports said the chemicals to shipping enterprise had submitted an LoI for Ssangyong. The company had evinced interest in acquiring Ssangyong back in 2010 as well, but got pipped by the Mahindras. These reports also said that Edison Motors, the electric bus manufacturer, has joined hands with a private equity fund to jointly bid for SYMC. Cardinal One Motors is also understood to have submitted an LoI. Duke Hale, who leads Cardinal One Motors, had founded HAAH Automotive Holdings earlier to import vehicles into the US. However, it had filed for bankruptcy because of growing US-China tensions. and he set up Cardinal One Motors to implement the plan of acquiring SsangYong. Switch Mobility Switch Mobility, the electric commercial vehicles arm of Ashok Leyland, on Friday said Dana Incorporated, a global leader in drivetrain and e-propulsion systems, has picked up 1 per cent stake in it for $18 million. Switch Mobility has signed a strategic agreement with Dana under which the latter will also be a preferred supplier of electric drivetrain components for its e-bus and EV commercial vehicle offering, including e-axles, gearboxes, motors, inverters, software and controls, and electronics cooling, the company said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
31-07-2021||Business||IT giant Microsoft likely to pick up stake in Oyo||IT giant Microsoft is likely to pick up a stake in Oyo that could value the hospitality company at around $9 billion (Rs 67,000 crore). While the details of the deal are under wraps, an agreement is likely before Oyo’s initial public offering. Oyo is yet to fix a date for the IPO. Observers said the investment by Microsoft could only quicken the exercise. Oyo recently raised $660 million, which is nearly Rs 4,920 crore, from global institutional investors as a term loan. The capital will be used to pare debt and for other business investments. Oyo said in a statement that the offer — a term loan B funding — was subscribed 1.7 times, with the company receiving commitments of close to $1 billion from leading institutional investors. Term loan is a senior secured syndicated credit facility. Oyo is backed by marquee investors such as SoftBank Vision Fund, Sequoia Capital, Lightspeed Ventures and Hero Enterprise. The hospitality industry has been amongst the worst hit during the pandemic, but the company’s founder and Group CEO Ritesh Agarwal sounded optimistic. Agarwal earlier this year said the company “is on a steady path of resurgence in 2021” and is seeing signs of recovery across India, Europe, and Southeast Asia. Oyo’s survival through the Covid crisis and its resurgence shows a company with strong fundamentals and high value potential, he had said. The news of the Microsoft investment comes at a time of strong interest among overseas investors in domestic start-ups. Swiggy for instance had mobilised $1.25 billion from SoftBank and others, while rival Zomato had a bumper listing on the bourses. The primary market is set to witness further action with players such as One97 Communicatons, Nykaa and Policybazaar ready to file their papers with the market regulator. The deal may involve Oyo shifting to use Microsoft’s cloud services, Reuters said citing a TechCrunch report. Oyo is one of India’s largest start-ups. Founded by Agarwal in 2013, it aggregates bookings for budget hotels around the world. The hotel aggregator has endured months of layoffs, cost cuts and losses since the Covid-19 pandemic outbreak last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/business/page-124
31-07-2021||India||Congress accuses Centre of taking away states' right on listing OBCs||The Congress on Saturday accused the BJP of assaulting the federal structure by taking away the power of the states to identify and list the other backward classes (OBCs).  Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the BJP is now in a self-congratulatory mode and is "befooling" the country by creating a "false narrative".  He said the government through the support of the opposition got a constitutional amendment passed in Parliament for setting up of a backward classes commission at the national level on August 11, 2018.  During the passage of the constitution bill, the BJP government by inadvertence or oversight did not include the provision that enabled states to make their own state list of OBCs, he said  Singhvi said there were clear apprehensions during the debate in Parliament in this regard and the minister concerned assured the house that it is not the intention to take away the states' right.  "Due to your lack of attention to detail, you did not add a two line clarification that the creation of a national Commission does not mean that the states will not have its list of inclusion or exclusion at the state level," he alleged.  "Now, unfortunately your blunder is costing the country dear,," he said.  Singhvi said the creation of a national Commission has been interpreted by the Supreme Court in its recent judgment as that the states will not have their own lists of OBCs and there will be only one list at the national level.  "Is it not a very serious assault on the fundamentals of federalism? It cuts at the root because nobody is disputing that the states always had the power. You should have put that clarification... this adds further insult to injury," the Congress leader alleged.  However, Minister of Social Justice and Empowerment Virendra Kumarhad told Rajya Sabha early this week that the Government is in consultation with legal experts and the Ministry of Law and examining ways to protect the power of the states in determining the State list of OBCs.  The Supreme Court court judgement "did not take into account the legislative intent as reflected in the debates in Parliament preceding the enactment of the Amendment, where it was declared unequivocally that the Amendment would not impinge upon States' powers to recognise and declare those classes in the state which were backward," the minister said in a written reply, while noting that a review petition has also been dismissed.  Singhvi's reaction came after the BJP alleged that the Congress did "nothing" for social justice and uplift of weaker sections during its rule, while hailing the Modi government for approving reservation for OBCs and EWS candidates in the all India quota for medical courses.  Underlining that the OBC Commission was given constitutional status by the Modi government, BJP leader and Union Minister Bhupender Yadav said the previous Congress-led UPA government did nothing on this front despite several reports given by various commissions.  Singhvi hit out at the BJP for its "self-congratulatory" stance on the issue.  "You can keep calling the glass one quarter full, but, what about the three quarters are empty? You made a national commission at the constitutional level for Backward Classes with our support and our instance, but, by the absence of clarification, you have taken away the entire states' powers and we are today suffering," he alleged.  Singhvi also accused the BJP of "misleading" the people of this country by giving this a "spin".  "Do not befool the people with self-congratulatory press conferences, which are comic, because they are, actually, hiding a blunder," the Congress leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||PM Modi to launch digital payment solution e-RUPI||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch e-RUPI, a person and purpose specific digital payment solution, on Monday via video conferencing, his office said. Underlining that Modi has always championed digital initiatives, the Prime Minister's Office said over the years, several programmes have been launched to ensure that the benefits reach its intended beneficiaries in a targeted and leak-proof manner, with limited touch points between the government and the beneficiary. The concept of electronic voucher takes forward this vision of good governance, it said. In its statement, the PMO said e-RUPI is a cashless and contactless instrument for digital payment. It is a QR code or SMS string-based e-voucher, which is delivered to the mobile of the beneficiaries, the statement said. The users of this seamless one-time payment mechanism will be able to redeem the voucher without a card, digital payments app or internet banking access, at the service provider, it said. It has been developed by the National Payments Corporation of India on its UPI platform, in collaboration with the Department of Financial Services, Ministry of Health & Family Welfare and National Health Authority. The statement said e-RUPI connects the sponsors of the services with the beneficiaries and service providers in a digital manner without any physical interface. It also ensures that the payment to the service provider is made only after the transaction is completed. Being pre-paid in nature, it assures timely payment to the service provider without involvement of any intermediary, the statement said. The PMO said it is expected to be a revolutionary initiative in the direction of ensuring a leak-proof delivery of welfare services. It can also be used for delivering services under schemes meant for providing drugs and nutritional support under Mother and Child welfare schemes, TB eradication programmes, drugs and diagnostics under schemes like Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, fertiliser subsidies etc. Even the private sector can leverage these digital vouchers as part of their employee welfare and corporate social responsibility programmes, the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||Maharashtra reports first-ever Zika virus case from Pune district||The first Zika virus infection case in Maharashtra has been reported from Pune district, officials said on Saturday, while also appealing people not to panic.  The woman patient who was diagnosed with the infection has recovered completely, the state health department said.  "She and her family members do not have any symptoms," it said in a statement.  The 50-year-old woman, a resident of Belsar village in Purandar tehsil, received her test report on Friday. The report said that besides Zika infection, she was also infected by Chickungunya.  A government medical team visited the village on Saturday and met the sarpanch and gram panchayat members and instructed them about preventive measures, the statement said.  Zika virus spreads through the bite of the aedes aegypti mosquito and most patients do not have symptoms.  The typical symptoms include fever, body ache and conjunctivitis, and pregnant women should be more careful, the statement said.  State surveillance officer Dr Pradip Awate told PTI that there was no need to panic.  "Zika is a moderate disease as 80 per cent patients do not get any symptoms and remaining 20 per cent have moderate flu-like symptoms. One can recover by drinking enough water, taking rest and having a simple paracetamol tablet," he said.  Death due to Zika virus infection was unheard of, he added.  Dr Awate also said that when a Zika virus outbreak took place in Brazil in 2019, it was believed that its infection during pregnancy can cause infants to be born with microcephaly (abnormal smallness of the head), but this connection has not been proved so far.  "However, we have still put special emphasis on the need for special care of pregnant women," he added.  Ayush Prasad, Chief Executive Officer, Pune district, appealed people not to panic. "It's due to proactive work of our field teams that the case was detected. We are working very hard to contain the spread and make the best healthcare available to people," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||Rajya Sabha lost 40 working hours in first 2 weeks of monsoon session||Due to continued disruptions by opposition parties, Rajya Sabha lost 40 of its 50 working hours and the productivity of the house fell to 13.70 per cent in the second week of the ongoing monsoon session, officials said.  The Upper House clocked a productivity of 32.20 per cent during the first week and the overall productivity was 21.60 per cent for the first two weeks.  Of the total 50 working hours available, 39 hours and 52 minutes were lost due to disruptions, the officials said.  The House, however, sat for 1 hour 12 minutes beyond the scheduled time, but for which the productivity would have been much lower, they said.  During the nine sittings of the first two weeks, Rajya Sabha could have only 1 hour 38 minutes of Question Hour which is primarily meant for ensuring the accountability of the executive to Parliament.  It also had only 1 hour 24 minutes for legislative business passing four bills with seven members intervening. The house spent only one minute of Zero Hour and another four minutes on Special Mentions.  Covid-related issues were discussed for 4 hours 37 minutes during the first week and the minister for IT laid a statement on the Pegasus spyware issue during the first week, the officials said.  For the first time, the RS Secretariat has started reporting in the daily bulletins, the business of the House that could not be taken up.  During the first two weeks of the current session, 130 Zero Hour Submissions and 87 Special Mentions through which the members raise issues of public importance could not be taken though they were admitted by the Chairman.  Among the bills passed are The Marine Aids to Navigation Bill, 2021; The Juvenile Justice Amendment Bill, 2021; The Factoring Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Coconut Development Board (Amendment) Bill, 2021.  The Limited Liability Partnership (Amendment) Bill, 2021 and The Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (Amendment) Bill, 2021 were among the four bills introduced in the Rajya Sabha.  Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu, during the all-party meeting ahead of the session and the Business Advisory Committee meeting during the first week, has urged the government and the leaders of various parties to discuss the legislative and other business to be taken up in the House and also has been talking to them separately to enable smooth functioning of the House.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||Assam CM calls on governor, discusses border issue||Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma called on Governor Jagdish Mukhi on Saturday and discussed various issues including the border situation between the state and Mizoram and the functioning of state universities. A clash between police forces of the two North-eastern states on July 26 left seven people -- six Assam police personnel and a civilian -- dead and over 50 injured at a place close to the inter-state border. The governor and the chief minister discussed measures for de-escalating tension along the border, an official release said. Sarma also informed Mukhi that the state government has disbursed cheques as one-time financial assistance to the family members of the police personnel killed in the border skirmishes. During the meeting, they also discussed the functioning of the universities and the initiatives that are likely to be introduced to make the varsities more useful and responsive in response to the changing needs of higher education, the release said. It said that the governor and the CM emphasised the need for implementation of the National Education Policy 2020 for transforming the academic environment in the state that will lead to the creation of a talent pool.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||Centre failed in handling Assam-Mizoram inter-state border dispute: Congress||The Congress Saturday claimed the Central government has failed in handling the interstate border dispute between Assam and Mizoram that led to fatal clashes earlier this week. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said this is not a new issue and past governments have also handled it, but there has never been a conflagration like this before that central forces needed to be deployed on the interstate border. “How could it reach a stage where people are shooting guns and bullets,” he told a press conference here. Had such a situation arisen in non-BJP-ruled states, the saffron party would have demanded the deployment of Army and the imposition of President's Rule, he claimed, accusing the ruling party of "double-standards". "We want peace and quiet. We are a responsible party which is why, I said in the beginning that we are restraining ourselves. But, it is unthinkable that two states in India, if I may use the word with great respect and I don't want to use the word virtually, at war with each other. "Lives are being lost and homilies and preaching is happening, just because, there are at least one of them is a full BJP government," he said. "I think, these are hypocritical double standards, which need to be exposed and it also reflects the complete failure of the Central government," the Congress leader said. There have been clashes between the police forces of Assam and Mizoram and six Assam cops have died in the conflict.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||Maharashtra reports 225 new Covid-19 deaths, 6,959 cases, 7,467 recoveries||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 225 fresh COVID-19 fatalities and 6,959 cases while 7,467 patients recovered, a health official said.  With the new additions, the tally of infections in Maharashtra reached 63,03,715 and the death toll to 1,32,791. The count of recoveries now stands at 60,90,786, leaving the state with 76,755 active cases, he said.  On Saturday, Maharashtra witnessed a marginal rise in fresh coronavirus positive cases compared to Thursday when the state added 6,600 new cases to its tally and 231 fatalities.  According to the official, among the 225 fatalities, the highest number of 61 deaths were reported from Kolhapur and Aurangabad regions, followed by 35 fatalities from the Nashik region. Pune region reported 27 fatalities, Mumbai region 22, Latur and Akola six each while Nagpur region reported seven fatalities, the official said.  A total of 4,76,609 people are in home quarantine and 3,166 in institutional quarantine across Maharashtra, the official added.  Maharashtra's case recovery rate now stands at 96.62 per cent while the fatality rate is 2.01 per cent.  Mumbai city witnessed 345 new cases and nine deaths, while Pune city added 297 infections and four fatalities.  With 2,06,747 new tests, the cumulative number of samples tested so far in Maharashtra climbed to 4,79,67,609.  Parbhani municipal corporation did not report a single case during the day, the health department said.  Among the eight regions of Maharashtra, the Pune region reported the highest 2,386 new COVID-19 cases in the day, followed by 1,863 in the Kolhapur region.  Of other divisions, the Nashik region reported 1,130 fresh cases, Mumbai region 982, Latur region 412, Aurangabad region 102, Nagpur region 52 and Akola region 32.  Among 76,755 active patients in Maharashtra, Pune district has the highest 15,674 such cases.  Of the 60,90,786 recovered patients in the state, the highest 10,54,961 are from the Pune district.  Coronavirus figures in Maharashtra are as follows: Total cases - 63,03,715, new cases 6,959, total deaths 1,32,791, fresh deaths 225, total recoveries 60,90,786, active cases 76,755, new tests conducted 2,06,747.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||Govt trying to find excuse to curtail Monsoon Session of Parliament, alleges Cong||The Congress on Saturday alleged that the government was trying to find an "excuse" to curtail the Monsoon session of Parliament after "obstructing" its functioning by not agreeing to a discussion on the Pegasus issue and refusing to answer whether it has bought the Israeli spyware to snoop on people. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi blamed the government for the current deadlock in Parliament and alleged it was trying to avoid answering pertinent questions raised by the opposition. "My straight charge is that the government has stopped the session and the government is now possibly thinking of curtailing a stopped session. So, you can draw your own conclusion," he told reporters. Both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have failed to transact any significant business, except passage of some bills, amid continued protests by opposition parties over the Pegasus and farmers' issues since the Monsoon session of Parliament commenced on July 19. The session is scheduled to conclude on August 13. Singhvi alleged that the government made sure that parliament does not function for nine or 10 days is now finding "the first fault as an excuse to do the second fault, namely curtail it". "Look at your obstinacy, you mulish, stony obstinacy, that you will not agree to a discussion on the most important issue - Pegasus," he said, adding that the government has been saying that it will discuss it outside Parliament. "You are obstructing and you are now using the existing obstruction for 9-10 days as an excuse to wind up (the session)," Singhvi alleged. The Congress leader said the government has not answered the basic question of whether it has directly or indirectly in any form and manner through a government agency acquired Pegasus. "The answer has to be 'Yes of No'. You are welcome to say, 'No'. Why don't you say it? Everything else you are saying, but not saying 'Yes or No'. "The second question is if you did acquire it? Did you use it against persons and if yes, show their names...but there is no answer," he said. The opposition is demanding that the government agree to a discussion in Parliament on Pegasus snooping row and farmers' protests, besides other issues. It also wants the Prime Minister or the Home Minister to be present during the discussion. The government, however, is terming the snooping controversy as a non-issue and accusing the opposition of unnecessarily raking it up to disrupt proceedings in Parliament.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-370
31-07-2021||India||IMD predicts intense rainfall in north & central India over next four days||Parts of north and central India will witness intense rainfall activity over the next four days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Saturday. Due to a well-marked low-pressure area and a monsoon trough, fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely over east Madhya Pradesh on July 31-August 1 and over Chhattisgarh and east Uttar Pradesh on July 31. Widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls are very likely to continue over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh during form July 31 to August 4 with peak activity during July 31 to August 3. Isolated extremely heavy falls likely over east Rajasthan and west Madhya Pradesh during July 31-August 2. The IMD has issued a red alert over parts of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Fairly widespread to widespread rainfall with isolated heavy to very heavy falls very likely over west Uttar Pradesh between August 1-2 The current spell of fairly widespread to widespread rainfall activity is very likely to continue over parts of north India with isolated heavy falls over Jammu and Kashmir on July 31, Punjab on August 1, Himachal Pradesh till August 2 and Uttarakhand and Haryana till August 4, the IMD said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Think-tank recommends ‘Mumbai Plus’ approach for Covid management ||A think-tank has recommended a 'Mumbai Plus' approach for Covid-19 vaccination planning, opening up of public transportation and planned unlocking of the metropolitan region. The report 'Turning the Tide: Is Mumbai Ready for the Next Wave?', prepared by the Observor and Research Foundation (ORF), looks at the specifics of the first and second waves of the pandemic, detailing lessons learnt from oxygen and medicine supply and vaccination issues. It also considers the hidden groups migrants, crematorium and graveyard staff, and ASHA workers who bore the brunt of the crisis, the ORF said in a statement. The report recommends a 'Mumbai Plus' approach for vaccination planning, opening up public transportation and planned unlocking of the region. The ORF said Maharashtra minister and Shiv Sena leader Aaditya Thackeray released the report and stressed the need for an integrated approach for governing the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) and other urban clusters in the state. One City, One Administration is the way ahead, the Tourism and Environment Minister said as per the release. Thackeray also said the lessons learnt from tackling the Covid-19 pandemic in large urban areas has made it necessary to look at an integrated approach of governing cities with all authorities working in tandem, the ORF said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Congress leader Ghulam Nabi Azad asks all to participate in J&K assembly||Everyone should take part in the Jammu and Kashmir assembly election whenever it is held and the Congress should start preparing for it, senior party leader Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Saturday. In a brief interaction with reporters outside his residence here, Azad to a question about the possibility of assembly election in the Union Territory said that as of now, the delimitation exercise is on. The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister is in the city on a three-day visit and on his arrival at the airport, supporters demanded that Congress leaders, who burnt his effigy during a protest in March, be expelled. When told during the interaction with reporters that the BJP had already started preparing for the assembly polls, Azad said that all parties, including the Congress, should make preparations. "All people should take part in the elections," he said. The Jammu and Kashmir assembly polls are likely to be held after the completion of the delimitation exercise in the Union Territory. PDP president and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti had announced that she will not contest elections until both the constitutions of India and the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir are made applicable to J&K. On August 5, 2019, the Centre had abrogated the special status of the erstwhile stated of J&K and bifurcated into Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Personally, it (abrogation of Article 370 and 35-A of the Constitution) is a very emotional for me. I contested the first election taking oath under the constitutions of India and the state. I took both flags in my hands. Until both constitutions will not be (existing) together (in J&K), I have said I will not personally contest elections," Mehbooba had said. On the Pegasus snooping row, Azad said the opposition has already raised the issue in Parliament and are demanding a discussion on it. I am on a three-day tour of Jammu and am available for every one across the Jammu division, including my own party workers and others who want to discuss their problems with me, the Congress leader said. He expressed grief over the loss of the lives and damage to property in the recent cloudbursts in Kishtwar, Kashmir, Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh and other hilly areas, and expressed hope that the government will take care of victims and their families. Earlier, a large number of Congress workers assembled outside the Jammu airport to receive Azad and raised slogans in his support. We have assembled here to demand ouster of all those who took part in a protest against Azad and set ablaze his effigy, Congress leader and JMC councillor Gaurav Chopra said. He was referring to the protest staged by a group of Congress workers led by former general secretary and District Development Council (DDC) member Mohammad Shahnawaz Choudhary outside the press club here on March 2. The first-of-its-kind protest against Azad by members of his own party came days after a rally addressed by 'G-23' leaders ostensibly to felicitate Azad on his retirement from Rajya Sabha. The rally was seen as a show of strength to convey a message to the party leadership. The Group of 23 or 'G-23' leaders had demanded an overhaul of the Congress party organisation. Chopra on the same day in March had led a counter-protest against Choudhary and said that a person who fought the recently held DDC elections against the party mandate is not a Congressman and is working on the directions of the BJP and the RSS to weaken the Congress.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||NIA conducts raids across Jammu and Kashmir, terrorist arrested||The National Investigation Agency Saturday arrested a Lashker-e-Mustafa (LeM) terrorist as it conducted raids at 15 locations across Jammu and Kashmir in connection with two terror-related cases including the recent recovery of a drone-dropped IED from Pakistan, officials said. A large quantity of incriminating material including digital devices, shells of used bullets, plastic face masks that guard stone-pelting and handwritten jihadi material were also recovered during the raids, they said. The LeM, working at the behest of Pakistan-based Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM) outfit, was declared wiped out in February with the arrest of its self-styled chief Hidayatullah Malik and his associate Nazir Ahmad from Jammu, both residents of Shopian district. They were trying to set up a base to receive Pakistani terrorists and arms and ammunition from across the border. The NIA along with J&K police and CRPF conducted searches at nine locations in Shopian, Anantnag and Jammu districts in connection with the case related to the LeM. Subsequent to searches, one accused person -- Irfan Ahmed Dar of Batingoo (Anantnag) was arrested, a spokesperson of the agency said. The NIA said the preliminary investigation has revealed that he was involved in the conspiracy to carry out terrorist activities in collusion with other arrested accused. The case was initially registered at Gangyal Police Station in Jammu relating to a conspiracy by the LeM to carry out terrorist activities in J&K with an intention to threaten the sovereignty, integrity and security of India, the spokesperson said. The NIA had re-registered the case on March 2 and taken over the investigation, he added. During the searches, the NIA said many digital devices including mobile phones, hard disks, memory cards, pen drives, laptops, besides booklets containing incriminating material were recovered from the premises of the arrested accused and the suspects in the case. About the searches at six other locations, the spokesperson said they were carried out in connection with the recovery of an IED in Bathindi area of Jammu on June 27 -- the day two bombs were dropped on the Indian Air Force (IAF) station in Jammu using drones, resulting in injuries to two personnel. The searches were carried out at six locations of the arrested accused and suspected persons in Shopian and Ramban districts, the NIA said. It said the case was initially registered on June 27 at Police Station Bahu Fort in Jammu relating to recovery of 5 kgs IED from a Lashkar-e-Taiba (lET) terrorist. It was a conspiracy by LeT to cause an explosion in Jammu using the IED. The NIA had re-registered the case one July 19 and took over the investigation, the spokesperson said. During the searches, many digital devices including mobile phones, pen drives, shells of used bullets, CDs, plastic face masks that are used as a shield during stone pelting, memory cards, handwritten jehadi material, ID card of Al-aqsa media and other incriminating materials have been recovered, the NIA said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Opposition parties seek President's intervention to form JPC on several issues||Some Opposition parties, led by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), met President Ram Nath Kovind on Saturday to seek his intervention in asking the government to set up a JPC on farmer deaths and allow a discussion in Parliament on the farmers' issue and the Pegasus snooping controversy. Leaders of SAD, NCP and JKNC met the president and handed over a letter signed by the representatives of various parties for his intervention. The Congress, however, was not a signatory to it. The letter by various parties, including SAD, Shiv Sena, NCP, BSP, JKNC, RLP, CPI and CPI(M), seeks the president's intervention to ensure the formation of a Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) to ascertain the details of farmer deaths during their agitation against three agriculture laws of the Centre and allow a discussion on their issues in Parliament. After meeting the president, SAD leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal said the entire Opposition is demanding from the government for the last two weeks to allow them to speak in Parliament on issues concerning people. Among those who met Kovind included Mohammed Faizal (NCP), Hasnain Masoodi (JKNC), Ritesh Pandey (BSP) and Balwinder Singh Bhundar (SAD). Badal said she herself had approached the Congress and the TMC and wanted these parties to accompany them during the meeting with the president, "but unfortunately, it is before you that no one has reached here. We had sought time from the president". All opposition parties are giving adjournment motions in Parliament on the farmers' issue and the Pegasus snooping row, she said, alleging that it is the government's duty to enable Parliament to function, but it is stonewalling the Opposition. "We have come here to tell the president that democracy and democratic traditions are under threat and the voice of parliamentarians is being crushed inside Parliament too. This is a big loss to democracy. "We have appealed to the president, who is the custodian and conscience keeper of the country, to put pressure on the government and admit the people's issues raised by the opposition parties and allow Parliament to function," the former Union minister told reporters. She said they may belong to small political parties, but represent people from across the country, from Jammu and Kashmir to Lakshadweep. "We have urged the president to put pressure on the government to let Parliament function smoothly so that people's issues are addressed," the Akali leader said. She said farmers are sitting on the roads for the last one year and at Delhi's borders for eight months, and 500 of them have lost their lives. But when the agriculture minister says no farmer has died during the agitation against the three farm laws, it adds to their anger, Badal said. "The government says this is an issue concerning only one state, but MPs have come here from different states, from every nook and corner of the country," she added. "The snooping issue is also an issue of national security. Why is the government not agreeing for a discussion on these issues and running away? "We have also appealed to the president to form a Joint Select Committee comprising MPs from both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha to work out a solution for the protesting farmers. How many more farmers does the government want dead? Five hundred farmers have already died during the agitation," Badal said. The Opposition leaders have demanded that tributes be paid in Parliament to the farmers who have died during the agitation. "We hope that the president would surely tell the government to allow Parliament to function and let public money not be wasted. At least, listen to the families of those farmers who have died," Badal said. Masoodi said, "We have also urged the president to restore statehood to Jammu and Kashmir." Badal said they had urged the Lok Sabha speaker on Friday to form a JPC to find out how many farmers have died during the agitation. "We have now urged the president to form the JPC. We want that the government should not run away from Parliament as it has a responsibility," she added. Asked about the government accusing the Opposition of stalling Parliament, she said the government just wants to buy time. Every party wants a discussion but the government does not, she alleged. "Simply allow a discussion on both these issues and the House will start functioning and everything will settle down," the SAD leader said. On the absence of the Congress and the TMC from their meeting with Kovind, she said till the time the Opposition is not united, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will continue to benefit.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Delhi crosses one-crore jabs mark, 50 per cent of eligible population gets at least one dose||The total number of anti-coronavirus vaccine doses administered in Delhi so far crossed the one-crore mark on Saturday and of the eligible population in the city 50 per cent have received at least one jab, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. He hoped that more jabs will be soon available for the city. The national capital has a population of about two crore and among them, about 1.5 crore are eligible for Covid-19 vaccination, the chief minister said. "Out of the 1.5 crore eligible population, 74 lakh have received vaccine doses. So, about 50 per cent have received at least one dose. Of the 74 lakh, 26 lakh have been administered both the jabs," the chief minister said in an online briefing. "The number of Covid vaccine doses administered in Delhi since the start of the inoculation drive, crossed the one-crore mark today." Congratulating the medical staff for administering over one crore doses in the national capital, Kejriwal said there was an acute shortage of vaccines for which inoculation could not be scaled up. "We have the capacity to vaccinate three lakh people daily. But due to shortage, only 50,000-80,000 people are getting the Covid jabs every day," he said. The chief minister said the Delhi government is in regular contact with the Centre and hoped the city, along with the rest of the country, will soon have adequate vaccine doses. There are two challenges before the government: to vaccinate those who have not yet taken even the first dose and to administer the second dose to those who have got the first jab, Kejriwal said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Punjab schools to reopen from August 2 for all classes||The Punjab government on Saturday allowed the reopening of schools for all classes from August 2 as it further relaxed restrictions in view of declining Covid-19 cases. The state government had allowed the reopening of schools for classes 10 to 12 from July 26. "All schools are allowed to open for all classes from August 2. They shall follow proper protocols to ensure Covid-19-appropriate behaviour," according to fresh guidelines. The department of school education shall issue instructions in this regard, it stated. The district authorities shall continue to ensure strict implementation of all directives on Covid-appropriate behaviour, the guidelines said. On Friday, Punjab reported 49 new Covid-19 cases and no new deaths. The total number of active cases on the day reached 544, as most new cases have been reported from Jalandhar, Ferozepur and Ludhiana. Punjab has so far reported a total of 5,99,053 Covid-19 infections and 16,292 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Covid: Centre warns 10 states as 46 districts see over 10 per cent positivity rate||Districts reporting a Covid-19 positivity rate of over 10 per cent in the last few weeks need to consider strict restrictions to prevent or curtail people's movement and crowding, the Centre told 10 states witnessing an upsurge in infections and positivity. Highlighting that 46 districts are showing more than 10 per cent positivity rate while another 53 are showing positivity between five and 10 per cent, the Centre has urged the states to ramp up their testing for detection of Covid-19. The Health Ministry said it was forcefully underlined that any laxity at this stage will result in the deterioration of the situation in these districts. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting on Saturday to review the Covid-19 situation in Kerala, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Assam, Mizoram, Meghalaya, Andhra Pradesh and Manipur. The public health measures taken for surveillance, containment and management of Covid-19 by the health authorities in these states were also reviewed. These states are either reporting a rise in daily Covid cases or a rise in positivity. The Health Ministry, in a statement, said, "All districts reporting positivity rate of more than 10 per cent in the last few weeks need to consider strict restrictions to prevent/curtail the movement of people, formation of crowds and intermingling of people to prevent the spread of infection." Noting that more than 80 per cent of active cases in these states are reported to be in home isolation, it said there is a need to effectively and strictly monitor these cases so that they do not meet other people and spread the infection. "The people in home isolation should be effectively monitored in such a manner to ensure that those who require hospitalization are seamlessly transferred for timely clinical treatment. "Detailed standard operating procedure covering various facets of effective clinical management of Covid-19 patients in hospitals have been earlier shared with the states for prompt shifting and effective hospital management," the Centre told states. The ministry also asked states to focus on those districts where the positivity rate is less than 10 per cent, so as to protect these districts and the populations by focusing on saturation of vaccination there. "States were again informed that this quantum of vaccine doses indicates the minimum possible allocation by the Centre to the states; quantum more than this is usually delivered by the Union Health Ministry to states based on their consumption," the statement said. The ministry said the states were advised to direct private hospitals to put up hospital-based PSA plants. "States have been earlier advised regarding this in the past two months. Provisions under the Clinical Establishment Act enable states to issue such direction to private hospitals. For states which have already issued such directions, they were advised to review the status and facilitate the private hospitals further," it said. The Health Ministry also asked states to conduct their own serosurveys for district-wise disease prevalence data, as such a survey at the national level was heterogeneous in nature. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) Director General Dr Balram Bhargava advised states to ramp up vaccination in the senior citizens and the 45-60 year categories as evidence show near 80 per cent of the mortalities are from these vulnerable age groups. About enforcement measures, he advised states to avoid all non-essential travel and discourage large gatherings. Granular analysis of the highly affected districts in these states, Covid-19 vaccination coverage, the status of ventilators, PSA plants, oxygen cylinders and concentrators along with some key statistics was presented at the meeting. The Centre also asked states were asked to use the INSACOG laboratory network for genomic surveillance to screen international travellers, monitor ongoing surveillance through sentinel sites (RT-PCR labs or secondary and tertiary care hospitals managing Covidcases) and surge surveillance. States were advised to undertake intensive containment and active surveillance in clusters reporting higher cases, define containment zones based on mapping of cases and contacts traced and undertake regular reviews and follow-up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Centre scared of people-centric discussions in Parliament, says Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday attacked the government, alleging that it is "scared" of a discussion in Parliament on issues that concern people like price rise. Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha have been rocked by Opposition protests since the Monsoon session commenced on July 19 over the Pegasus snooping controversy, farm laws and price rise. "They are used to questions like 'how do you eat mangoes', therefore, they are scared of discussion in Parliament on issues that concern people like price rise," Priyanka Gandhi alleged in a tweet in Hindi. Union Minister Pralhad Joshi on Friday said the government is ready for discussion on issues "directly related" to the people. The protests are over a "non-issue, non-serious issue", said Joshi, the parliamentary affairs minister. "There are so many issues directly related to the people of India... government is ready for discussions," he said. Meanwhile on Saturday, attacking the government, Congress leader P. Chidambaram said another case of misuse of Pegasus spyware has been revealed now with France's national cybersecurity agency confirming that Pegasus spyware was infiltrated into phones belonging to two journalists of Mediapart, an investigative journal in France. "Will the government give up its ostrich-like attitude and agree to the Opposition's demand for a full discussion in Parliament on misuse of Pegasus spyware in India? How long can the government duck and hide and scoot when all that the Opposition wants is a full debate?" Chidambaram said in a series of tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Amit Shah to visit poll-bound Uttar Pradesh on August 1||Union Home Minister Amit Shah will travel to Uttar Pradesh on Sunday to launch projects. During his visit, Shah will lay the foundation stones of Uttar Pradesh Institute of Forensic Sciences (UPIFS) in Lucknow and the Vindhya Corridor at Mirzapur. According to the official programme received on Saturday, he will arrive at Lucknow airport on Sunday by a special plane at 11:45 am and from there he will proceed via the state government's helicopter to lay the foundation stone of UPIFS, Pipersand. He will also address a function organised after laying the foundation stone of the institute in which intellectual people of the capital have been specially invited, it said. According to a BJP spokesperson, Shah might go to Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) to enquire about the health of former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and former Rajasthan Governor Kalyan Singh. However, there is no mention of his visit to SGPGI in his moment-to-moment schedule. According to the programme, the Union home minister will leave for Mirzapur by a helicopter from Pipersand's helipad to the Deori helipad site in Mirzapur. Thereafter, he will leave for Vindhyavasini temple. After this, his programme till 4:37 pm has been reserved for laying the foundation stone of Maa Vindhyavasini Corridor project and other development schemes, including ropeway. Shah will leave for Varanasi from helipad at GD Binani College, Mirzapur at 4:40 pm and will leave for Delhi from Varanasi airport at 5:10 pm. BJP MLA from Mirzapur Nagar area Ratnakar Mishra had said on Tuesday that Shah would lay the foundation stone of Vindhya Corridor on August 1 and after that, he would also address a public meeting in the ground of Government Inter College in the city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-371
31-07-2021||India||Portion of road under Delhi's IIT flyover caves in||A portion of a road under IIT-Delhi flyover caved in due to heavy rains in the last few days, affecting traffic in the area on Saturday, officials said. Taking to Twitter, the Delhi Traffic Police asked commuters to take the alternate route. "Traffic going from Adhchini to IIT has been diverted from Adhchini to Katwaria Sarai after a portion of a road near IIT red light (traffic signal) caved in," the Traffic Police tweeted in Hindi. The city received an average of 43.6 mm rain till 8.30 am on Saturday, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Moderate rains are expected later in the day, the weatherman said. The IMD on Friday had issued an orange alert, predicting moderate rain on Saturday and warning of possible waterlogging in low-lying areas of the national capital and major traffic disruptions. The department has issued a yellow alert for Sunday, and orange alert also for Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||India, China hold 12th round of military talks to boost disengagement process along LAC||India and China are holding another round of high-level military talks on Saturday with an aim to move forward on the disengagement process in the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh to end an over 14-month standoff, sources in the security establishment said. The 12th round of Corps Commander-level talks are taking place at the Moldo border point on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, they said. The talks started at 10:30 AM as scheduled, said a source. India is hopeful of a positive outcome on the disengagement process in Hot Springs and Gogra, the sources said about the talks. The latest round of talks is taking place after a gap of more than three and a half months. The 11th round of military dialogue had taken place on April 9 at the Chushul border point on the Indian side of the LAC and it lasted for around 13 hours. The 12th round of military talks is taking place over two weeks after External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar firmly conveyed to his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi that the prolongation of the existing situation in eastern Ladakh was visibly impacting the bilateral ties in a "negative manner". The two foreign ministers had held a one-hour bilateral meeting on the sidelines of a conclave of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Tajik capital city Dushanbe on July 14. In the meeting, Jaishankar told Wang that any unilateral change in the status quo along the LAC was "not acceptable" to India and that the overall ties can only develop after full restoration of peace and tranquillity in eastern Ladakh. In the last round of military talks, both sides discussed ways to take forward the disengagement process in Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang with a larger aim to bring down tensions in the region. However, there was no forward movement in the disengagement process.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||Laila Ali continues to dominate the digital space through creative content||Multifaceted model, actor Laila Ali is an influencer par excellence who is gaining reputation for her impeccable content creation skills and trailblazing performances. The latter has recently gained limelight for her excellence and groundbreaking performance in music albums and videos. There is no denying the fact that as Indians we are obsessed with films and Bollywood. Not only in just watching the odd 200+ films that get released every year, but in some way, being a part of it, in some vicarious manner. Realising the same, Laila Ali has risen to the top of the entertainment and digital sectors because of her stunning looks and has conquered these lands thanks to her incredible talent, which is uncommon among today's millennials. Her incredible abilities as a social media influencer have earned her a massive fan base that is rising by the day. As a model, Laila has walked the ramp a number of times, all the while appearing in a number of advertisement campaigns for well known Indian fast fashion brands. When asked why she chose this field above all she claims that influencer marketing has grown significantly in recent years. To leverage on the large following that influencers demand, several firms have been investing in influencer partnerships to sell their products and services. As a result, she believed it is the right time, as demand has been on the rise recently. Further adding to her statement she said that she likes the flexibility offered by this career as she can work from anywhere and gets to experience the best, be it food or travel or meeting people while on the job. Due to her constant hard work, her digital popularity has grown to the point that she has been asked to work on many new big new projects on a daily basis, the most recent of which is a music video with Bhalu Rapper that was a chartbuster and had a lot of views on video-sharing platforms. With all her talent, Laila has emerged as one of the top influencers across the digital world and is proving herself each day with the top quality content she produces. She has a very long way ahead and is constantly working on her personality to debut in films. As modern consumers look for user-generated reviews or one-on-one recommendations, influencers like Lila Ali have proved to be a perfect fit because of her ability to establish an authentic connection with her audience as real people.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||Work towards changing negative perspective about police, Modi tells IPS probationers ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday told Indian Police Service probationers that the spirit of 'Nation First, Always First' should be reflected in every action of theirs and they should also work towards changing the negative perception of the force among people. He urged the IPS probationers to keep national interest in mind and have a national perspective while taking decisions when they are in the field. "You have to always remember that you are the flag bearers of 'Ek Bharat, Shrestha Bharat' too," Modi said. "Therefore, the spirit of Nation First, Always First, should be reflected in your every action," the prime minister said addressing the IPS probationers at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy via video-conferencing. Modi said the negative perception of the police among the people is a big challenge in itself. This perception changed a bit during the beginning of the coronavirus period when people saw police personnel helping out, but the situation has again gone back to the old perception, he said. "Our police personnel even sacrifice their lives for security of the country, maintaining law and order and for fighting terrorism. They are unable to go home for days, they are unable to go home even during festivals but when it comes to the police's image, people's perception is different," he said. It is the responsibility of the new generation coming into the police force that this image changes and this negative perception of the police goes away, Modi said. The prime minister said in the last 75 years, India has tried to build a better police service and police training infrastructure has also improved a lot in recent years. "The way the youth of the country came forward in the country between 1930 and 1947, the whole young generation got united for one goal, today the same sentiment is expected from you," Modi told the IPS probationers. "At that time the people of the country fought for 'swaraj', today you have to move forward for 'surajya' (good governance). You are starting your career at a time when India is going through a phase of transformation in every field, every level," he said. "The coming 25 years of your career are also going to be the most important 25 years of India's development. That's why your preparation, your mental state, should be in line with this big goal," he said. Modi also interacted with the probationers during the event. Union Home Minister Amit Shah also participated in the function. The Hyderabad-based academy is the premier police training institution in the country. It trains officers of the Indian Police Service at induction level and conducts various in-service courses for the serving IPS officers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||J&K: Major tragedy averted after security forces detect IED in Rajouri||A major tragedy was averted on Saturday with timely detection of a powerful Improvised Explosive Device (IED) in Jammu and Kashmir's border district of Rajouri, officials said. The IED was found planted by suspected terrorists under a culvert at Bathooni-Dilogra on Jammu-Rajouri national highway and was subsequently defused by the bomb disposal squad of the Army at 9.10 am, the officials said. The traffic on the vital road remained suspended for over three hours after the detection of the IED by the Road Opening Party (ROP) of the security forces, they said. The terrorists are believed to have planted the IED during the intervening night under the cover of darkness, the officials said, adding that a massive search operation is on to arrest the terrorists who were planning to set off the blast. The officials said the experts removed the IED from the road to a secluded place in the nearby forest and later detonated it in a controlled explosion without causing any damage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||India logs over 41,000 fresh Covid cases, 593 casualties in a day||With a single-day rise of 41,649 new cases, India's COVID-19 tally climbed to 3,16,13,993 on Saturday, while the death toll due to the viral disease shot up to 4,23,810 with 593 more people succumbing to it, the Union health ministry said. The number of active coronavirus cases in the country registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am. The number of active cases has gone up to 408920, accounting for 1.29 per cent of the total number of cases, while the national COVID-19 recovery rate was recorded at 97.37 per cent, the data showed. An increase of 3,765 cases was recorded in the active COVID-19 tally in a span of 24 hours. Also, 17,76,315 tests to detect the infection were carried out on Friday, taking the total number of such tests conducted so far in the country to 46,64,27,038, while the daily positivity rate was recorded at 2.34 per cent. The weekly positivity rate was recorded at 2.42 per cent, according to the ministry. The number of people who have recovered from the disease has gone up to 30781263, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.34 per cent, the data showed. The cumulative number of Covid vaccine doses administered in the country so far has reached 46.15 crore. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30-lakh mark on August 23, 40-lakh mark on September 5 and 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28 last year, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. The country crossed the grim milestone of two crore COVID-19 cases on May 4 this year and the three-crore mark on June 23. The 593 fresh fatalities include 231 from Maharashtra and 116 from Kerala. A total of 423810 Covid deaths have been reported in the country so far, including 132566 from Maharashtra, 36525 from Karnataka, 34050 from Tamil Nadu, 25052 from Delhi, 22756 from Uttar Pradesh, 18128 from West Bengal and 16292 from Punjab. The ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||Two militants killed in encounter with security forces in J&K's Pulwama||Two top Jaish-e-Mohammad terrorists involved in the dastardly Pulwama attack of 2019 were killed Saturday in an encounter in the south Kashmir district, officials said, terming it "probably the biggest strike of the year" for security forces.  They said IED expert Ismal Alvi, who used several aliases including Saifullah, Lamboo and Adnan, was from the family of JeM chief Masood Azhar and had trained the suicide bomber who carried out the Pulwama attack which had left 40 CRPF personnel dead.  They said the second terrorist has been identified as Sameer Dar (an A+ category ultra) from Pulwama. He was also involved in Pulwama attack and figured in an NIA chargesheet in the case, they added.  The February 14, 2019 attack was carried out by suicide bomber Adil Dar who rammed an explosive-laden vehicle in a CRPF convoy at Lethpora in Pulwama district on the Srinagar-Jammu national highway, killing 40 CRPF personnel and injuring several others.  With Saturday's development, out of 19 accused in the Pulwama attack, eight terrorists have been killed so far, said Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar.  "Lamboo was involved in conspiracy and planning of Lethpora Pulwama attack and figured in chargesheet produced by the NIA," Kumar said.  The encounter happened this morning in the forest area of Namibian and Marsar and the general area of Dachigam in Pulwama after security forces launched a cordon and search operation following inputs about the presence of militants there, a police official said.  He said the militants opened fire at a search party leading to an encounter in which the two ultras were killed.  At a joint press conference with the IGP Kashmir and the Victor Force head Maj Gen Rashim Bali, the GoC of the Army's 15 or Chinar Corps, Lt Gen D P Pandey explained the significance of Lamboo's killing.  "Firstly, it brings closure to the Pulwama incident because he was one of the masterminds for having trained a local youth Adil (Dar) who eventually blew himself up in the IED attack. Ever since, he has been responsible to continue to train people in making IED and deployment of IEDs against the security forces," the Army officer said.  The GoC said the second very important facet of Lamboo's neutralisation is that he has also been responsible for recruiting young locals "by brainwashing them".  He was also responsible for carrying out "identification, selective identification, thereafter radicalising them and giving them weapons and putting them as the face of the overall strategy of our inimical agencies which are operating from across (the border)".  "Thus, when these recruits were taken out, neutralised, it brought a face as if the entire movement is indigenised and (it is) a local movement which is not so," he said.  IGP Kumar said Lamboo infiltrated into Kashmir in January 2017 and "since then, he has been active in south Kashmir. There were 14 FIRs registered against him. He is the main accused in one of the biggest attacks that took place on February 14, 2019."  The IGP said Lamboo was also involved in the killing of SPO Fayaz Ahmed, his wife and daughter in Tral last month.  "He used to train youth in IED making. So, with his killing the IED threat has been lessened not only in south Kashmir but in the whole valley," he said.  The IGP said the time is not far when the JeM will be wiped out from Kashmir.  Giving details of the operation, the GoC of the south Kashmir-based Victor Force of the army, Maj Gen Rashim Bali said there was a lot of intelligence from the police as well as the locals "about the movement and the way this gentleman has been ill-treating the locals there".  "For the last 15 days, there were about three reports of his sexual misconduct with a few ladies also generally in the upper reaches of Dachigam forests," he said.  Maj Gen Bali said as the security forces zeroed in on the location the terrorists were "alerted by barking dogs". They tried to escape by using women and children as covers. "They opened automatic fire and started lobbing grenades."  "The idea was that while we try to save the ladies and the children, they will try to make good their escape. There was retaliation and both of them were drop dead within a matter of two-three minutes," he said.  He said the security forces recovered an M-4 rifle with a telescopic sight used by Lamboo.  "We have recovered a Glock pistol -- which is not there with every terrorist here. We have also recovered a Chinese pistol and an AK-47 rifle," he said.  The GoC Victor Force said this has probably been the "biggest strike of the year" for the police and the security forces. "I am sure this will continue."  Asked whether there was any other militant active in the Kashmir valley belonging to the family of JeM chief Masood Azhar, the IGP said "as of now, there is no one from the family".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Government dismisses snooping allegations as 'non-issue' ||The Narendra Modi government on Friday dismissed as a “non-issue” the allegation that the Pegasus spyware was used to snoop on Indians and rejected the Opposition’s demand for an immediate discussion in both Houses of Parliament. “The IT minister (Ashwini Vaishnaw) has already given a detailed statement in both Houses. A non-issue is being used to stall the House. There are many other important people-related issues,” parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi told the Lok Sabha during Question Hour amid Opposition demands for a discussion. “This (Pegasus) is a non-issue and also a non-serious issue,” Joshi stressed. For the ninth day, Parliament was rocked by protests as the Opposition sought an immediate discussion on the revelation by an international consortium of 17 media organisations that the Israeli-made Pegasus spyware had been used to target individuals around the world for surveillance. On the list of potential targets were the names of many prominent Indians, including politicians, journalists, activists and constitutional figures. According to Israel, the spyware is sold only to governments. The Modi government has neither confirmed nor denied that it bought the spyware. As the Lok Sabha assembled on Friday, Congress’s leader of the House Adhir Chowdhury said the Opposition had from the start of the monsoon session been demanding a discussion on Pegasus. “Along with Pegasus, other issues like farm laws, Covid and price rise can also be discussed,” he said. The Speaker cut Adhir short and said he could raise the issue after Question Hour. But a little later, the parliamentary affairs minister rose to describe Pegasus as a “non-issue” and a “non-serious issue” that does not merit a discussion. As the Opposition remained firm on discussing Pegasus first and continued to protest in the Well of the House, the Lok Sabha was adjourned till Monday. On Wednesday, leaders of 14 Opposition parties had met in Parliament to iterate their resolve to press for a discussion in Parliament and a Supreme Court-monitored probe into the snooping allegations. In contrast to the Modi government’s dismissive stance, the government of Israel has said it is “taking the allegations seriously”. The Israel government said in a statement on Wednesday: “Israel grants cyber licences only to nation-states and only to be used for the needs of dealing with terrorism and crime.” Israel has set up a senior inter-ministerial team to look into the spyware allegations. The Modi government’s refusal to even talk about the issue in Parliament has exposed as hollow its repeated claims so far that it is ready to “discuss all issues” and that the Opposition has been deliberately disrupting proceedings. On more than one occasion, the government had accused the Opposition of not being interested in debate and discussion and said it was ready to discuss all issues. Even Speaker Om Birla had appealed to slogan-shouting MPs to give up their protest since the government was ready to discuss all the issues they wanted. Amidst the din, the government on Friday managed to introduce two bills. On Thursday, it had passed two bills without any discussion, blaming the Opposition. “We don’t want to pass bills without discussion but unfortunately the Opposition is not allowing. I appeal to the Opposition to participate in discussions,” Joshi said. The minister told reporters the Opposition can still seek clarifications from Vaishnaw, who in his statement had described the spyware allegations as an attempt to malign India but had not answered the one question being asked: Had India bought the Pegasus spyware? The Opposition has rejected Vaishnaw’s statement and demanded that after a discussion, no less than Union home minister Amit Shah should clarify the government’s position since Pegasus snooping involves privacy and internal security. Pegasus Farm protest Oxygen crisis Unemployment Fuel spike||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Opposition mulls joint petition in SC for investigation||The Opposition parties are discussing jointly petitioning the Supreme Court for an investigation into the Pegasus allegations, with a decision likely after the Congress consults its lawyers. The proposal has been discussed twice at meetings of Opposition leaders, with the dominant view in favour of taking the legal recourse. The only counter-argument, forwarded by some, is that an adverse court judgment can provide relief to the government, as with Rafale in 2019. The Congress had been opposed to moving court over the Rafale deal but lawyer Prashant Bhushan and former BJP politicians Yashwant Sinha and Arun Shourie went to the Supreme Court, which refused to order an inquiry. That judgment came from a bench headed by then Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi, who has since retired and been awarded a Rajya Sabha membership. Most Opposition leaders are optimistic about any apex court judgment now. The leaders feel that a joint Opposition petition would also create moral pressure at a time many other countries have initiated investigations into similar allegations of snooping within their borders via Pegasus, a spyware developed by Israel’s NSO group. The Supreme Court has already promised to take up next week the three petitions moved by an advocate, a CPM parliamentarian and two journalists seeking a court-monitored probe into the snooping allegations. Over 500 citizens, including eminent rights defenders, have written an open letter to Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana seeking the apex court’s immediate intervention to demand answers from the Centre on the controversy. A senior politician who attended an Opposition meeting where the matter was discussed told The Telegraph: “Many leaders suggested the parties should jointly petition the Supreme Court. The idea is under consideration. The Congress has to make up its mind. They are probably discussing different aspects of this move with their lawyers.” While all sources asserted a unity of purpose within the Opposition, some felt that the Congress needed to put its house in order to ensure a sharper strategy against the government. “Some of us insisted on Rahul Gandhi’s presence at the Opposition meetings. The difference was visible when he attended the meeting one day,” an Opposition politician said. “Mallikarjun Kharge (Congress Rajya Sabha leader) neither commands that kind of respect, nor is he capable of articulating the Opposition’s concerns forcefully. The Congress will have to put its best foot forward at this critical juncture.” The worry about “articulation” owes to the realisation that the Pegasus controversy has lacked a strong appeal for the rural masses, at least till now. “The perspective given by the television channels that have a rural presence has not been favourable to Opposition politics. What is needed is a narrative in which Pegasus is woven together with the price rise and the farmers’ movement,” an Opposition leader said. It has to be hammered home that the government has failed on all fronts, another Opposition leader said. “The economic mess, Covid mismanagement, unemployment and farm distress cannot be pushed aside in the effort to highlight snooping. The messaging should be about the bouquet of issues even while Pegasus remains the engine,” he said, pointing to the coming elections in Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, which have large rural populations. The Opposition expects the government to call an all-party meeting in the next couple of days, where it will attempt to paint an all-round gloomy picture. It will also try to corner the government on its refusal to order a probe into the Pegasus controversy when several countries, including Israel, have initiated inquiries. “When the Israel government had to raid NSO, which has now suspended the use of Pegasus by some clients who are accused of misuse, how can the (Narendra) Modi government say there won’t be any discussion, any inquiry?” Kharge told reporters. “It’s clear from developments in Israel and France that illegal snooping was going on. In November last year, then IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad had referred to 121 (people) being spied upon. How can the government change its stance now?” Current IT minister Ashwini Vaishnaw has denied that illegal surveillance is possible in India while the government has refused to say whether it has bought Pegasus. An Opposition leader said: “Another issue that has agitated the Opposition leaders is the attitude of the Rajya Sabha Chairman, M. Venkaiah Naidu. Some leaders insisted on a no-confidence motion against him. Even that idea hasn’t been rejected so far.” Another Opposition politician explained the unease with Naidu, saying: “There is something called the sense of the House. Both the Lok Sabha Speaker and the (Rajya Sabha) Chairman have behaved like government spokespersons. They have been party to crushing the Opposition. “We are not allowed to speak; even television doesn’t show our activities. Parliament doesn’t belong to the government. We don’t have the numbers in the Lok Sabha but the members are in a mood to send out a strong message by moving a no-confidence motion against Naidu in the Rajya Sabha.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||CBSE class XII results: 80% jump in number of 95-plus scorers ||Shreya Sasmal, a CBSE student from Udhampur in Jammu, has scored 96.2 per cent in her Class XII boards whose results were announced on Friday. She said she was happy with her marks but would still have preferred to take a board exam — cancelled this year because of the pandemic, with students awarded scores on the basis of past exams, practical and project work, and their schools’ past performance. “So many students have scored over 95 per cent this year. This sharp increase in the number of students scoring over 90 or 95 per cent raises many questions,” Shreya said. A record success rate and a huge leap in the number of high scorers this year have not just undermined the credibility of the assessment but also made undergraduate admissions a challenge for the students and colleges, educationists said. The pass rate of 99.37 per cent represents a more than 10 percentage point rise over last year’s 88.78 per cent, while the number of students scoring over 95 per cent has jumped 80 per cent. Shreya wants to be a doctor and will take the NEET-UG in September. But, she said, undergraduate admission processes that are based on Class XII marks can become very complicated. Anushka Gupta, a student from Bangalore, said she would have performed better had board exams been held. “I have scored 95 per cent; I would certainly have scored better in some papers in an exam,” she said. Many other students have voiced similar sentiments, pointing to the huge weightage given to scores obtained in the Class XI and pre-board exams and saying students never prepare as seriously for these tests as for the board exams. To award the theory marks, the Central Board of Secondary Education gave 30 per cent weightage to a student’s best three scores out of five papers in Class X, another 30 per cent to the marks obtained in Class XI, and 40 per cent to his or her performance in the pre-board exams. The overall score was then moderated by taking as reference the school’s overall best performance out of the previous three years’ board exams. The school had to ensure that its average marks in each subject this year fell within a range of plus or minus five marks from its average marks in that subject in the reference year. Also, the average aggregate mark scored by the school’s students this year was not allowed to exceed by more than two marks the school’s average aggregate score from the reference year. Former CBSE chairman Ashok Ganguly said the high pass rate had not surprised him and suggested an inflation of scores by many schools. “The 30 per cent weightage to Class X board scores was all right. The remaining 70 per cent weightage has been given to secondary data generated by the schools themselves. This data is mostly inauthentic and highly inflated. The results have not much credibility,” Ganguly said. Some humanities students have argued that the poor marks they had scored in science and mathematics in Class X had unfairly dragged down their Class XII scores. Ganguly said the results would affect undergraduate admissions in a big way. “Many students with a good aptitude and attitude may not secure admission to a well-known college this year,” he said. C.B. Sharma, educationist and former chairman of the National Institute of Open Schooling, too faulted the CBSE’s formula. “We agree we are passing through unprecedented times but the CBSE, as a professional body of assessment and certification, cannot award certificates that are not trusted,” Sharma said. “The CBSE will have to justify the more than 10 percentage point increase in the pass rate. Board results are trusted because of a reliable process of assessment. The CBSE’s formula for compiling results does not appear a valid one.” He said most of the state boards had followed the same formula as the CBSE, and their results too would reflect the same pattern. “There will be a significant increase in the number of students scoring over 90 per cent or even 95 per cent. A massive number of students will vie for college seats. Admissions will be erratic and beyond expectations this year,” Sharma said. He said the well-known schools follow a more or less transparent method of internal assessment and exams but the schools located in remoter areas, and even some city schools, do not keep records of their own assessment properly or transparently. “Many schools have generated these data over the last month, and this data is highly problematic,” Sharma said. The board has announced the results of 13.045 lakh students while withholding those of another 65,000 regular students whose scores will be announced by August 5. The board will hold exams for the 60,000 private candidates between August 16 and September 15. Among the 16 regions, Thiruvananthapuram has recorded the highest pass rate of 99.89 per cent, with Patna bringing up the rear with 98.91 per cent. Girls have notched a pass rate of 99.67 per cent compared with 99.13 among the boys.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-372
31-07-2021||India||Madhya Pradesh varsity webinar hit with ABVP ‘disruption tactic’||An ABVP complaint has triggered a police notice to a central university in BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh over a webinar on “scientific temper”, threatening a criminal case if any speaker with an “anti-national mindset” said anything to incite any class or community against another. The Dr Harisingh Gour Vishwavidyalaya, Sagar, eventually pulled out as co-organiser of the two-day webinar, which began on Friday with the Montclair State University of the US as the sole organiser. The webinar on “Cultural and linguistic hurdles in the achievement of scientific temper” was originally a joint venture by the central university’s anthropology department and Montclair. On Thursday, Sagar superintendent of police Atul Singh wrote to the university’s vice-chancellor, Janak Dulari Ahi, saying the police had received “representations from certain groups” about the webinar. “The speakers joining the webinar have in the past made anti-national mindset and caste-conflict related statements, and a suspicion has been raised that they may affect caste and social harmony with their comments on Indian culture, traditions, caste system and religious practices of the majority community,” the notice said. “Hence, considering social harmony, a consensus should be arrived at before organising the webinar that the topics  and thoughts that may be expressed in order that no religion, caste, region, community may feel offended by any parable/principle…. Despite this, if the campaign/ publication of any action of any speaker creates a situation whereby any class or community is incited against any other class community, the organisers  will be considered collectively responsible for a punishable offence under Section 505 of the Indian Penal Code.” The section deals with statements conducive to public mischief, including the promotion of enmity between classes and the incitement of an offence against the State, public tranquillity or a community. Singh’s letter came a week after the ABVP, the student arm of the RSS, had complained to the VC that two of the proposed speakers were of an “anti-national mindset”. They were Apoorvanand, who teaches Hindi at Delhi University, and Gauhar Raza, who retired as chief scientist from the National Institute of Science Communication and Information Resources, Delhi. Raza and Apoorvanand spoke as scheduled when the webinar began on Friday with only the American university as the organiser. Raza told The Telegraph: “I am pained not by the ABVP but the police resorting to Section 505 to stop a seminar on the scientific temper…. It feels like the inquisition against Galileo and the burning of Bruno in ancient Rome are being repeated in India today. I spoke on the killings of four rationalists in recent years.” Apoorvanand told this newspaper: “We have seen this happen in Delhi University when discussions are stopped because some (people) object. The whole idea is to disrupt, so heads of departments are scared and don’t hold any programmes for fear of destruction to public property and violence.” Swaraj Bir Singh, editor of the Punjabi Tribune newspaper and a former Meghalaya DGP who is not associated with the Sagar event, said later in response to a question: “Nobody can imagine this section being used for a seminar. It is used when someone incites violence, and is not used for seminars. When I served in Meghalaya, there were difficult situations but we never even thought of using such sections on seminars in a university.” The complaint from ABVP district convener Shriram Richharia — which was sent also to the President, Prime Minister and chief minister — warned of taking legal action against the vice-chancellor and other officials and shutting down the university if the two speakers were allowed to participate. Richharia also complained to Singh on Thursday. Asked about the grounds for the notice, Singh told The Telegraph: “I have cited only objections raised by persons and groups…. The police have various sources of information and intelligence.” On Thursday, the university wrote to the webinar’s convener, anthropology professor Rajesh K. Gautam, that the webinar and the participants needed approval from the Union education ministry under new regulations introduced in January this year and asked him to initiate the process. Gautam was warned that he alone would be liable for the consequences if he went ahead without approval. In another letter to Gautam on Friday, the university asked him to postpone the webinar if permission was not received. Registrar Santosh Shagora added in the letter: “Moreover, as you are the convener of the online webinar, you and your entire team are responsible for the whole event. University platform (Online/ IT/ Offline or any other kind) and University name, logo, etc, shall not be used for the purpose of this Online Webinar.” Ahi and Shagora did not respond to queries from this newspaper. On Friday evening, Gautam and an anthropology colleague, K.K.N. Sharma, filed complaints of assault against each other. Sharma accused Gautam of assaulting him when he tried to enforce the vice-chancellor’s order to prevent the viewing of the webinar from a seminar room at the university. Gautam, a Dalit, accused Sharma of assaulting him with a sharp object in the toilet, and of ill-treating him because of his caste in the past as well. Singh said that preliminary investigations were on. The other speakers included Lucknow University’s Nadeem Hasnain, IIIT Hyderabad professor Harjinder Singh, GLA University (Mathura) professor Panchanan Mohanty, Grazyna Liczbinska from Poland, Aseem Hasnain from Bridgewater State University in the US, and Georgetown University professor Gaurav J. Pathania.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Mamata leaves Delhi,  promises to visit once every two months||Mamata Banerjee has promised to return to New Delhi once every two months, describing her five-day tour of the capital as “successful”. The Bengal chief minister, who reached Calcutta on Friday evening, said she spoke over the phone to NCP chief Sharad Pawar — a key figure in the national Opposition space she did not meet in person this time — and was planning a meeting the next time both were in Delhi. “I think the visit was successful,” Mamata said before leaving the capital. “We met for political purposes, we met for development purposes. Both were very good.” By “development”, she probably was referring to her meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, in the course of which she placed several demands for the state. But the primary focus of her Delhi trip was political, which she said was part of her quest to ensure a better functioning democracy in the country. The chief minister met several Opposition leaders like Sonia Gandhi, AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal and DMK’s Kanimozhi. She spoke to Lalu Prasad, too, over the phone during her stay in Delhi. “Let us believe that democracy must go on. To save democracy, everyone should come together and work as a unit. The nation is the largest space for work. If democracy is in peril, democracy is rendered vulnerable,” she added. The Trinamul Congress chief made it clear again that “saving” India by protecting its democracy was to be prioritised above all else. “Our slogan is ‘save democracy, save the nation’. Let us do the work for farmers, labourers, unemployed youths and others…,” Mamata said, adding that her Delhi visits would now be a regular feature. “I have decided that I will come once every two months… after doing our work there (in Bengal),” Mamata said. On the political side, she suggested that the biggest takeaway was the general willingness in the national Opposition to set aside differences and close ranks against the BJP. Mamata said: “Opposition unity, that everyone will work together, nothing can be better than that.” “I could not meet every single leader (this time). Because it is not allowed in the Central Hall of Parliament now because of Covid-19. But I met a lot of them. I think the outcome is good. Let us work together,” added the Trinamul chief. Asked specifically about the Lok Sabha elections of 2024, she said: “Do not keep saying these things repeatedly. Say just the one thing, that the nation must be saved.” Asked to elaborate on the “success” of the trip, Mamata said she was keen on balancing “both sides” — development and politics — during her visit. “Number one: the country must be developed. We want development for the people,” she said. The chief minister raised the issue of the rise in fuel prices. “Now, because of the diesel, petrol, LPG prices, everybody is concerned. Every person in this nation is worried. Such a lot of money… over Rs 3.74 lakh crore, the Centre took from the pockets of the common people,” she said. The chief minister went on to attack the BJP-led Centre — without taking names — over various aspects of the way the country was being run. “The way every-day prices of diesel, petrol and LPG have been on the rise…. Farmers are on the streets. Unemployment is on the rise. Covid-19 is spreading,” she said, pledging full support to the cause of the agitating farmers. She said although there was no contact with the leadership of the farmers’ movement during this visit, she had spoken to them on several occasions in the past, and Rakesh Tikait had paid her a visit in Calcutta. Mamata said she told Prime Minister Modi, during their meeting on Tuesday, about taking adequate measures so that the third wave of the pandemic does not turn out to be as severe as the second, and to ensure adequate supply of vaccines for mass immunisation. “That is why I told the Prime Minister, that it should be seen to… that the third wave does not become as dire, and that vaccines are properly available, that medicines are properly available,” she said. The chief minister voiced concern over the heavy rainfall across vast swathes of Bengal over the past couple of days, and hoped it would not develop into a flood-like situation. “In our state, there is a lot of rainfall. We don’t know if that would turn into a flood-like situation. I will have to go back and do the needful,” she said. “Many places, in all states… such as Mumbai, saw a lot of rainfall, there were casualties there, for which I am sad,” Mamata added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Double whammy of job loss and Covid care cost in Delhi-Ghaziabad||A survey of almost 2,000 workers by the CPM in Delhi and neighbouring Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh has found that two-thirds of them lost their jobs in April and May this year, and a fifth spent close to Rs 12,000 on Covid-19 treatment. Less than a third of the workers received their full entitlement from the public distribution system and the additional pandemic-time rations promised by the government, the report titled “Results of the Survey on the Impact of Covid-19 Second Wave in Delhi-NCR Region” says. CPM women’s wing Janwadi Mahila Samiti on Friday released the report, which paints a grim picture of the poor facing the brunt of the pandemic this year too. The survey found that the proportion of the completely unemployed among the respondents increased from the pre-April 4.6 per cent to 66.5 per cent in April and to 71.9 per cent in May. Casual workers were the worst hit, with 72 per cent of them unemployed in April and May. “While most casual workers became unemployed, those who were self-employed were unable to work for many days, and therefore saw their incomes falling drastically,” the report says. “Average income of self-employed technical workers (masons, carpenters, plumbers, electricians, etc) fell from about Rs 8,000 per month before the pandemic to only about Rs 4,700 per month. Average income of petty business owners (shopkeepers, street vendors, etc) fell from Rs 7,622 per month to Rs 4,864 per month in April and only Rs 3,748 per month in May.” According to the report, around 18 per cent of the respondents said that either they or their family members had suffered Covid infections or showed Covid-like symptoms in April and May, for which the average cost of treatment was Rs 11,921. Some 78.5 per cent of the respondents said they were not vaccinated at all. Delhi prides itself in having a better public health system than most parts of India, and the ruling Aam Aadmi Party government claims that government facilities did not run out of beds despite a rush of cases the like of which few cities had seen. The households of 54.3 per cent of the respondents did not have ration cards that were usable in Delhi. “This was the biggest cause of their exclusion from the PDS,” the report says. “Secondly, even in case of households that had a ration card, it is not the case that all members of the households are registered on the card. As a result, in April, per capita grain received was less than 5kg for 48 per cent of households that had a valid ration card.” The report adds: “Thirdly, distribution of the extra entitlement of 5kg per person, which was announced by the government, started only in May. Even in May, only 31 per cent of the households with ration cards received a full 10kg per capita grain. On the other hand, despite the additional entitlement announced by the government, 27 per cent households got less than 5kg per person even in May 2021.” Earlier this month, the Delhi government agreed to implement the Centre’s One Nation One Ration Card scheme, which allows the beneficiaries to receive subsidised rations anywhere in India irrespective of which state they are registered in. “These findings underscore the urgent need to provide cash assistance to working class households, the need to urgently expand (the) Covid vaccination programme, to strengthen the public health system, and to provide universal entitlement to subsidised food and employment guarantee through an expansion of the social protection programmes,” the report says.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Contempt plea in Supreme Court against PM Modi and Amit Shah  ||An advocate has moved a contempt petition in the Supreme Court against Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union home minister Amit Shah and the home ministry, accusing them of “wilful denial” to comply with apex court directives while appointing IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as Delhi police commissioner. Advocate Manohar Lal Sharma, who had earlier filed a plea seeking a special investigation team-monitored probe into the Pegasus snooping controversy, alleged that Asthana’s appointment had been in gross violation of Supreme Court rulings that all vacancies must first be notified to the Union Public Service Commission and that no officer who has less than six months’ service left will be appointed as a director-general of police (DGP). Asthana was appointed as the commissioner of Delhi police, which reports to the Union home ministry, four days before his scheduled retirement on July 31, and was granted a year’s extension of service. The Delhi police commissioner’s rank is equivalent to that of a DGP. Sharma’s petition claimed that the Prime Minister and the home minister had lost their moral and constitutional right to continue in office, having violated the Supreme Court’s directions. The PIL appealed that the issue should be examined by a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court comprising a minimum of five judges. Sharma said a constitution bench would have the mandate to settle the law on such appointments, otherwise there could be a constitutional breakdown and people could lose faith in the country Sharma has named Modi as respondent No. 1, Union home minister Shah as respondent No. 2 and the home ministry as Respondent No. 3 for what the advocate called “wilful denial” to comply with the Supreme Court’s ruling of July 3, 2018, that all states shall send their proposals with regard to the appointment of DGP-level officers six months in advance to the UPSC. “Respondent No. 1 (the Prime Minister) is the head of the ACC (appointments committee of the cabinet) and respondent No. 2 (the Union home minister) jointly decided and did the impugned appointment against the judgment of the Hon’ble Supreme Court. Hence they are party to this for contempt of court,” the petition, which is yet to be listed for formal hearing, stated. The PIL recalled that on July 3, 2018, the Supreme Court had in the Prakash Singh vs Union of India case prohibited the appointment of an officer with less than six months of service left as DGP. Sharma said that on July 27 this year, the appointments committee of the cabinet headed by the Prime Minister appointed Asthana as the Delhi police commissioner for one year. The petitioner contended that the action of the Union government amounted to contempt of court and cited the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971, and a number of earlier Supreme Court judgments wherein it had been stated that “civil contempt refers to wilful disobedience to any judgment of the court, while criminal contempt can be invoked if an act tends to scandalise or lower the authority of the court or tends to interfere with or obstruct the administration of justice”. Sharma claimed that the appointment was a case of both civil and criminal contempt. According to Sharma, Asthana’s appointment had also “been done knowingly and deliberately to interfere with or obstruct the administration of justice”. “Therefore this Hon’ble court shall take contempt of court… against the respondents. Because in assessing if an act constitutes contempt, the test is of the effect on the judicial process and the authority of the courts,” the petition said. “The intention of the accused in a contempt case is immaterial. What really matters is the effect or the likely effect of his act on the administration of justice. Any act which causes lack of confidence in the administration of justice, or otherwise interferes or tends to corrupt it, has to be prevented…. Because actual scandalisation or lowering of authority of the court is not necessary. It is sufficient if it tends to scandalise or tends to lower the authority of the court,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Covid: India to evaluate a cocktail of Covaxin with US intranasal shot||India is set to evaluate a combination of the homegrown Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin with a candidate intranasal vaccine designed by US researchers under the expectation that the two vaccines in sequence might enhance protective efficacy against the infection. An expert panel with India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines has approved a clinical trial that will involve Covaxin as the first dose on day zero and the candidate intranasal vaccine based on a chimpanzee adenovirus as the second dose on day 28. Bharat Biotech, the Hyderabad-based maker of Covaxin, plans to conduct the trial combining Covaxin with the intranasal candidate vaccine developed by Michael Diamond and his colleagues at Washington University School of Medicine, St Louis, and procured by the company last year under a licencing pact. The company is hoping that the two vaccines will through different mechanisms increase the protective efficacy against Covid-19. Covaxin, like other intra-muscular injections, stimulates an arm of the immune system called systemic immunity, while the intranasal candidate stimulates mucosal immunity. The intranasal candidate developed at Washington University was last year the first among Covid-19 vaccine candidates to show the promise of what scientists call “sterilising immunity” — a type of immunity that prevents the virus from even establishing an infection. The expert panel with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation approved the trial on Thursday after Bharat Biotech’s representatives made a presentation. Bharat Biotech is already conducting an independent trial to evaluate the safety and immune responses triggered by the intranasal candidate in 175 volunteers to be recruited at four sites — All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Patna, Apollo Hospital, Chennai, St Theresa’s Hospital, Hyderabad, and the Gillurkar Hospital, Nagpur. The trial will evaluate the intranasal candidate as a single dose and a double-dose vaccine. Researchers say the strategy of combining Covaxin and the intranasal candidate is driven by the expectation that the combination of systemic immunity from Covaxin and mucosal immunity from the intranasal candidate might provide superior protection against the infection. The CDSCO expert panel also on Thursday approved a trial that will mix Covaxin and Covishield as the first and second doses. Doctors at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, will conduct the Covaxin-Covishield trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Pegasus: Supreme Court to hear plea for spyware snoop probe ||Chief Justice N.V. Ramana on Friday said the petitions seeking a court-monitored probe into the Pegasus snooping allegations would be heard next week. The bench, which included Justice Surya Kant, did not mention a date but the matter is expected to come up in the first half of next week, most probably on Monday or Tuesday. “We will take it up next week,” Justice Ramana assured senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Abhishek Manu Singhvi. The two lawyers were representing journalists N. Ram and Sashi Kumar, founder of Malayalam TV channel Asianet, who are among the petitioners seeking a court-monitored special investigation team (SIT) probe. An investigation by an international collaboration of media organisations has led to allegations that the Indian government illegally snooped on judges, journalists, politicians, rights activist and other Indian citizens via the Israeli spyware Pegasus. The Centre has denied the possibility of any illegal surveillance while desisting from saying whether it had bought the Pegasus software, sold only to governments and government agencies. On Thursday, over 500 citizens, who included eminent rights defenders, wrote an open letter to Justice Ramana seeking the apex court’s immediate intervention to demand answers from the Centre on the matter. The signatories cited the CJI’s recent address at an Indo-Singapore Mediation summit where he had said that India’s people “know that when things go wrong, the judiciary will stand by them”. Ram and Kumar moved their joint petition — the third on the matter — on July 27. They have argued that the alleged snooping violated citizens’ fundamental right to life, liberty and privacy as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. Appearing on behalf of Ram, Sibal on Friday urged Justice Ramana to list the matter for urgent hearing, saying the issue had “huge ramifications” for national security and civil liberties. “Opposition leaders, journalists, members of the judiciary are being snooped (on). This is an urgent matter, making waves not just in India but internationally. Your Lordships may list the matter for urgent hearing,” Sibal said. Singhvi supported Sibal’s submission and complained that the registry was not listing matters even for urgent mentioning. An advocate, Manohar Lal Sharma, had filed the first petition on the matter on July 22, arguing the alleged surveillance not just violated privacy but threatened national security through the use of foreign spyware to snoop on Indians. Sharma also raised the subject of the funding of the alleged purchase of Pegasus, saying Articles 266(3), 267(2) and 283(2) of the Constitution state that the government cannot appropriate the country’s consolidated or contingency funds without legislative permission. He further argued that snooping on citizens’ personal data violated Sections 65, 66 and 72 of the Information Technology Act, read with Section 3 of the Official Secrets Act. CPM Rajya Sabha member John Brittas then moved another petition seeking a court-monitored investigation, arguing the alleged surveillance would otherwise have a “chilling effect” on dissenters against the government. He said that though questions had been asked in Parliament about the alleged phone-hacking, the government had neither denied nor admitted to the snooping.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Odisha government to promote 63,303 primary teachers||The Odisha government will give promotion to 63,303 primary teachers to motivate them to impart quality education at the primary level. The state government has also announced plans to reduce their residency period. These decisions were announced by chief minister Naveen Patnaik, who is keen to strengthen the primary education system in the state. The announcement came just a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced steps to reform the education system in the country. Making the announcement the chief minister said: “The promotion given to the teachers will enhance the management and education system in  primary schools across the state.” As per the announcement, 29,759 assistant teachers will be promoted from 5 (A) level to 5 (B) level. Besides, 29,759 teachers, who are in 5 B level will be promoted to level-4. Similarly 3785 headmasters in level-4 will be promoted to level-3 by September 2021. Similarly, The residency period (a period for which a candidate must work at the department) for assistant teachers will be reduced to six months from the existing one year. In order to motivate the teachers, the state government has also announced that the period for promotion to level-3 from level-4 will be reduced to one year from the existing two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Raid on aide to member of OSSC bares properties worth over Rs 4cr||Odisha vigilance on Friday raided the house of private secretary to member, Odisha Staff Selection Commission (OSSC), Biranchi Narayan Sahoo, and unearthed documents showing ownership of properties worth over Rs 4 crore, according to preliminary estimates. The total value of his wealth is likely to increase as the raids are still on and the process of computation is also continuing. Vigilance officials suspect that the ill-gotten money amassed by the private secretary came from students who were appearing for different examinations conducted by the Odisha Staff Selection Commission. The raiding team has also seized several admit cards of students appearing for the different examinations conducted by the OSSC. Superintendent of Police (Vigilance-Bhubaneswar Division), R. Prakash told The Telegraph: “Getting reliable information about the official having amassed huge properties disproportionate to his known sources of income, we approached the special judge, vigilance to issue a search warrant. On the strength of the warrant, raids are going on at six places in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. As we have found a number of admit cards of students, we are investigating whether the ill gotten money was collected from students.” Sources said vigilance would also probe whether he is the only beneficiary of this ill-gotten money collected by him or he shared it with anyone else. “We have stumbled upon huge properties and so far seized Rs 12 lakh cash from his possession. Counting is still on. Besides, Rs 13 lakh cash has been seized from his brother-in-law’s house,” the vigilance SP said. In 2021, the OSSC had conducted examinations to the posts of assistant librarian, junior librarian, inspector supplies, primary investigator, revenue inspector, Aminas, data operators and various other examinations, sources revealed. The vigilance constituted three teams comprising four deputy superintendent of police (DSPs), 13 inspectors and other support staff to conduct the searches against the private secretary. “So far, we have found two double storeyed buildings worth more than Rs 3 crore in his possession in Bhubaneswar. Besides, our teams have found nine plots, mostly located in Bhubaneswar,” said the SP. The private secretary visited countries, including Malaysia and Thailand. “We have also seized foreign currency and shares in his name. Huge gold ornaments have been seized from his possession. We are yet to open the bank lockers of Sahoo,” said vigilance officials. Sahoo has been working in the OSSC since 1994 and is about to retire from the job next year, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||Bihar: Nitish and Tejashwi unite over caste census||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav appeared to have found common ground on Friday over their demand for a caste census and a common opponent in the BJP. RJD leader Tejashwi and other legislators from the Opposition Grand Alliance met Nitish in his Assembly office on the last day of the monsoon session. At the meeting, Tejashwi demanded that the Bihar government pile pressure on the BJP-led dispensation at the Centre to conduct a caste census along with the general census that is due this year. “The chief minister has expressed support for the caste census. He assured me that he would write to the Prime Minister on August 2 after returning from Delhi and also seek time to meet him over the issue. It is important to enumerate caste-wise data other than those on the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in the census,” Tejashwi told reporters. Nitish later left for Delhi to participate in the national executive of his JDU. He will return on August 2. Tejashwi said he had also suggested that Bihar conduct a caste census on its own on the lines of Karnataka. “Nitishji said he had sought documents related to the caste census in Karnataka and would go through them before arriving at any decision. Every citizen has the right to know about the status of his caste. The caste census will help the government formulate better development schemes,” Tejashwi said. Caste census has been a longstanding demand of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and Nitish. Both have asserted that it would help revise the reservation pattern in government jobs and educational institutions on the basis of the strength of the various castes.Earlier this month, Union minister of state for home affairs Nityanand Rai had said in the Lok Sabha that there were no plans for caste-wise enumeration of the population, other than the SCs and STs. It prompted Nitish to iterate his support for the caste census and ask the Centre to reconsider its decision. The BJP tried to downplay the emerging unity between its ally Nitish and the RJD-led Opposition over the caste census. “Nobody knows the exact number of the poor in our country. Therefore, they should be counted. Those who want to divide the society on the basis of a caste census should understand that the number of poor is more than any caste,” BJP MLC Sanjay Paswan said on Friday. “We practise nationalism and nationalistic politics. It is not compatible with the divisive casteism and caste-based politics practised by many regional- and family-dominated parties,” a senior BJP leader told The Telegraph.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||India||SC takes up alleged murder case of Jharkhand judge||The Supreme Court on Friday took suo motu cognisance of the alleged murder of Jharkhand judge Uttam Anand while on a morning walk in Dhanbad and said the case “concerns the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country”. Chief Justice of India N.V. Ramana, heading a bench that also had Justice V. Surya Kant, directed the Jharkhand chief secretary and director-general of police to submit their reports on the incident within a week, but clarified that Jharkhand High Court, which has already initiated action on Thursday, would continue to monitor the case. The top court noted that it had come across several instances of attacks on judicial officers and lawyers inside and outside court premises in different parts of the country. The CJI, while listing the matter for further hearing next week, said the court might issue notices to all states and Union Territories for framing appropriate guidelines for the safety of judicial officers. Additional district judge Anand, who had denied bail to two alleged gangsters last week, was jogging around 5am on a two-lane road near Dhanbad city’s Magistrate Colony when an auto-rickshaw hit him from behind. He died in hospital. Initially it was thought to be a hit-and-run incident but Anand’s family lodged an FIR for murder after the police showed them the CCTV footage. A video clip on social media, which officials have confirmed as leaked CCTV footage, shows a man jogging by the roadside when an auto swerves sharply from the middle of the lane, knocks him down and speeds away. The Supreme Court said it was deeply concerned over the rising instances of assault on judicial officers and advocates. The independence of the judiciary can be maintained only when judges and lawyers function fearlessly, CJI Ramana said. “An unfortunate incident happened on Wednesday where an ADJ was hit by an autorickshaw. This gruesome incident was rightly reported in newspapers and on social media, the same was taken into cognisance by the chief justice of (Jharkhand) HC,” Justice Ramana said. “Taking into consideration similar incidents all over the places for judges and some places against lawyers as well”, CJI Ramana said “the matter involves the larger issue of safety and security of judicial officers in the country”. “So we have decided to take up the matter suo motu and issue directions. We are aware that Jharkhand High Court has already taken suo motu cognisance of the incident,” Justice Ramana added. On Thursday the Supreme Court Bar Association led by its president Vikas Singh had urged the top court to direct a CBI probe into Judge Anand’s alleged murder, saying it was a “dangerous situation for the judiciary” if judges got killed for rejecting gangsters’ bail pleas.A special investigation team (SIT) constituted under the directive of Jharkhand High Court and led by additional DGP (operations) Sanjay Anand Lathkar on Friday begun its probe into the judge’s death. The SIT team was at the Dhanbad senior superintendent of police’s office till late in the evening and is learnt to have sought mobile call details of the two youths — Lakhan Kumar Verma, 24, and Rahul Verma, 20 — arrested with the stolen auto. “We have been asked to provide call detail records of both the accused dating back to at least 10 days (prior to Judge Anand’s death) and identify all those persons with whom they had spoken and interrogate them separately. We have also been asked to interrogate the liquor shop owner where Lakhan, who was driving the auto, has confessed to have had drinks on Tuesday night. We have been told that the SIT team and forensic experts will visit the site of the incident soon,” said a DSP-rank officer. Police officers said Lathkar and other members of the SIT had studied CCTV footage from all connected roads near the site of the incident. The police are trying to trace the registered owner of the auto, Ramdev Lohar, who is missing since Thursday. Over 30,000 lawyers affiliated to the Dhanbad Bar Association abstained from works on Friday and took out a march protesting against the murder of lawyer Manoj Kumar Jha near Tamar in Ranchi on July 26 and the “killing” of judge Anand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-373
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Calcutta cinema hall owners to start operation on getting new content||Cinema hall owners in the city on Saturday said they will wait for new content to reopen their facilities even after the West Bengal government allowed them to resume operations with 50 per cent seating capacity. Some single-screen proprietors, however, restarted their operations in districts with old films. Cinema halls in the state remained closed since May 1 as the government had imposed several restrictions to prevent the spread of Covid-19. Film exhibitors in the city are waiting for new releases to resume screening after three months, Navina cinema owner Navin Chokhani told PTI. “Covid protocols are in place in our facility. We are in touch with distributors and production houses as they will decide on the issue of new releases. Several films were not released due to the 2nd wave of the pandemic. We will hopefully take a call by next Wednesday,” he said. Satadeep Saha, the co-owner of Ajanta cinema and a local multiplex, said several theatre halls are not yet ready to reopen this week as staffers have gone to their native places in districts and other states after the announcement of the closure in May. “There is also no news about immediate big-ticket releases of Bengali and Hindi films. No multiplex or single screen facilities restarted their operations in the city. Around eight or nine exhibitors have reopened their halls from July 31 in the districts with old releases," he said. Chokhani said exhibitors need new releases to resume their operations and otherwise, viewers will not come to cinema halls to see old films. "We are in running condition as Covid protocols are in place after the reopening of cinema halls in October last year. We have carried out inspections in the auditorium so that health safety guidelines are followed. We now need an occasion such as big-ticket releases to reopen our facilities," he said. Saha said cinema hall owners will take a decision on reopening by August 6 as new films are released on Fridays. Priya cinema owner Arijit Dutta said, "We will consider the prevailing situation and take a call on resuming operations." A spokesperson of SVF Productions, leading Bengali film producers and distributor of Bollywood cinemas, said, "We are yet to decide about the releases and will decide by early next week." An official of leading distributor of Bollywood films said no multiplex facilities have started screening from Saturday. SVF Productions, which also runs several multiplex facilities, is yet to open any screen. "We will soon decide on this after considering all factors and sanitisation measures," the spokesperson said. The Bengal government on Wednesday allowed cinema halls to reopen from July 31 with 50 per cent seating capacity and strict adherence to Covid protocols.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Babul Supriyo quits politics, says he is not joining any other party||Former Union Minister and BJP leader Babul Supriyo said on Saturday that he has decided to quit politics and will be resigning as an MP. He hinted the decision was partly due to losing the ministerial berth and also differences with the state BJP leadership. Supriyo, who had held several portfolios as MOS in the Narendra Modi government since 2014, was removed earlier this month during a major cabinet reshuffle. "Leaving, Alvida. Spoke to my parents, wife, friends, and after listening to the advice I am saying that I am leaving. Am not going to any other party - TMC, Congress, CPIM, nowhere. I am confirming that nobody has called me. "I am going nowhere. I am a one-team player! Have always supported one team #MohunBagan - Have been with only one party - BJP Bengal. That's it!! Leaving, Supriyo said in a Facebook post. "I have stayed for too long I have helped somebody, have disappointed somebody, It is for the people to decide. To be involved in social work, you can do that without being involved in any politics," his post read. The two-time MP from Asansol was among the several ministers who were dropped from the union cabinet on July 7 as part of a major rejig. His unsuccessfully contested assembly polls against Trinamool Congress's Aroop Biswas in the last assembly elections. Both Supriyo and Debasree Chaudhuri were dropped as ministers. Four other MPs from West Bengal Nishit Pramanik, Santanu Thakur, Subhas Sarkar and John Barla were inducted as MOS in the ministry. "If someone ask that whether leaving the politics is somehow connected to losing ministry. Yes then it is true to some extent.... Also had differences with the state leadership since the assembly poll campaign, he wrote. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh declined to comment on it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
31-07-2021||West Bengal||KPP leaders write to Narendra Modi for Kamtapur state||Leaders and workers of the Kamtapur Progressive Party (KPP) sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the district magistrate of Jalpaiguri on Friday, demanding the separate Kamtapur state and inclusion of Kamtapuri (Rajbanshi) language in the eighth schedule of the Indian Constitution. The KPP leaders, who also demonstrated in front of the district magistrate’s office, lent support to a demand that north Bengal be declared as a separate state or a Union territory but said it should be named Kamtapur. The demand was raised by Alipurduar BJP MP John Barla, who is also the Union minister of state for minority affairs. Manabendra Roy, an assistant secretary of the KPP, said the party had been formed with the demand for separate Kamtapur state which would comprises the entire north Bengal region. “We also want constitutional recognition of our language. We support John Barla’s demand for a separate north Bengal state but it has to be named Kamtapur and nothing else. That is why we have sent the letter to the Prime Minister,” said Roy. During the demonstration, the leaders demanded that the central and state governments hold talks with them. “If required, John Barla can also join the talks. BJP has MPs and MLAs from the region and they should pay heed to the aspirations of residents who live in north Bengal,” said Budharu Roy, a vice-president of the KPP. For the past few years, the KPP had been silent on the statehood demand. Atul Roy, the founder-president of the party who died recently, had extended support to chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Other demands which the KPP has raised include announcement of national holiday on the birth anniversary of Chila Roy, the fiercest fighter of the Cooch Behar royal family, and establishment of AIIMS in north Bengal. “We do not support the demand for a separate state. The state government is sincerely carrying out development in the region and we believe it is the only way through which peoples’ issues can be addressed,” said K.K. Kalyani, the district Trinamul chief. Bapi Goswami, the district BJP president, was cautious in his remarks. “Our party does not want any further partition of Bengal. But we want to point out that because of lack of development, such demands are being raised from this region,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Jesuits offer free ventilator, undertake vaccination drive in hills||The Darjeeling Jesuits of North Bengal has handed over a ventilator worth Rs 38 lakh to Darjeeling Sadar Hospital and undertaken a vaccination drive for 600-odd tea garden workers for free. Fr Stanley Varghese, the rector of St Joseph’s School (North Point) run by the Jesuits, said they had also decided to convert the century-old institution into an isolation centre for children if the need arose in the days to come. The Jesuits had started the Sursum Corda Covid Care Centre at the St Joseph’s College Hall from April 20 and it was officially shut on Friday because of a drop in Covid-19 cases. “We had received a ventilator worth Rs 38 lakh from a well-wisher in New York. We did not have to use the ventilator at our care centre and handed it over to Darjeeling Sadar hospital for its use in the ICU today,” said Fr Varghese. The Jesuits also held a two-day free vaccination camp which ended on Friday for tea garden workers at St Joseph’s School in Darjeeling. “We realised that a lot of tea garden workers were having to spend a lot of money to travel to the town areas for free vaccination. Besides, jabs were not always available either. We also found out that the infection was slightly higher in rural areas and therefore, we decided to hold a free vaccination camp,” said the rector. Many social organisations had in the past tied up with private hospitals for paid vaccination drives. During such drives, social organisations also sponsored some jabs. But this is the first time that the organisers are sponsoring the entire jabs of a camp. For private centres, the Union government has fixed the price of a single jab of the vaccine at Rs 780, which seems unaffordable for many tea workers. The North Point school authorities tied up with Laali Guras, a social organisation that sponsored 200 of the 600 jabs. Sources in the administration said of the 13 lakh peopled aged above 18 in Darjeeling district, around 6 lakh had been administered the first dose while around 2.3 lakh had received the second jab as well so far. In Kalimpong district, of the 2.09 lakh peopled aged above 18, around 1.2 lakh have received their first jab, while about 49,000 have been administered the second dose too. “We are looking at holding another free vaccination camp in the first week of August at the school,” said Fr Varghese. The project has been christened North Point Vaccination Drive.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
31-07-2021||West Bengal||26 animals born at Darjeeling zoo this year||Altogether 26 animals of seven species have been born at the Padmaja Naidu Himalayan Zoological Park (PNHZP) in the past seven months under its captive breeding programme, the park authorities have said. Sources said captive breeding of a number of endangered species of the Himalayan region was initiated at the zoological park at the beginning of this year. “In total, 26 animals — including seven red pandas, four snow leopards, five markhors, three leopard cats, three blue sheep, two Himalayan gorals and two Himalayan tahrs —have born till July this year,” said Dharamdeo Rai, the zoo director. The zoological park — one of the major attractions for tourists visiting Darjeeling — was established in 1958. It has been identified as the only coordinating zoo of India to conduct captive breeding of red pandas. The park runs a breeding centre at Topkey Dara, located around 12km from Darjeeling. Back in the nineties, it was launched under the “Project Red Panda” programme which is being carried out for conservation of the species. According to Rai, if the cubs and calves are counted, the total number of red pandas in the park has increased to 27, followed by 26 Himalayan goral, 18 Himalayan tahr, 15 blue sheep, 12 snow leopard, 10 markhor and 9 leopard cats. “Apart from the pandas, the zoo is also marked for captive breeding for these animals — considered as endangered species. One of the key reasons for selecting the park for the captive breeding programme is because of the climate of Darjeeling which helps in survival of the newborns,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Seven die as rain wreaks havoc in south Bengal districts ||Seven lives were lost across south Bengal as heavy downpour continued on Friday because of a well-marked low pressure that led to water-logging at several places and disruption in normal life, including suspension of railway and road communications. While four persons, including a five-year-old child, died in collapse of walls, the rest were electrocuted. According to the meteorological office in Calcutta, heavy to extremely heavy rainfall occurred in South 24-Parganas and Howrah districts on Friday. At the same time, very heavy rainfall lashed most places in Calcutta, North 24-Parganas, Hooghly, Bankura, West Midnapore and Birbhum. Continuous rain caused erosion of railway tracks at Ahiran in Murshidabad district adjacent to NH12 under Azimganj-Malda section. While the railway authorities undertook repairs, routes of some trains were diverted. In Murshidabad’s Raghunathganj, an elderly man died in a wall collapse. Natu Mondal, 76, was sleeping in his mud house when one of the walls collapsed on him. In a similar incident, Laxmiram Soren, 55, died at Rajnathpur village of Sonamukhi in Bankura on Friday afternoon. Two other persons were injured and later admitted to the Bankura Medical College and Hospital in a critical condition. In Bankura’s Similipal, Wahid Khan, 65, also died in a mud wall collapse. The victim was sleeping at his home at Pathardoba village. The local residents recovered the body trapped under the wall on Friday morning. In West Burdwan’s Asansol Nikhil Baski, 5, died when a mud house caved in. Police said the kid and two others were trapped under the debris. They were taken to Asansol district hospital where Nikhil was declared dead. In Howrah’s Dasnagar, Hemanta Singh, 39, was electrocuted. He was trying to turn down the main switch of his house to avoid the possibility of electrocution after rainwater entered the residence. Some local residents spotted Singh lying and rushed him to Howrah District hospital where he was declared dead. At Bongaon in North 24-Parganas, a youth and his mother were electrocuted at Tawbazar. Police and local sources said Rishav Adhikari, 26, was first electrocuted when a galvanised iron wire snapped because of heavy wind and got entangled with an electric cable. His mother Mita Adhikari, 49, died while trying to rescue him. Villagers of Simultala near Basanti in South 24-Parganas blocked the state highway by digging up a trench after the locality went under water because of clogged drains. In East Midnapore’s Nandigram, Sonachura, Kalicharanpur, Kendamari and Rewapara, residents blocked roads accusing the local administration of negligence in clearing the drainage system that created inundation. Additional reporting by Snehamoy Chakraborty, Alamgir Hossain, Abhijeet Chatterjee and Anshuman Phadikar||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-151
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Nine members of BJP’s youth wing write to top leaders, accuse state chief of 'dictatorial' practices ||Nine members, including four women, of the BJP’s youth wing wrote to the party’s top leaders on Friday, accusing the unit’s state chief Saumitra Khan of “dictatorial” practices and threatening women activists over the phone. The development came a day after Khan — a Trinamul Congress turncoat who is now the BJP’s Bishnupur MP — removed some of those people from an official WhatsApp group of the youth wing’s state unit after they had accused him in the group of turning the Yuva Morcha into a “circus”. “Saumitra Khan is pursuing dictatorial policy on the youth front. Ignores female activists… and threatening them over telephone,” read the letter sent from the email address of Banashri Mondal, signed by herself, Jhilam Banerjee, Priyanka Sharma, Arush Sau, Priyanti Roy, Saptarshi Mukherjee, Shyam Jaiswal, Arup Das, Manojit Sarkar, and “other state committee members”. Khan said he would answer to the leadership if he was questioned regarding the allegations. “I’ve not seen the letter. The BJP is a democratic party and everyone has the right to place their allegations before the leaders,” he said. Sources close to Khan said two other youth leaders were responsible for these “controversies” and accused them of attempts to malign him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Covid: Bengal records 711 active cases, 835 recoveries and 5 deaths||Bengal on Friday recorded the 40th consecutive day of a fall in the total of active Covid-19 cases as the state reported 711 infections, 835 recoveries and five deaths. The total of active cases fell by 129 to 11,171. Nineteen Bengal districts reported zero deaths on Friday, while West Midnapore, Hooghly and Calcutta logged one each. The state’s mortality rate is 1.19, while that of the nation is 1.34 per cent. “Even about eight weeks ago, the daily toll was around 150 with some districts reporting 50-60 deaths each. We have come a long way since,” said a minister. “We successfully managed to arrest fatalities in the 46-60, 61-75 and 75-plus age brackets, which collectively have over 16,300 (90.1 per cent) of the total 18,128 deaths,” he added. The 61-75 age bracket of the infected has a mortality rate of 3.43, but 7,560 (41.7 per cent) of the total deaths. In Bengal, around 12,200 (67.3 per cent) of the total deaths were of infected males. Comorbidities caused the death of 12,642 people so far, which is 69.7 per cent of the total toll. Hypertension, with a third of the comorbid deaths, is the biggest killer. Diabetes, with over one-fourth, is close second, followed by cardiac diseases, with about a tenth of the total. The recovery rate is currently at the state’s all-time high of 98.08 per cent, fairly ahead of the national rate of 97.33. The daily positive confirmation rate, which was nearly 33 per cent at the peak of the second wave, was 1.65 per cent on Friday. With Calcutta logging 74 new infections and North 24-Parganas 101, Friday was the third successive day again of at least one Bengal district reporting a three-digit figure of new infections detected. Seventeen districts reported double-digit figures of new infections detected in a day, while Kalimpong, North Dinajpur, South Dinajpur, Malda and Purulia recorded single-digit figures. Bengal now has over 15.27 lakh Covid-19 cases since the first was reported in March last year. The total includes nearly 14.98 lakh recoveries and 18,128 deaths.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
31-07-2021||West Bengal||Two workers of Sevoke-Rangpo railway construction washed away in Kalimpong||Two labourers of the Sevoke-Rangpo railway construction project were killed when a rivulet swollen because of incessant rain apparently swept away their tent in Kalimpong district early on Friday. Three more workers went missing and two suffered injuries in the tragedy that happened after a landslide had brought boulders to the Mamkhola rivulet which swelled up in the impact. “A rivulet at Rangpo (near the Bengal-Sikkim border) rose after intense rain caused boulders to fall into the water this morning,” said Hari Krishna Pai, the superintendent of police, Kalimpong. The site is about 23km from Kalimpong town. The deceased were Dhan Singh Bhandari, 35, a citizen of Nepal, and Ronit Tirkey, 19, of Alipurduar district. Bhajan Das and Alok Dera, both in the age group of 35-40 years and residents of Cooch Behar district, suffered injuries and were admitted to a hospital in Sikkim. Arun Rai, 24 of Tarkhola, Bikash Tamang, 22, of Sangsey and Nepali national Damber Ram, 50, are still untraceable. Tarkhola and Sangsey are in Kalimpong district. “Search and rescue operations involving police, local rafters and other experts are underway,” said Pai. Sources said the labourers had pitched a tent just outside a tunnel that was being constructed as part of the railway project near Rangpo. “We suspect the tent was swept away between 1am and 2am,” said a local resident. Heavy machinery on the site was also damaged by the swollen rivulet. This is the second time in the past two months that workers involved in the Sevoke-Rangpo railway project are killed. On June 17, a 2m rock had crashed on labourers working in an under-construction tunnel at Bhalukhola, which is very close to the latest accident site, killing two and injuring five. Almost 86 per cent of the 44.98km link connecting Bengal with Sikkim will run through 14 tunnels. Each tunnel will be eight meters in diameter. The Rs 4,000cr project is scheduled to be completed by December 2023. Wing Commander (retd) Praful Rao, founder, Save The Hills, a non-profit organisation working on environmental issues, said Kalimpong had received a rainfall of 200mm in a span of 13 hours starting from 11am on Thursday. “The intensity of the rainfall in a short span of time has caused a lot of damage in Kalimpong. From government agencies to civilians, we must always remain vigilant, get our resources ready and undertake simple activities like clearing drains at regular intervals,” said Rao. Apart from the Mamkhola incident, a number of landslides were reported from various parts of Kalimpong and Darjeeling districts on Friday. Houses and cars were damaged and three people suffered injuries in Kalimpong. The NH10 that connects Sikkim with the rest of the country remained closed through most part of the day. A single lane traffic was thrown open around 4pm.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/west-bengal/page-152
31-07-2021||North East||Assam, Nagaland sign pact, agree to withdraw forces from inter-state border||The Chief Secretaries of Assam and Nagaland on Saturday signed an agreement to de-escalate tense situation prevailing at two locations in the Dessoi valley forest/Tsurangkong valley by simultaneously withdrawing security forces within the next 24-hours. The agreement was signed following a meeting at Dimapur between Assam Chief Secretary Jishnu Barua and his Nagaland counterpart J Alam in the presence of Nagaland Deputy Chief Minister Y Patton and Assam Education Minister Ranoj Pegu. Both sides agreed that in order to maintain peace and tranquility in the areas around Ao Senden village and Vikuto village as they are known in Nagaland and called as Jankhona Nala / Nagajankha and Compartment No. 12 respectively in Assam, urgent and effective steps are required for defusing the standoff between the security forces of Nagaland and Assam. “In this regard, it is decided that the security personnel of both states shall simultaneously move back from their present locations to their respective base camps. The simultaneous withdrawal of the security personnel shall begin immediately and shall be completed in the next 24 hours as far as possible,” according to the agreement. Nagaland and Assam shall monitor the area by surveillance using UAV (Unmanned Aerial Vehicle) and satellite imagery with a view to maintaining the status quo. The meeting also decided that the Superintendents of Police of the districts of Mokokchung (Nagaland) and Jorhat (Assam) shall ensure orderly withdrawal of their respective forces and shall be responsible for it. Patton told media persons after the meeting that the chief ministers of both the states had discussions on the border issue with Union Home Minister Amit Shah on July 24 and 25 in Shillong and it was agreed in principle to withdraw the forces and accordingly the agreement was signed Saturday. Discussions were held only for the particular area but the issues related to other areas along the interstate border will also be taken up subsequently, he said. On travellers from Nagaland facing problems while crossing into the neighbouring state, Patton said Assam government has agreed not to stop or check commuters from Nagaland. Assam Education Minister lauded the statesmanship of the union home minister and the chief ministers of both the states in taking steps to resolve the border issue and hoped that the cordial relationship between the two states will be maintained. “We are having a long pending border issue with different states but despite the disputes, we have been maintaining peace and tranquility at the border. We are mostly depending on the government to finalise the boundary and I thank people of both sides as well as the government officials for maintaining peace,” he said. Assam Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that in a major breakthrough towards de-escalating tensions at Assam-Nagaland border, the two chief secretaries have arrived at an understanding to immediately withdraw states' forces from border locations to their respective base camps. "This is a historic step in our relations. My gratitude to Nagaland chief minister Neiphiu_Rio for working with Assam in restoring peace at the border", Sarma tweeted. Assam is committed to ensuring peace along all its borders and strives for social and economic prosperity of Northeast region, he added. Assam's longest border dispute is with Nagaland, which began since the creation of the state in 1963. The Nagaland State Act of 1962 had defined its borders according to the 1925 notification when Naga Hills and Tuensang Area (NHTA) were integrated into a new administrative unit and made an autonomous area. Nagaland, however, did not accept the boundary delineation and demanded that the new state should comprise the Naga Hills and all Naga- dominated area in North Cachar and Nagaon districts, which were part of Naga territory, created by the British according to the 1866 notification. Since Nagaland did not accept its notified borders, tensions between Assam and Nagaland soon flared up resulting in the first border clashes in 1965 and this was followed by major clashes between the two states along the border in 1968, 1979, 1985, 2007 and 2014. The Assam government had filed a case in the Supreme Court for identification of boundary and resolving border disputes which is still pending.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/north-east/page-15
31-07-2021||Opinion||Letters to the editor: German women’s gymnastics team opt for full-body suits, India engaging all Afghan stakeholders||Right step Sir — It was inspiring to witness the German women’s gymnastics team opt for full-body suits in the qualification round at the Tokyo Olympics in a move to promote freedom of choice and to encourage women to play in what makes them feel comfortable. This step was necessary after the Norwegian women’s beach handball team was fined for refusing to wear bikini bottoms during a game in the Euro 2021 tournament — they wore thigh-length elastic shorts instead. Why are women athletes not allowed to compete in clothing they find comfortable, especially when it does not affect their performance in the least? The same restrictions, curiously, are never put on men. Ronodeep Ray,Calcutta Trouble ahead Sir — India might be engaging all stakeholders in Afghanistan, including parts of the Taliban, as part of a ‘multi-track’ strategy, but it cannot be forgotten that the Taliban are allergic to peace. The increased violence and the rapid territorial gains made by the militant group in Afghanistan since the United States of America began withdrawing its troops show that the former have no intention of bringing political stability to the war-ravaged country. For India, this is cause for great concern. First, if the Taliban capture the Afghan government by force then there is a great likelihood of insurgents from the outfit being used by terror groups in Pakistan to target India. Second, even though the Afghan defence forces have largely succeeded in maintaining peace in Kabul and its adjoining regions, it is likely that the Taliban will disrupt development projects and destroy infrastructure in the countryside, which they have already seized. The US and Nato have promised to give Afghanistan $4 billion annually for countering the Taliban. New Delhi must use this as an opportunity to salvage its investment of $3 billion in several infrastructure and trade projects in Afghanistan. Negotiations with the Taliban may be inevitable, but India must be prepared for an unfavourable outcome. Tushar Anand,Patna Sir — As the prospect of the Taliban fighting their way back into Kabul becomes more likely with the withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan, there is a growing perception in India that the situation holds no glad tidings or even a silver lining for our country. There are several concerns — if the Taliban regain power, not only will India lose its influence, but the battle-hardened militants may also turn their attention to Kashmir. The return of the Taliban will be terrible for the people of Afghanistan; moreover, they will try to pose the same kind of threat to India as they did in the 1990s. Even then, the Taliban’s hostility towards India was found to be driven more by the agenda of Pakistan’s military-jihadi complex than anything else. In recent times, its adversarial position towards India has been in response to India’s support for the Afghan government. Now, there may be greater threats to India from the Taliban — supported by Pakistan — in Kashmir. Bhagwan Thadani,Mumbai Sir — Evil often prevails in this world because people in positions of power choose to engage with those who perpetuate crime and terror. At this time, Afghanistan is reeling under the brutal activities of the Taliban. Amid such a situation, Russia allowed a visit by a Taliban ‘delegation’ earlier this month. Then, a ‘delegation’ led by the Taliban co-founder, Mullah Abdul Ghani Baradar, went on a sudden visit to China and held talks with the Chinese foreign minister, Wang Yi. In what capacity are the members of the terrorist group being allowed to go on such diplomatic missions? Are they representatives of the Afghan government? Have these ‘delegations’ been sent by the Afghan president, Ashraf Ghani? If that is not the case, then why did the Russian and Chinese governments allow the ‘delegations’ made up of militants to visit their major cities? If political leaders keep affording such legitimacy to extremists in this manner, then it is highly unlikely that terrorism will ever be eradicated. While there may not be any permanent enmities or friendships in politics, extremism must be opposed at all costs. Jang Bahadur Singh,Jamshedpur||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
31-07-2021||Opinion||Editorial: Hemmed in||The wisdom of the adage, “Mens sana in corpore sano”, can be understood as the need for the mind and the body to be conjoined, figuratively speaking, as a healthy unit. It may be the twenty-first year of the twenty-first century but the unhealthy practice of the policing of the bodies and minds of women, including athletes, continues to thrive. The Norwegian women’s beach handball team has been locked in a battle with the sport’s governing bodies to wear less-revealing uniforms for some time now. After repeated complaints about the mandatory bikini bottoms were reportedly ignored by the administration, the team wore shorts — the standard outfit when it comes to the men’s team — during a recent game in protest. They were fined 150 euros per player for this ‘transgression’. Ironically, puritanism can also lead to reverse shaming. For instance, the ace tennis player, Serena Williams, has often faced criticism for her ‘revealing’ outfits. These contradictory pulls and pressures of a dated morality reveal the strange intersections of — a tussle between? — the male gaze and morality. The manifestation, inevitably, is the institutional regulation of women’s sartorial choices. In 2012, the Badminton World Federation tried to force female players to wear skirts in order for them to “look feminine and have a nice presentation”. This camouflaging of the male gaze — it is perhaps most discernible in fields like cinema and sports that put the spotlight on women’s bodies — in an aesthetic argument reeks of hypocrisy. Cutting the cloth either way makes little sense when it comes to women: whether they are asked to reveal or cover skin, the visibility of their bodies renders their skills — the ideal criterion of sporting performance — invisible. Female athletes, hearteningly, are pushing back in a bid to sensitize sporting federations into acknowledging the agency and autonomy of women players. In the ongoing Tokyo Olympics, German gymnasts decided to take a stand against the sexualization of their bodies by donning full-body suits. More such ‘transgressions’ would be welcome, but are they enough to set right the distorted priorities? Ensuring a gender representative turf would require an assault on entrenched sexism at multiple levels. This should include addressing a whole range of anomalies, from discriminatory pay scales between men and women players — the top two female tennis players together earned around $30 million less than the highest-paid male tennis player — to enforced dress codes and the unapologetic objectification of the body by mass culture. That still leaves the scars of the mind. The pressure — coercion — to adhere to the codes of sexism puts women performers under unprecedented psychological stress. There is not only expectation to excel but also excel while ticking the boxes of allurement, consumption and vicarious gratification — each element being integral to the fate of women’s sport being a profitable enterprise. Is it any wonder then that Simone Biles withdrew from the Olympics and Naomi Osaka from the Roland-Garros and the Wimbledon? These courageous decisions — putting body and mind over all else — only go to show that both these spheres remain sites of larger contestations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
31-07-2021||Opinion||Beat the heat: Ice cream and pool parties||Even though there has been a recent spike in Covid cases and hospitalization, people are still trying to make the most of summer this year. As much as people enjoy the summer heat, they also look for ways to cool off after, and the options this year did not disappoint. In Union Square, New York, guests could stay overnight inside an ice cream truck on National Ice Cream Day on July 18 for the price of $7.18. The stay was organized through Booking.com, a popular national one-stop shop for those looking to book accommodations. The truck was converted into a mini apartment but also included a fridge stocked with milkshakes and all-you-can-eat toppings. The guests would also get an ice cream shop walking tour in downtown Manhattan as well as tickets to the Museum of Ice Cream. Summer also means folks wanting to jump into a pool or lay on the beach. However, not many are blessed with a pool at home. Now there is a solution to that — Swimply. This is like an Airbnb for pools existing all over the country where you can rent someone’s private pool and pay by the hour. So far 13,000 pool owners have signed up and the costs range from $35 to $65 per hour. The site also indicates the upcoming launch of a new section of amenities allowing you to rent basketball courts, home gyms and home studios. Who would have thought that your backyard can bring in so much revenue? Keep it clean A giant bottle of soap is presently travelling around the United States of America to raise awareness about the importance of hygiene. The world’s biggest bottle of soap, created by the beauty company, Soapbox, is doing a city tour to raise awareness and money for global hand hygiene. They aim to donate 147,900 personal care kits over the course of the tour, which will be in 16 different cities. This metal and fibre glass soap bottle is 21 feet tall, 8.5 feet in diameter and weighs 2,500 pounds. The tour kicked off in Times Square, New York on July 15, which is also National Clean Beauty Day and National Give Something Away Day. This giant soap bottle has since travelled to Boston, Manchester, Buffalo, Chicago, Bentonville, Dallas and Austin. It will end in Pittsburgh on August 4. Shoppers and passers-by are expected to stop to take pictures and help in assembling the kits to be donated to their local community. The company itself has a charitable business model. For every product sold it donates a bar of soap. During this tour, its goal was to earn a world record for most hygiene products donated in a week. So far Soapbox, which was founded in 2010, has donated 22 million bars of soaps worldwide. Its products are sold in leading retail chains like Walgreens and Rite Aid as well as on Amazon. Within a week of launching the tour, it was indeed awarded the Guinness World Record for donating the most hygiene products in one week. The master visits For those who made plans to visit Italy to check out some art, but had plans fall through owing to the pandemic, they may be in luck. Michelangelo’s famous Sistine Chapel, inside the Vatican, will be replicated and brought to New York City later this fall and is already in many other US cities. The Sistine Chapel is one of the most famous and highly regarded artworks in the world and brings in about five million people per year to view it. “Michelangelo’s Sistine Chapel: The Exhibition” will be about an hour to an hour-and-a-half walk-through with ticket prices at $19.20 per adult visitor. The exact location has not yet been disclosed. The original artwork has been replicated using a special printing technology that brings an extremely close likeness to the look and feel of the original frescoes. However, visitors will get a chance to see the paintings up close, and observe every brushstroke in detail — something that is impossible to do in the actual Sistine Chapel, since the art is on the ceiling and hundreds of tourists are hovering next to the walls. The exhibition is coming to Boston, Detroit, Los Angeles, Miami and other major US cities. Tickets are currently available in Chicago, Charleston, Charlotte, San Antonio and San Francisco. This is not, however, New York City’s first brush with the Sistine Chapel. Back in 2017 there was an exhibition at the Oculus, World Trade Center, called “Up Close: Michelangelo’s Sistine Chapel” which displayed 34 replicas of the frescos spread out across the space. Get the jab So far, just under half the US’s adult population is fully vaccinated. Yet, on account of the spread of the new ‘Delta’ variant of the coronavirus, every US state has reported an increase in Covid cases. While talk of a third vaccine booster is in the air, vaccine incentives, including cash, lotteries, free beer and even guns, are being pushed to get those vaccination numbers up. Joe Biden is stepping up the vaccine awareness campaign, and what better way to do that than to bring in a number one chart-topping pop icon? Eighteen-year-old singer, Olivia Rodrigo, was invited to the White House to meet with President Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris and Anthony Fauci and give a pro-vaccination message through a video. Rodrigo also gave a statement in the press room full of reporters about the importance of vaccinations, even for those who are young and not at risk. Her involvement is part of the White House’s larger campaign targeting young Americans to go get the vaccine. Fauci is also helping and has paired up with social media influencers and celebrities, including Jennifer Garner, to connect with the younger population. Even Harris has hosted virtual gatherings with celebrities such as Camila Cabello, Kim Kardashian, Joe Jonas and others. According to NPR, only 42 per cent of people in the age group of 18-24 are fully vaccinated. The government is using celebrities, influencers and TikTok to get its message across and stop the spread of disinformation. Footnote The Willis Tower in Chicago is launching a museum exhibition all about colour called the Color Factory. Located in the second tallest building in North America, it will feature installations and interactive elements inspired by the colour wheel. It debuted in San Francisco in 2017 and stopped by in Houston where a neon sign would illuminate when people held hands. More details are to be announced, but the San Francisco exhibition had a scratch-and-sniff wall, a confetti room and shimmering disco balls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-58
31-07-2021||Opinion||In praise of YouTube||It was a serious road accident that led me — accidentally, as it were — to the musical riches of YouTube. I had broken an ankle and dislocated a shoulder, and was laid up in bed for weeks on end. I couldn’t read a book, but I could open my laptop and check my emails (and, if required, answer them briefly, typing with the fingers of one hand). The accident occurred in the spring of 2012. For some years previously, I had been one of the several hundred lucky beneficiaries of regular postings from the music scholar and Malayalam writer, S. Gopalakrishnan. Two or three times a week, Gopal would send us all a piece of classical music, with a few sentences about its meaning or significance. The recommendation would arrive at the crack of dawn; and we were free to listen to it at any time at all. Before the accident, my mornings were hectic, so I rarely listened to Gopal’s postings as they came. Sometimes, a pile would accumulate, and then I would listen to them all at once. I found my friend’s suggestions particularly handy when transcribing research notes into my computer, our shastriya sangeet playing soothingly in the background. Now, with my ankle in plaster and my shoulder all strapped up, my mood when I woke up was invariably glum. The day stretched endlessly before me, with no prospect of cheering myself up with a walk through Cubbon Park. I learned to pick myself up in the mornings with music instead. Opening the computer, I would go first to the mail from Gopal, read his text, click on the link and listen to it. As I began doing this regularly, I discovered something that had eluded me before — that the screen was inviting me to listen to other compositions after the one presently playing had finished. Previously, I had listened to Gopal’s recommendations one by one, without looking at the screen after I had opened the link. Now, as I sat in bed with my ankle numb and my shoulder aching, the algorithm of YouTube was inviting me to forget my pain by partaking of more of its pleasures. It was one particular recommendation of S. Gopalakrishnan’s that set me off on my first YouTube binge. That morning, he had linked a recording of “Krishna ni begane baro”, as sung by the great Carnatic vocalist, M.L. Vasanthakumari. This song is a particular favourite of mine, so after I had listened to M.L.V. render it, I saw a link to a version by the well-known contemporary vocalist, Bombay Jayashree. So I heard her sing the song too. As I listened, I recalled reading about an incident involving this particular song and the Carnatic vocalist of American heritage, Jon Higgins. On a visit to the town of Udupi, Higgins was denied admission to its Krishna temple because of the colour of his skin. So he stood on the street outside singing “Krishna ni begane baro”, shaming the priests to let him in. Higgins was deliberately — and very movingly — invoking an ancient story associated with the temple, which had denied the 16th-century Kannada poet, Kanakadasa, entry because of his low caste. Then, too, the devotee, stigmatized by the priests, sang his praises to Krishna in response, whereupon (so the story goes) an idol of Krishna itself turned around, broke the temple wall, and revealed itself to this true seeker. Remembering this tale, I now asked YouTube to let me hear Higgins sing “Krishna ni begane baro”, followed by a request (met with as quickly) for a rendition by that other fine vocalist born in a Christian home, K.J. Yesudas. By these means I passed the morning utterly enchanted, the pain in my limbs forgotten. Before I discovered YouTube, I drew most of my musical sustenance from the large collection of CDs and cassettes of National Programme recordings that I had accumulated over the years. These came in especially handy on long, trans-continental flights, when the hours would pass most pleasurably listening to Ali Akbar Khan, Nikhil Banerjee, Ravi Shankar, Vilayat Khan, N. Rajam and Bismillah Khan if I was in the mood for instrumental music; and to Bhimsen Joshi, Kumar Gandharva, Mallikarjun Mansur, Malini Rajurkar, Kishori Amonkar and Basavaraj Rajguru if I wanted to listen to vocal music instead. Now, after my accident and the world it had opened for me, I began to supplement my private archive with periodic raids into this vast treasure trove of publicly available resources as well. A YouTube binge I recall with particular fondness occurred in the second half of January 2018. It was inspired by my hearing of the death of the great sarodiya, Buddhadev Dasgupta. As a student in Calcutta in the 1980s, I had often heard Dasgupta play live. It was mostly in that city that he performed, for as a full-time engineering professional he could not work the all-India and trans-Western concert circuit in the manner of his contemporaries Ali Akbar Khan and Amjad Ali Khan. I retained enchanted memories of those concerts of my youth, so when Buddhadevbabu came to play in Bangalore in or about the year 2010, I took my son to hear him. By now the maestro was visibly ageing, and knew it, beginning the concert by telling the audience at the Chowdiah Memorial Hall, “This is not the Buddhadev Dasgupta you once knew, but when the invitation came from Bangalore I could not refuse it”. Buddhadev Dasgupta died on January 15, 2018, a few weeks short of his 85th birthday. On hearing of his passing, I went at once to my iPod to hear his recordings of Gorakh Kalyan and Jaijaiwanti. Then, rummaging through my cassettes, I found I had with me a National Programme of the 1980s, with him playing — most magically — a Kedar. I listened to what I had several times, before remembering YouTube. This had some rare recordings of private concerts already; in the weeks following his death, more were uploaded by his admirers. Among them was a quite beautiful Chaya Bihag, an hour-long elaboration of a rarely-performed raga which I have since listened to again and again. A particular song, “Krishna ni begane baro”, was the vehicle of my first YouTube binge; a particular musician, Buddhadev Dasgupta, the vehicle of my second. Ever since the pandemic broke out, I have kept myself going through a series of YouTube binges. Some have been cricketing — I would particularly recommend a wonderful conversation between Shane Warne and Michael Atherton — while some have been literary — here I single out a conversation between C.L.R. James and Stuart Hall. However, the majority have been musical. It is through YouTube that I have begun to — very slowly and haltingly — warm to the glories of Western classical music; and it is through YouTube again that I have gone beyond the generational attachment to the vocalists I revered in my youth, and begun to enjoy the music of contemporary singers such as Venkatesh Kumar, Kalapini Komkali, Ashwini Bhide Deshpande and Priya Purushothaman. My most recent discovery on YouTube was a recording of the legendary Kirana gharana singer, Roshan Ara Begum. A direct student of Ustad Abdul Karim Khan, after Partition she moved to Lahore, performing there until her death in 1982. In 2009, finding myself in Lahore, I went searching for Roshan Ara’s music in Anarkali Bazar, finding a few cassettes which included a fabulous rendition of Shankara, which I have listened to countless times since. Now, last week, I chanced upon a recording of a concert in Delhi, probably from the late 1950s, whose centrepiece was that rare raga, Noorani. A special joy was to have the music interspersed with the voice of Surajit Sen saying: “This is All India Radio. Tonight, in the National Programme of Music, you shall hear a vocal recital by Roshan Ara Begum of Pakistan.” Over the years, as I have listened more to music on YouTube, I have come to greatly appreciate those who so selflessly share their own collections for others to listen to and love. I would like to acknowledge them by name, except that I don’t want them to be harassed by narrow-minded monopolists and their greedy lawyers. Anyone who, like me, goes to YouTube for their musical needs knows whom all I mean, and will share my feelings of gratitude and indebtedness. In a world riven by hatred and discord, jealousy and rivalry, pride and prejudice, those who put their painstakingly garnered musical treasures on a public platform are the true jewels of the human race. ramachandraguha@yahoo.in||https://www.telegraphindia.com/opinion/page-59
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Heavy rain throws life out of gear in Bokaro, one missing||Heavy rainfall in the past three days has thrown life out of gear in Bokaro district. A 14-year-old boy, Faizan Ahmed, went missing after being swept away while bathing in Garga River in Siwandih under Balidih police station and an intake well of rural drinking water supply scheme was washed away in Konar River at Chatrochatti under Gomia block of Bermo subdivision. High alert has been sounded in places near rivers. Several low lying areas in Bokaro, Chas and Bermo sub-divisions have submerged in water. Heavy waterlogging on streets, roads and national highways slowed down the traffic in the entire district. Trees were uprooted in many places. The prominent rivers are inundated with dams opening their radial gates. Kuldeep Kumar, Bokaro DC, visited Tenughat Dam to assess the situation. Konar Dam has opened its six gates releasing 15000 cusec water per second causing the Konar River to overflow. Apart from the intake well, the four gates of barrage on the river also washed off and a transformer drowned in water causing an electricity crisis in few areas. Small bridges above the rivers have submerged completely. The gates of Tenughat, Konar and Garga dams have been opened in the district. The water discharged from these dams has increased the water level in Damodar, Konar, Garga and Bokaro River of the district. Meanwhile, Ijri and Gawai, the two subsidiary rivers of Damodar are also flooded. The district administration sounded alert to the residents residing in the areas close to the rivers. “Six radial gates of Tenughat dam were opened, in which 108141 Cusec of water per second is being discharged into the Damodar River,” said Pankaj Kumar, assistant engineer of Tenughat Dam Division. Kumar said the water level of Damodar River is rising due to incessant rain. The water holding capacity of Tenughat Dam is 852 feet whereas at present the water level in Tenughat Dam is 861.5 feet. Meanwhile, the Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL), which controls Garga Dam, has appealed to residents to be cautious while crossing through the river as water level has increased. And keep their cattle away from the river and avoid going for a bath in the river. A BSL officer said,“Two gates of Garga Dam have been opened 1.5 feet. This has increased the water level in the river which passes through Bokaro and Chas townships and lastly falls in Damodar River. Rise in water level in Damodar River has made Tenughat Dam authorities alert Bokaro and Dhanbad administration as well as West Bengal government from where it passes through.” The district administration has alerted all the block-level officials and panchayat representatives about the flooded rivers. Block Development Officer, Bermo, Madhu Kumari has sent a voice message appealing people to be careful. She said the rivers are flowing above the danger mark. Along with this, patrolling is also being done continuously around the rivers. The district administration is continuously monitoring from the district control room so that there is no danger of any kind.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Dhanbad judge 'murder': Police team recreate crime scene||The SIT of Dhanbad probing Justice Uttam Anand’s death case on Saturday recreated the crime scene at the accident site on NH-32, where the judicial officer was hit by an autorickshaw while out for his morning walk on Wednesday. The SIT team led by Manoj Swargiyar, Additional Superintendent of Police,  carried out a detailed technical and scientific analysis of the site, during which they analysed the road slant and road inclination with the help of Road Construction Department officials. The police team of around 30 officials reached the site at around 10am under the leadership of Swargiyar. They remained at the site for more than four hours till around 2 pm. The police, however, avoided any media interaction. Notably, auto driver, Lakhan Verma and his accomplice during the police interrogation kept insisting that the accident took place as they were in an inebriated condition and they lost control of the vehicle near the road side hitting the judge. Earlier, Sanjay Anand Laktkar, ADJ (Operations), during a prolonged meeting with the senior officers of Dhanbad police on Saturday, including the members of the district level SIT team, also instructed them to enquire about details of a bike rider who was following the autorickshaw from behind as visible in the CCTV footage. The bike rider didn't take any notice of the incident and moved ahead after the accident. The apathetic gesture of the bike rider has raised suspicion if he was guarding the auto rickshaw. Laktar, based on minute scanning of the CCTV footage, instructed the district level SIT officials to find out the details of another motorcycle rider who tried to stop the autorickshaw a few yards away from the site after the incident. The team has been instructed to find out whether the motorcycle rider who tried to stop the auto rickshaw after the incident had any word with the auto driver Lakhan Verma and his accomplice Rahul Verma. Latkar refused to divulge any details of the Friday meeting to the media and said, "Our priority at the moment is to investigate the incident from all angles."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant calls for CBI probe into Dhanbad judge's ‘killing' ||The Jharkhand government recommended a CBI probe into the death of additional judicial magistrate Uttam Anand in Dhanbad on July 28, chief minister Hemant Soren's decision coming on Saturday, days after the apex court took cognisance and described the incident an attack on the judiciary. The communique issued by Hemant's office read, "The chief minister has approved a CBI probe into the death of Dhanbad judge, who was killed during his morning walk. Even though the state government has promptly formed a special investigation team (SIT), CM is recommending a CBI probe for thorough investigation into the whole incident.” On Friday, Anand's family members met Hemant at his office in Ranchi and as per the communique, expressed their satisfaction with the ongoing probe constitued by the state government. State police have formed an 11-member special investigation team (SIT) under ADG (operation) Sanjay Anand Latekar. On Saturday, the SIT reconstructed the scene of Anand's death in Dhanbad. On Friday, the coal belt police had seized the stolen auto that was used to attack the judge while he was on his morning walk. The man suspected to have driven the auto and his accomplice have been arrested. Opposition BJP claimed credit for the state government's decision. Party spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said that by recommending a CBI probe, the state government had conceded its failure to crack the case after failing to maintain law and order in Jharkhand. “Our party president and state leadership have been demanding a CBI probe in this case. We are happy that the state government has realised that it couldn’t probe the case and had to recommend a CBI probe in the light of severe criticism from both Supreme Court and high court for shoddy law and order in the state,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Steel city residents to get Sputnik V in 10 days||Residents of the steel city will be able to get the high efficacy Sputnik V vaccine here in the next 10 days. Red Cross Society, Jamshedpur is going to provide the opportunity for the inoculation of the Russian-made vaccine at the Red Cross Bhavan in Sakchi, necessary arrangements for which are on. Red Cross Society, Jamshedpur secretary Vijay Kumar Singh said they have got the necessary administrative approval from the health department. "We have not only obtained the permission from the state government and the health department concerned, but also received a special refrigerator necessary for storing the Sputnik V vials. The refrigerator reached here on Saturday itself," said Singh to The Telegraph Online. Speaking about the refrigerator, the Red Cross Society secretary said that it is meant for maintaining a minus 25 degree temperature while storing Sputnik V vials. "Unlike Covaxin or Covishield vials, stored in a temperature of 2.8 degree, the Sputnik V vials have to be stored in a temperature of minus 25 degree. Moreover, there is such an inbuilt mechanism by which the refrigerator's temperature can be monitored from the vaccine manufacturing company," he pointed out. Singh, when queried, said that the stock of Sputnik jabs will come from Delhi by train with a cold-chain maintenance system in it. He said the vehicle which will carry the stock of the vaccine vials should also have the facility for maintaining the required cold-chain maintenance system. The price of the Sputnik V vaccine which will be of single dose only is fixed at Rs 1,600. Significantly, as the effectiveness of Sputnik jab is above 90 per cent against Covid-19 and is to be inoculated a single dose only, a large number of people were looking forward to this here in the steel city.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Bokaro students shine in CBSE Class 12 results||More than 200 students scored above 95 percent while around 700 students of eight prominent schools in Bokaro Steel City scored 90 and above in their Class XII results announced by CBSE on Friday. The students of two educational institutions- Delhi Public School (DPS), Bokaro and Pentecostal Assembly School- have performed exemplary well. Of the three top rankers, one is of DPS and two belong to Pentecostal. The CBSE 12th results have been prepared in an alternative way as board exams could not be held this year due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. The board had adopted an alternative assessment scheme to finalise the result. Varun Tandon of Delhi Public School (DPS), Bokaro was the topper bagging 99.20 per cent in Science stream. Meanwhile, Nandita Kumari of Pentecostal Assembly School topped the district in Arts stream achieving 99.2 per cent. In commerce stream, Mayank Kumar of Pentecostal Assembly School scored 98.6 per cent. As per the press releases, 78 students of DPS, Bokaro have scored above 95 per cent while 240 students secured above 90 per cent. Khushi Dalmia of commerce section scored 97.8 per cent. A.S. Gangwar, Principal of DPS Bokaro, said students were worried that CBSE had to drop board exams this year due to the surge in Covid-19 cases but an alternative was formulated based on the continuous and comprehensive performance of the students. “Despite online classes, our students have done well,” he said. Around 43 students of Pentecostal Assembly School scored above 95 per cent and 91 students have obtained 90 per cent and above. The two students Nandini Nischal and Priya Kumari scored 98.2 per cent in science stream in Pentecostal. Karuna Prasad, principal of The Pentecostal Assembly School said the praiseworthy performance was all possible due to the combined effort of the school administration, the teachers and the students. The overall performance of the students of Guru Gobind Singh Public School (GGPS) is also wonderful. As many as 35 students scored 95 per cent and above while 102 students of GGPS obtained above 90 per cent. There were more than 25 students of Sree Ayyappa Public School who scored 95 per cent and above. Director of Ayyappa Public School, S.S. Mahapatra said, “All the schools have done wonderful this year.” Around 20 students of Chinmaya Vidyalaya secured above 95 per cent marks while 156 students have scored 90 per cent and above. In Adarsh Vidya Mandir, as many as eight students have scored 95 per cent and above while 21 students obtained 90 per cent and above.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Anxiety and pressure cost Deepika a medal, say former coaches||Jharkhand archer Deepika Kumari lost a golden opportunity to end India's medal drought in Olympics with her exit from the Tokyo Games on Friday. Deepika lost her quarterfinal match 0-6 to top seed An San of South Korea in the women's individual event at the Yumenoshima Park Archery Field. The 27-year-old world number one archer's former mentors at the elite Tata Archery Academy in Jamshedpur Purnima Mahto and Dharmendra Tiwary feel that anxiety and pressure cost Deepika a medal. Moreover, she could not focus on her current form. Both Mahto and Tiwary went to the Rio de Janeiro Olympics in 2016 as coach of the national squad. "I think Deepika lacked the mental strength and also lost focus on her current form. Anxiety and pressure to win the elusive medal could have put an extra load on her. We have lost yet another opportunity to win a medal in the Olympics," said Mahto, a Dronacharya awardee. According to her, Deepika should have concentrated on improving her poor shooting. "Deepika, instead of trying to improve her shooting, remained focussed on scoring 10. This, I think, put more pressure on her which only compounded the problem and made her lose focus," Mahto, who was the coach of Indian team at the World Cup Stage 3 in Paris last month, said. Deepika won a hat-trick of medals -- women's individual, team and mixed team -- in Paris to become the world number one archer. She won the mixed team gold with her husband Atanu Das, who also lost his pre-quarterfinal 4-6 to Takaharu Furukawa of Japan on Saturday. Tiwary, also a Dronacharya awardee, said pressure in Olympics is much more than other international events. "So, mental strength holds the key when it comes to performance. Deepika looked bogged down by the pressure even though her opponent was not in great form. Deepika also seemed to lose focus on her form. We cannot win medals in the Olympics if our archers lack mental strength," he pointed out. Tiwary said he was optimistic that Deepika will not disappoint this time. "It was her form which had made me optimistic of a medal. But failings in mental strength put paid to all hopes. Deepika also failed to win a medal in London (2012) and Rio de Janeiro (2016). Archery is more mental than physical," he stressed. The seasoned coach has always laid stress on mental strength when it came to Deepika when she trained at the Tata cradle in Jamshedpur. He had helped Deepika overcome bouts of nervousness in the run-up to the 2016 Rio Olympics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Rain fury: Ranchi flooded, 3 die as car plunges into rivulet in Jamtara||Widespread showers of the last 48 hours disrupted life in Ranchi and several regions of Jharkhand on Saturday with reports coming in that three of a family were killed in Jamtara district, some 250km from the state capital, after their car fell in a rivulet. Several parts of the state capital were flooded because of the incessant rain since Friday. In the last 24 hours, Ranchi recorded 180mm rain, noted the local  Met office. Widespread power cuts added to the misery. In Jamtara, the bodies of the three accident victims were fished out on Saturday morning after local residents spotted the car in the rivulet. The family from Ranchi was travelling to Bhagalpur when their car fell into a rivulet along the Govindpur-Sahibganj highway under Narayanpur police station late on Friday night. Police said visibility must have been poor because of the heavy rain and accompanying storm. In all, four persons were travelling in the car. One of the occupants managed to jump off before the car hit a railing of the bridge and plunged in the rivulet. Manoj Kumar, officer in-charge of Narayanpur police station, told the media that efforts were on to identify the bodies. “We learnt that four persons, possibly of the same family, were travelling to Bihar (Bhagalpur) from Ranchi when they met with the unfortunate incident. Further probe is on,” he said. Several areas of Ranchi were indundated  since Friday. On Saturday, a large stretch of Argora Chowk on Harmu Road, also known as Raj Path (VIP Road) that connects Raj Bhavan to the airport and Project Building, got flooded after water from a local pond flowed into the street due to clogged drains. An official of Argora police station said, “I don’t recall the last time such an important road turned into a pond due to rains. Rampant construction all around have damaged drains as a result of which the area got flooded. Traffic had to be diverted due to the water-logging.” Sudhir Kumar, who runs a confectionary shop Argora Chowk, said he had suffered heavy losses. “All my stocks got damaged as the flood water entered my shop last night, damaging furniture and electricity cables,” he said. Large parts of Piska More, another heavily populated area, turned into a cesspool. Most cars and bikes at the ground floor parking lot of Lavleen Apartments were almost totally submereg under water. Rakesh Sinha, a resident of the complex, said, “We face flood-like situations every year whenever it rains. No matter which government is in power, our woes are never solved. Need of the hour is to have a proper drainage system in the entire city.” Similar scenes were reported in Kathal More, low-lying areas of Hindpiri, Namkum, Chutia and Gadi Hotwar . Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) officials maintained that they would begin clean-up operations in the flooded areas to prevent the outbreak of  disease. Town commissioner Mukesh Kumar’s phone remained switched off. But a city manager not willing to be named claimed that the civic body had undertaken a massive cleaning exercise of all drains across the city ahead of the monsoon. He blamed volume of rain for the flooding. “In the run up to the monsoon, RMC undertook a mega drive to clean all drains for the first time in the city. But in many areas, there are encroachments, illegal constructions. That's the reason behind the flooding, " he said. Between 2014-19, when the BJP government was in power, it launched a Rs 400-crore city drainage construction project for the capital but it was ineffective due to poor planning. Congress, which is part of the ruling alliance in the state, on Saturday attacked the BJP and its MLA in Ranchi, C.P. Singh for failing the capital city. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “The situation in Ranchi today exposes the BJP government’s drainage construction project which was poorly planned, executed and mired in corruption. Most importantly, Ranchi MLA C.P. Singh, who is a five-time lawmaker from the capital, must take responsibility for the civic mess as he was the minister of state urban development department for last five years.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-87
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Finally, some rain relief but Subernarekha and Kharkai rivers in spate ||The downpour caused due to the impact of a low-pressure zone originating from Bay of Bengal, stopped in most parts of Jharkhand on Saturday, but not before disrupting life for around 36 hours from Friday in several regions, including the state capital Ranchi. The system moved to towards southern Bihar and parts of Uttar Pradesh. Weathermen said the monsoon was active over Jharkhand as the trough was passing through southern Bihar and Digha in neighbouring Bengal. The heavy showers of the past two days in Jharkhand and neighbouring states prompted Odisha to open three radial gates of the Bankabal dam. also, the Jharkhand water resources department opened four gates of the Chandil dam, resulting in an abrupt rise in the water levels of the Subernarekha and Kharkai. The water level of both rivers crossed the danger mark on Saturday posing a threat of floods in low-lying areas of Jamshedpur and its adjoining areas. The East Singhbhum district administration issued an alert and appealed to slum dwellers residing in low-lying areas to shift to higher ground. Ranchi Met centre has forecast moderate rainfall in north-western parts of the state during the next 24 hours. As per Met data, Latehar district recorded the highest rainfall of 204mm during the past 24 hours (8.30am of Friday to 8.30am of Saturday). Koner in Hazaribagh district recorded the second highest rainfall of 186.8 mm. Ranchi recorded 182.4 mm rain while  Balumath in Latehar witnessed 176 mm of rain. Hazaribagh recorded 171 mm of rain while Hindigir in Ranchi district got 140.8 mm rain. Met data suggest that several districts in central and northern Jharkhand recorded over 100mm rain in last 24 hours. Jamshedpur and several other places in Kolhan region recorded over 50 mm of rain during the past 24 hours. Most districts across Jharkhand woke up to overcast and inclement weather conditions on Saturday. Head of IMD's Ranchi Meteorological Centre Abhishek Anand said, "The rain has stopped in southern and central Jharkhand as the low-pressure system  shifted to Bihar. The impact of the low-pressure is gradually waning." Weathermen said there will be no significant changes in day's temperature during the next 48 hours. Jharkhand is back to being a rain surplus status after the widespread showers of the last two days. Data suggests that so far, after the onset of the monsoon, Jharkhand has received 588.9mm rain against an average of 522.2 mm, a surplus of 13 per cent. The deficit had rrisen to over 20 per cent earlier this month, due to scanty showers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Power cuts add to woes of waterlogged Ranchi localities||Several residential localities in Ranchi, especially Morhabadi, Bariatu and Argora, faced acute power cuts from Friday night to Saturday evening with heavy rains and high-speed winds uprooting trees, causing faults in transformers and snapping electricity cables. Residents of Pralhad Enclave, an apartment near the Ranchi Science Centre, had to suffer without electricity on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. Power inverters also ran out of juice by Saturday afternoon and residents had no option but to wait for the electricity department to fix the faults. “There has been no supply of electricity since Friday evening. Our inverters have also run out of power and we may have to stay in the dark if the problem is not resolved today (Saturday),” said Asha Kumari, a resident of the apartment. Officials from the Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam (JBVNL) blamed the power cuts on “local faults”, claiming that the electricity department had surplus power for supply in Ranchi and there was no outage. “Continuous rains have uprooted several trees in the city. When trees get uprooted, they often break electricity wires, causing disruption in supply. Most of the areas that suffered from power cuts had faults in local transformers and electricity supply systems,” said MP Yadav, the public relations officer of JBVNL. As heavy rains continued to lash different parts of Jharkhand on Saturday, the electricity department failed to fix the faults in the supply system as engineers and other technical staff couldn’t reach the spots and fix the problems, JBVNL officials said. Some engineers, who tried to fix local glitches in the supply system, had to return without fixing the issues as the weather did not permit them to do their job. Residents of Harihar Singh Road, which connects Morhabadi to Bariatu, had to deal with a power cut for more than five hours on Saturday morning. Power supply remained suspended till noon. “We still had to deal with intermittent power cuts even after the supply was restored,” said Rajiv Shukla, a resident of Harihar Singh Road. Not only did the continuous downpour affect electricity supply, but it also caused water-logging in many localities. Cars and bikes parked at a private parking lot of apartment complex Eklavya Tower on the Argora-Kathal More road were submerged in water after hours of rain. Pictures of the water-logged parking space went viral on social media with some residents claiming that the city has not seen such disastrous effects of rain in several decades while many claiming that the water-logging was a result of poor drainage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand news digest: 2 inmates flee Dhanbad jail||Dhanbad: Two inmates of Dhanbad divisional jail on Friday fled by cutting a grill of the jail premises situated on the high security court road area of Dhanbad. Both the inmates, Ankit Rawani , a resident of Kenduadih police station and Deva Bhuian, a resident of Loyabad Police station area, are accused under the Prevention of Children against Sexual Offences (POCSO) act and were arrested in connection with two different cases on October 2019 and August 2020 respectively. Senior officials of the jail administration immediately informed the District administration and police about the incident after which a high level team led by Sub Divisional of Officer, Surendra Kumar reached the divisional jail and took details of the incident from the jail authorities and gave instructions to tighten the security. “We are investigating the incident and taking help of the CCTV Camera installed in the jail to find out how the two accused fled away from the jail,”said Ajay Kumar, Jail Superintendent. The incident, however, raised fresh questions over the security of Dhanbad Divisional jail in which several noted criminals including gangster Sujit Sinha and others are lodged. The jail break incident also assumes significance as former Jharia MLA Sanjeev Singh, main conspirator in Niraj Singh murder case, presently lodged in Dumka Central Jail, will be brought back to Dhanbad divisional jail as per a Jharkhand High court order of July 23. Aman Singh, a notorious UP based criminal and main accused in Niraj Singh murder case has also been transferred from Dhanbad jail to Hotwar jail Ranchi following repeated extortion calls made by him from Dhanbad jail. (Praduman Choubey) Jamshedpur: Jamshedpur FC are in advanced talks with Brazilian central midfielder Alexandre Monteiro de Lima, known as Alex, and are highly optimistic of roping him in again for the upcoming Indian Super League 2021-22 season which begins in Goa in November. The 32-year-old Alex had earlier sent indications that he was not keen to join the Tata Steel-owned club even though Jamshedpur were more than willing to have him on board. JFC continued talks with his (Alex) agent and now it has  reached the final stage. The strong and well-built playmaker is an essential component in head coach Owen Coyle game plan and JFC wants the Brazilian to again be a part of the team. JFC chief executive officer Mukul Choudhari said they were highly optimistic of once again signing Alex. "Alex is an experienced player and we are keen to have him in our team. We are in advanced talks with him and hopefully he will sign on the dotted line," he added. Known for his ability to hold the ball, create chances as well as get into scoring positions, Alex has the experience of playing in Asia with stints in the highly competitive K League 2 (South Korea) with Suwon FC and FC Anyang and most also with Ho Chi Minh City FC in V League (Vietnam). The Brazilan powerhouse with quick reflexes has played under the managership of Coyle at Houston and he did his job perfectly well for the club. He began his career with the youth system of Gremio Mauaense in Brazil. In 2008, he went on to sign as a professional player for FC Wohlen in Switzerland. He became a regular for the Swiss 1. Liga Club where he spent four years and enjoyed  a spell on loan at FC Gossau of the same league. (Jayesh Thaker)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Jharkhand para-teachers hopeful of regularisation of their service||About 65,000 para-teachers of Jharkhand are hopeful that their 17-year-old demand for regularisation of their services would be addressed after education minister Jagarnath Mahto, who had undergone lung transplant, resumed duty after 10 months. “Things were moving in the right direction last year but suddenly there was a pause as the minister fell ill and couldn’t resume duties,” said Sanjay Kumar Dubey, a leader of the Ekikrit Para Sikshak Sangharsh Morcha, the para-teachers’ organisation. Mahto contracted Covid-19 in September last year and had to be airlifted to Chennai in a critical condition in October. He underwent lungs transplant in November and stayed back in Chennai for availing proper medical care. He returned to Ranchi on June 14 this year. Mahto resumed his ministerial duties on Wednesday after chief minister Hemant Soren, who was looking after the education department in his absence, reallocated the portfolio to him. “I now want to begin from where I had left,” Mahto said after assuming charge, adding that he would look into the case of the para-teachers. The minister was scheduled to attend a meeting related to welfare measures for the teachers in September last year when he tested positive for Covid-19. “I asked for the same file immediately after I took charge and also discussed the matter with senior departmental officers,” Mahto said, emphasising that he was serious about solving the problems of para-teachers. “Once decided, the families of many para-teachers who died during the pandemic would get some compensation,” Dubey said, adding that the dependents of the deceased teachers would not get any financial help otherwise. The state government had recruited para-teachers in 2000 for taking classes in its schools that faced acute shortage of teachers and paid them a consolidated monthly remuneration that was much less than the salary of regular teachers. Since 2004, the para-teachers have been demanding regularisation of their services and a proper pay scale. However, despite vigorous agitations, they did not get anything other than assurances  until the Soren government promised to fulfil their demands, the para-teachers said. “We are now paid between Rs 12,000 and Rs 16,000 per month. It should be revised to at least between Rs 22,000 and Rs 28,000 as has been already done by some other states,” said another leader of the Sangha, Hrishikesh Pathak. We also need assurance that we will be able to continue in service upto 60 years, he added. The government is also considering to allow the para-teachers to continue till they attain 60 years of age and to fill up half of the teacher posts that fell vacant, minister Mahto said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
31-07-2021||Jharkhand||Hemant asks Singhbhum industries to prioritise local aspirations  ||Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren has asked industries in the mineral-rich Singhbhum area to prioritise the aspirations of local people. After inaugurating a railway overbridge, a renovated town hall and distributing assets and appointment letters to beneficiaries at Chaibasa in West Singhbhum district on Thursday evening, Soren said: “The government is working on ensuring that the benefits of industry are reaped by the local residents. If the industries think about local aspirations, then the villagers and locals would also be with them all the time.” Soren appreciated ACC Cements for giving appointment letters to 45 locals. The chief minister had a few days back written to the Union health minister (Mansukh Mandaviya) expressing concern about the under-representation of local people in the staff of the under-construction All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Deoghar. Soren also handed over apprenticeship letters to 36 candidates who had been selected for apprenticeship in Tata Steel and distributed Kisan Credit Card (KCC) loans to 3,351 farmers on Thursday. “The mineral-rich region of Singhbhum will soon get a steel plant and several big industries and it will create lots of employment opportunities. We would also ensure good transport facilities for industries with a bypass road linking Chaibasa and Hatgamharia and connecting all mining areas of the state to Haldia port (in Bengal) without interfering with city roads. “A detailed project report worth Rs 250 crore has been made. At the moment Rs 3 crore has been sanctioned for strengthening roads and the construction work will start this year itself,” said Soren. The chief minister said the railway overbridge built on the Chaibasa-Hata Main Road will remove traffic bottlenecks for the residents of Chaibasa. The 780-metre long and 11.5m wide ROB has been built at a cost of Rs 43.12 crore. Soren assured that the government is working on reopening of closed mines in the area. The chief minister also appreciated Rungta Mines for utilising its corporate social responsibility funds to renovate the 80-year-old Pillai Town Hall. Soren laid foundation stones for 95 projects and inaugurated another 44 projects.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/jharkhand/page-88
