02 May 2020||New Delhi,||Lockdown extended till May 17; curbs stay on public transport||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Friday issued new guidelines allowing considerable relaxations across red, orange and green zones, based on the evidence of COVID-19 infection, even though it extended the countrywide lockdown till May 17. The lockdown, imposed first on March 24 in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, was to end on May 3. The MHA asked local authorities to ensure 100% coverage of the Aarogya Setu app among the residents in the containment zones. The National Directive for COVID-19 management said use of the Aarogya Setu application is to be mandatory for all employees, both private and public and “it should be the responsibility of the head of organisation to ensure 100% coverage of this App among the employees”. In green zones, buses can operate with up to 50% seating capacity and bus depots can operate with up to 50% capacity, the MHA said. In orange zones, taxis and cab aggregators will be permitted to ply with only one passenger. Inter-district movement of vehicles will be allowed in orange zones for permitted activities and cars could have maximum two passengers besides the driver, and pillion riding will be allowed on two-wheelers. In red zones, other than the containment zones, private cars will be allowed only for permitted activities with a maximum of two persons other than the driver but no pillion riders in two-wheelers. Irrespective of zones, however, all forms of other public transport — air, rail, metro and inter-State movement by road — will remain suspended except those allowed in select cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-extended-till-may-17-curbs-stay-on-public-transport/article31485676.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Six more COVID cases in State||The State reported six new COVID-19 cases on Friday taking the total number of positive cases to 1,044. The number of deaths remained at 28 as no casualties were reported during the day. The number of patients discharged rose to 464 including the 22 discharged from different hospitals on Friday. The total number of active cases stood at 552, Health Minister Eatala Rajender said. The Minister said inquiries into the reasons behind 22 cases that were reported on Thursday revealed that these persons were infected through Markaz returnees while five of the six cases reported on Friday too were related to their contacts with COVID positive persons. He refuted claims of a section of political parties and section of individuals that low number of people tested resulted in reporting of lesser number of cases in the State. “These are charges made with selfish interests or lack of understanding of the realities. There is no public interest involved in these claims,” he said. The government strictly adhered to the guidelines issued by the Indian Council for Medical Research which recommended collection of swab samples of relatives and contacts of persons testing COVID positive while those found asymptomatic should be sent to home quarantine for observation in isolation. The opposition leaders were not expected to speak without proper understanding of the virus as there would be fluctuation in the number of cases because of various conditions. “The low number of cases in Telangana is due to the stringent measures initiated by the government to contain the spread of the virus ever since the first case was reported early in March,” he said. It was Telangana government which cautioned the Centre about the possible impact of the virus and sought ban on arrival of flights from the countries impacted by the virus. It was the TRS government which recommended stoppage of movement of trains as they were source of mass transport and could give scope for the spread of the virus. “Telangana is the first State which declared and observed total lockdown since March 22, much before the Centre had announced it,” he said. The Minister launched an attack on BJP leaders for claiming that the State failed to check the Markaz returnees. “But for effectively chasing those returned from Markaz and treating them in time, the number of cases in the State could have been much higher. The Health and police department officials traced out the affected people and their contacts in spite of attacks on them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/six-more-covid-cases-in-state/article31485975.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Health Ministry identifies 130 districts as red zones||The Union Health Ministry on Friday listed 130 districts in the country in the red zone, 284 in the orange zone and 319 in the green zone for a week after May 3, ahead of the extension of the second phase of the nationwide lockdown. Under this classification, a district will be considered under green zone if there has been no confirmed case of COVID-19 so far or if there is no reported case since last 21 days in the district. Red zones are identified based on total active cases, doubling rate of confirmed cases, extent of testing and district feedback. Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat are among the States with a heavy COVID-19 load as per the list. The new classification of districts was announced following a video-conference chaired by the Cabinet Secretary on April 30 with the Chief Secretaries and Health Secretaries of the States. The classification of districts comes as the country recorded 1,993 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total to 35,365 with a recovery rate of 25.37%. Since Thursday, 77 deaths were reported, taking the total number of deaths to 1,152, the Ministry said. The State Health Departments reported 1,182 deaths with 25,074 active cases out of a total of 35,555 cases. Kerala did not report any new case on Friday. Identifying pockets In a letter to the Chief Secretaries of all States and UTs, Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan said, “It is important to ensure that we identify pockets of critical interventions for a focused management of COVID -19 at the field level”. The list will be revised on a weekly basis or earlier and communicated to the States for follow-up action, the letter said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-ministry-identifies-130-districts-as-red-zones/article31485684.ece
02 May 2020||KALABURAGI,||24 persons caught infection from one source in Kalaburagi||Of the total 54 COVID-19 positive cases reported from Kalaburagi district, contact tracing shows that 24 persons were infected through primary and secondary transmission of P-205, a 55-year-old male who was suffering from severe acute respiratory infection and succumbed on April 14.  Out of total 576 cases reported in Karnataka, Kalaburagi alone accounts for 54 cases, the fourth highest in the State, as per data provided by the Health Department. Of the 24 infected persons, 10 were in direct contact with P-205, one was secondary transmission, and 13 tertiary transmission. Ten positive cases includes seven male patients including a four-month-old-boy, and three female patients. The virus spread to the tertiary contact P-425 through P-395, a 19-year-old male and one among the primary contact of P-205. Thirteen people, including nine female and four male, who came in contact with P-425 tested positive. The Kalaburagi district also shares first place with Bengaluru Urban in COVID-19 fatalities with five in each district. As of Friday, the district reported 54 positive cases, with 37 active cases and 12 recovered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/24-persons-caught-infection-from-one-source-in-kalaburagi/article31485950.ece
02 May 2020||MuMBAI,||Direct taxes revenues defy lockdown, jump 36.6% in April||Direct tax collection recorded a healthy growth in April despite the nationwide lockdown and grew by 36.6%. Data accessed by The Hindu showed that the net direct tax collection for April 2020 was Rs. 34,780.4 crore as compared to Rs. 25,466 crore recorded in April 2019, a jump of 36.6%. Income tax collection in April was Rs. 19,762.1 crore while corporate tax collection was Rs. 14,608.1 crore. The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) had convened a video-conference on Friday with tax commissioners to review the collection position during the lockdown period. The collection figures of different zones were discussed during the meeting. The department noted the effort of the officers in ensuring healthy growth of tax collection in these testing times. Among the zones, Mumbai reported a massive 500% growth in net tax collections, followed by Bengaluru that reported 160% growth. Delhi, at number three, reported a 34% growth in April. Revised targets The government is expected to miss the direct tax collection target for the financial year 2019-20. The revised estimate has pegged the target for collection of direct taxes for 2019-20 at Rs. 11.70 lakh crore. The government had collected over Rs. 7.52 lakh crore as direct taxes till January 31. Bleak forecast In addition, the outlook for indirect tax collection is also bleak in the first few months of the current financial year due to the countrywide lockdown. Some reports suggest that GST collection in April and May could decline drastically as the number of electronic permits for transporting goods are down 80% in April. With the lockdown extended till May 17, tax collections are expected to remain subdued.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/direct-taxes-revenues-defy-lockdown-jump-366-in-april/article31485673.ece
02 May 2020||GUNTUR,||Put in place foolproof exit plan, Jagan tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday sought a post-lockdown action plan to deal with possible large-scale influx of people from abroad and other States. This would include setting up a pool testing facility and quarantine centres. At a review meeting on COVID-19 at his camp office, Mr. Jagan said facilities at quarantine centres should be upgraded. Quality food should be served in them, he added. “I want a detailed plan of action on how to handle the influx of people after the lockdown. How are we going to identify those who need to be quarantined? How are we going to test them, and since most of them could be asymptomatic, how are we going to identify positive cases?” he asked. The officials said all foreign returnees would have a non-COVID certificate and they would be home quarantined. Those who returned from Gujarat had already been tested and would be sent home if their samples turned negative. Mr. Jagan said of the 235 clusters in the State, 79 were very active, 68 active, 53 dormant, and in 35 clusters, no cases had been recorded for the last 28 days. The officials told Mr. Jagan that of the 32,792 persons identified during the survey, 17,585 were tested, and 4,000 found to be in the high-risk category. Mr. Jagan said such persons should be given medical support. He wanted better coordination among telemedicine, village clinics and PHCs. Those who get prescription through telemedicine should get medicines from village clinics. Minister for Agriculture K. Kanna Babu, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP Gautam Sawang and Special Chief Secretary (Medical and Health) K.S. Jawahar Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/put-in-place-foolproof-exit-plan-jagan-tells-officials/article31485680.ece
02 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Sealed border chokes travel to Gurugram||Commuters taking the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway to Millennium City, included among orange zones by the Union Health Ministry on Friday, had a harrowing time crossing the border with the intensified checking leading to long snarls and increased waiting time. Scores of people were sent back by the police, which only allowed ambulances, those carrying passes authorised by the Centre and Haryana government, and those providing essential services to cross over. The stricter curbs on inter-city movement severely affected the functioning of hospitals and pathology labs in both Delhi and Gurugram on Friday, prompting several stakeholders to demand easier passage. Patients affected Ritu Garg, zonal director, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, said a system to allow medical staff through with adequate screening would help ensure sustained medical care for patients. “We need to ensure assistance to patients undergoing chemotherapy, dialysis and with other medical emergencies. A number of our health workers are settled outside Gurugram... it is difficult for them to move here,” said Dr. Garg in a statement. Arjun Dang, the CEO of Dr. Dangs Lab, said the sealing came on the back of restrictions in Faridabad for the past two days. He said that two of his senior consultants could not come from Gurugram. “Earlier four molecular biologists, all residents of Faridabad, were also not allowed. We are authorised for COVID-19 tests and with four of the eight microbiologists not turning up for work, it becomes difficult to run operations. Eventually we made arrangements for their stay in Delhi,” said Dr. Dang. “I request to exclude doctors from this border sealing thing and allow them to travel with valid ID card so as the patients don’t suffer,” said Dr. Ashish Mahajan, in response to a Facebook post from The Hindu on the ‘Gurgaon Helpline’ page. A few, however, supported the sealing saying it would help curb the spread of the virus. Gurugram MP and Union Minister Rao Inderjit said the decision could be reviewed in a couple of days. Apart from strengthened police presence on the Gurugram border, strict restrictions on other border points of the national capital adjoining Faridabad and Sonipat were also imposed by Haryana police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sealed-border-chokes-travel-to-gurugram/article31485915.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai remains hotspot with 176 new cases||With Chennai remaining Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 epicentre, registering 176 of the 203 fresh cases on Friday, the State government chose to pay focused attention to the capital city, appointing senior IAS officer J. Radhakrishnan as Special Nodal Officer to coordinate issues relating to the pandemic. Five senior IPS officers will support him. With the 176 fresh cases, the city’s tally of COVID-19 cases surpassed the 1,000-mark. The State’s COVID-19 case count stands at 2,526* (1,670 men and 856 women), of which 1,183 are active cases. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the maximum number of samples were lifted in Chennai. “We lifted 3,200 samples in the city, of which 176 returned positive for COVID-19,” he added. A 98-year-old man, who was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, died due to COVID-19 at 10.20 a.m. on Friday despite receiving intensive care at the hospital. This took the COVID-19 toll in the State to 28, he said. Among the 203 new cases (117 men and 86 women), Chengalpattu accounted for eight cases, while Tiruvallur had six. There were three patients in Madurai, two each in Kancheepuram and Thanjavur, and one each in Ariyalur, Cuddalore, Dindigul, Karur, Nagapattinam and Villupuram. Mr. Radhakrishnan, who is currently Principal Secretary and Commissioner for Revenue Administration, Disaster Management and Mitigation, told The Hindu :  “We will try our best to work hard to ensure that we are able to get to a COVID-19-free Chennai. We will work with the entire team and the common people and work on how to address this.” He said suggestions and inputs from officers will be considered to tackle the spread of COVID-19. A former Health Secretary, he will be supported by senior IPS officers Mahesh Kumar Agarwal (in charge of Chennai North Zone), Abash Kumar (East Zone), Amaresh Pujari (South Zone), Abhay Kumar Singh (West Zone) and K. Bhavaneeswari (Chennai suburbs). As on Friday, Chennai’s cumulative tally of COVID-19 cases stood at 1,082, while Chengalpattu accounted for 86 cases. Another eight children, including a two-year-old, have tested positive in the State. So far, a total of 150 children aged 0 to 12, 2,110 persons in the age group of 13 to 60 and 266 persons above 60 years have tested positive for COVID-19. The number of primary persons for whom investigation was under process was 94 in the day’s count. With another 54 persons discharged from hospitals, the total number of persons discharged across the State is 1,312, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The State’s recovery rate of 54% was the highest in the country, while the mortality rate was maintained at 1.2%, he said. The Health Minister said that the State has so far tested 1,29,363 samples, accounting for 14% of the total samples (9,02,684) tested in the country till now. “Today alone, we have tested 9,615 samples,” he said. “We have been increasing the testing facilities in a phased manner. All laboratories are functioning in three shifts, round the clock,” he said. He added that a good number of samples were being tested in all districts. “In Chennai, we have so far tested 33,819 persons, while 6,372 persons were tested in Coimbatore, 6,081 persons in Salem, and 5,450 persons in Madurai. In Dharmapuri, which is in the orange zone, we have tested 2,174 persons. Similarly, we have tested nearly 1,500 persons in Pudukottai and more than 1,000 persons in Krishnagiri which is in the green zone,” he said. The population will differ in each district, he added. “We are testing anybody — be it primary, secondary contacts, persons in containment zones, front line workers and healthcare workers — with the smallest connection with COVID-19 patients,” he said. The committee comprising experts from the National Institute of Epidemiology, senior infectious diseases specialists and representatives of medical associations also recommended increased testing that will fetch data based on which the government can take a decision, he added. “We are immediately testing persons with common cold, cough or fever. This will help us detect cases. Through this, we can admit positive patients and stop further transmission. We have intensified the strategy of preventing further transmission,” he said. “We have readied mobile vehicles for testing in Chennai. We are maintaining a safe zone, and are ensuring that transmission does not occur outside the safe zone,” he said. Testing of all persons with Influenza-like Illness and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) continued, Dr. Vijayabaskar said. “There are 703 containment zones in the State. We are closely monitoring all pregnant women in these containment zones. Based on their expected date of delivery, we are making arrangements to test them a week ahead,” he said. He said that based on the recommendations of the medical expert team and various committees, the Chief Minister would decide on the lockdown at a Cabinet meeting scheduled to be held on Saturday. “Special teams have been deployed in each zone in Chennai. We have rapid response teams and special officers. People need not panic but should extend their full cooperation for the efforts being taken by the government,” he said. One more private laboratory — Meenakshi Labs in Madurai — was approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are a total of 34 testing facilities in the government and 12 facilities in the private sector. As on date, 2,013 persons with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals. A total of 33,184 persons were in home quarantine and 40 in government quarantine facilities. (* This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chennai-remains-hotspot-with-176-new-cases/article31485786.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways run ‘Shramik Specials’ to ferry stranded||The Railways on Friday began operating ‘Shramik Special’ trains to transport migrant workers, tourists, pilgrims, students and others stranded by the nationwide lockdown back to their home States. The decision follows revised guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) allowing the movement of such people. Routine passenger trains have remained suspended for almost 40 days in the wake of the lockdown imposed in March to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. Done on State’s request Interestingly, the first such special train to ferry about 1,200 migrants from Lingampally (in Telangana) to Hatia (in Jharkhand) started its journey around 5 a.m. on Friday, even before the MHA guidelines were issued. Terming it a “one-off special train”, a railways official said this was done on the request of the Telangana government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/railways-run-shramik-specials-to-ferry-stranded/article31485677.ece
02 May 2020||Vijayawada,||Appointed HC judges||The Union Ministry of Law and Justice issued a notification on Friday appointing Boppudi Krishna Mohan, Kanchireddy Suresh Reddy and Kanneganti Lalitha Kumari as judges of the Andhra Pradesh High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/appointed-hc-judges/article31485682.ece
02 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Two die, 60 new positive cases surface in State||With 60 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State has increased to 1,463, including 1,027 actives ones. With the death of two patients, the toll has gone up to 33. Kurnool tops With 411 (335 active) cases, Kurnool district is on the top accounting for 25 of the 60 new cases. It is followed by Guntur with 306 (201 active), and Krishna with a total of 246 cases and 201 active ones. Further, Nellore has 84 cases (38 active), Chittoor 80 (58), Kadapa 79 (42), Anantapur 67 (41), Prakasam 60 (37), West Godavari 58 (39), East Godavari 42 (25), Visakhapatnam 25 (5) and Srikakulam 5 (5). A total of 403 persons were discharged from various hospitals. Ten persons have so far died in Kurnool, eight each in Krishna and Guntur, four in Anantapur and three in Nellore. Meanwhile, 7,902 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of tests done till Friday morning is 1,02,460 (1,919 per million population).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-die-60-new-positive-cases-surface-in-state/article31485679.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka guidelines expected today||The State government is expected to come out with guidelines on Saturday in tune with those issued by the Centre on the extension of lockdown by two more weeks. Soon after the Centre came out with fresh guidelines on Friday evening, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is learnt to have instructed top bureaucrats to meet him on Saturday along with details on the modalities on guidelines. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs, which came out with fresh guidelines for restricting various activities in red, orange, and containment zones, has also allowed States to decide on classification of districts based on its guidelines. Meanwhile, Excise Minister H. Nagesh has welcomed the Centre’s decision to allow sale of liquor from May 4 while maintaining social distancing. He told the media that the demand for allowing liquor sale was long pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-guidelines-expected-today/article31485736.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||Make full auto value chain functional: plea||Automakers reported negligible or nil sales in April, with the country under lockdown due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The country’s largest carmaker Maruti Suzuki India and Hyundai Motor India on Friday said they had made zero dispatches to domestic dealers. Separately, associations for auto component makers, manufacturers and dealers on Friday requested the Centre to allow resumption of operations by the entire value chain, including service workshops. In a submission to Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, they reasoned that a vehicle manufacturer could not begin operations if any supplier was unable to undertake production.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/make-full-auto-value-chain-functional-plea/article31485681.ece
02 May 2020||Chennai,||Extended lockdown will flatten curve: Minister||State Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, in an interview withThe Hindu,said the extended lockdown would help the State step up preventive measures in containment zones and aid in flattening COVID-19 curve.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/extended-lockdown-will-flatten-curve-minister/article31485788.ece
02 May 2020||Chennai,||Panel gives suggestions on exit strategy||The State government on Friday received a set of recommendations from its 17-member panel on the ‘exit strategy’ from the lockdown. The panel’s chief and Additional Chief Secretary, (Finance) S. Krishnan, met Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and briefed him on the team’s findings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-gives-suggestions-on-exit-strategy/article31485789.ece
02 May 2020||Chennai,||T.N. has one lakh RT-PCR testing kits||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 testing figures have been on the rise in the last few weeks. The State currently has a stock of one lakh RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) testing kits in hospitals and has placed an order for 4.5 lakh more, according to Health department officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-has-one-lakh-rt-pcr-testing-kits/article31485790.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,||At least eight identified as ‘super spreaders’||At least eight people have been identified as ‘super spreaders’ of COVID-19 in Karnataka. The Department of Health and Family Welfare defines super spreaders as those who have spread the novel coronavirus to at least 10 or more contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/at-least-eight-identified-as-super-spreaders/article31485737.ece
02 May 2020||Hubballi,||Davangere patient dies||A 69-year-old male from Davangere, who had contracted COVID-19, passed away on Friday. The man who had other comorbidities was on ventilator support. The number of COVID-19 deaths in Karnataka has now risen to 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/davangere-patient-dies/article31485951.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||AAP MLA infected; Delhi reports two deaths||AAP MLA from Karol Bagh Vishesh Ravi was among the 223 people who tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Two deaths were also reported in the city, taking the toll to 62. The total number of cases now stands at 3,738.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/aap-mla-infected-delhi-reports-two-deaths/article31485910.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||First chargesheet filed in Delhi riots case||The police on Friday filed the first chargesheet in connection with the riots that broke out in north-east Delhi in February this year. A senior police officer said the chargesheet was submitted in Karkardooma Court on an FIR lodged under IPC sections of rioting, attempt to murder and Arms Act at the Jafrabad police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/first-chargesheet-filed-in-delhi-riots-case/article31485913.ece
02 May 2020||Bhilwara,||Bhilwara residents yearn for return to normalcy||With the Bhilwara residents expecting their lives to limp back to normal sooner rather than later from the lockdown enforced to contain COVID-19, stories of grit, determination, compassion and philanthropic gestures have emerged in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bhilwara-residents-yearn-for-return-to-normalcy/article31485912.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Environment Ministry gives nod for new Parliament project||The Centre’s proposal to construct a new Parliament building next to the existing heritage structure was approved by the Environment Ministry’s expert appraisal committee (EAC) last week. The EAC, however, said the approval was subject to the outcome of a legal challenge to the change of land-use of the plot, according to the minutes of the meeting. The Central Public Works Department’s (CPWD) proposal for “expansion and renovation of the existing Parliament building at Parliament Street” was among the projects considered by the EAC at its meetings on April 22-24. The proposal was earlier considered by the EAC at its meetings on February 25-26, where it asked the CPWD for additional information. While reconsidering the project during last week’s meeting, the EAC noted that the project cost, as submitted by the CPWD, had gone up from Rs. 776 crore to Rs. 922 crore due to “changes in project specifications”. While the March notification of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs of (MoHUA) changing the land-use of the plot from “recreational (district park)” to “Parliament” in the Master Plan of Delhi has been challenged in the Supreme Court, the CPWD clarified that there was no stay order. The CPWD submitted that there would be “no significant impacts on public space” and with the entire area being in “high security zone”, the plot could have never been used for recreational purposes. Of the 333 trees on the plot, 223 will be transplanted and 100 retained. In addition, 290 new trees would be planted. Responding to a representation to the EAC about the timing of the project in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the CPWD submitted: “The existing Parliament building was constructed 93 years ago. Over the years many planned/ unplanned changes have been made, often undocumented. It is in dire need of retrofitting as soon as possible. This can only be done once the building is in vacant position and that will happen once the new building is made available. Therefore, development of the proposed Parliament building is of utmost importance.” The CPWD stated that the project was the “expansion of an existing building on the neighbouring plot” so the environmental impacts would be “if at all, minor and incremental”. The project would not lead to any increase in air and noise pollutions and the water consumption would decrease due to reuse of treated water, the EAC minutes stated. Kanchi Kohli, an independent environment law researcher, said the assessment done was inadequate. “The CPWD’s EIA consultant has called the impacts of the modernisation and expansion of Parliament, which includes an entirely new building ‘minor and incremental’. This is without carrying out a full environment assessment of the stand-alone Parliament project, leave alone the full Central Vista redevelopment, of which it is a part.” ( With inputs from    Jacob Koshy)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/environment-ministry-gives-nod-for-new-parliament-project/article31485600.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||Armed forces to express gratitude to corona warriors||To express gratitude to all those involved in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic across the country, the Armed Forces have planned a series of activities on May 3 from morning till evening, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said on Friday. This was the first formal press conference of the CDS along with the three Service Chiefs since he assumed charge on January 1. “Indian Air Force (IAF) will conduct flypast from Srinagar to Thiruvananthapuram and another one starting from Dibrugarh in Assam to Kutch in Gujarat,” Gen. Rawat announced. There will also be showering of petals from helicopters on hospitals across the country which have been in involved in saving our people from COVID-19, he stated. The flypast will include both transport and fighter aircraft. On its part, the Army will conduct mounted band displays along some of the COVID-19 hospitals in almost every district of our country and Armed Forces would lay wreaths at the police memorial to show solidarity with the police forces, he said. The Navy on its part will be out on the seas displaying their formations. You will witness some lighting of our ships on the seashores expressing solidarity and gratitude once again on our part, Gen. Rawat said. He said this was an effort by the Armed Forces to thank all COVID-19 warriors — doctors, nurses, sanitation workers, police, home guards, delivery boys and media — who have been been reaching out with the message of government on how to carry on with lives in difficult times. The Defence Ministry said that the plan of action and various activities of thanksgiving from the Armed Forces was finalised at the meeting earlier in the day, presided over by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh with the CDS, three Service Chiefs and the National Security Advisor (NSA). Asked about the evacuation effort being planned to bring back Indians stranded in the Gulf region, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh said it will all depend on the plan made by the Ministry of External Affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/armed-forces-to-express-gratitude-to-corona-warriors/article31485618.ece
02 May 2020||Bhopal,||Over 9,000 test reports unaccounted for in M.P.||A wide variance between the cumulative COVID-19 test reports received and the sum of samples that tested positive and negative until April 30 in Madhya Pradesh, has raised questions about accuracy of data maintained by the State government. The difference between the two metrics has left at least 9,271 test results unaccounted. Incidentally, this figure is close to startlingly high number of 7,875 tests which the State government claims to have conducted on the same day (April 30). This stated number of tests is more than twice the highest number of tests reported earlier. . It also marks an unusual 23.27% jump in testing over the previous day, much beyond the State’s infrastructure. On April 16, a similar inexplicable jump of 41% was recorded. The spike in testing numbers helps buttress the claims of the embattled State government, under whose watch 5.2% of COVID-19 patients have died. Ujjain, with a fatality rate of 17% has overtaken every other city in country. However, even as the figures showed a wide discrepancy, Chief Minister Shivraj Chouhan said the infection rate had reduced in the State, and the situation was improving. Slump in positive cases On April 30, Madhya Pradesh had conducted 500.3 tests per million, up by around 100 counts over the previous day. In line with Mr. Chouhan’s claim, the number of positive samples among the tested ones continued a downward trend, settling at 6.3% on the day, according to the media bulletin. “We are recompiling these figures. The Indian Council of Medical Research is not sharing the data with us real time. Their database is not available with us. And the data given in the bulletin is collected from laboratories. The laboratories are reporting more,” said a senior official of the State Health Department, requesting anonymity. The over-reporting in testing comes four days after 8,439 samples were shown in the daily bulletin as pending results. Thereafter, the government scrapped the ‘pending samples’ column altogether. Amulya Nidhi, of the Jan Swasthya Abhiyan, believes this was done to avoid the media questions over the high numbers of pending test results. “The government is manipulating data in varying ways since March 26,” Mr Nidhi alleged. “First, it stopped releasing the tally of rejected samples, and instead combined it with negative samples. Then a month later, it stopped revealing the number of samples collected and the pendency.” The number of total sample test reports received is a sum of positive and negative samples tested. Since April 26, the tally of negative samples has not taken into account the rejected samples, said an official at the department. And since then, the difference between reports received and the sum has been growing. Starting with 1,344 on April 27, it has touched 9,271. In two other recent instances, the government had similarly slashed its cumulative tally of samples which had tested negative. On April 27, the total samples tested until then dropped to 25,665, as 4,679 was subtracted from the tally of negative samples on the previous day. Similarly, 416 was removed on April 18 from the tally until the previous day, thereby dropping the testing count. The bulletin, released every evening, does not take into account figures from Indore, the hardest-hit city where most cases and deaths have been reported. The city releases its figures late night, which are adjusted in the State tally the next day. “As the situation in Indore turned worse, they stopped even revealing who died of COVID-19 and with what co-morbidities, in the city’s bulletin. From a comprehensive bulletine, Indore district administration has made it into a short single-page one,” said Anand Rai, part of the Indore COVID-19 combat team. “The media and the public have a right to access data, and analyse it. It must be transparently released so that others can study trends and help to contain the virus,” said Dr. Rai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-9000-test-reports-unaccounted-for-in-mp/article31485642.ece
02 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat sees 22 deaths, 326 fresh cases||The COVID-19 outbreak is spiking sharply in Gujarat with 326 cases and 22 deaths reported on Friday, taking the total to 4,721 cases and 236 deaths. The State has now recorded increases of 300 or more cases for three consecutive days. Friday’s 22 deaths was the highest single-day toll due to COVID-19 in the State so far. In the midst of rising cases and deaths, emerged a new trend of higher recoveries as the State recorded 123 discharges on Friday, its highest single-day recovery count, while the total number of discharged patients was 736. There are 3,713 patients undergoing treatment at various places in the State and their condition is reported to be stable, while 36 others are critically ill and have been put on ventilator support for breathing. As per the health department’s figures, so far 68,774 samples have been tested in the State. Ahmedabad continues to remain grim. The city saw its steepest spike of 267 new infections and 16 deaths on Friday. The death toll in the city has now jumped to 165 while number of cases have reached 3,293 and recovery is at 399. For the last three days, the city has been adding 200 plus cases, making it one of the worst affected cities in the country and the city with the second highest number of cases and deaths after Mumbai. Ahmedabad accounts for almost 70% of the total casualties and cases of COVID-19 in Gujarat. After Ahmedabad is Surat with 644 cases and 26 deaths while Vadodara’s numbers stand at 308 cases and 21 deaths. Entire Gujarat’s death ratio is almost 5%, which is even higher than Maharashtra’s ratio. Maharashtra is the worst affected State with more than 10,000 cases. Cases in other districts Besides Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara, deaths have been reported from other places like Bhavnagar 5, Anand 4, Panchmahal 3 and Bharuch and Gandhinagar 2 each. According to medical experts, Ahmedabad will likely see an exponential rise in cases and fatalities in the coming days as the infection has penetrated in highly congested and slum pockets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/gujarat-sees-22-deaths-326-fresh-cases/article31485650.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Economists call for urban jobs scheme||A new Urban Employment Guarantee Act is needed to complement the existing rural jobs scheme during the ongoing COVID-19 crisis, said a group of development activists and economists. In a letter sent to Rural Development Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, they have asked for MGNREGA funding to be increased to at least Rs. 1 lakh crore for the next three months, noting that the scheme already has the infrastructure in place to respond to the unprecedented unemployment crisis. The group has also recommended relaxation of the 100 days of work per household limit, suggesting that all individuals who wish to work under the scheme be given employment for as many days as needed, up to the full year. Given that a large number of migrants returning from cities to villages as a result of the lockdown would desperately need work but may not have MGNREGA job cards, the group suggested that anyone wanting work should be given a job, with card registration made available on site. Signatories to the letter include economists Jean Dreze, Jayati Ghosh and Reetika Khera, activists Aruna Roy and Nikhil Dey of the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan and Annie Raja of the National Federation of Indian Women, as well as Swaraj Party president Yogendra Yadav. The economists also asked for full minimum wages in cash, as well as dry rations, to be paid to workers within seven days rather than the current 15-day limit, so that the scheme can meet the needs of people. Biometric based payment systems should be avoided for now, they said, noting that bank account payments would only cause overcrowding in rural banks. People prevented from working during the pandemic due to medical advisories including those aged over 50, disabled and sick, and pregnant women, should be paid full wages for the duration of the restrictions, the group recommended. The signatories also urged that rather than stopping MGNREGA work throughout districts declared to be in the red zone, decisions should instead be taken block-wise. With regard to an urban jobs programme, the letter’s signatories noted that a significant number of migrants were returning to small towns and had lost their livelihoods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/economists-call-for-urban-jobs-scheme/article31485622.ece
02 May 2020||KOLKATA,||‘Centre’s list of red zones in Bengal erroneous’||The West Bengal government on Friday said that the Centre’s classification of ten districts in the State as red zones is erroneous. As per the Centre’s criteria, the number of red zone districts should be four, not ten. “This is an erroneous assessment. Based on the current parameters of Government of India for the categorisation of areas for COVID-19, the districts [that] are in red zone are only four — Kolkata, Howrah, North 24 Parganas and Purba Medinipur,” State Health Secretary Vivek Kumar said in a letter to Preeti Sudan, Secretary-Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. In the presentation made by the Cabinet Secretary during a video conference with Chief Secretaries, and in Ms. Sudan’s letter to Chief Secretaries on Thursday, West Bengal is stated to have ten districts in red zones. Mr. Kumar’s letter says that in certain districts like Kalimpong, which are included in the red zone, the last coronavirus case was recorded as early as April 2. In Jalpaiguri, also included in the red zone list, the last positive case was recorded on April 4, and similarly in Murshidabad on April 16. 52% in Kolkata There are eight green zone districts in West Bengal where no COVID-19 cases have been recorded so far. Mr. Kumar in his letter also pointed out that there had been 489 COVID-19 cases in Kolkata till April 30. According to the communication received till April 30, there have been 931 cases in West Bengal, and Kolkata alone accounts for 52% of all cases. After Kolkata, it is Howrah, with 176 cases, that has the second highest number of COVID-19 cases. Reacting to the Health Ministry’s list, the Trinamool Congress leadership said it was an attempt on the part of the Centre to malign the State government. “The sole aim of the BJP-led Union government is to malign Bengal and its efforts to tackle the pandemic. How can the Centre, without taking the state government on board, declare 10 districts as hotspots? This is nothing but a violation of the federal structure,” senior TMC leader and Rajya Sabha MP Santanu Sen said. ( With PTI input)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centres-list-of-red-zones-in-bengal-erroneous/article31485623.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,||WHO raises concern over use of BCG vaccine||In a letter published in The Lancet on April 30, World Health Organization (WHO) Director-General Tedros A Ghebreyesus and others highlight a few critical issues over the use of BCG vaccine for COVID-19. They underscore the importance of randomised controlled trials of the vaccine to understand its safety and efficacy before using it on healthcare workers. Randomised controlled trials are under way in the Netherlands and Australia to find out whether the vaccine can reduce the incidence and severity of COVID-19 among healthcare workers. The authors do state that the BCG vaccine, which “enhances the innate immune response to subsequent infections, might reduce viral load after SARS-CoV-2 exposure, with a consequent less severe COVID-19 and more rapid recovery”. A study, posted on March 28 in a preprint server medRxiv, found an association between countries that have a universal BCG vaccination and reduced coronavirus cases — and even deaths. Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed and published in scientific journals. The authors cite five reasons countries should wait for the results of the BCG vaccine randomised controlled trials. According to them, the association of fewer COVID-19 cases in countries that have a universal BCG vaccination programme is based on population rather than individual data. Second, the beneficial effects of the BCG vaccine given at birth are “unlikely” to reduce the severity of COVID-19 decades later. “One reason for this is that the beneficial off-target effects of the BCG vaccine might be altered by subsequent administration of a different vaccine,” they write. Third, there is a possibility, even if remote, that the BCG vaccine ramps up the immune system leading to exacerbation of COVID-19 in a small population of patients with a severe disease. It is already known that the virus induces cytokine storm in some patients, leading to further complications — and even death. Fourth, if not effective against the novel coronavirus, BCG vaccination is likely to give a false sense of security to people, especially during the pandemic. And finally, using the vaccine without evidence of its benefits could further jeopardise vaccine supply, which is already short, to protect children against disseminated TB in high-risk countries. “BCG given early in life does improve the immune system. The vaccine can prevent intracellular infections. So the protective effect of BCG against COVID-19 is a biologically plausible hypothesis,” Prof. Gagandeep Kang, executive director of the Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), Faridabad, had earlier told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/who-raises-concern-over-use-of-bcg-vaccine/article31485653.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||MHA order on inter-State movement a cruel joke: Cong.||The Congress on Friday accused the Union government of ‘mercilessly’ abandoning the migrant labourers and asserted that the Home Ministry’s order allowing the inter-State movement of those stranded was a ‘cruel joke and non-starter’. The party said the Centre should have provided Rs. 2,500 crore to the State governments to facilitate a smooth movement of workers. In a series of tweets, former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram offered his suggestions to the government as well. He noted that the government had listened to some of the suggestions of the Congress. There were more that ‘deserve to be accepted by the government forthwith’, he said. “Make cash transfers to the bottom half of the families (13 crore families). Provide financial assistance package including wage assistance and credit guarantee to MSMEs. Prepare Exit strategy after current lockdown ends on May 3 and announce a Paycheque Protection Programme for low-salaried tax payers,” he said. Singhvi’s charge Addressing an online press conference, Rajya Sabha member and party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the Central government’s approach towards the poor was reflected by the ‘mismanagement’ of migrant labourers. “The Centre had mercilessly, cruelly and without a second thought abandoned the entire category of migrant labour,” he alleged. Mr. Singhvi claimed that U.P. and Bihar alone expected about 42 lakh workers from different parts of the country. Bihar alone expected an estimated 25 lakh workers from States as far as Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra and they cannot be transported unless special trains were pressed into service. “Is this a solution or madness.” Why the Centre could not arrange special trains earlier like it did with special flights, he asked. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also complained that Railway Minister Piyush Goyal didn’t even take his call to discuss the issue of moving stranded people of West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mha-order-on-inter-state-movement-a-cruel-joke-cong/article31485620.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Respond to anti-CAA activist’s appeal, court tells Delhi govt.||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Delhi government to respond to a plea made by anti-Citizenship Amendment Act activist Sharjeel Imam to club the five sedition cases registered against him in different States and to have them investigated by a single agency. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan gave the Delhi government 10 days to file a response even as it said there was nothing wrong in the registration of an FIR if the police had information about a cognisable offence. Senior advocate Siddharth Dave, for Mr. Imam, referred to how the top court had urgently heard the case of journalist Arnab Goswami even as it stayed all multiple FIRs against him except for the one in Nagpur, which was shifted to Mumbai. Mr. Dave asked why his client, whose personal liberty was also at stake, should not get a similar relief. Mr. Dave, in a hearing through videoconferencing, said FIRs were registered against his client in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh. He has been booked under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Mr. Imam was arrested by Delhi police’s Crime Branch on January 28 from Jehanabad in Bihar for allegedly making inflammatory speeches in Jamia Milia Islamia and Aligarh, during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The PhD student at the JNU’s Centre for Historical Studies has been booked on sedition and other charges after videos of his speeches were circulated on social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/respond-to-anti-caa-activists-appeal-court-tells-delhi-govt/article31485604.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.P., Bihar migrants can get rations in other States too||Uttar Pradesh and Bihar joined the Centre’s ration card portability scheme on International Labour Day, offering some hope that their huge migrant worker populations can start accessing subsidised and free foodgrains in many of the States where they have been left stranded by the COVID-19 lockdown. Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu also joined the national cluster under the Food Ministry’s One Nation One Ration Card scheme on Thursday, taking the total number of integrated States and Union Territories to 17, according to a Food Ministry statement. The other States which are already part of the national cluster are Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Telangana and Tripura. June 1 deadline All remaining States and Union Territories are supposed to come on board by June 1. However, the integration of States is running behind schedule, with a number of remaining States yet to complete installation of electronic point of sale machines at all ration shops and seeding of Aadhaar data into their NFSA databases. In a mid-April interview, Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan told The Hindu that “the project has been halted now because of the pandemic”. However, on April 28, the Supreme Court directed the Centre to consider whether it was possible to implement the scheme, keeping in mind the plight of migrants left stranded by the pandemic. The addition of five new States potentially means nearly 60 crore beneficiaries of the National Food Security Act (NFSA) can now use their ration cards, issued in their home States, to pick up their entitled quota of foodgrains from any ration shop of their choice in these 17 States and Union Territories. However, the Centre has qualified that actual implementation is still dependent on “on-field readiness”, so it remains to be seen when workers start using the facility. Also, Aadhaar is a precondition for availing this facility as the biometric ID is used to ensure that beneficiaries are not claiming foodgrains in multiple States, above their entitled quota. The Food Ministry has earlier clarified that a single family holding one ration card can split the locations from where they pick up their ration. If one migrant worker from the family is in a distant city while the rest of the family remains in their home village, both can avail themselves of a 50% portion of the ration allocation in the two different locations by providing ration card and Aadhaar authentication. The Food Ministry has activated the facility for web-services for inter-State transactions and monitoring through central dashbooards with immediate effect. All 17 States have been requested to formally start seamless portability operations in a single cluster with effect from May 1, “or at the earliest, depending on their on-field readiness”, said the statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-bihar-migrants-can-get-rations-in-other-states-too/article31485616.ece
02 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||COVID-19 cases resurface in ‘corona-free’ districts of U.P.||COVID-19 cases are resurfacing in districts declared “corona-free” by the Uttar Pradesh government. On April 22, the Health Department declared that with the inclusion of Pratapgarh district, the total number of districts that had recovered from COVID-19, those that have not reported any new cases over a certain period of time, had increased to 11. These “corona-mukt” districts, as the government called them, were Lakhimpur Kheri, Pilibhit, Bareilly, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Shahjahanpur, Hathras, Maharajganj, Barabanki, Kaushambi and Prayagraj. However, the figure has dropped since then as some of these districts, including Prayagraj and Pratapgarh, reported fresh cases. On April 30, the number of districts that now have zero active cases stood at seven. These were Kheri, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Hathras, Barabanki, Kaushambi and Bhadohi. But on May 1, Friday, the number further fell to six. These were Lakhimpur Kheri, Hardoi, Shahjahanpur, Barabanki, Kaushambi and Kasganj. Hathras and Bhadohi, which had been declared free of COVID-19 returned on Thursday to the infected list, as they reported one fresh case each, as per the health department data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-19-cases-resurface-in-corona-free-districts-of-up/article31485652.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Maharashtra Legislative Council elections to be held on May 21||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Friday decided to hold elections to nine vacant Maharashtra Legislative Council seats on May 21, after receiving letters from the State Governor and the Chief Secretary on the feasibility of conducting the polls during the pandemic. The nomination process will be from May 4 to 11, the last date for withdrawal of candidature is May 14 and polling and counting on May 21. The ECI’s decision comes just in time for Uddhav Thackeray, who was sworn in as Chief Minister on November 28 last, giving him six months to become a member of the Assembly or the Council in order to continue in the post. The ECI’s schedule for the polls says the election process will be completed by May 26, a day ahead of the May 27 deadline for Mr. Thackeray. In a statement, the ECI said it reviewed the feasibility of conducting biennial elections to the nine seats that fell vacant on April 24. Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora joined the meeting with Election Commissioners Ashok Lavasa and Sushil Chandra through videoconferencing from the United States, where he is since travel restrictions were imposed to control COVID-19 in March. The ECI decided on April 3 to defer the elections to the nine seats each in Maharashtra and Bihar councils due to the lockdown that followed the pandemic. The Commission said it received a letter on Thursday from the Chief Secretary highlighting the steps taken to control the pandemic and reiterating that the State government thought the polls could be conducted safely. The State government had assured the Commission that it was fully committed to ensuring that the elections are held in total hygienic conditions with social distancing measures and other conditions imposed by the competent authorities, the ECI said. Other elections that were deferred, including to the Rajya Sabha and the Bihar Legislative Council, would be reviewed next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-legislative-council-elections-to-be-held-on-may-21/article31485612.ece
02 May 2020||KOTA,||Spirited legislator backs tipplers’ joke||If alcohol-based sanitisers can kill the coronavirus on hands, there is no reason why alcoholic drinks may not kill the virus in tipplers’ throats, Congress MLA from Sangod Assembly constituency in Kota district Bharat Singh Kundanpur has proposed, seeking the reopening of liquor shops in Rajasthan. Mr. Kundanpur wrote in all seriousness to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday. The move would not only save alcoholics from dying of spurious liquor consumption, but also earn much-needed revenue for the State in a lockdown-hit economy, he stated. Liquor is a much-maligned commodity, Mr. Kundanpur said in a matter-of-fact manner. When alcohol can wash coronavirus off hands, it will dislodge the virus from booze guzzlers’ throats as well, he reasoned. Mr. Kundanpur is not alone in urging Mr. Gehlot to open liquor shops in the State. Similar appeal His Communist Party of India-Marxist (CPI-M) colleague Balwan Singh Punia, MLA from the Bhadra Assembly segment, had made a similar plea to the CM in early April. He, too, had pointed out that the closure of alcohol shops had led to spurious liquor businesses flourishing, affecting people’s health. Appealing fervently, Mr. Kundanpur referred to an incident in Halena village in Bharatpur district, where two persons lost their eyesight and after consuming country-made liquor. He also pointed out that Rajasthan’s target of generating Rs. 12,500 crore revenue from liquor sale in 2020-21 appeared to have become a distant dream now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/spirited-legislator-backs-tipplers-joke/article31485630.ece
02 May 2020||PUNE,||Virus claims 26 more lives in Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported a record single-day surge of a staggering 1,008 COVID-19 positive cases as the State’s cumulative tally crossed the 11,000-mark to touch 11,506 cases, while 26 deaths took the State’s death toll to 485. As per figures from the Health Department, Pune district reported 11 deaths, while Mumbai city reported six, including that of a resident from Uttar Pradesh. Three deaths were reported from Jalgaon district, while one death each was reported from Thane, Bhiwandi and Sindhudurg in the Konkan, and from the Nanded, Parbhani and Aurangabad districts in the Marathwada region. Mumbai city reported its highest single-day surge in new positive cases, recording a significant 751 cases, as the city’s cumulative tally soared to 7,812 cases with 295 fatalities thus far. “A total of 106 persons were discharged today, taking the cumulative discharged till date to 1,879,” said State Surveillance Officer Pradeep Awate. Pune district’s death toll stands at 99, while Jalgaon district, which has thus far reported a relatively low figure of 44 positive cases, now has a high death toll figure of 12. High risk “58% of the deaths reported had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” informed Dr. Awate. Till date, 1,45,798 samples have been tested in Maharashtra, of which 1,34,244 (nearly 90%) have returned negative, while 10,498 have tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virus-claims-26-more-lives-in-maharashtra/article31485635.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||MoD for contributing 1-day salary every month to PM-CARES Fund||After the contribution of one-day salary of all the employees of the Ministry of Defence (MoD) to the PM CARES Fund to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, a proposal has been moved to contribute one-day salary every month of this financial year to the Fund, defence sources said. “The proposal is to deduct one day’s salary every month this financial year and deposit it in the PM CARES Fund. The circular on this will be issued in a day or two. This will be purely on a voluntary basis,” a defence source said on Friday. End of March, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh approved a proposal for the contribution of the MoD employees’ one-day salary, which the Ministry had stated “around Rs. 500 crore will be collectively” from the three Services, Defence Public Sector Undertakings (DPSU) and others, to the PM-CARES Fund . The contribution is voluntary and those desirous of opting out will be exempted, the MoD had noted. In addition, the DPSU’s and the Ordnance Factory Board have made a contribution from the Corporate Social Responsibility funds. Earlier, the Finance Ministry issued a circular dated April 17 on contribution of a day’s salary every month of all its employees to the fund till March 2021. It stated that “any officer or staff having objection to it may intimate drawing and disbursing officer, Department of Revenue, in writing...” However, this was modified in an order on April 29 that said anyone willing to contribute a day’s salary every month has to write to the drawing and disbursing officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mod-for-contributing-1-day-salary-every-month-to-pm-cares-fund/article31485639.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Only one key LeT operative in Pak. jail’||Only one of the key terrorists of the banned Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and its front, Jamat-ud Dawah (JuD), who were earlier arrested in Pakistan ahead of the crucial Financial Action Task Force (FATF) review meetings, is currently lodged in jail, according to Indian enforcement agencies. “Arrests of several top LeT/JuD operatives were shown by Pakistan before the meetings in October 2019 and February this year. However, according to our information, now only one of them — Qari Yaqoob Sheikh — is lodged in Adyala Jail [Central Jail-Rawalpindi],” said an official. LeT chief Hafiz Saeed and co-founder Amir Hamza are currently said to be operating from their homes in Lahore. The agencies are of the view that Pakistani authorities are exploring various ways to conceal the ground realities and instead, come up with presentable figures before the FATF on the action taken against terror funding, before the review of its performance in June. In February, the international watchdog decided to keep it on its grey list. Following pressure from the global community to crack down on the terrorists, Pakistan had admitted that hundreds of them were operating from its soil and that strong action was being taken against them. “Pakistan’s National Counter Terrorism Authority (NCTA) maintains a list of such elements. However, according to the recent media reports, about 1,800 names have been removed from the list since March. In the past 18 months, as many as 3,800 of the 7,600 names have been struck off,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/only-one-key-let-operative-in-pak-jail/article31485601.ece
02 May 2020||Srinagar,||CAT J&K Bench will hear service matters: Centre||The Centre on Friday clarified that all service matters of the employees of the Central government and the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh will be heard by the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) Bench of Jammu and Kashmir. “Neither the petitioner nor the lawyer needs to go to Chandigarh for filing a petition or appearing before the tribunal. The term ‘Chandigarh circuit’ is being misinterpreted to mean that the petitioner or the lawyer would have to go to Chandigarh, which is not so,” the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) said in a statement. The clarification came a day after lawyers and regional parties opposed the shifting of service matters, now pending before Jammu and Kashmir courts, to the CAT, Chandigarh. In an order issued by the DoPT on April 29, the CAT, Chandigarh, was granted jurisdiction of the Benches in Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Punjab and in the Union Territories of Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. The registration of cases can also be done either online or at the CAT’s secretariat office to be set up locally. “Disposal of cases through the CAT in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir will ensure fair and objective delivery of justice,” the statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cat-jk-bench-will-hear-service-matters-centre/article31485605.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||130 districts in red zone in lockdown extension||Ms. Sudan said that in buffer zones, extensive surveillance through monitoring of ILI/SARI (influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infections) cases had to be taken up. “The containment zones in districts have to be delineated based on mapping of cases and contacts, geographical dispersion of cases and contacts, areas with well-demarcated perimeters and enforceability.” Ms. Sudan said districts were earlier designated as hotspots/red zones, orange zones and green zones, based on the cumulative cases and the doubling rate. But with the recovery rate going up, the new classification is multi-factorial, including the incidence of cases, the doubling rate, the extent of testing and surveillance and feedback. In the list, all the 11 districts in Delhi have been classified under the red zone hotspots. Uttar Pradesh has 19 districts in the red zone, Maharashtra 14, Tamil Nadu 12, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh nine each. Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Ladakh, Meghalaya, Puducherry and Tripura have no red zone districts. Speaking at the daily press briefing, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said the country will need to get used to a new normal in terms of maintaining social distancing norms. Giving details of the availability of essential medical equipments such as PPEs, mask, gloves and ventilators, Chairman of the Empowered Group-3 P.D. Vaghela said given the high global demand, India is promoting domestic manufacturing and imports are being resorted to only if absolutely necessary. He noted that the Health Ministry indicated a projected demand of 75,000 ventilators till June. He said, “The present availability is about 19,398. An order for 60,884 ventilators have been placed wherein 59,884 ventilators have been ordered to domestic manufacturers and imports are to the tune of 1,000 ventilators.” On Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), Dr. Vaghela said the total projected demand of PPE kits till June was estimated to be Rs. 2.01 crore. He added that 107 domestic manufacturers had been identified and facilitated, who have raised their daily production to about 1.87 lakh such kits. Dr. Vaghela said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has now reached a per day testing level of about 70,000 and has conducted more than 9 lakh tests so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/130-districts-in-red-zone-in-lockdown-extension/article31485610.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||Project shows govt’s warped view: Congress||The Congress criticised the government for moving ahead with its plan to construct a new Parliament building at a time when the country is battling the COVID-19 pandemic. It showed the government’s “absurd priorities” at a time when the country was facing a health crisis and hunger looming large due to the extended lockdown, the party said. The Central Vista Committee, at a meeting on April 23, approved the construction of a new Parliament building, The Hindu reported on Friday. The construction is a part of the larger revamp of the entire 3-km Central Vista from Rashtrapati Bhavan till India Gate, proposed by the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry and its construction agency, the CPWD. “It shows the warped, distorted and completely absurd priorities of this government. Bang in the middle of COVID-19, they are fast-tracking, hot-footing the project,” Congress national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Abhishek Manu Singhvi said. ‘Hobby horse’ Mr. Singhvi called it a “hobby horse” of the government. “It is the intention to leave in a personal manner your own stamp, by littering the green verdant landscape of Rajpath with new buildings in the name of modernisation. A more horrible attack on the heart and pysche of Delhi cannot be imagined,” he said. Nearly, 14 lakh ventilators could be purchased with this money and even the migrant workers stranded across various cities, staring at hunger, could be, if needed, flown back in planes using this money. “We would earnestly with folded hands urge the Supreme Court to pay attention to this,” he added. Jairam Ramesh’s plea Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh, wrote to House Chairman Venkaiah Naidu, urging him to oppose the project. The MP Local Area Development fund had been frozen for two years. The dearness allowance of government employees had been deferred till mid-2021 and there were reports that the defence expenditure too shall be substantially cut. At such a time, Mr. Ramesh wrote, “the Central Vista Redevelopment Project, of which you have been a strong votary, continues unmindful of the financial crisis staring the government in its face and unmindful of all objections that have been raised against it.” Mr. Ramesh urged Mr Naidu to speak out and support a freeze on the Central Vista Redevelopment Project. In a tweet earlier, Mr. Ramesh said that “the many ‘Modi Mahals’ can and must wait!”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/project-shows-govts-warped-view-congress/article31485607.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown till May 17; curbs stay on transport||The National Directive for COVID-19 management said shops selling liquor, gutkha, and tobacco will be allowed to open in orange, green zones and rural areas by maintaining six-feet distance and ensuring no more than five persons are present at a time. Schools, colleges, hotels and restaurants, cinema halls, malls, gymnasiums and all kinds of social, political, cultural, religious gatherings remain prohibited. The MHA said movement of individuals, for all non-essential activities, shall remain strictly prohibited between 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. in all zones. Green zones are districts with either zero confirmed cases till date; or, no confirmed case in the last 21 days. Red zones are defined as per total number of active cases, doubling rate of confirmed cases, extent of testing and surveillance feedback from the districts. The districts, which are neither defined as red nor green, shall be classified as orange zones. According to the Union Health Ministry, there are 130 red zone districts, 284 orange zone districts and 319 green zone districts. “However, States/ UTs, based on their assessment of the situation, and with the primary objective of keeping the spread of COVID-19 in check, may allow only select activities from out of the permitted activities, with such restrictions as felt necessary,” MHA said. “In all zones, persons above 65 years of age, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 years, shall stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes,” MHA said. All private offices in red zone can operate with up to 33% strength as per requirement. All Government offices shall function with senior officers of the level of Deputy Secretary and above at full strength, and the remaining staff attending up to 33% as per requirement, MHA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-till-may-17-curbs-stay-on-transport/article31485608.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Railways run ‘Shramik Specials’ to ferry stranded||The five ‘Shramik Special’ trains planned are: Nasik (Maharashtra) to Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh), Aluva (Kerala) to Bhubaneswar (Odisha), Nasik (Maharashtra) to Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh), Jaipur (Rajasthan) to Patna (Bihar) and Kota (Rajasthan) to Hatia (Jharkhand). A Railways official stressed that these were special trains planned for people identified and registered by the State governments, and that the Railways would not issue any tickets to any individual or group. “We will allow only those passengers to board whom State government officials will bring to Railway Stations,” said the official, speaking on the condition of anonymity. “These special trains will be run from point to point on the request of both the concerned State governments as per the standard protocols for sending and receiving such stranded persons,” the Indian Railways said in an official statement. The passengers would have to be screened by the sending States and only those found asymptomatic would be allowed to travel. In addition, the sending State governments would have to arrange to bring these people in batches in sanitized buses, following social distancing norms and other precautions. “It will be mandatory for every passenger to wear face cover. Meals and drinking water would be provided to the passengers by the sending States at the originating station.” A Railway official said the fare for these special trains would be based on the fare for Sleeper Mail Express trains, plus Rs. 30 superfast charge and an additional charge of Rs. 20. This includes meals and drinking water for long-distance trains. However, passengers are not required to buy the ticket. The fares would be paid by the State governments. The Railways said the cancellation of all passenger train services would be extended till May 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-run-shramik-specials-to-ferry-stranded/article31485613.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||Baghel urges PM for train to ferry migrants||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to run a special train to bring back over 1.6 lakh migrant workers of the State stranded in various cities. In a letter, Mr. Baghel said that taking care of the economic and mental condition of these workers and their homecoming was important. He said the Centre’s decision to impose the lockdown helped in controlling the spread of COVID-19 in the State. Mr. Baghel said Chhattisgarh was coordinating the return of the migrants with the other States and a plan was chalked out to bring them back by buses. However, it would be difficult to arrange for buses to transport such a large number of workers. “In the present situation, point-to-point special trains could be run to ensure the safety, convenience and hygiene of these workers. The Chhattisgarh government has made the request to Union Home Minister Amit Shah. I request you to take a quick decision on operating a special train...,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/baghel-urges-pm-for-train-to-ferry-migrants/article31485625.ece
02 May 2020||Srinagar,||25 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in J&K||Jammu and Kashmir has reported 25 fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally to 639. Government spokesman Rohit Kansal said the Union Territory also recorded 31 cases of recovery. “It is the first time the number of recoveries overtook the number of those who tested positive in a day.” The total number of patients who have recovered now stands at 247, including 51 from the Jammu division and 196 from the Kashmir division. The official said that of the 25 fresh cases, 12 were reported from Anantnag, six from Kupwara, two each from Srinagar and Shopian and one each from Budgam, Bandipora and Baramulla. In Hirpora, a hotspot in Shopian district, two fresh cases pushed the total number to 49. “Hirpora saw an exponential increase in the number of cases since the first was recorded on April 8. A total of 74 cases has been reported from the entire Shopian district,” officials said. Bandipora district topped, with 128 positive cases. In Jammu division, all 26 patients have recovered in Jammu district, officials said. In Pulwama, five more villages were declared red zones and surrounding villages buffer zones on Friday. This comes with seven fresh cases reported after no case emerged for a month. In all, 17 villages have been declared red zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/25-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-jk/article31485633.ece
02 May 2020||HAMIRUR,||U.P. man cycles 100 km all alone for his wedding||Undeterred by the coronavirus lockdown, a 23-year-old man in Uttar Pradesh kept his marriage date even if he had to pedal some 100 km to reach his bride’s home, all alone — no family members in tow. Kalku Prajapati of Pauthiya village in Hamirpur district was waiting till the last minute for permission from the administration for his marriage on April 25. But on finding that it was not coming, he decided to go all alone on his bicycle to his bride Rinki’s place at Puniya village in neighbouring Mahoba district, 230 km south of Lucknow. “We were not getting permission from the local police for the marriage. I was left with no option but to go on cycle, all alone, to reach there,” Mr. Prajapati, who studied till Class X and who is a farmer by profession, said. “Those people [in-laws] had also got wedding cards printed and were ready for the wedding on the decided date,” Mr. Prajapati told PTI on the phone. “Though I have a motorcycle, I have no driving licence. Cycle was most handy,” Mr. Prajapati said. “With a handkerchief around my mouth to save myself from any infection, I set off in the morning in jeans and a T-shirt.” Interestingly, the wedding was performed in a village temple with the bride and the groom posing before the camera in their normal attire, with mouths covered. The return journey after the marriage was even more arduous for Mr. Prajapati as he had to carry his newly wed wife on pillion. “I pedalled all the way back with the double load. Even in my dream, I had not thought that my legs will have such pain. I could not sleep and had to take pills to ease it,” he recalled.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-man-cycles-100-km-all-alone-for-his-wedding/article31485640.ece
02 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha veterinarians train to man testing labs||As Odisha’s graph of people testing positive for COVID-19 is sharply rising, the State government has been ramping up trained manpower to tackle the pandemic — the latest addition is the engagement of a large group of veterinarians. Although involving veterinarians in critical clinical functions at peak of this pandemic sounds strange, top healthcare functionaries see no contradiction. Trained on par “Veterinarians handling microbiology, virology and biotechnology in veterinary science are at par with scientists managing laboratories for humans. Pathogens of human and animals are having not much difference. Moreover, the source of coronavirus is not human, but animal,” said Dr. Jayant Panda, a critical care physician and State’s nodal officer on training. “A crash course has been prepared for microbiologists and virologists working under veterinary department. They are being trained on pathology of COVID-19. This will help us in man management in laboratories when the pandemic situation would worsen,” said Dr. Panda. When veterinary scientists are adept at colleting swab from different animals, there is no reason why they cannot take swab and blood samples from humans, he asserted. ICMR guidance As many as 97 veterinary experts have undergone training conducted by Dr. Panda and specialists from Regional Medical Research Centre, an ICMR institute. Stating that the capacity building is a continuous process, Dr. Panda said, “We have already trained 1.5 lakh people including doctors, medical students, nurses and pathologists and made them ready to tackle COVID-19 pandemic in the State.” Besides, members of NGOs, students, Scout and Guide cadets, sanitation workers and other support staff have been trained as to how to conduct themselves during the emerging crisis and save themselves from infections. “We are preparing for a scenario when more than 50,000 people will be infected and we would require proportionate number of manpower to serve them,” he said. According to Director of Medical Education and Training, C.B.K. Mohanty, the State government has also been proactively preparing technical manpower to face the crisis. “We have a sizeable number of government doctors. Besides, private health institutions have been requested to keep their doctors on alert so that they can join the workforce at short notice. The government had also put out an advertisement inviting private and retired health professionals to enroll for COVID-19 response,” said Mr. Mohanty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-veterinarians-train-to-man-testing-labs/article31485645.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kuwait offers to airlift stranded Indian citizens||The Government of Kuwait on Friday said it was willing to evacuate a large number of workers and illegal migrants from India. who are stranded in its territory, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In a detailed press statement, the Embassy of Kuwait said the Ambassador of Kuwait Jassem Al Najem has conveyed to India his government’s plans to begin the operations after the nationwide lockdown is lifted. “The Ambassador highlighted Kuwait’s efforts to evacuate all illegal workers of different nationalities, including Indian nationals who were granted general amnesty by the Kuwaiti government and offered to fetch them back to their respective countries free of cost and by its own civil airlines,” said the embassy in a press note. The Ministry of External Affairs is yet to respond to the Kuwaiti proposal. The proposal is the second from a Gulf country. A similar idea was presented by the Ambassador of the United Arab Emirates Ahmed Al Banna on April 10, proposing the evacuation of several thousand Indian nationals from his country. Relief for illegal workers The Kuwaiti proposal, however, is significant as it states clearly that the evacuees will include illegal immigrants from India who were found to be residing in Kuwait. “Kuwait is looking forward to work with the Indian government after the complete lockdown ends on May 3, 2020, in the backdrop of coronavirus pandemic and extraordinary situations the world is witnessing,” the press release said, quoting Mr. Al Najem’s communication with the Indian authorities. The Hindu has reported that India has been planning large-scale evacuations from the Gulf region after the lifting of the lockdown. Wide-bodied aircraft and naval ships have been kept ready for the planned operations. India’s ties with Kuwait came under a cloud over the last fortnight as a social media campaign began in the Gulf state after a March 2 official communication of the country urged international intervention to safeguard the rights of the Muslim community in India. Officials on both sides reiterated their commitment to the principle of non-interference in internal affairs. Kuwait has several hundred Indian nationals who have been infected by COVID-19. New Delhi had sent a team of doctors and experts earlier to assist Kuwait in providing treatment to the Indian nationals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kuwait-offers-to-airlift-stranded-indian-citizens/article31485647.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Contentment & happiness||All beings seek happiness, but many are misled to believe that the external world with its glitter and attractions is the source of it. This is in spite of the fact that the world is a place full of sorrow and uncertainties. Krishna tells Arjuna that the mind of an unsteady person where innumerable desires keep arising can never find happiness, whereas the approach of the steady minded Stitaprajna finds peace within himself, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. There are many examples of such strong minded people who have transcended the contradictory pulls of the world and have shown that it is possible to find happiness even in this ephemeral world by distancing oneself from it. It is said that the great music genius and composer Saint Thyagaraja was once invited by the king of Thanjavur to attend the royal court. But he rejected the invitation without hesitation. He knew only too well that the promise of the life of comfort in the palace meant subservience to the king at the expense of the personal freedom and joy he experienced in the worship of Lord Rama. He was not prepared for this. It is said the famous song ‘Nidhi Chala Sukama’ was sung in this context and reflects his spirit of vairagya and bhakti. Sastras assign the greatest importance to righteous living. But in several trying contexts, even the righteous minded find it difficult to distinguish dharma from adharma. The spirit of dharma is buried well within each being and it is important that it is discovered. It is generally accepted that when assailed by doubts about following the right path, the wise fall back on the promptings of the inner self and mind, which is accepted as the final authority. In the pure mind, truth, which confers peace and joy, is reflected clearly without distortion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/contentment-happiness/article31485643.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||SC comes to the aid of Bhushan||The Supreme Court on Friday granted noted civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan protection from arrest in an FIR registered against him in Gujarat in connection with his tweet on the re-telecast of epics Ramayana and Mahabharata amid the COVID-19 lockdown. A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and Sanjiv Khanna, in the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, issued notice to the Gujarat Police and listed the case after two weeks. The FIR was lodged by former Army personnel Jaidev Rajnikant Joshi at Rajkot in Gujarat. In his complaint, Joshi had accused Bhushan of using word ‘opium’ for Ramayana and Mahabharata in a tweet on March 28 which hurt the sentiments of many Hindu people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-comes-to-the-aid-of-bhushan/article31485602.ece
02 May 2020||Mumbai,||State caps hospital costs||In a first, the Maharashtra government has capped the cost of treatment in private hospitals for people who are not covered under insurance. For those who have insurance, the capped prices will come into force after they have exhausted the cover. The decision comes after several patients suffering from COVID-19 and other ailments highlighted the exorbitant cost at private hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-caps-hospital-costs/article31485631.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Subdued prayers||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/subdued-prayers/article31485638.ece
02 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Parents miss son’s last rites over pass delay||Kamala Das and husband Subhash Chandra Das on Friday received the Meghalaya government’s approval to travel from State capital Shillong to their home town Hojai in central Assam. But the curfew pass came too late — after their son was cremated. The couple were on a visit to their ailing daughter in Shillong more than a month ago but were stranded after the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown began from March 25. While in Shillong, the health of their 34-year-old son Deepak deteriorated. The couple applied for a curfew pass on April 29 but it did not arrive. They wrote another online application on April 30, this time informing the authorities about their son’s death along with a copy of his death certificate. “A daughter of a film star [Rishi Kapoor] quickly got permission to travel but an ordinary couple had to wait until their son died,” Shillong-based social activist Arvind Yadav said. He added that the pass was finally issued after the intervention of Meghalaya Health Minister. Officials claimed some applications take time because of several cases of travel permits obtained for medical emergencies being misused. “How can they suspect medical certificates? Will parents lie about the failing health or death of their son or daughter? I hope no parent on earth has to undergo such an ordeal, not even those who were responsible for ours,” Ms. Das said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/parents-miss-sons-last-rites-over-pass-delay/article31485648.ece
02 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Add Chakmas and Hajongs to relief plan’||The Ministry of Development of the North Eastern Region (DoNER) has directed the Arunachal Pradesh government to include the Chakma and Hajong communities in the COVID-19 relief programme. In a letter to the State’s Chief Secretary, Naresh Kumar, on April 29, DoNER Joint Secretary Rambir Singh cited the complaint by a rights group to Prime Minister’s office for treating the issue as a “matter of priority” in “these difficult times of pandemic”. A majority of the Chakmas and Hajongs living in the State for the last 56 years have been facing massive food shortage because of their exclusion from the relief programme, the Rights and Risks Analysis Group said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/add-chakmas-and-hajongs-to-relief-plan/article31485654.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Sarpanch held for terror links is not with BJP’||A BJP spokesman on Friday said that a former sarpanch, arrested by the National investigation Agency (NIA) in a terror case on Wednesday, had unsuccessfully contested Assembly elections in J&K in 2014 on a party ticket but was suspended for anti-party activities four years later. The suspect, Tariq Ahmad Mir, 36, was arrested by the NIA in a case registered in January. Altaf Thakur, BJP spokesperson in Srinagar told The Hindu that Mir was the party candidate from Wachi Assembly seat in South Kashmir in 2014 but his primary membership was terminated on October 3, 2018.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sarpanch-held-for-terror-links-is-not-with-bjp/article31485609.ece
02 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Centre puts Rs. 2,000 cr. tender floated by TANFINET on hold||The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry has written to Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary calling for an urgent report on the serious allegations levelled by Arappor Iyakkam, a city-based anti-corruption movement, in the Rs. 2,000 crore Bharatnet tender floated by the Tamil Nadu Fibrenet Corporation Ltd. Violations alleged Arappor Iyakkam had lodged a couple of complaints on the alleged violations in the tender conditions by increasing the turnover, experience and tweaking configuration of routers to suit two specific companies and thereby eliminating competition through the issue of a corrigendum to the tender floated by TANFINET and the IT Department on April 15, 2020. The complaint was sent to the authorities concerned in the State and Central government, including the Central Vigilance Commission. Forwarding a copy of the complaint to the Chief Secretary, the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) said disciplinary action may be considered against erring officers where restrictive conditions against domestic manufacturers were imposed in a malafide fashion.  ‘Examine complaint’ The competent authority said the complaint should be examined and corrective action taken if any violation was observed. “Further, it is also requested that a report be furnished to this Department urgently as this issue may be taken up for resolution in the standing Committee constituted under the Order. It may also be noted that the subject procurement will not be finalised till the aforesaid grievance is disposed of by the competent authority,” he said. The contention of Arappor Iyakkam was that the public procurement order had clauses that were unfair and certain tender conditions were intended to eliminate Indian suppliers and bidders thereby favouring foreign companies. Plea to CM “We appeal to the Chief Minister, Chief Secretary and Department of Telecommunications to now act and cancel the Corrigendum which is unfair, arbitrary, malafide and against public interest and take action against the officials responsible for this,” Jayaram Venkatesan, Convenor of Arappor Iyakkam said in a statement.  The DPIIT said disciplinary action may be considered against erring officers where restrictive conditions against domestic manufacturers were imposed in a malafide fashion||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-puts-rs-2000-cr-tender-floated-by-tanfinet-on-hold/article31485810.ece
02 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Exit strategy to be in tune with Centre’s plan||On a day when the Union government announced extension of the COVID-19 lockdown for two more weeks, the State government received a set of recommendations from its 17-member panel on the “exit strategy” from the lockdown. The panel’s chief and Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) S. Krishnan met Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and reportedly briefed him on the broad contours of the findings of the team’s study. Earlier, the team held consultations with experts and other stakeholders. Mr. Palaniswami held consultations with industrialists on April 23 and assured them that he would consider their concerns and requests. A source in the State government said that there won’t be any contradictions between what the Government of India says and the State government does with regard to relaxations. “Even in the April 15 Government of India order, they said that except in containment zones, in hotspot districts too industries can operate,” the source said. “It (T.N. decision) will be within the overall scope (of the GoI’s guidelines). All of GoI’s orders so far have been — this is the outside limit of how far you can go but you need not give as much freedom as we are asking to (but) you cannot go beyond those orders,” he said. States have been empowered to make the conditions more stringent than what they are. Industry sources expect the government to allow industrial activity in a staggered manner even in the red zone, outside of the containment area. In the containment zone, no movement or activity will be allowed, an industry representative in the know of the development said. However, the government source made it clear that lockdown conditions would continue for certain districts such as Chennai and its neighbouring districts. S. Vasudevan, joint secretary, Tamilnadu Small and Tiny Industries Association, suggested that a whole district could not be classified as a red zone. “You have to further divide it ward-wise and only in the containment area the industrial activities should not be allowed. We had suggested that industrial estates which are located outside the city should be allowed to operate.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/exit-strategy-to-be-in-tune-with-centres-plan/article31485837.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospitals filling up fast, bed strength to be increased||Chennai is witnessing a spike in COVID-19 cases over the last one week. On the one hand, the four government hospitals in the city are filling up fast, while on the other, arrangements are on to increase bed strength and simultaneously establish institutional quarantine for stable patients. In the last five days, 558 persons have tested positive in Chennai. The city has four designated COVID-19 facilities in the government sector — Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital and Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. An official of the Health Department said as of now, there was adequate bed capacity for COVID-19 patients in Chennai. “Both RGGGH and Omandurar Hospital have around 150 patients each. Each of these hospitals have a capacity of 500 beds. This means the remaining 350 beds are vacant. KMC has around 200 positive patients. Already, work is under way to create institutional quarantine facilities including at a Er college close to KMC,” he said. The Government Stanley Medical College Hospital has around 175 patients (as on Friday morning). Authorities said they were gradually increasing the bed strength and will have 400 beds in a week. Officials said KMC was running out of beds and also faced a space crunch as it was catering to a large section of regular patients too. ‘KMC at full capacity’ “The hospital receives about 700 outpatients, and an equal number of in-patients everyday. It is running to its full capacity. The hospital has an exclusive burns ward that has to be functional, and is conducting more deliveries than its usual numbers. Its paediatrics unit is also fully functional,” an official said. In fact, a few days ago, 55 positive patients were admitted to the hospital on a single day. This is why segregating COVID-19 patients as per their condition, and keeping beds in hospitals for those who require medical attention is crucial, doctors say. “As per the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines, patients who are asymptomatic, stable, healthy and with no active illness can be shifted to institutional quarantine and kept under the supervision of doctors. We have found that less than 10% of the patients are symptomatic. So, we can safely shift at least 50% of patients to institutional quarantine. This can include persons with no fever and clear chest X-ray or CT scan,” an official explained. This, he added, would make space for patients in need of hospital care, specialist intervention and intensive care.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-hospitals-filling-up-fast-bed-strength-to-be-increased/article31485797.ece
02 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Extended lockdown will help flatten the curve in Tamil Nadu’||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar in an interview with The Hindu on Friday says the extended lockdown will help Tamil Nadu intensify preventive measures in its COVID-19 containment zones. Excerpts: What does the extended lockdown mean for Tamil Nadu in its battle against COVID-19? It will certainly help in a more focused approach in preventing the spread of COVID-19. We will intensify preventive measures in containment areas and create more awareness among people on the safety protocol. Physical distancing is key. I am sure that the extended lockdown will help in flattening the curve in Tamil Nadu. What steps are being taken to increase green zones? Presently, Krishnagiri alone is in the green zone. But many districts have not seen fresh cases for many days. No new case has been reported in The Nilgiris in the last 19 days. Kanniyakumari, Erode and Vellore have not had fresh cases in the last 16, 15 and 13 days, respectively. The focus will be on taking effective measures to prevent the spread and classify these districts as orange and then green zones. There are many more districts where no new cases were reported for over a week. The Chief Minister is also monitoring and reviewing the situation on a daily basis and giving instructions accordingly. What is the status on contact tracing of patients? We have done extensive contact tracing by adopting a scientific approach, as done in some developed countries. Thousands of such contacts were quarantined for a minimum 4 days. What are the common symptoms of patients in Tamil Nadu? How is the prognosis and recovery rate ? At least 90% patients are asymptomatic. Tamil Nadu has the highest recovery rate of 57% in the country. Doctors are saying that the prognosis is very good. Of the 1,800-odd positive patients in government hospitals, not even one is in a ventilator. A majority of them will be discharged soon. Aggressive testing even in green zones is one way of identifying asymptomatic persons. Did the ‘intensified lockdown’ in major cities, including Chennai, help? It was done to prevent the spread of cases, particularly in Chennai. We believe the lockdown helped minimise the spread in red zones. Cases in the last two days in Chennai mostly came from localities that were already declared containment areas. We will be able to bring down the number drastically in a few days. How is the T.N. strategy different from other States? We are at the forefront in testing, treatment protocol and recovery. We account for 14% of the 9.02 lakh samples tested in India. We have tested 165 samples per lakh population — much better than States like Maharashtra, with a higher population. Health professionals are suggesting developing herd immunity… Our approach to managing COVID-19 is guided by the strategy devised by a high-level expert team and infectious diseases experts like Dr. V. Ramasubramanian. At every stage, we consult these experts on how to handle situations. We have made an appeal to senior citizens and people with co-morbid symptoms to strictly remain indoors. That the comprehensive COVID-19 management strategy will ultimately lead to herd immunity is my belief.  We have done extensive contact tracing by adopting a scientific approach, as done in some developed countries||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/extended-lockdown-will-help-flatten-the-curve-in-tamil-nadu/article31485834.ece
02 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin misleading people on CWMA, says Minister||Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar on Friday accused DMK president M.K. Stalin and former Public Works Minister Duraimurugan of seeking to create “unnecessary confusion” on the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA) issue. As the two DMK leaders were not able to bear “constructive steps” of the AIADMK government, they were attempting to gain “personal political gain” on the issue, he said, adding that there was nothing new in the DMK’s bid to raise the bogey that the State’s rights were being taken away. He criticised the DMK for “not taking any step,” while in power in 2007, to get notified on the gazette of the Union government the final order of the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal. Giving an elaborate account of the rationale behind the Central government’s notification on the CWMA, the Minister recalled that on June 1, 2018, the then Union Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation had notified the creation of the CWMA on the gazette of the Union government and stipulated powers and functions of the Authority, all in line with the Supreme Court’s judgment. The present Jal Shakti Ministry, under which the erstwhile Water Resources Ministry got subsumed, would only handle measures such as appointment of chairman, members and member-secretary of the CWMA and chairman and members of the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee and pay fixation for them. “There is no scope for the Jal Shakti Ministry to interfere with independent working of the Authority,” he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-misleading-people-on-cwma-says-minister/article31485812.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Elephants, horses get much-needed care||Mobile veterinary service offered by the Animal Husbandry Department has come to the aid of horses and temple elephants, among other animals, in Tamil Nadu, during the COVID-19 lockdown. “Horses and temple elephants are brought under departmental care and they are attended to on their premises. Mobile services are also organised in villages,” said Dr. K. Gopal, principal secretary, Animal Husbandry Department. Veterinarians immediately attend to conditions like colic in horses and foot problems in elephants and the Department has also accorded priority to sheep and goats as they are prone to endo-parasites. The department has organised mobile services in villages and veterinary assistant surgeons tour the area of operation, along with required supporting staff. The veterinary services continue to be provided at veterinary institutions as well as at the farmers’ doorsteps, since farmers were reluctant to present their livestock to veterinary institutions. “The Department is providing the entire gamut of services at doorsteps of farmers. Breeding services both by veterinarians, para-veterinarians and Maitri workers are provided,” Dr. Gopal said. Besides ensuring udder and reproductive health of the cattle, conducting gynaecological interventions, handling medical emergencies, arranging green fodder for the cattle, the general health of the livestock is also being taken care of regularly. “Mobile medical ambulances available in districts are attending to emergencies in remote areas. A tollfree number 1962 provides connectivity to ambulance service,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephants-horses-get-much-needed-care/article31485831.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metrowater tests show prevalence of viral RNA in sewage collected from city||Chennai Metrowater has detected the presence of COVID-19 RNA in sewage samples collected in Chennai as part of a preliminary study. For the study, sewage samples were randomly collected from five sewage pumping stations across the city and were analysed for the presence of the COVID-19 viral RNA. The samples were tested through the RT-PCR technique at two accredited labs. According to sources, the presence of the COVID-19 viral RNA was detected in two samples and a correlation of confirmed cases was also established in the locations from where samples were lifted. “However, studies across the world show that detection of virus in sewage is not an indication that the virus may be infectious. COVID-19 transmission does not occur through sewage. The process of sewage treatment, including chlorination, kills the virus,” according to a source. Metrowater partnered with World Health Organisation India to devise a study and evolve guidelines for control of COVID-19 through wastewater surveillance. Sources said it could probably be the first time in the country where COVID-19 RNA has been successfully detected in sewage. In case of asymptomatic infections, it would come in handy to identify COVID-19 carriers in an area and help step up screening and other intervention measures. Citing studies in many countries, including Netherlands, sources said the disease could be identified in faeces within three days of infection. The wastewater-based epidemiology approach would help alert a population cluster that is covered by a specific sewage treatment plant. Regular monitoring of wastewater even after the disease subsides would serve as an indicator to determine whether the pandemic has been brought under control.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metrowater-tests-show-prevalence-of-viral-rna-in-sewage-collected-from-city/article31485799.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to shift out vulnerable groups from containment zones||The Chennai Corporation will start shifting those vulnerable to COVID-19, including pregnant women and senior citizens, from containment zones, Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said. Speaking to mediapersons on Friday, he said the civic body has compiled data on such persons in each street. According to estimates, over 2 lakh persons in the city are likely to be classified as vulnerable. There were a higher number of cases in north Chennai because of the intense population density in these areas, he added. “Volunteers have to play a key role in helping such residents in containment zones. There will definitely be a turnaround in 10 days,” Mr. Prakash said. Mr. Prakash said the civic body will recruit 500 sanitary inspectors in three days. “The city has 100 vacancies in sanitary inspectors’ posts. The work will be outsourced to 500 sanitary inspectors educated from institutions such as Gandhigram University,” Mr. Prakash said. Stressing on the need for special disinfection drives in areas such as Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Ayanavaram, Mr. Prakash said the Chennai Corporation has started using additional vehicles to disinfect these areas. “We have noticed a reduction of cases in containment zones. In Chennai’s southern region, we have released areas from the list of containment zones after cases have not been reported for 28 days,” he said. Mr. Prakash ordered the relaxation of restrictions in seven locations where residents tested positive for COVID-19. Streets in Royapuram, Teynampet, Adyar, Perungudi and Sholinganallur have been removed from the list on Friday. At least 20 more locations are likely to be released from the list by the end of next week. “Chennai Corporation has identified 19 civic employees who have tested positive for COVID-19. This will not increase in the future. At least 35,000 persons are at work, containing the spread of COVID-19 in Chennai. We have procured personal protective equipment. We are going in the right direction,” Mr. Prakash said. The Corporation will invoke the provisions of the District Disaster Management Act to take any property for the development of quarantine spaces, he said.   Volunteers have to play a key role in helping such residents. There will definitely be a turnaround in 10 days G. Prakash Corporation Commissioner||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-shift-out-vulnerable-groups-from-containment-zones/article31485804.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||2.2 lakh tonnes of paddy procured during lockdown||The Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCSC) has procured nearly 2.2 lakh tonnes of paddy since the imposition of the lockdown in March, according to a senior official in the Food Department. The produce has been procured by paying around Rs. 415 crore to about 29,000 farmers. Over the last seven months, the Corporation has obtained approximately 21.9 lakh tonnes of paddy from over 3.66 lakh farmers, who have been paid about Rs. 4,128 crore. In addition, regulated markets, which broadly come under the control of the State Agriculture Department, have been trading, on an average, 2,400 tonnes of paddy, every day. Farming activity As for agricultural activity in the last one and odd months, harvesting of agricultural crops has been carried out over about 3.32 lakh hectares, of which pulses account for about 1.13 lakh hectares, paddy- 92,620 hectares and millets- 63,054 hectares. Around 45,000 hectares of area have been sown with paddy, covering around 26,886 hectares. To ensure that farmers get an uninterrupted supply of fertilisers, all 4,410 shops, run by primary agricultural cooperative societies, and 80% of 7,860 private shops are being kept open. So far, 81,850 kg of urea have been sold during the lockdown through fertiliser mobile vehicles, pointed out an official in the Agriculture Department. To maintain a steady supply of rice through the public distribution system (PDS) over the next few months, the TNCSC has got a stock of rice to the tune of about 9 lakh tonnes, equivalent to three months’ requirements. Besides, it has been lifting the State’s allotment of rice from the Food Corporation of India, regularly. The Corporation also has an adequate stock of tur dal, edible oil and sugar to be distributed to about 2.07 crore ration cardholders in the next three months. Unorganised workers Construction workers, migrant labourers and those employed by other constituents of the unorganised sector were provided around 24 lakh kits, each containing 15 kg of rice, 1 kg of tur dal and 1 litre of edible oil during the lockdown, thanks to combined efforts of the Labour Department and the TNCSC, said a Food Department official. On the status of E-thottam, a home delivery service of vegetables and fruits by the Horticulture Department, the Agriculture Department official said that a maximum of 2,000 orders can only be handled in a day. Now the services of Zomato, a private online delivery platform, too have been roped in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-lakh-tonnes-of-paddy-procured-during-lockdown/article31485825.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC expresses shock over Madurai Bench staff not available in station||The Madras High Court administration has expressed shock over some of its staff in the Madurai Bench having moved out of the headquarters despite the lockdown imposed by the government across the State to fight COVID-19 and instructions issued by the court to remain in station and be available for duty on call. In a circular, Registrar (Administration) V. Devanathan recalled that the High Court’s Registrar General C. Kumarappan had on March 24 permitted all employees of the High Court in Chennai and Madurai to stay at home to safeguard them and their families from the threat posed by COVID-19. He had instructed the High Court staff to remain in station and be available to attend emergency calls since the court had decided to hear extremely urgent cases alone, through video conferencing, with the assistance of skeleton staff. This required the presence of technical staff, stenographers and others. The circular read: “It has been brought to the notice of the Registry that may have left the headquarters without permission of the Registry and are not available for emergency work. A few staff who are available alone have to be deputed for various tasks repeatedly. “Non availability of any individual, at the time of calling, will be treated as a violation of the High Court’s instructions.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-expresses-shock-over-madurai-bench-staff-not-available-in-station/article31486042.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government issues new guidelines for e-passes||The Tamil Nadu government has come out with fresh guidelines for issuing e-passes to move within districts, between districts and outside the State. The government has mandated that any person arriving in Tamil Nadu from other States will have to be under home quarantine for 14 days. The government has set up a websitehttps://tnepass.tnega.org, where those seeking passes can apply. The portal will be accessible through mobile phones as well. The website enables individuals and organisations to apply for e-passes for movement of people or employees. The government will be issuing three types of passes — intra-district (within a district), inter-district (outside a district) and inter-State (outside Tamil Nadu). ‘Inform about arrival’ Passes will be issued only for marriages (only for close relatives), funerals and medical emergencies. Those arriving from outside Tamil Nadu should call and inform 1070 about their arrival. They will have to confirm that they have not come into contact with any COVID-19 patient for the past 15 days. Passes will also be issued to self-employed skilled service providers like plumbers, electricians, carpenters and others. Movement of employees For industries and companies, passes can be applied for movement of their employees. Organisations will need to upload their GST/RoC registration certificate/Udyog Aadhaar as proof, must follow the standard operating procedure as detailed along with any other orders issued by the government, and details of vehicles permitted for transporting employees. All passes will have a QR code. The State has also set up a State e-pass control room in Chennai and can be contacted on the toll free number 1-800-425-1333, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. on all days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-issues-new-guidelines-for-e-passes/article31485832.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre can’t interfere with CWMA: Govt.||The Central government cannot interfere with the functioning of the Cauvery Water Management Authority (CWMA), though it has been brought under the Jal Shakti Ministry, as decisions taken by the Authority are final and binding on the riparian States, according to K. Manivasan, Prinicipal Secretary of the Public Works Department (PWD). Pointing out that the latest notification was only a “procedural measure,” Dr. Manivasan, in a statement, recalled that the Jal Shakti Ministry was formed in May 2019 by bringing under its umbrella two Ministries — Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation and Ministry of Drinking Water and Sanitation. Subsequently, rules concerning the allocation of businesses were amended and several subjects had been transferred to the new Ministry. Among them were the Godavari and Krishna River Management Boards and the CWMA. Pointing out that there had been changes in the rules concerning departments, organisations and other bodies, coming under the control of the Jal Shakti Ministry, the official said the changes were carried out for enabling the provision of salary to staff and the execution of other official functions. But, “there is no change in the functions and powers of the CWMA and the Cauvery Water Regulation Committee. This has been ascertained with officials concerned in the Union Ministry. So, there will be no adverse impact on interests of farmers who are dependent on the Cauvery river,” the official clarified. Another official in the department said the notification issued in June 2019 on the formation of the new Ministry omitted bodies such as the CWMA, which were originally under the fold of the erstwhile Ministry of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation. This was corrected with the latest notification issued on April 27. Meanwhile, the State committee of the Tamil Nadu Vivasaigal Sangam criticised the move and wanted the Central government also to make it clear that the interests of the agriculturists would not be harmed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/centre-cant-interfere-with-cwma-govt/article31486073.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. places order for 4.5 lakh RT-PCR testing kits||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 testing figures have been on the rise in the last few weeks. The State currently has a stock of one lakh RT-PCR (Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) testing kits in its hospitals and has placed an order for 4.5 lakh more, according to officials of the Health Department. The number of samples being tested has increased, with the number of samples being tested in a day crossing 9,000 in the last two days. In Chennai alone, over 3,000 samples are being tested a day. Phased arrival The State has so far tested 1,29,363 samples. “We have placed orders for 4.5 lakh more kits, and the order is expected to arrive in a phased manner. Of this, two lakh is expected on Monday,” an official of the Health department said. “One kit, with a PCR probe and RNA extraction tool, is for one RT-PCR test,” he said. An official said that the Chennai Corporation was planning to scale up testing in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-places-order-for-45-lakh-rt-pcr-testing-kits/article31485829.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Testing centre not following guidelines’||On Thursday, 17 healthcare professionals of the ESIC hospital in K.K. Nagar complained that they were sent for testing for COVID-19 infection to a Corporation testing centre, and were appalled at the way things were being handled there. They felt that they might have had fresh exposure to the virus, due to the casual manner in which the tests were done. The doctors were reportedly sent for the test after it was discovered that an anaesthetist had come in contact with a relative who had tested positive. Segregation of patients At the Corporation Centre in Virugambakkam, they were made to wait despite having an appointment but the shocker was when they discovered there was no segregation for symptomatic patients who were also there for a test. A section of the hospital staff said though the ESI hospital has a well-equipped ENT Department which could conduct the tests, it has not been designated for COVID-19 treatment. Meanwhile health officials said there was no compulsion on anyone to visit a public health care facility, they could test at private clinics or private hospitals too if they so wished. On Friday, ESIC hospital’s Dean Sowmya Sampath urged the doctors to meet her in person “in small numbers”, and that she would try to “facilitate things” for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/testing-centre-not-following-guidelines/article31485794.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Goondas Act against 14 for opposing doctor’s burial||The police invoked the Goondas Act, detaining 14 people for a year, as they were part of the group which objected to the burial of neurologist Simon Hercules in Velankadu after he died of COVID-19. A police press release said a criminal case has been registered against the 14 people for preventing the burial of the deceased doctor, attacking the ambulance, its driver and occupants. In connection with the incident, the Anna Nagar police arrested 22 persons, including a woman, on charges of rioting and attempted murder. City Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan issued orders detaining 14 of them, including P. Annamalai, A. Asaithambi and others, under the Goondas Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goondas-act-against-14-for-opposing-doctors-burial/article31485795.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Resident of Perumbakkam TNSCB tenements tests positive||With a 26-year-old Chennai Corporation conservancy worker, residing in Perumbakkam Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements, testing positive for COVID-19, residents want doorstep delivery of rations and sufficient medicines in the Primary Health Centre. “This is the first case in the resettlement colony. After the worker tested positive, we have tested all the residents in the block. We have to check how many more people he came in contact with,” said a health official from Chengalpattu. There are more than 18,000 families in the TNSCB tenements in Perumbakkam. Most of them are daily wage earners and domestic helps. “All the houses are located very close to each other. The government should be on its toes to prevent rapid spread of the virus in the locality,” said a resident. Soon after the man tested positive, policemen were deployed in the locality and the health department staff started disinfecting the area. The TNSCB officials said that they would be disinfecting all the blocks twice a day. “Entry into the block has been barricaded,” said a police officer. Urgent need “There is an urgent need to provide rations to our homes as many people have started running out of essentials. Initially, NGOs and volunteers provided relief. Now, no one provides. Getting vegetables has become difficult, we just survive on dhal and rice,” a resident said. The residents also want the locality’s PHC to be well stocked with medicines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/resident-of-perumbakkam-tnscb-tenements-tests-positive/article31485801.ece
02 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||23-year-old house surgeon found dead in KMC hostel||A 23-year-old woman house surgeon was found dead in her hostel room at the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on Friday. Since the lockdown has been in force, she came from her house in Perambur and was staying in the hostel from April 14. According to hospital authorities, she was a CRRI and joined duty on April 18. On Friday, she did not come out from her room nor respond to anyone. Police personnel broke the door down and rushed her to the hospital, where she was declared brought dead. Hospital authorities confirmed that her swabs tested negative for COVID-19. However, post-mortem findings were inconclusive, they said, and added, “The cause of death is not immediately known.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/23-year-old-house-surgeon-found-dead-in-kmc-hostel/article31485806.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Audiographer Sampath dead||National award winning audiographer K. Sampath died in Chennai on Friday. He was 87 and is survived by his wife and daughter. Known as ‘AVM’ Sampath because of his long association with the AVM studio, he had seen several technological advancements in sound engineering — direct film recording, magnetic recording, four-track, multi-track, DSR and digital. He has recorded more than 6,000 songs and won the State award thrice. He won the national award for the Malayalam film Ennu Swantham Janakikutty .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/audiographer-sampath-dead/article31485822.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Induct home guards into police force’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Friday said Tamil Nadu Home Guards personnel, who are involved in implementing the lockdown measures, were working without protective equipment or health insurance. They should be inducted formally into the police force, he said in a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/induct-home-guards-into-police-force/article31485813.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cabinet may examine relief for rural areas||The Cabinet, scheduled to meet on Saturday morning, is likely to consider giving substantial relief on lockdown conditions to rural areas. The reason is obvious — rural parts of the State have reported a total of 283 COVID-19 cases. Of 12,575 village panchayats in 388 blocks or panchayat unions, 156 village panchayats in 115 blocks have only reported cases. As of now, there are only 110 active cases, while 171 patients have been discharged, and two deaths have been reported. The active cases are spread over 80 panchayats of 61 panchayat unions. Conscious of these facts, the State government has been receiving suggestions from different quarters on why the rural parts of the State should not be treated separately from urban areas, even while sticking to norms of physical distancing, standard operating procedure and the Centre’s guidelines. Even though the Centre, in mid April, gave nod to States for resuming a number of activities from April 20, the State government chose to confine itself to select activities. Just as the rural parts of the State, non-containment zones in several districts are likely to get similar treatment. The Centre is said to have conveyed to the State government that it is up to the latter to identify non-containment zones, even as the classification of districts as ‘red’, ‘orange’ and ‘green’ will continue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cabinet-may-examine-relief-for-rural-areas/article31485826.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suj/IIT M prof wins Nikkei Asia prize/||T. Pradeep, a faculty in the Chemistry Department of Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, was honoured with the Nikkei Asia Prizes 2020 in the science and technology category for contributing to the region’s sustainable development.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sujiit-m-prof-wins-nikkei-asia-prize/article31485792.ece
02 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Now, garment manufacturers into fashionable masks||With use of masks becoming a must for every one, several garment manufacturers are focusing on products that are comfortable, stylish, and protective. “Not everyone needs the surgical masks or the N 95 masks. Fabric masks that can be reused, are comfortable, and still provide the required protection to the users are getting into market in large numbers. It (masks) are becoming a lifestyle product too,” says one of the garment makers here. Srihari Balakrishnan, president of KG Fabriks, says the company has so far sold 4,000 pieces of masks made of high grade denim. “We are trying to promote it as an ethical alternative,” he says. With one metre of fabric, nearly 20 masks can be made. These can be worn the entire day and is washable. Unlike other fabrics, denim has to be washed after stitching. Hence, the masks are washed and treated with anti-microbial solution. With use of masks becoming mandatory in public places, world over, this will be a new product line for many companies. “It will be a product that is both, personal and slightly stylish,” he says. According to Sunil Jhunjhunwala of Techno Sportswear in Tiruppur, it has collaborated with NIFT TEA initially and with National Institute of Design to come out with masks that are comfortable to wear and provide “reasonable protection.” The masks are made of light weight knitted fabric that is used to make sportswear. “We suggest that it can be washed 25 times,” he says. The product also has a provision where the user can add a label with his or her name. “We started making it one week before the lockdown and make it with the raw material available. In a couple of months will come out with a new version when more resources are available,” he says. Prabhu Damodharan, convenor of Indian Texpreneurs Federation, says Indian companies can make huge volumes of cloth masks and these can be exported too. There are a lot of enquiries from the US and Europe and every company is trying to make use of its expertise and come out with different types of masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/now-garment-manufacturers-into-fashionable-masks/article31485844.ece
02 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district moves from red to orange zone||District Collector K. Rajamani announced on Thursday that the district has moved from red to orange zone, based on “multi-factorial criteria” issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The containment zone restriction has been lifted in K.K. Pudur. Some of the factors that Mr. Rajamani said might have helped include - the number of current active cases is only seven, the number of persons discharged is 134, there has been no new case in the last eight days, and the number of new cases in the last 21 days was 15. Additionally, he said: “Of the 26 containment zones in the district, two-thirds saw no new case in the last 15 days and the administration had lifted the containment zone restriction in K.K. Pudur 28 days after the discharge of the COVID-19 positive person belonging to the area, from hospital.” Sources in the district administration added that of the seven active COVID-19 cases, six were at a private hospital and another was at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. They would be ready for discharge on Monday. Though the movement to the orange zone would help the district gain some advantages or relaxation of rules, after the May 2 Cabinet meeting, this was not the time to let down guard, Mr. Rajamani said. Meanwhile the district administration continued lifting about 300 samples from people at containment zones and peripheries every day. It would continue to monitor the district borders to restrict entry of people from other districts, particularly from places were the number of cases was high. If it found people showing symptoms of influenza like infection, severe acute respiratory infection or COVID-19, the administration would take them to quarantine facilities it had set up across the district. Members of the public and industry association have demanded ease of lockdown restrictions to resume commercial or industrial activity. The district administration had issued orders in a few cases and would continue to do so, keeping in mind the State Government’s guidelines. The Collector, however, clarified that the district moving into the orange zone would not entail relaxation of the rules in force. Tiruppur has four patients in hospital Meanwhile, Tiruppur district has only four patients undergoing treatment for COVID-19. A 14-year-old boy from Avinashi and a 55-year-old man were discharged from ESI Hospital on Friday. Out of the 112 confirmed cases in the district, 108 recovered and were discharged as of Friday, Health Department sources said. On Thursday, 15 patients from Tiruppur district were discharged. On Friday, Tiruppur District Administration declared Avinashi Block as orange zone, following the discharge of the last patient from the Block. On Thursday, Dharapuram Block was declared as orange zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district-moves-from-red-to-orange-zone/article31485869.ece
02 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. introduces drone to prevent poaching||To prevent poaching during the lockdown period, Coimbatore Forest Division of the Forest Department introduced drone surveillance for the first time in Singanallur Lake on Friday. As per the directions of District Forest Officer (DFO) D. Venkatesh, a team of nine officials led by Madukkarai Forest Range Officer B. Srinivasan visited the lake. “This will help us monitor the Singanallur Lake better,” Mr. Srinivasan said. With migrant birds and animals such as mongooses being present in and around Singanallur Lake, the Department would closely monitor the area for any illegal activities, he said. Singanallur Lake was declared a Biodiversity Conservation Zone by the Coimbatore Corporation in 2017. On March 14, The Hindu reported that a few wildlife enthusiasts found snares to trap mongooses on the bunds of the lake. Mr. Srinivasan said that more drones would be introduced in other forest ranges in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-dept-introduces-drone-to-prevent-poaching/article31485848.ece
02 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man alleges denial of treatment for pregnant wife at private hospital||A man from Karumbukkadai petitioned District Collector K. Rajamani on Friday alleging denial of treatment for his pregnant wife at a private hospital in the city. In the petition, M. Mohammad Asif claimed that he took his pregnant wife Mahadiya to K.G. Hospital on April 29 as she experienced abdominal pain. The doctors refused to treat her claiming that she had a higher body temperature. Mr. Asif claimed in the petition that her temperature was 98 degrees Fahrenheit. The hospital authorities had allegedly told him that they did not have adequate doctors on duty. As Ms. Mahadiya’s pain increased, Mr. Asif took her to another private hospital, where the doctors said that she had suffered an incomplete abortion, the petition said. Mr. Asif requested the Collector to take action against the hospital for allegedly refusing treatment to his wife and subjecting her to physical and mental stress. G. Bakthavathsalam, founder and head of K.G. Hospital, denied these allegations. In a video message, he claimed that the doctors explained to Mr. Asif that there were “no facilities” available in the hospital to test for COVID-19 and requested him to take his wife to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. “A few people have set out to ruin the name of the hospital,” Dr. Bakthavathsalam alleged. No discrimination The hospital said in a statement later in the evening: “We do not discriminate based on religion. Mr. Asif allegedly demanded to see a senior doctor on April 29, but the hospital’s senior general physician had suffered a heart attack and was not in a position to treat patients.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-alleges-denial-of-treatment-for-pregnant-wife-at-private-hospital/article31485861.ece
02 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two killed, one injured in different accidents||Two persons were killed and one suffered injuries in two different road accidents in the district on Thursday. In the first case, K. Ravikumar (38), a two-wheeler rider, was killed in an accident involving his vehicle and a mini truck on Sathy Road. His wife, Santha, who was riding pillion, sustained injuries and was shifted to hospital. Traffic Investigation Wing (East) police have registered a case under Sections 279 (Rash driving or riding on a public way), 337 (Causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304A (Causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code. Truck driver R. Giriprasad (55) was arrested on Thursday night. In the second accident, M. Ismayil (34) died in a collision involving a two-wheeler and bullock cart on L&T Bypass Road on Thursday. He died during treatment at CMCH, police said. Traffic Investigation Wing (West) police have registered a case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-killed-one-injured-in-different-accidents/article31485866.ece
02 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Medical team recounts containment zone experience||When medical officer Lakshmi Bharathi picked up her mobile phone to answer a call on March 19, little did she realise that the news to be conveyed to her would change how the medical team at the K.K. Pudur Urban Primary Health Centre would work in the days to follow. The team worked for a month and a half since then in that area, and the containment zone restrictions were ordered to be lifted on Thursday night.  The call from Coimbatore Corporation Health Officer K. Santhoshkumar said a person from the area had reported positive for COVID-19. A girl from the area who had returned from Spain had tested positive for the corona virus, making it the first case in Coimbatore. After taking advice and getting personal protection kits from Dr. Santhoshkumar, the team on March 20 started going door-to-door in the girl’s neighbourhood to check if anybody complained of fever or showed COVID-19 symptoms. “When the news reached me and I relayed it to the team, we knew we will be in the forefront. That did not scare us,” says Dr. Bharathi, speaking on behalf of urban health nurses P. Venkateswari, A. Thangamani and A. Prema. As the team went door-to-door, it was only welcomed. “Gates of apartments and palatial houses that were hitherto closed to us, opened up as people cooperated,” she says. “In an apartment, the residents were so kind that they served tea to all of us,” adds Ms. Venkateswari. That the medical team had a record of all pregnant mothers and feeding mothers only helped ease things as several faces were familiar. While going door-to-door the only problem the team faced was sweat and heat as the members were covered from head to toe in protective gear. “Even drinking water became difficult,” Ms. Venkateswari recalls. “In a few cases, the people called us to ask if we could check on families that went into self-quarantine,” says Ms. Thangamani. The COVID-19 work only added to the team’s work burden and that meant long hours at the centre. “Even as we were engaged in containing the spread of the virus, we oversaw five deliveries,” says Dr. Bharathi. And then there were adjustments that they had to make to their working style as well. “Each of us in the team took an additional set of clothes to the centre. After returning from the containment zone, we would bathe and change into new set of clothes,” says Ms. Prema. During this period, the team got support from family as well. “My husband took charge of cooking breakfast,” Ms. Venkateswari says. “My husband started cleaning the house and even doing dishes,” adds Ms. Thangamni. Being the first Corporation medical team to work in containment zone also had some advantages. “When Podanur saw a few COVID-19 cases, we were the first ones whom the medical team there called to ask how to go about performing the additional duty. In that way, we were kind of mentors,” recall Ms. Prema and Thangamani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/medical-team-recounts-containment-zone-experience/article31485864.ece
02 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Traders seek permission to open shops||The Federation of Trade Associations Coimbatore, representing 14 trade bodies in the city, has appealed to Collector K. Rajamani to permit retail outlets here to reopen on May 4. In a memorandum submitted to the Collector on Thursday, the Federation members said that nearly 20,000 families were dependent on the shops for their livelihood. The long lockdown period had affected all of them. The members would take the required precautionary measures and adhere to safety norms when they reopened. The shops should be permitted to remain open at least from noon to 6 p.m. every day, initially. With Chennai under lockdown, the rest of the State was dependent on Coimbatore for several raw materials. Similarly, industries need to buy consummables when they commenced operations. Hence, the lockdown should not be extended for the retailers any further, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traders-seek-permission-to-open-shops/article31485845.ece
02 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Shop sealed||Coimbatore Corporation officials on Friday sealed a shop on RG Street here as the personal distancing norm enforced during the COVID-19 lockdown period was not followed, said a release. A team led by Assistant Commissioner, Central Zone, Mahesh Kanagaraj and Assistant Town Planning Officer Senthil Baskar sealed the shop, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shop-sealed/article31485838.ece
02 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Isha founder sells painting for Rs. 4.14 crore||Founder of Isha Foundation Jaggi Vasudev said that an abstract painting of his was sold out for Rs. 4.14 crore. According to a release, the money will be used for Isha’s COVID-19 relief efforts under the ‘Beat the Virus’ campaign. Nearly 700 Isha volunteers deliver freshly cooked meals every day to people, the release adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/isha-founder-sells-painting-for-rs-414-crore/article31485841.ece
02 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||May Day programmes conducted||Members of All India Democratic Women’s Association donated blood here on Friday as part of the May Day programmes. The donation camps were held in Avarampalayam and Karamadai and 100 units of blood were donated. At the Communist Party of India (Marxist) office, the members hoisted red flag and did so at their houses too. At the Communist Party of India offices here, the members hoisted the flag.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/may-day-programmes-conducted/article31485846.ece
02 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||College student donates Rs. 1 lakh||A second-year college student from Kovilpalayam donated Rs. 1 lakh to Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund for the fight against COVID-19 on Friday. A release from the Coimbatore District Police said that P. Anushree donated her savings and the money she earned by conducting coaching classes. She presented the cheque to the Collector on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/college-student-donates-rs-1-lakh/article31485853.ece
02 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||School releases short-film||Faculty members of Chavara Vidya Bhavan Matriculation Higher Secondary School released a short-film for COVID-19 awareness. Titled ‘Stitch’, the three-minute video showed seven teachers from the school stitching masks, which were distributed to people in need, a press release said. Fr. Anson Panengaden, principal, conceptualised the short-film, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/school-releases-short-film/article31485854.ece
02 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested in Coimbatore city||Coimbatore City Police on Thursday arrested four persons for violating prohibitory orders and seized four motorcycles. Meanwhile, the Coimbatore district police registered 428 cases and arrested 493 persons for violations. Police sources said that 423 vehicles including two-wheelers and four-wheelers were seized and they collected a total fine of Rs. 2,19,100. Tiruppur City police booked 91 persons for violations and seized 82 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-arrested-in-coimbatore-city/article31485860.ece
02 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||22 north Indian families to get free food from Amma canteen||As many as 22 north Indian families residing on a poramboke land at Vendipalayam were asked to have free food from the Amma canteen at Marapalam here, after they complained of non-availability of essential commodities. Most of the families are from Rajasthan and earn their livelihood by selling fancy items at the railway station, bus stand and other public places in the city. They have been living in shacks on the poramboke land without any basic amenities for the last five years and there are 70 persons in total. “We fetch drinking water from the pipeline that supplies water to the plants in the roundabout,” said a 32-year-old woman. She said that they used to leave for work around 6.30 a.m. every day, leaving their children in the tent. “There has been no income in the last two months and we managed with the wheat flour bought with our meagre savings,” she said. On Friday, many women went to Panneerselvam Park and other parts of the city in search of food. But they were sent back by the policemen. A volunteer provided them food packets and they returned home. They said that 15 days ago policemen provided them essentials and they had exhausted those a few days ago. “Our children are starving and we are forced to go in search of food,” another woman said.  The Hindu took up the matter with Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan who immediately deputed an Assistant Commissioner to look into the issue. Later, Mr. Elangovan said that all the 70 persons would be given free food at the Amma canteen, which is about two km from Vendipalayam. “We have asked one or two persons to collect food from the canteen and distribute it among themselves,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-north-indian-families-to-get-free-food-from-amma-canteen/article31485856.ece
02 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Govt. school teachers distribute assistance to students’ families||With most of the government school students’ parents lost their livelihood in the past two months due to lockdown, providing financial assistance by teachers to the families continues in the district. Two teachers of Thamaraipalayam Panchayat Union Primary School at Kodumudi Union distributed cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 each to their 41 students’ families at the school here. Headmistress Santhi and her colleague Senthilkumari contributed the money and handed over the assistance to the students and their parents. The teachers said that most of the parents were daily earners and had lost their income and were in trouble. Hence, they obtained permission from the Education Department and distributed the money. Likewise, teachers of the Government Primary School at Nanjai Uthukuli in Modakurichi Union purchased essential commodities for 50 students’ families that were distributed by Modakurichi Tahsildar Ravichandran. Headmistress Pramila and other teachers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-school-teachers-distribute-assistance-to-students-families/article31485839.ece
02 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide relief for all workers in unorganised sectors’||With over 1.3 lakh workers of unorganised sectors registered with various welfare boards in the district remaining indoors, they urged the district administration to provide relief assistance to all the workers, including those associations whose licences were yet to be renewed. The State government announced relief assistance of Rs. 2,000 to workers who had registered with various welfare boards. A government order said the assistance would be given only to welfare boards that had renewed their licence. Currently, there were over 30,000 workers registered with the construction board, while over 90,000 workers of 15 welfare boards involved in handloom, loading and unloading, power loom, tailoring, hair cutting, roadside vendors and other works had registered themselves. “But the government had announced that only 60,000 are eligible for the assistance,” said S. Chinnasamy, district president, AITUC, and member of District Monitoring Committee. He said many boards were yet to renew their licence. To ensure that the assistance reached all the members and to discuss other issues, the administration should immediately convene the meeting of the Committee headed by the Collector, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/provide-relief-for-all-workers-in-unorganised-sectors/article31485840.ece
02 May 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Collector steps in to fulfil patient’s wish||District Collector S. Prabhakar came to the aid of a family that was seeking to fulfil what could perhaps be the last wish of a man wanting to breathe his last in his native in Vellore, but only after one last attempt at medicare where his extended relatives live. The family with no means to travel and no monetary support was helped with an ambulance by the Collector to reach Vellore Government Hospital, on Friday. Mahendran Mani, a wage labourer in Hosur was discharged against medical advice from the Department of Emergency Medicine at St. John Medical College Hospital in Bengaluru on April 29. Diagnosed with chronic liver failure, Mani was advised gastro intensive care. However, the family could not afford a protracted stay in Bengaluru with no support. They decided to return to Vellore, which was also Mani’s native for a final attempt at medical help. Mani’s wife Poongothai, a flower seller and the sole earning earning member of the family, wanted to take her husband to Vellore, where she hoped for the support of relatives. Faced with the failing health of her husband and means for a vehicle, she reached out for help through the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI). As soon as Mr. Prabhakar was alerted to the plight of this family and the man’s failing health, and their inability to afford a vehicle for travel to Vellore Government Hospital, he facilitated coordination with the 108 ambulance services. Ramankani, the district project manager of GVK EMRI-run 108 ambulance services came to the aid of the family immediately and arranged for an ambulance to be sent to Mookandapalli in Hosur to pick up the ailing man, his wife and their son for their transport to Vellore. “There is no need for a travel pass for an ambulance,” Mr. Ramankani told The Hindu . “What the Collector and the ambulance management had done was a humanitarian help for a poor family, especially at a time like this. It is to be lauded,” said Sridharan, district president, DYFI.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-steps-in-to-fulfil-patients-wish/article31485858.ece
02 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Sweating in PPEs and fighting loneliness, they have seen it all||With five frontline workers in Madurai’s Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) testing positive for COVID-19, three post-graduates (PGs) who have worked in the speciality hospital recount their experience. Between 80 and 90 postgraduates have been deployed as the GRH has around 10 postgraduate students for each batch. PGs say though it has been manageable till date, a sharp spike would require at least three times the strength that has been deployed till date. The three PGs have worked inside the isolation ward, conducted swab tests and been in-charge of the Out-Patient (OP) ward. In their varied roles, they speak about wearing personal protection equipment (PPE), attending to patients, being in quarantine and keeping away from family. An orthopaedics student, A. Nirmal* says that when he was first told about his six hours of duty, he thought it could be handled easily. “In the past, we have had to perform 48-hour duty. We never imagined the amount of discomfort the PPE would cause,” he says. “When I wear my PPE, I need to ensure that I wear it securely and have to sit down for 15 minutes to adjust to the change. Otherwise, there is a chance that I would suffocate and faint,” says A. Nirmal, a postgraduate student who has worked inside the isolation ward. The PPE makes you feel like being in a humid plastic bag. One keeps sweating excessively through the shift leading to breathlessness and dehydration. As isolation wards are not air-conditioned, the humidity adds to their woes. The hood regularly fogs distorting vision and wearing gloves make it difficult to write notes and prepare case sheets. PPEs cannot be removed as it would expose them to the virus. Between rounds, they take a break of 15 minutes to ensure that they can power through the shift. S. Saranya* says the process of wearing the PPE is referred to as donning and removal is called docking. “We’ve been taught how to do it properly but in case it slips, it is possible that we could be affected.” N. Vimal,* a PG student who has taken several hundred swab and blood tests, says three PGs in his batch fainted because they could not handle the PPE. “In order to resuscitate someone, we need to remove the PPE fully. It is tricky in the beginning but we must get used to it,” he says. Dr. Saranya says that patients are sometimes non-cooperative. “A patient insisted that only doctors must feed them and assist them in going to bathroom. While we are overwhelmed doing our duty, it is difficult to go beyond and help them in doing these tasks.” “When we hear complaints at a time we are trying our best, we feel bogged down,” Dr. Vimal says. All three doctors say that among the most difficult task was keeping away from family. Dr. Vimal says that he saw his family two months ago. The only thing that keeps me going is ensuring that I speak to my family after I finish my shift. When we undertake the 14-day quarantine after completing a week’s duty, I ensure that I keep myself calm,” he says. As the mother of a young child, Dr. Saranya says that her heart races when she video calls her family. “Sometimes I wonder if I can ignore protocol and go back home just to see my family but I cannot risk infecting them. We try to keep ourselves occupied and some of us play word building games to keep ourselves engaged,” she says. Dr. Vimal says that it is important to keep the family informed about their duty. “It is important to remember that they are our pillar of support,” he says. They add that food and accommodation being provided have been excellent and a boost for their mental health too. GRH Dean J. Sangumani says that they are taking all steps to combat infection spread among doctors, nurses, paramedics and workers. All frontline workers are provided with separate accommodation - a single room with an attached bathroom and toiletries. “We encourage them to share their problem in case of distress. We are doing as much as we can,” he says.    *Names changed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sweating-in-ppes-and-fighting-loneliness-they-have-seen-it-all/article31486058.ece
02 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dispose liquor kept in property rooms: HC||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has directed criminal courts in the State to take immediate steps to dispose liquor kept in property rooms. The direction was passed after four addicts stole liquor from such a room in Dindigul district. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and T. Krishnavalli took cognisance of the issue after the State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan wrote to this effect to the Registrar-Judicial to prevent such a recurrence. He said the Prohibition Enforcement Wing in Dindigul had seized and produced before the Judicial Magistrate, Vedasandur, a huge consignment of liquor. It was kept in the property room of the court. In view of closure of Tasmac outlets, four persons stole the liquor for consumption. They were arrested and booked under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. The court observed that there was substance and force in the request made by the Public Prosecutor. The Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act and the Rules do provide for expeditious disposal of alcoholic items. So, it shall be open for all criminal courts to take immediate steps in this regard, the court said. The alcoholic items can be disposed of in the presence of investigating officers after preparing a panchanama/inventory and taking photograph/video of destruction. Minimum samples may be retained depending on the facts and circumstances of the case. Such panchanama/inventory and photograph/video certified by Judge/Magistrate shall be treated as evidence during trial in lieu of the actual contraband, the court said. The case was adjourned to June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dispose-liquor-kept-in-property-rooms-hc/article31486035.ece
02 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC denies bail to man who sold alcohol during lockdown||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed the bail plea of a man from Pudukkottai district, accused of stocking up and selling alcohol during lockdown. A total of 360 rum bottles were recovered from him by the police. Justice P. Velmurugan dismissed the bail plea of Selvaraj from Alankudi in Pudukkottai district. The petitioner denied the charges levelled against him. He claimed that he was falsely implicated in the case and sought bail. He is currently remanded in judicial custody. The case of the prosecution was that 360 rum bottles were recovered from the accused and the samples were sent to the forensic lab to find out the percentage of alcohol and to determine if it was illicit arrack. The report from the forensic lab was awaited. The judge observed that the petitioner was alleged to have sold alcohol during the lockdown and was found in possession of the rum bottles. If he was released on bail there was a possibility of him continuing the same business, even as the lockdown and prohibitory orders were in force, the court said. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case and the current scenario, this court was not inclined to grant bail to the petitioner, the court said and dismissed the bail petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-denies-bail-to-bootlegger/article31486044.ece
02 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||MKU Registrar in-charge resigns||Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) Registrar in-charge N. Sankar tendered his resignation on Friday afternoon after serving for about five months in office. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Sankar said that he wants to get back to his life of teaching and science. “I want to get back to my routine job of teaching and research - two things that I enjoy immensely. I have done justice to the chair I occupy,” he said. The last person to permanently hold the post of MKU Registrar was V. Chinniah who retired in June 2019. Ever since, two registrars in-charge have been appointed by the administration. Although the administration had called for an initial scrutiny of candidates for the post in June, interviews for the post have been postponed at least three times. In January 2020, the university decided to re-advertise for the post of registrar after interviewing 16 candidates as the Syndicate members found the candidates unsatisfactory. MKU Vice-Chancellor (V-C) M. Krishnan said that if it was not for COVID-19, the administration would have found a permanent replacement for the position. “Unfortunately, we have to wait until Monday to appoint someone to take the position temporarily after consulting with the Syndicate,” he said. He added that during his tenure, Mr. Sankar had cooperated well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mku-registrar-in-charge-resigns/article31486036.ece
02 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Twist in murder of aged man near Madurai||The Elumalai police have arrested three persons, including the son and daughter-in-law of the victim in a murder case registered under Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act near Usilampatti. They said the accused R. Karuppaiah, his wife Dharma and their friend, Ayyanar, played a drama on the lines of Tamil movie “Papanasam” in which Kamal Haasan tutors his family to give false evidence in a murder case. The technique that saved the hero’s family in the film did not help the accused here. A. Rasu, 60, of Uthapuram was found hacked to death in his farm at Thazhaiyoothu foothills on April 22. In a complaint, his son Karuppiah said his father could have been murdered by Kottaimalai and his wife, belonging to a different community, following a dispute over a farm land. The police registered a murder case against Kottaimalai and his landlord Viswanathan. Kottamalai, along with his wife, pleaded innocence. “The assertion of Karuppiah and his wife made in the complaint turned out to be false,” Deputy Superintendent of Police (Usilampatti) A. Raja said. Karuppiah initially said that he was the first one to see the body at 6 a.m. when he, along with his friend, came to give food to his father. Investigation revealed that some local men, who had come to collect firewood, had found Rasu dead. When they alerted Karuppaiah and his wife, the couple did not show any shock and remained very casual. Karuppaiah claimed ownership of an adjacent land and said that Viswanathan of Chennai had attempted to usurp the land but it also turned to be false. “Viswanathan had rejected the offer made by Karuppaiah and his wife to sell him the land a year back as he found that the land, under maintenance of Rasu, belonged to someone else,” Mr. Raja said. Suspicion grew stronger when Karuppaiah, his wife, their children and Ayyanar’s family members and relatives made an identical narration of how the murder unfolded.  Sustained interrogation “Even before we could ask questions, everyone parroted the same time of 3 p.m. (when Karuppaiah returned from the farm the previous day) and 6 a.m. (when the couple came to the farm to find the body),” the DSP said. On sustained interrogation, Karuppaiah revealed that he and his wife had quarrelled with Rasu the previous day. They had asked Rasu to give them the 3-acre land. Rasu, who had two wives had said that he would give his land to wards of both wives. “Dharma and Ayyanar went to the farm in the evening and hacked Rasu to death,” the DSP said. Later, they convinced Karuppaiah that if they put the blame on Kottaimalai, they could also get compensation from the government. “Instead of demanding compensation, the couple had insisted on getting patta for the land maintained by Rasu, to allow shifting the body to hospital,” the DSP said. The police said that call details also helped in nabbing the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/twist-in-murder-of-aged-man-near-madurai/article31486049.ece
02 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Temple fund in this village helps the needy during lockdown||Most of the temple functions in rural areas coincide with the harvest season. People offer the harvest to their family deities or village deities as a thanksgiving. This year the festivals scheduled during Tamil month of panguni could not be held due to the lockdown. Meanwhile, the temple administrative committee at T. Meenakshipuram near Sedapatti has decided to make use of the temple funds to help the rural populace face the economic crisis during lockdown. “We usually collect Rs. 250 to Rs. 300 per family for the panguni festival of Kaliamman, Muthalamman and Ayyanar temple in our village,” said village leader P. Muthumani. Last year, the temple committee had organised a drama too. Stating that this year, as the lockdown was announced before the temple festival, the village committee, comprising all communities, did not collect money from the 250 families. “Most of the villagers are daily wage earners. They are involved in farm activities and some are making a living by cutting firewood. After the curfew was ordered, every family has been badly hit,” Mr. Muthumani said. The village committee decided to make use of the temple funds to help them. “In the last seven to eight years, we had mobilized some funds to re-build the Ayyanar temple, which was becoming old and dilapidated,” he added. Consequently, Rs. 3,000 each was given to 250 families. “Given the gravity of the situation, even this money is not enough for the families. We gave the money some 20 days back and many families have already run out of money,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temple-fund-in-this-village-helps-the-needy-during-lockdown/article31486059.ece
02 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vitamin tablets distributed||Following eight COVID-19 positive cases being reported from Sellur, Madurai Corporation officials distributed Vitamin C and zinc tablets to residents within the containment zone on Friday, as a measure to boost their immunity. Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, who inspected various containment zones on Friday, ordered the officials to distribute bleaching powder to the residents in Sellur containment zone so that they can regularly disinfect the area. A Corporation official said that 10 tablets each of Vitamin C and zinc was distributed to all the residents in the zone. “Around 8,400 houses fall within the containment zone in Sellur. It is one of the densely populated areas and the houses are also cramped, making it a vulnerable location. Hence, additional containment measures are being undertaken here,” said the official. The Commissioner also inspected other containment zones in the city- Vandiyur, Yagappa Nagar, Manavalan Nagar in Sellur, SVP Nagar in Anaiyur, Karisalkulam and Vilangudi. According to a press statement from the civic body, kabasura kudineer is being distributed to all residents in the containment zones. Help desks with volunteers has been set up at each of the containment zones to help the residents by delivering essential commodities at their doorstep. Instructions were being given on public audio address system to emphasise the importance of staying indoors. Mobile grocery and vegetable vending outlets were also functioning at the containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vitamin-tablets-distributed/article31486048.ece
02 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister flags off mobile health units||Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar flagged off mobile health units to ensure that pregnant women, diabetic patients and those with high blood pressure get easy access to medicines at each of the 13 blocks in Madurai district, here on Friday. The mobile units will help pregnant women get their regular health check-up. Those nearing their due date will be provided with tablets to improve their strength. He added that 5,931 women in the first and second trimester and 1,265 women in their third trimester in Madurai will benefit. He said that 22,704 patients with blood pressure issues and 14,642 people who need to have their diabetes tablets will also benefit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-flags-off-mobile-health-units/article31486047.ece
02 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No retailers to be allowed at Mattuthavani and Paravi||Collector T. G. Vinay said that only four-wheeler goods carrier trucks will be allowed inside the markets in Mattuthavani and Paravai. In a press statement on Friday, the Collector said that retailers will not be permitted into the markets and those who set up shop will be penalised by the Corporation and complaints will be registered against them. He added that those driving two-wheelers will not be allowed into the market by police personnel. Since the total lockdown, several complaints regarding intrusion of retailers in wholesale markets have been relayed by members of various vegetable vendor associations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-retailers-to-be-allowed-at-mattuthavani-and-paravi/article31486055.ece
02 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Assistance for children||Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range) Z. Annie Vijaya distributed essential commodities to inmates of Anbagam, a home for special children, in D.R.O. Colony here on Friday. Ms. Vijaya distributed 250 kg of rice, 50 kg of vegetables, dal and edible oil. She also handed over masks to the children.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/assistance-for-children/article31486039.ece
02 May 2020||Madurai Bureau,TAMIL NADU||Madurai and Virudhunagar districts remain in red zone||Except Madurai and Virudhunagar, the remaining eight districts in south Tamil Nadu moved from red to orange zone giving a relief to health officials, civic and respective Collectors on Friday. According to the medical bulletin released by the State government, out of 10, only Madurai and Virudhunagar were classified in red zones as on May 1 in southern districts. Theni district, which accounted for 43 positive patients, has discharged 37 persons so far. The last case reported positive was on April 16. Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram had less positive cases in the last 10 to 15 days. While only Tirupathur was the hotspot in Sivaganga district, Ramanathapuram suffered a jolt as a few areas including Paramakudi and Kilakarai had to be identified as containment zones. While the total number of positive patients from Ramanathapuram stood at 18, effective management brought in some respite, officials said. In Madurai, the number of positive cases, which was revolving around 60 till last week, rose up to 75, as on a single day 15 cases were reported. The numbers piled up on May 1 and the tally stood at 87. In Virudhunagar district, the number of positive cases was 32 and effective steps to contain the pandemic started fetching results and the last positive case was reported on April 25. The number of discharged persons was 19 so far. Though the number of positive patients in Dindigul district touched 81 till date, the number of patients recovered and discharged stood at 71. Tirunelveli, which initially saw a steep rise in the number of positive cases, has 63 cases. Gradually, the number started declining and till date 56 among them have been discharged. In Tenkasi district, the numbers were below 10 in the beginning. Suddenly, the tally went up to 38. The number of discharged cases was 5 till date and the administration had not reported any fresh case after April 25. The situation appears comfortable in Thoothukudi district where the number of patients admitted was 27. As on May 1, only one patient was under treatment while 25 were discharged. One patient succumbed to the virus. In Kanniyakumari, the number of positive patients stood at 16. Till date, the number of discharged patients stood at 11. According to a Health Department official in Chennai, the zonal classification of districts were based on hotspot analysis communicated by the Central government. It is multi-factorial and takes various aspects into consideration. Every Monday, the classification of zones would be updated, he added. Three test positive Three people, including a house surgeon from Kerala, working at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) tested positive for COVID-19 here on Friday. This takes the total count of cases to 87. Two others, included a 65-year-old woman from Jaihindipuram and a 25-year-old pregnant woman from Melur tested positive. While the contact for one of the patient has been established, the district administration is completing the process of contact tracing for two others. Two other people from Tirumangalam and Melur were discharged from GRH after testing negative for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/madurai-and-virudhunagar-districts-remain-in-red-zone/article31486054.ece
02 May 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Make use of rural godowns, avail interest-free loans, farmers told||Farmers have been advised to store their products free of cost at the rural godowns operated by the Regulated Market Committee, and avail themselves of the utility of interest-free loans. The 20 rural godowns under the purview of the Regulated Markets at Kuttalam, Mayiladuthurai, Sirkazhi, Vedaranyam, Tirupoondi, Nagapattinam and Kilvelur can be utilised to store farm produce for 30 days free of cost. The duration of storage could be extended to 180 days. The 20 godowns with a combined capacity to store 15,120 tonnes of agricultural produce have space to accommodate stock of 1,272 metric tonnes. There are also 63 tarpaulins availble. On the directive of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, the one percent market fee on the value of produce charged for 30 days will not be levied. Pledge loan of up to Rs. 3 lakh would be extended on the produce without interest for a duration of 30 days, Collector Praveen P. Nair said in a press release. The Department of Agricultural Marketing and Agri Business will also make arrangements for transport of produce from the agricultural fields to the godown. The facilities are in place for sale of green gram, urad dal and paddy in the godowns, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/make-use-of-rural-godowns-avail-interest-free-loans-farmers-told/article31486084.ece
02 May 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers honoured||The Kanniyakumari district administration celebrated May Day by honouring conservancy workers while the police gave ‘guard of honour’ to them as a mark of their tireless anti-COVID-19 operations. In the celebration organised on the Corporation office premises on Friday, Collector Prashant M. Wadnere honoured conservancy workers with ‘parivattam’ and fruits. Superintendent of Police N. Sreenath and Corproation Commissioner K. Saravanakumar were present. Lauding their contribution, Mr. Prashant said the conservancy workers, while sacrificing their health, family, and their children’s welfare, had been working overtime in controlling COVID-19 infection. Even though they had to work in containment zones, in areas housing a good number of ‘home quarantines,’ and even in the hospital treating COVID-19 positive patients, they were working with utmost dedication. “Hence, we honour them on the day which has been dedicated for workers who toil for everyone’s welfare. We’ll always remember your work gratefully,” said Mr. Prashant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-honoured/article31486034.ece
02 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Four persons test positive in U.T.||Four new novel coronavirus (COVID-19) cases were reported in the Union Territory on Friday after three persons at JIPMER and an elderly man in Mahe, Kerala, tested positive for the infection. Three patients are already undergoing treatment at the IGMCRI in Puducherry. In Mahe, a 61 year-old man who returned from Dubai 42 days ago, tested positive. He was shifted to the General Hospital in Mahe. Two others, who were in contact with the patient, are under quarantine and close surveillance. The Mahe enclave had recorded the U.T'.s first COVID-19 case in March when a 68-year-old woman, who returned from a pilgrimage to Saudi Arabia, tested positive. A 71-year-old patient died on April 11. Three cases in JIPMER At JIPMER, an elderly patient hailing from Cuddalore, Tamil Nadu, who was admitted for gastrointestinal symptoms, and two relatives who accompanied the woman, tested positive for COVID-19. According to a JIPMER press note, the patient was admitted a couple of days ago with gastrointestinal symptoms and other pre-existing diseases. She had recent travel history to Chennai for medical reasons. After admission, she developed fever and was tested on April 30. The RT-PCR test showed her positive for COVID-19. The patient has been isolated and appropriate treatment protocols initiated, JIPMER said. Several of her contacts have been identified and further contact tracing followed by quarantine and testing as per the national guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-persons-test-positive-in-ut/article31485815.ece
02 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Only orange, green zones||The risk profiling of Puducherry, which has been classified into orange and green zones, will be subject to periodic review by the Health Ministry with the COVID-19 lockdown being extended to May 17. In revised guidelines, the Ministry of Home Affairs said the Health Ministry would revise criteria for States/UTs on a weekly basis or earlier. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said Puducherry was put under orange zone while Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam regions came under green category as it chalks out a graded approach to relaxing lockdown restrictions under the Union government guidelines. The zoning regulations will determine the way the administration restarts economic activity. According to the MHA, States/union territories can consider inclusion of additional places as red or orange based on the extent of COVID-19 spread, but cannot lower classification of a district listed in the red or orange categories.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-orange-green-zones/article31485816.ece
02 May 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector orders action||Collector P. Uma Maheswari has ordered action against employees who had acted lethargically in distributing Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Heath Insurance Scheme cards to the public in the district in 2012. An official press release on Friday said a committee headed by the Joint Director – Health Services had been constituted to inquire into information that CM Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme cards had not been issued properly in Lakshminarayanapuram panchayat in Alangudi taluk in the district and submit a report in this regard. Orders had been issued to distribute the cards at the door steps of those people who were yet to receive it. Steps had been taken to ensure that the cards were distributed properly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collector-orders-action/article31486072.ece
02 May 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||CPI observes May Day||The Virudhunagar unit Communist Party of India paid respects to May Day martyrs by hoisting party flags at party offices and houses of cadre on Friday. District secretary P. Lingam, who hoisted the flag at Seithur, said that May Day was observed world-wide in memory of a congregation of labourers who were killed when they gathered in Chicago on May 1, 1886 seeking a charter of workers’ rights, including eight-hour working shift. However, their sacrifice subsequently fetched the workers their rights across the globe.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cpi-observes-may-day/article31486045.ece
02 May 2020||Ranipet,TAMIL NADU||Ranipet reports one more COVID-19 positive case||After Ranipet reported one COVID-19 positive case on Thursday, taking the tally to 40, the district administration has decided to take stringent measures to control crowd. Those who venture out after 1 p.m. would be dealt with severely, cautioned SP, A. Myilvaganan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ranipet-reports-one-more-covid-19-positive-case/article31485820.ece
02 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Shops in bazaar area in Salem function on rotation basis||To prevent crowd from gathering in Shevapet Bazaar area and to ensure physical distance among the public, the shops in the area functioned on rotation basis for the past few days. The Shevapet bazaar is one of the important business areas in the district and wholesale dealers of grocery items operate from the bazaaar. Though physical distance was mandated, huge crowd turned up at the market every day to get grocery items for retail sales and for personal use. Hence, in consultation with the district administration, the shops in the bazaar agreed to operate on rotation basis. The shops on left side of the bazaar would function one day and the shops on the opposite side would function the next day. Traders here said that they advised the public to stand inside the boxes drawn on the ground to ensure physical distance. They also emphasised the public to wear masks. S.K.Periyaswami, district president of Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu said that the traders had been advised to wear masks and they had requested the public not to bring children to the bazaar. Earlier, there were difficulties in terms of vehicle parking and unloading of goods. However, operation of shops on rotation basis had eased this. The traders had been told not to sell products to persons not wearing masks. They had also been advised not to hike prices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-in-bazaar-area-in-salem-function-on-rotation-basis/article31485852.ece
02 May 2020||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown violation: cases registered in Salem||Salem district police on Thursday registered 100 cases for violation of prohibitory orders and detained 56 vehicles here. Salem City police registered 145 cases against 145 persons and detained 114 vehicles. Namakkal police registered 167 cases against 169 persons and detained about 106 vehicles for violation of prohibitory orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-violation-cases-registered-in-salem/article31485862.ece
02 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Fear over shortage of farm hands as MGNREGS works resume||While the resumption of the works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme is expected to benefit the landless poor, a section of farmers in the delta region are worried that it may lead to shortage of farm hands during the ensuing kuruvai season. The present water storage level at the Stanley Reservoir at Mettur has raised hopes of a normal kuruvai season followed by samba among the Delta farmers. But there is trepidation among a section of farmers over a possible a shortage of farm hands if MGNREGS is implemented with vigour. Work orders have been issued at the places where the novel coronavirus impact is less in the Delta districts and the registered farmhands have started receiving around Rs. 250 as the maximum wage for the work they had completed in a day. Pointing out that providing MGNREGS works at a time when farmhands were required badly in the fields would only hamper agriculture operations, G.Sethuraman, president, Thamizhaga Vivasayigal Nalasangam, Tiruvarur, urged the officials to choose the non-peak agriculture season to provide the `social protection for the most vulnerable people living in rural areas’ as envisioned in the MGNREGS Act. Citing the overwhelming response to the free service offered by the Agriculture Department in association with TAFE’s JFarm for tilling of lands for early kuruvai in some parts of Thanjavur district, S.Ramalingam of Thirukattupalli, a progressive farmer, claimed that many farm workers preferred to remain content with the 100-days work earnings rather than toil in the fields. Stating that already the younger generation have failed to learn the nuances of agriculture operations, Sundara Vimalanathan, general secretary, Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, observed that engaging farm workers for other works when their presence was needed in the fields would only make them incapable of taking up agriculture works in the future. Pointing out that not all operations in agriculture could be taken up with machines, he suggested that certain works such as creation of farm ponds could be brought under the purview of the MGNREGS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fear-over-shortage-of-farm-hands-as-mgnregs-works-resume/article31486080.ece
02 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Government criticised||The Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee has criticised the Tamil Nadu government for toeing the line of Union Government in the issue of bringing the Cauvery Water Management Authority under the purview of the Ministry of Jal Shakti . In a statement issued here on Thursday, the CRRC coordinator P.Maniarasan warned that allowing the CWMA to be brought under the purview of the Ministry of Water Resources would definitely result in the construction of a dam across Cauvery river at Mekedatu, a project aggressively pursued by the Karnataka government. It was a known fact that in every meeting of the Authority, the officials try to include the Mekedatu project as a point for discussion. Further, the proposal presented by the Karnataka government was still under active consideration of the Water Resources Ministry, he pointed out. Condemning the State Government for not opposing the move, Arun Masilamani, organizer, `Uzhavar Aran’, Thanjavur, alleged that enlisting of CWMA as an organization coming under the Ministry of Jal Shakti was nothing but the first step towards the aim of the Union and Karnataka governments to deprive the rights of Tamil Nadu over the Cauvery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/government-criticised/article31486086.ece
02 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Kshetra Pancharatnams rendered||Kshetra Pancharatna kritis were rendered to commemorate the Janma Nakshtram of Saint Composer Sri Thyagaraja at a live Facebook programme organised by the Marabu Foundation, Thillaisthanam, on Thursday. According to a Foundation release, the Saint Composer has composed five group kritis apart from soul-stirring kritis that were widely sung by the Carnatic musicians. Among the five group kritis, the Ghana Raga Pancharatnam is well known and widely sung. The other four Kshetra Pancharatnams – Kovur, Tiruvotriyur, Srirangam and Lalgudi are not generally sung as groups. The Marabu Foundation which had conducted workshops on them and taught them to budding artists, had originally planned a rendition of Kshetra Pancharatna kritis in front of Lord Sitharama Vigraha worshipped by Sri Thyagabrahmam, presently worshipped at a house in Varagappaiyar Lane, Thanjavur, on April 30. But in view of the current situation, the Foundation paid ‘Sangeethanjali’ to the Saint Composer on his Janma Nakshtram day by organising a live rendition of Kshetra Pancharatna kritis on its Facebook page, according to the Foundation’s Managing Trustee, Rama Kausalya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kshetra-pancharatnams-rendered/article31486074.ece
02 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Withdraw move to freeze DA’||The Association of Former Central Committee Members of State Bank of India Staff Union has urged the Central government to withdraw the decision to freeze the dearness allowance for central government employees and pensioners for the next 18 months. Making this plea to the Union Government in a statement, the AFCCM of SBSU president, S.P. Raman has said that the Union government should initiate steps for recovery of bank credit outstandings totalling Rs. 13 lakh crore from defaulters instead of putting on hold the DA hike to its employees and pensioners till July 2021. Freezing the DA, which has been hiked from 17% to 21% in March this year, would only fetch the government around Rs. 37530 crore, he said. This would ensure cash flow in the hands of central government employees and pensioners and help revive the economy, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdraw-move-to-freeze-da/article31486066.ece
02 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Retirement certificate and benefits door delivered||The staff of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (Kumbakonam) Limited, who retired from service in March and April, received their respective retirement order and benefits at their houses. According to sources, the management of TNSTC, Kumbakonam, has decided to hand over the order and retirement benefit cheques to 111 employees whose service came to an end in March and another 160 staff in April at their respective residences in view of the nation-wide lockdown clamped to arrest the spreading of coronavirus. The respective divisional managers have been entrusted with the responsibility of delivering the retirement benefit cheques and orders and the exercise had commenced this week, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retirement-certificate-and-benefits-door-delivered/article31486079.ece
02 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Checkpost inspected||Collector M. Pallavi Baldev visited the Gudalur checkpost, which leads to Kerala, here on Friday. She inspected Lower Camp and Kumili, and interacted with officials manning the checkpost, a release said. Everyday essentials such as vegetables, fruits and milk were moving from Thevaram, Gudalur, Cumbum and Periakulam to Kerala. She checked the log book of vehicle movemens and enquired about the verification process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/checkpost-inspected/article31486056.ece
02 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘People entering Tiruchi should be in home quarantine’||People arriving in the district from other States or districts have been asked to report to the health authorities immediately. Such persons should remain in home quarantine for 14 days, Collector S. Sivarasu announced on Friday. Meanwhile,the police started keeping a tab on those entering their jurisdiction from other districts and those from other States. Field-level police officers have asked the local body representatives to alert them about the entry of those from other districts, including from Chennai where COVID-19 case has been on the rise. Messages urging the village panchayat heads to inform the police have been circulated in the Whatapp groups maintained by the field-level police officer in their respective jurisdiction. In addition to local body representatives, law enforcers have also asked the Friends of Police and volunteers to alert them in case persons from other districts had entered their respective villages and towns. The police have also made it clear that even if the person hailed from a native village of Tiruchi district and had come from other district or other State information in this regard should also be passed on to the law enforcers. Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi Ziaul Haque said the village vigilance committees had been activated to convey such information to the respective jurisdictional officers. In Lalgudi two such persons had been detected having come from Chennai by a lorry and had been put in home quarantine. Stickers had been pasted at the entrance of the residences of the two persons. Similarly, people having entered Tiruchi district from other districts have also been reported in Thuvarankurichi and in Musiri sub-division. In one such instance, it was found that a person had come to Thuraiyur from Nasik in Maharastra recently. Police sources say upon receipt of such information it would in turn be passed on to the field-level Revenue and health department officials to examine such persons and advise them to be in home quarantine. This move was being done as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in Tiruchi district, say police officers. Police personnel at the station level have been asked to visit mother villages and hamlets in their respective jurisdiction seeking information about persons having entered from other districts and also to impress upon the villagers to ensure personal distancing in order to contain the spread of the viral disease. Police sources say they were keeping a constant vigil along the highways and other roads by installing watch towers at vantage places to find out if freight carriers ferried people in large numbers discreetly especially during night hours from Tiruchi or entering the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/people-entering-tiruchi-should-be-in-home-quarantine/article31486070.ece
02 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Five persons test positive for COVID-19 in central region||Five persons in central region, including two from Thanjavur and one each from Ariyalur, Karur and Nagapattinam, tested positive for the novel corona virus on Friday. An Armed Reserve police constable attached to the dog squad in Ariyalur were among those who tested positive for COVID-19, leading to the declaration of the police quarters in the town as a containment zone. The patient was asymptomatic and the infection was only detected when routine checks were being conducted for all frontline workers including police personnel. Ariyalur Collector D. Rathna who assessed the situation early on Friday morning said that the patient was sent to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital as soon as the test result came in. Swabs were lifted from the person's family members and seven others whom he closely worked with on Thursday night, she said. About 100 families in three blocks of the police quarters where the patient resides have been asked to remain in home quarantine soon after the test results arrived. Sanitary workers of the Ariyalur municipality have been pressed into action to disinfect the police quarters, including 25 houses in the 'L' Block, where the patient resides, and the residents were quarantined. Families in two more adjacent residential blocks have also been asked to remain in home quarantine, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, V. Balakrishnan, said. Groceries and other essentials for the families of the 100 Armed Reserve police personnel will be supplied at their doorstep, he said. Those living in 'L' Block will have to be quarantined for 14 days, while a decision on the others living in the other blocks will be made in consultation with the Deputy Director of Health Services after the test results arrive, he said. A three-km radius around the police quarters has been declared a containment zone. Residents cannot venture outdoors, while outsiders will also not be allowed to enter, a senior health official said. Meanwhile, a 25-year-old man tested positive for the infection in Karur after he returned from Chennai on Wednesday. The man had been working as an assistant aboard ‘108’ ambulances in Chennai, official sources said. Contact tracing is on to locate the source of infection, they added. In Thanjavur, two women - one hailed from Kurvikarambai in Peravurani taluk and the other from Melathirupoonthurthi in Thiruvaiyaru block - tested positive. Both have contracted the virus from the members of their families who had already tested positive. With the two new cases, the total number of persons identified with coronavirus infection in the district has increased to 57, sources said. In Nagapattinam, a 62-year-old man, hailing from Mayiladuthurai tested positive and admitted to the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital. The source of the patient’s infection is unclear and contact tracing is on, official sources said. One patient hailing from Tiruchi, three from Perambalur and two from Ariyalur returned home after recovering from the infection from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Friday. The total number of active positive cases from Tiruchi district has further decreased to four, official sources here said. Collector S. Sivarasu applauded the discharged patients and gave them a send-off in the presence of Dean, K. Vanitha and other hospital officials. “There are still four patients from Tiruchi, four from Perambalur, one from Pudukottai and two from Ariyalur undergoing treatment at the hospital. They are all responding well and are being regularly monitored,” he said. Three women, who have undergone treatment to the COVID-19 virus infection, were also discharged from the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Friday. According to official sources, the three women were from Kumbakonam, Thiruvaiyaru and Orathanadu after they had contracted the virus infection from the members of their respective families. All the discharged were directed to remain in self isolation at their homes for the next 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/five-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-central-region/article31486082.ece
02 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Shamianas, chairs put up in front of police stations in Ariyalur district||Law-enforcers in neighbouring Ariyalur district have put up ‘shamianas’ and chairs in front of all police stations in their jurisdiction for the benefit of petitioners approaching the station for filing complaints. The chairs have been placed in such manner in front of the police station premises to ensure personal distancing between the complainants. Amid spread of COVID-19 pandemic the law-enforcers have tied a rope in front of each police station to prevent complainants from entering the station as a precautionary measure to lodge their complaints. Senior police officers say it was for this reason that shamiana had been put up in front of each station and chairs placed with necessary gaps for the petitioners to remain seated while awaiting their turn to prefer their complaint. Police personnel at the respective station would inquire into the petitions outside by maintaining safe distance and taking other precautionary measures, say the officers. Ariyalur district comprises of 16 law and order police stations and a couple of All Women Police Stations falling under Ariyalur and Jayamkondam sub-divisions. Police sources say shamiana were put up a couple of days ago in front of each police station in the district with chairs placed accordingly. Arrangements have been made in each station for the petitioners to wash their hands and insisted on wearing mask. The sources said disinfectants was being sprayed in every police station as well as on the confiscated vehicles kept within the station premises. Police personnel have been provided with vitamin c tablets and kabasura kudineer to improve their immunity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shamianas-chairs-put-up-in-front-of-police-stations-in-ariyalur-district/article31486068.ece
02 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Craftsmen complain of drop in orders||Craftsmen weaving baskets and stitching bamboo blinds at Thennur in the city complain of a drop in orders and lack of sales of their products amidst the lockdown. Six men sit under the Thennur Bridge, near the Electricity Board office during the summers and weave bamboo blinds. “These have many takers as it keeps the room cool and ensures circulation of air,” they say. However, with the lockdown under way, purchase of raw material, lack of orders and difficulty in transporting the products have hit the business badly. M. Balu, the senior-most among the men says that in the 25 years that he has been weaving the blinds, this year was one of the worst. The occupation was passed down to him from his father, he says. What once earned them recognition is a difficult profession with no earnings in sight, he rues. “There were several years where we were unable to sell our products, but never were we asked not to go to work and stay home. We have no means to feed ourselves and are unable to sit idle at home and so have come back to work,” he says. The weavers all reside near the Thennur bridge and walk home past 1 p.m., he says. Mr. Balu charges Rs. 1500 per mat and usually sells at least 100 pieces in the summer. His wife weaves baskets which are ordered in bulk, he adds. S. Arumugham, another weaver who sells by the square foot says that his blinds hang at houses as far as Bengaluru and Chennai. He also pads some of them with jute and sells them at Rs. 120 per square foot. “Many of my customers refer me to their friends and relatives in bigger cities. I have sent large orders worth Rs. 10,000 to some,” he says. It has also been difficult to procure materials during the lockdown. Mr. Arumugham had to request a shopkeeper to sell him some rope which is used to weave the blinds. “I persisted for an entire month. He only gave me some last week,” he says. “Even if I get orders, I will not be able to transport these mats. I have even taken some on buses but even that is not available now,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/craftsmen-complain-of-drop-in-orders/article31486076.ece
02 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Online Hackathon formulating Apps to tackle COVID 19||A national-level COVID -19 Bioinformatics Online Hackathon currently under way at the University College of Engineering, Anna University, BIT Campus, Tiruchi, is focussing on developing community healthcare Apps for supporting needy people during the pandemic across the globe. Slated for culmination on May 9, the 10-day online hackathon for full stackers was inaugurated on Wednesday through video-conferencing by M.K. Surappa, Vice-Chancellor, Anna University, Chennai, and D. Sahasrabudhe, Chairman, All India Council for Technical Education. As many as 773 teams from across the country are participating. For this purpose, Anna University has collaborated with Spoken Tutorial Project of IIT Bombay, Indian Culture project, Madras School of Social Work for community aspects, DERBI foundation - a start-up accelerator from Bengaluru, and Climate Smart Technologies. Prof. Sahasrabudhe said the trend of colleges coming up with innovative ideas to develop sanitiser, PPE and ventilators at low cost was encouraging. Developing Apps at a crucial time and creating an information hub is the need of the hour for our country. Jeevanandhan Duraisamy, Founder CEO, Climate Smart Technologies, Coimbatore, shared his experience in tackling bird flu. Merging ICT with periphery segment of the sciences was crucial at this juncture, he said. S. Raja Samuel, Principal, Madras School of Social Work, Chennai, and Lakshmi Jagannathan, COO, DERBI Foundation, DSU Innovation Campus, Bengaluru, also took part. The AICTE, Innovation Cell of Ministry of Human Resources Development, Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship (MSDE), Directorate General of Training, National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC), Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana, and National Institute Entrepreneurship Small Business Development (NIESBUD) have endorsed the event, T. Senthilkumar, Dean University College of Engineering BIT Campus, Anna University, Tiruchi, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-hackathon-formulating-apps-to-tackle-covid-19/article31486071.ece
02 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Struggling industries look for lifting of curbs||Bereft of financial capability for even settling electricity bills, small and medium enterprises earnestly expect the State Government to lift restrictions on resumption of production activities for getting on to a revival path. “The industries do not have any cash flow as they are not in a position to raise bills for settlement by clients. Further extension of lockdown would cause complete collapse of the financial viability of industries to resume operations,” S. Gopalakrishnan, Secretary of Tiruchi District Tiny and Small Scale Industries' Association said. But for functioning of a few pharma units, the production activities in all the other industries have come to a complete standstill. The absence of fresh COVID 19 positive cases in the district over the last few days has infused hopes that the government could take a favourable decision for resumption of industrial activities in the district, Mr. Gopalakrishnan said. The decision of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited to raise the bill for April 2020 instead of previous month billing was a step in right direction. The TANGEDCO had taken the decision in deference to the representation by LT/LTCT (Low Tension Current Transformer) industrial and commercial consumers that the establishments had not functioned during the lockdown period, the charges for actual usage ought to be levied. The industries have been told that 'self-assessment' reading by the consumers will be accepted. The reading recorded by the consumers has to be sent through SMS/Whatsapp/E-mail message to the mobile number or email id of the Section Officer. The LT/LTCT consumers have been advised to make use of online payment facilities to remit current consumption charges and other arrear charges."The industries are not in a position to settle the bill by May 3," Mr. Gopalakrishnan said, requesting for extension of the due date.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/struggling-industries-look-for-lifting-of-curbs/article31486085.ece
02 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Association contributes money to Relief Fund||The Tamil Nadu PWD Senior Engineers Association has contributed to Rs. 15.56 lakh to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. The sum was contributed by members of the association comprising retired engineers of the Public Works Department towards the COVID 19 relief expenditure, A.Veerappan, Secretary of the association, said in a press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/association-contributes-money-to-relief-fund/article31486077.ece
02 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Six patients discharged from Tirunelveli hospital||Of the 39 COVID-19 positive patients undergoing treatment in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital - eight from Tirunelveli and 31 from Tenkasi districts - six were discharged on Friday. Of the six patients, three are from Puliyangudi in Tenkasi district, two are from Melapalayam and one is from Krishnapuram in Tirunelveli district. Now, 33 patients - five from Tirunelveli and 28 from Tenkasi - are undergoing treatment in the hospital. Hospital sources said that of the remaining five patients from Tirunelveli district, three are likely to be discharged on May 3 or 4, and one more patient before May 6 as they are responding to the treatment.  “We’ve so far conducted seven tests on the last patient, who was admitted to the COVID – 19 ward on March 28. Since he tested positive in all the seven tests, it will take more time for his discharge. Otherwise, all his health parameters are stable,” the sources said. Thoothukudi In Thoothukudi, the last COVID-19 positive patient was discharged from Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital on Friday with Minister for Information ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju, Collector Sandeep Nanduri, Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan, Dean Thiruvasagamani and Resident Medical Officer Silas Jayamani clapping hands to see the patient off. Mr. Raju said the district had 27 COVID-19 positive patients, after 3,731 persons were tested. While 26 of them won their battle against the viral infection due to good medical care, only a 73-year-old woman from Boldenpuram succumbed to the disease. “ Thoothukudi district, which was earlier categorised as ‘red zone,’ has become an ‘orange zone.’ The public, by remaining indoors, should cooperate with the officials and to take it to the ‘green zone.’ Those who are coming from other districts and States should come here only after obtaining permission from officials and undergo tests on entering the district,” Mr. Raju said.  Waiting for discharge 33 patients - five from Tirunelveli and 28 from Tenkasi districts - are undergoing treatment now  Three are likely to be discharged on May 3 or 4, and one by May 6||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-patients-discharged-from-tirunelveli-hospital/article31486032.ece
02 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||85 physically challenged people receive PPE kits||Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish handed over COVID-19 personal protection equipment kit to 85 differently abled persons at the Collectorate here on Friday. Each kit contains a hand sanitiser, hand gloves, mask, leg gloves, knee cap and tissue papers. She said that physically challenged persons who cannot come out of their houses for buying medicines or essential commodities may call 0462 2501034 and get help. While chairing a meeting on March 31, Ms. Shilpa formed three teams - one for monitoring prices of essential commodities and vegetables; the next to monitor supply of essential commodities and the medicines to differently abled people and elders; and the third team for looking after the welfare of homeless people. Accordingly, the following officials may be contacted: Backward Class and Minorities Welfare Officer (for complaints pertaining to price of fruits and vegetables) – 0462 2500141 or 2501141. Adi Dravida and Tribal Welfare Officer (for food and shelter for the neglected) – 0462 2501074 or 2501076. District Social Welfare and District Differently Abled Welfare Officer (for supply of food, medicines and essential commodities for elders and physically challenged) – 0462 2501034. “If there is any problem in these areas, people may contact these officials to get their grievances redressed,” the Collectorsaid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/85-physically-challenged-people-receive-ppe-kits/article31486041.ece
02 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Panther caught, released||Forest personnel have caged a panther, which hunted down dogs and goats in villages close to the Western Ghats near Papanasam in the past few months. In the past few months, there were reports of a stray wild animal hunting down goats and dogs in Koraiyaarkulam, Vembaiapuram and Chettimedu villages, all under Aaladiyoor beat under Papanasam Forest Range of Ambasamudram Division. Forest personnel visited these areas and surmised that the hunter was a stray panther. The forest personnel fitted cameras at Vembaiapuram and found that a panther was hunting the goats and the dogs. Subsequently, a cage was placed in the village. A male panther, aged about five, was caged on Thursday around 8.30 p.m. Ganesan, Deputy Director (in charge), KMTR’s Ambasamudram division; and Forest Range Officers G. Bharath of Papanasam and M. Saravanakumar of Mundanthurai took the caged predator to Kodamaadi area beyond Servalar dam where it was released.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panther-caught-released/article31486046.ece
02 May 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Panther caged||Forest personnel caged a stray panther, which was hunting down dogs and goats in villages close to Western Ghats near Papanasam for past few months. In the past few months, it was hunting goats and dogs in areas under Papanasam Forest Range of Ambasamudram Division.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panther-caged/article31486078.ece
02 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Wedding brokers seek assistance||Claiming that their livelihood has been hit due to COVID-19 lockdown, wedding brokers or mediators from Tiruppur district petitioned Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Friday to ensure the supply of groceries to their families. In the petition, K. Sivakumar, State vice-president of South Indian Marriage Mediators Welfare Association, said that over 2,000 members of the Association in the district were “struggling to fulfil their daily needs” and requested regular supply of vegetables and groceries to them. He also requested the Collector to take the issues faced by the wedding brokers to the Chief Minister.  Auto drivers’ plea Members of Tiruppur District Auto Drivers Welfare Association alleged in a petition that over 2,000 autorickshaw drivers had not received cash assistance from the government. Mohammad Yunus, secretary of the Association, said that only those drivers registered with the Welfare Board had received assistance. The petition sought the Collector’s intervention to ensure cash assistance for all the autorickshaw drivers in Tiruppur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/wedding-brokers-seek-assistance/article31485849.ece
02 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Stay safe - a message from plants to people||With more than 35,000 potted plants blooming at the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam, the Horticulture Department has arranged some of the plants to spread awareness among the public with a message to “stay safe.” According to officials, more than 5,000 plants, including different colours of marigolds, dianthus, salvias and verbenas, were arranged using around 50 Horticulture Department employees, who were residing near the garden, to spell out the message to residents to stay home and stay safe during the COVID-19 pandemic. The staff were made follow personal distancing rules. Assistant Director of Horticulture, the Nilgiris, M. Radhakrishnan, said that visitors were currently not allowed to the Garden or any other parks. “We will wait to see if there is any relaxation for local residents to visit the garden, so that they can see the exhibits, or we will put up pictures of the message on social media or on government websites,” said an official. May is usually one of the busiest months for the Department, as lakhs of tourists visit the district to attend the summer festival, in which the fruit, vegetable, spice, rose and the flower show is held. Prior to the spread of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, the district administration had announced that the summer festival season would begin with the Vegetable Show in Kotagiri on May 2 and 3. However, officials confirmed that the vegetable show has been cancelled, with a decision on the rest of the summer festival still pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stay-safe-a-message-from-plants-to-people/article31485851.ece
02 May 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Villupuram town sealed||The district administration has sealed the entire Villupuram town as part of stricter implementation of lockdown measures in the wake of COVID-19 positive cases reaching 50. Out of the total positive cases, as many as 38 patients are from areas within the Villupuram Municipality. Positive cases have been reported from 26 streets in the municipal limits and the entire town has been declared a containment zone. Villupuram Collector A. Annadurai said with all the 32 entry and exit points and approach roads to Villupuram town sealed, movement of vehicles and people will be restricted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villupuram-town-sealed/article31485809.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Don’t ignore abdominal symptoms||The abdomen is a Pandora’s box” is a well-known phrase described by many surgeons around the world. Abdominal pain has always been a tricky symptom to assess. And now, during this lockdown, we are getting a lot more calls from our patients complaining of abdominal symptoms. These may vary from simple gastritis-like pain to acute/severe abdominal pain. These symptoms need to be evaluated and their medical history studied before the diagnosis and appropriate treatment. Abdominal discomfort has been identified as one of the less common symptoms of the COVID-19 infection. Recent literature has revealed that about 20% of patients report to the hospital with a digestive symptom, such as diarrhoea, vomiting and/or pain, accompanying their respiratory symptoms. And roughly 5% show up with abdominal complaints alone. A study in China found that a third of the people with mild COVID-19 experienced diarrhoea that lasted, on an average, five days. It took them longer to clear the virus from their bodies, compared to those without gastrointestinal symptoms. So, when should a patient with abdominal symptoms visit a hospital? If the pain or associated symptoms like vomiting, diarrhoea, bloating or fever show an increasing trend over a few hours since the onset, it is better to consult a specialist at the hospital. Any acute abdominal pain could mean that the patiet may have an intestinal obstruction, infection or inflammation of the appendix, gallbladder stones causing infection and pus within the biliary tract, intestinal perforations and more. These signs would be intolerable and will limit regular activity or movement. How do we diagnose once we see you? It’s a combination of complete history taking and clinical examination with blood tests and radiological tests like USG abdomen or CT abdomen. Once diagnosed, treatment choices are offered which may be medical or surgical in nature. In some situations, emergency surgery may be recommended to avoid further sepsis as this may hamper the overall outcome of the treatment and life of a person. Delayed consultation About 90% of these procedures can be completed by laparoscopy (keyhole surgery) which is a minimally-invasive method of performing surgeries. Most of these patients get discharged within two days and are able to do their routine work soon. When there is a significant delay between onset of symptoms and arrival at the hospital, that is where the chances of performing these procedures through the keyhole method decreases and the rate of complication rises. But during this current situation, I am sure you are probably wondering how safe it is for people to visit the hospital. All hospitals are taking utmost precautions to safeguard the health and safety of their patients and, of course, the healthcare workers. Effective screening of every person, including doctors and staff, is performed as they enter the hospital on a daily basis. All patients are screened and their attenders screened. If anyone has any suspected symptom related to COVID-19, they are isolated and admitted in specialised isolation suites till the test results are out. All patients undergoing surgery are tested for COVID-19 and all healthcare staff dealing with the patients wear full personal protective equipment while treating or handling these patients, even if the results of tests for COVID-19 are negative. Patients who are recuperating from surgery must take extra precautions as their general immunity will be a bit more compromised. People must stay at home if they are fine and healthy, eat healthy food and indulge in some form of exercising like walking and breathing exercises within the house to keep themselves fit. Physical distancing is a very important principle to follow during this period but in the case of an abdominal or a gastrointestinal (GI) emergency, healthcare distancing need not be practised. The best outcomes in all these GI emergencies can be fully achieved if the patient reports early to the hospital. ( The author is the Clinical Lead of the Department of Minimal Access and Bariatric Surgery at MGM Healthcare)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-ignore-abdominal-symptoms/article31485819.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Chennai remains hotspot with 176 new cases||Another eight children, including a two-year-old, have tested positive in the State. So far, a total of 150 children aged 0 to 12, 2,110 persons in the age group of 13 to 60 and 266 persons above 60 years have tested positive for COVID-19. The number of primary persons for whom investigation was under process was 94 in the day’s count. With another 54 persons discharged from hospitals, the total number of persons discharged across the State is 1,312, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The State’s recovery rate of 54% was the highest in the country, while the mortality rate was maintained at 1.2%, he said. The Health Minister said that the State has so far tested 1,29,363 samples, accounting for 14% of the total samples (9,02,684) tested in the country till now. "Today alone, we have tested 9,615 samples," he said. “We have been increasing the testing facilities in a phased manner. All laboratories are functioning in three shifts, round the clock," he said. He added that a good number of samples were being tested in all districts. "In Chennai, we have so far tested 33,819 persons, while 6,372 persons were tested in Coimbatore, 6,081 persons in Salem, and 5,450 persons in Madurai. In Dharmapuri, which is in the orange zone, we have tested 2,174 persons,” he said. One more private laboratory — Meenakshi Labs in Madurai — was approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are 34 testing facilities in the government and 12 facilities in the private sector. As on date, 2,013 persons with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals. A total of 33,184 persons were in home quarantine and 40 in government quarantine facilities. (* This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-remains-hotspot-with-176-new-cases/article31485828.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||One week goes without a new COVID-19 case||Virudhunagar district has successfully completed one week on Friday without reporting any new COVID-19 positive case. While 32 positive cases have been reported so far, 19 patients have been discharged till Thursday and only 13 are under treatment, at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Collector R. Kannan said that tests had been done on 3,600 patients and results of only 120 samples were awaited. Though Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital had started a COVID-19 testing facility, the district had started sending excess number of samples to Tirunelveli and Theni medical college hospitals as those two facilities had relatively lesser number of samples to be tested. Hitherto, the samples were being sent to Madurai Medical College hospital. e-pass Mr. Kannan said that all persons entering Virudhunagar district would have to undergo 14-day quarantine from Friday under the extended lockdown. The State government had centralised the process of granting e-pass for people who intend to make inter-district or inter-State movement. The Collector could only authorise movement of people within the district, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/one-week-goes-without-a-new-covid-19-case/article31486043.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tied-up freedom||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tied-up-freedom/article31486038.ece
02 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Tablighi Jamaat has pockets of influence in north Karnataka||Tablighi Jamaat may not havebeen a well-known sect until the recent instances of COVID-19 spreading from one of their conventions in New Delhi, but it has a following in small pockets, particularly in north Karnataka. As many as six couples from Indonesia, belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat, were quarantined in Belagavi last month, while a group from Kyrgyzstan wascamping in Bidar. Syed Shabbir, a sect member from Belagavi, said travelling in groups is a distinct feature of the sect. A typical Tablighi follower leaves home for 10 to 40 days a year, travelling long distances to spread the message of Islam among Muslims in other cities, States or countries. They are shoestring travellers and mostly use public transport. They stay in mosques in different cities and carry foodgrains and utensils, which they use to cook in the mosque for the group. They go door to door in Muslim colonies, inviting people to attend prayers at the mosque. Scholars emphasise that people of the sect do not reach out to non-Muslims. “It is wrong to believe that they are an evangelical or proselytizing group. Their motto is ‘Muslims should become better Muslims’,” said Syed Ubaidur Rahman, a Delhi-based author and scholar of Islamic history. Maqsood Chanda, a doctor from Bidar, said that while several other sects cater to the rich or the middle classes, the Tablighi Jamaat works among the poor and the rural masses. “Such work at the grassroot level helps the poor identify themselves with the sect,” he said. He reasoned that awareness about COVID-19 among the sect members was low because most of them were illiterate or uneducated. “Their leaders usually don’t discuss issues other than religion. That has led to most sect members remaining oblivious to political developments or current affairs. That is one reason there is low awareness among them about medical emergencies,” he said. Mohammad Yusuf Raheem, a writer and commentator on religious issues, concurred. “The term ‘Tabligh’ means to carry a message or outreach. ‘Jamaat’ means society. They are entirely apolitical. They don’t discuss issues of politics, unlike some other Jamaats. Their entire focus is religion.” ‘Not deliberate’ Moulana Shabbir Ahmed, public relations officer of the Tablighi Jamaat in Bengaluru, said those who attended the Delhi meeting may have displayed some irresponsibility, but it was because of lack of awareness, not a deliberate act. He said that the Nizamuddin Markaz has only a small percentage of followers in Karnataka. Between 90% and 95% of Tablighi Jamaat members in the State follow the Shura sect of the Jamaat, which is distinct from the centre at Nizamuddin. The Tablighi movement was founded in New Delhi around 1925 by preacher Mohammad Ilyas Al Khandalwi. He wanted Muslims to understand the basics of religion and practice rituals that would make them true Muslims. “He was a believer of the Deobandi school of thought. He and other leaders such as Moulana Zakaria wanted to start a reformist movement in response to the Shuddhi movement of the Arya Samaj. They are popular among the common man as they have simplified the tenets of Islam,” Mr. Rahman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tablighi-jamaat-has-pockets-of-influence-in-north-karnataka/article31485776.ece
02 May 2020||Belagavi/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State and Centre differ on red zones||The list released on Friday by the Union government on red, orange and green zone districts has only three from Karnataka figuring in the first category. As per the State’s categorisation, the number stands at 14. This is because the guidelines on categorisation vary, and the State government is now examining the issue and will take a fresh call on it soon. Karnataka now has only three districts in red zone — Bengaluru, Bengaluru Rural, and Mysuru — according to the Centre. The districts in the red zone on the State list are Bagalkot, Belagavi, Bengaluru Urban, Bidar, Chickballapur, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Dharwad, Gadag, Kalaburagi, Mandya, Mysuru, Tumakuru, and Vijayapura. As per the Centre’s classification, there are three red zone districts, 13 orange zone districts, and 14 green zone districts in the State. This, officials said, is the result of the new criteria for deciding zones. Factors deciding zoning include incidence and doubling rate of cases, extent of testing, surveillance feedback, and rate of recovery. An officer working with the Health Department said there was no clarity yet on the issue. Munish Moudgil, who is in charge of the State COVID-19 war room, said the Centre’s criteria was drawn up recently. “Karnakata had an existing criteria. Besides this, the Union Government clearly says that States can add districts to the red or orange zones. The State government is examining the new guidelines and will take a call on the matter,” he said. According to the State government’s classification as on Friday, there are 14 districts in the red zone which have at least one case reported in the past 14 days. There are four districts in the orange zone, where there are no cases have been reported in 14 days, but at least one was reported in the 15-28 day period. Twelve districts are in the green zone, not reporting a single case in 28 days.           Red zones   Centre’s list: Bengaluru, Bengaluru Rural, and Mysuru   State’s list: Bagalkot, Belagavi, Bengaluru Urban, Bidar, Chickballapur, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, Dharwad, Gadag, Kalaburagi, Mandya, Mysuru, Tumakuru, and Vijayapura||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-and-centre-differ-on-red-zones/article31485772.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. urged to defer electricity tariff revision||With the lockdown throwing small and medium scale industries into a deep crisis, the industry body has sought deferment of tariff hikes proposed by electricity supply companies (Escoms) for 2020-21 along with waiver of fixed charge or demand charge for a 6 to 9-month period. This comes amidst the State government awaiting nod from the Centre to pass on the waiver benefits. FKCCI, the representative body of the MSME sector in the State, has urged KERC to direct Escoms to waive off the fixed charge besides urging the regulatory body to defer bills for the months of March, April and May by a month. The request to KERC Chairman Shambu Dayal Meena from the FKCCI came recently as the regulatory commission is hearing the tariff revision petition filed for the year 2020-21 by the five Escoms in the State. Karnataka has an estimated 6.5 lakh units in the MSME sector employing about 80% of the approximately 70-lakh-strong workforce in the State. While the economic slowdown had hit the sector hard, COVID-19 has brought more misery. Other States “Many States in the country are offering help to the MSME sector. Gujarat, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Telengana have revised fixed charges to help small industries. We have requested similar concessions,” FKCCI president C.R. Janardhan told The Hindu . Already small scale industries were affected by high fixed tariff and zero production, while having to deal with overhead costs due to the COVID-19 lockdown has pushed them to the brink. “The Karnataka government can take a cue from other States. It can waive off or reduce the fixed tariff for a certain period to enable industries to manage during the crisis,” Mr. Janardhan said. Additional Chief Secretary (Energy) Mahendra Jain told The Hindu that to tide over the crisis, the Energy Department had submitted a “comprehensive proposal” to the Central government, which includes a waiver or deferment of fixed charge paid to Central generators. “If we hear from the Centre, we will pass on the benefit to the consumers,” he said. On deferment of tariff revision, Mr. Jain said the revision process started a few months ago, and public hearings have also been held. “Now, it is up to the KERC,” he said. While KERC Chairman Shambhu Dayal Meena was unavailable for comment, Energy Department sources said the likelihood of a deferment was low. Meanwhile, ICRA, a credit rating agency, has warned that the COVID-19 lockdown is likely to cause a decline in the all-India demand for electricity by 1% and increase the Discoms’ losses by Rs. 20,000 crore in FY2021. This is considering the full lockdown till May 3, partial lifting of lockdown in the non-red zones in May and June, and resumption of full operations by industrial and commercial establishments in July. Power demand down Mr. Jain said though the power demand has come down by only around 20%, as domestic consumption has increased, the revenue losses are much higher because high-paying HT consumers, such as industries and tech parks, are closed. “Our focus now is on providing uninterrupted power due to the work from home conditions. We are also trying to see that renewable energy, such as solar, is not wasted and use is maximised during the day while hydel or thermal are reduced, as all renewables are on a must-run status.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-urged-to-defer-electricity-tariff-revision/article31485747.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Steep ticket price makes migrant workers’ journey home arduous||A large crowd of nearly 5,000 people, mainly migrant labour from north Karnataka, had gathered at Bannappa Park on Friday, eager to go home in buses operated by the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC). There was chaos and anger was palpable as there were not enough buses and the ticket price was beyond their reach. Loan to buy tickets Imran Khan, who hails from Kalaburagi, spent over Rs. 8,000 for five of his family members to return home. “I had to take a loan to buy the tickets. There is no work here and even two meals a day has become a problem,” he said, and added that he was unsure if he would return to Bengaluru. Mallamma, a construction labour from Yadgir, said her family was unable to go home as they could not afford the tickets. “The government should have organised free travel. How can they expect someone relying on relief to afford to buy tickets at a steep price? It’s unfair,” she said. A ticket to Yadgir now costs Rs. 1,411. “It usually costs around Rs. 600,” she said. A senior KSRTC official explained that the trips were being considered as contract carriage engaged by private parties. “Of the 55 seats, we are allowing only 30 passengers. The ticket price is being calculated to ensure the cost of the trip — Rs. 39/km calculated for a round trip and toll rates — is equally borne by 30 passengers,” he explained. It essentially means, a passenger travelling on these trips will have to bear the cost of not only 15 seats kept vacant to ensure social distancing, but also of the return trip, which results in the ticket price being more than double the usual. Shivayogi C. Kalasad, managing director, KSRTC, however, claimed that the tickets cost only 30% more than usual. The KSRTC had begun charging migrant workers travelling back as per directions from the State government, he said. U-turn Last week, the KSRTC dropped over 16,000 migrant labourers in 598 buses to districts such as Bidar, Raichur, and Koppal with the district administrations bearing the travel cost. This practice has been reviewed and travellers have to now bear the cost, in what officers describe as a “strategy to discourage them from travelling home”. “If we provide free transport, everyone will return home, creating problems both in the villages — triggering fear of spread of COVID-19 — and here in the city, hampering revival of economic activity, including construction work. As we are charging them, only those who genuinely need to go home will go,” said a senior official overlooking travel of migrant labourers. Vinay Sreenivasa of Naavu Bharateeyaru, a social welfare coalition working with migrant labourers since lockdown, came down heavily on the government’s decision to charge the labourers for their travel back home. “If the government wants them to stay back, it must ensure their basic needs are met with dignity. When the relief work is also found wanting, its unfair to hold them back through these measures,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/steep-ticket-price-makes-migrant-workers-journey-home-arduous/article31485756.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||At least eight people identified as COVID-19 ‘super spreaders’||At least eight people, a majority of whom are men, have been identified as ‘super spreaders’ of COVID-19 in Karnataka. The Department of Health and Family Welfare defines super spreaders as those who have spread the novel coronavirus to at least 10 or more contacts. Data shows that Karnataka’s super spreaders together infected as many as 226 patients, mainly primary, secondary or third-party contacts. As on Thursday, these contacts comprised at least 40% of the total COVID-19 in the State. The maximum number of people infected because of one patient is in the Nanjangud cluster, after a pharmaceutical company employee tested positive in March. A total of 76 people have been infected in that cluster. This includes 48 of that person’s primary contacts, 24 secondary contacts, and four third-level contacts. Of the eight people identified, two persons each are from Bengaluru Urban, Kalaburagi, and Mysuru. Besides this, there are one each from Belagavi and Bagalkot. Seven of the eight super spreaders are men. The second highest number of people infected by a super spreader — after contact tracing was undertaken by the Department of Health and Family Welfare — is from Kalaburagi. The infection spread after a 60 year-old woman passed it on to at least 32 of her contacts. The State government and the war room is keeping close vigilon each patient and their contacts. “One never knows who may become a super spreader and hence, everyone and every contact (even before he or she tests positive) has to be accurately identified and isolated in quarantine,” said an official. The State government is actively identifying each and every contact within 24 hours of a patient testing positive. “Once they are identified, we immediately put them in quarantine. This has been our core strategy to contain the transmission of COVID-19 in the State,” the official added. An official working with thedepartment said they have begun random testing of people in clusters where several patients have been infected. In Bengaluru, random tests were conducted in the Padarayanapura and Hogasandra clusters. “Conducting random tests helps us contain the spread of the virus and ensure that people who test positive are isolated at the earliest,” said a BBMP official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/at-least-eight-people-identified-as-covid-19-super-spreaders/article31485767.ece
02 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Many take to terrace gardening||The long period of COVID-19 lockdown may have brought most of the activities to a standstill, but it has certainly helped in reviving several terrace gardens in Bengaluru. Some residents have taken to terrace gardening either to beat the boredom or to make the best use of leisure time. “Thousands of terrace gardens in Bengaluru had been left unattended owing to busy schedule of people. Now, the lockdown has provided them an opportunity to revive them. According to different estimates reaching us, anywhere from 5,000 to 10,000 of them have been revived so far,” said C. Aswath, principal scientist and head of the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research’s (IIHR) Division of Floriculture and Medicinal Plants. Freshers too are taking to terrace gardening during the lockdown, he said. “Every day, I have been getting calls from garden enthusiasts for advice ever since the lockdown has been imposed,” said Dr. Aswath, who conducted daylong scientific course on terrace gardening during the IIHR’s National Horticulture Fair held in February on its Hessarghatta campus. “I tell them to make use of locally available materials such as old saris in place of shadenets as they are not available during lockdown. Also, it is possible to get seeds from the matured vegetables or fruits which we buy from the market. Only in the case of tomato, it may not be possible to sow the seeds if they are F-1 hybrids,” he said. He also advised people to use their kitchen waste to grow plants by decomposing it along with dried leaves from trees on the roadside. He said the 240 participants in the IIHR workshop have not only taken to terrace gardening, but have also helped their friends, relatives and neighbours to take to it. Sunitha, a techie who recently quit her job, is among those who have revived their old terrace gardens. “Owing to paucity of time, we could not maintain the terrace garden earlier. But now we have,” she said. She has about 30 pots of vegetables and green leaves on her terrace with an area of about 1,100 sq. ft. “We are getting vegetables from our own garden at least for one time in a day during the lockdown,” she said proudly. “It gives a lot of relief to see greenery on your terrace,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/many-take-to-terrace-gardening/article31485744.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Unions call for job security, reduction in working hours||Amid an unprecedented lockdown necessitated by a pandemic, May Day took on a different meaning for the working class that is now battling job losses, pay cuts, likely extended working hours, and a host of other challenges they were not prepared for. Participate from home On Friday, the celebrations were marked by the struggles of surviving the COVID-19 pandemic and its aftermath. The All-India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) saw weavers, construction workers, ASHA workers, school bus drivers, and street vendors, among others, participate from home holding placards. An AIUTUC release also spoke about the plight of thousands of migrant workers who are being forced to walk back home for days on end, having lost work, some even losing their lives. Central trade unions across segments, under the banner of the Joint Committee of the Trade Unions (JCTU), came together to mark the 134th May Day, urging the government not to extend the eight-hour working day. “At a time when the unemployment rate is 23% in the country, it is only apt that the working day should be reduced to six hours to sustain, create employment, and revive the economy in general,” a JCTU release said. Workers across different industrial areas such as Doddaballapur, Peenya, Bommasandra, Jigani, Hoskote, and Whitefield, as well as other unions, also marked May Day with flag hoisting ceremonies. AITUC marked the day with a flag hoisting ceremony with the volunteers who are in the frontline of the relief work being undertaken by the trade unions by distributing food to migrant and construction workers in the city. A meeting resolved to defend the working class rights for income, job security, and to shorten the working day to six hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/unions-call-for-job-security-reduction-in-working-hours/article31485758.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Task force set up to address wage, retrenchment issues||Just ahead of reopening of industries in Karnataka after being shut for over a month, the State government has set up a 16-member task force to deal with issues related to wage and retrenchment that are likely to come up in both organised and unorganised sectors. Nine unions The task force, headed by the Additional Commissioner (Industrial Relations), has representatives from nine trade unions in the State and representatives from industry bodies such as CII, CREDAI, FKCCI, and KASSIA. The task force will compulsorily meet once in two days to take appropriate decisions on the grievances to be filed by workers. This is in addition to the Labour Wage and Retrenchment COVID Helpline that has been receiving grievances related to salary and retrenchment over the past fortnight. The task force comes in the light of demand by trade unions to have an institutional mechanism to prevent wage cuts and retrenchment, and a U-turn made by the State government, apparently under pressure from industry bodies, on a Labour Department’s directive to industries not to cut wages or retrench workers. Incidentally, the Union government had on March 28 issued a directive to States to protect wages for the lockdown period and jobs of workers in the industries. No statutory powers Welcoming the setting up of the task force,AITUC general secretary D.A. Vijaybhaskar told The Hindu that though the task force does not have any statutory powers, it is still a good move considering that the industry expects many factories to fold up. “It can see whether the permission to close is on a genuine ground. Otherwise, when businesses close in big numbers, tracing the owner becomes difficult and workers may be left in the lurch. It can function as a joint body to mitigate the suffering of the workforce,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/task-force-set-up-to-address-wage-retrenchment-issues/article31485761.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC declines plea on labs for virus research||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday declined to entertain a PIL petition seeking a series of directions for setting up laboratories to conduct research on virus species that infect humans and to constitute a panel to work out the modalities to set up research labs and create a “coronavirus source-destroying expert squad”. Observing that most of the issues discussed in the petition were in the realm of policy, the High Court said that an order on constituting a panel as sought by the petitioner would be counterproductive and would interfere with the steps taken by the State and Union governments to deal with the outbreak. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Savanur Vishwajith Shetty passed the order while disposing of a petition filed by the Advocates’ Forum for Constructive Social Work, Dharwad. “Considering that a large number of COVID-19 positive cases [are reported] every day in the country, both the Central and State governments are facing a difficult task. It is obvious that both governments are conscious of the fact that to prevent the spread of COVID-19, it is necessary to conduct research and find solutions,” the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-declines-plea-on-labs-for-virus-research/article31485780.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Online protest against PG medical, dental fee hike planned||The State government’s decision on Friday to hike fees for postgraduate medical and dental seats in private colleges for the 2020-21 academic year has students up in arms. The Medical Service Centre (MCS), Karnataka, and All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) have organised an online protest on Saturday that will see doctors, medical students and PG aspirants holding placards on social networking sites, urging the government to withdraw the decision. MCS and AIDSO have urged the government to immediately withdraw the hike and also increase the number of seats for PG in all government medical colleges. Sithara H.M. of AIDSO said that a fee hike at a time when the entire country is reeling under the effects of the pandemic was unacceptable and undemocratic. “At this juncture, we cannot even take this issue to streets and the government is suppressing dissent using the lockdown as a shield,” she said. On Friday, the government announced its decision to hike PG medical and dental fees for institutional quota by 30% and government quota seats by 20% for both dental and medical streams. Priyanka J.P., another medical PG aspirant, said that she had expected a 10% hike, which is generally done every year, and had planned and arranged the amount based on that. “However, everything has changed now and I will have to change my plans accordingly,” she said. The seat matrix was released late April 30 night and the last date option entry for eligible candidates was May 2. “This is undemocratic and unfair, that too when there is complete lockdown. We hardly have any time to think and plan,” she added.  Experts warn that seats may go vacant K.S. Nagesh, former member, Dental Council of India, and former principal of R.V. Dental College, Bengaluru, said that the government should have approved only a 10% hike. “Colleges have to pay salaries and bear many other expenses and hence a 10% hike is acceptable. But, at the same time, we should also take into account the hardship that parents and students are facing,” he said. He also warned that due to the hike, a situation may arise where seats may go vacant as many people cannot afford to pay so much. Managements of private colleges maintain that they only got half of what their long standing demand was. M.R. Jayaram, chairman, Ramaiah Medical College, argued that without the hike, private medical colleges “would be doomed”. “Our demand was a 40-50% hike. The committee appointed by the government recommended a 30-40% hike but we didn’t get that either,” said Mr. Jayaram. S. Kumar, Chancellor, Sri Devaraj Urs Academy of Higher Education & Research, said the government was probably trying to narrow the huge gap between fee structures in private colleges affiliated to RGUHS and deemed to be universities. “I am surprised by the hike of 20-30% at this juncture, but that was a long standing demand,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-protest-against-pg-medical-dental-fee-hike-planned/article31485750.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Labourers wanting to go out of State have to submit application||Migrant labourers wishing to leave the State to return home will have to make an application before the State government, either online or at civic/district administration offices. These applications will be sorted State-wise and clearance to travel home will be given after the respective State governments agree. Those leaving Karnataka will be subjected to medical tests, guidelines issued by the State government on Friday stated. N. Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary, Revenue Department, and nodal officer for travel outside the State, said the process of receiving applications would begin from Saturday and arrangements — KSRTC buses or trains — will be made by the government, but the travel cost has to be borne by the passengers. Five rakes on standby Indian Railways, on Friday, announced ‘Shramik Special’ trains for migrant workers to travel home. Bengaluru Division of South Western Railway has geared up to send stranded migrant workers in the city to their respective States. Divisional Railway Manager Ashok Kumar Verma told The Hindu that five rakes of train are on standby. “We are waiting for communication from the State government. Once we get the information on the number of people travelling and destinations they want to travel, required number of trains will be made available on those routes. At present, five rakes of trains are made ready. To maintain social distance during the travel, we allow only 54 people travel in a sleeper coach; normally it has a capacity to accommodate 72 passengers. In one train, approximately 1,200 people will be allowed to travel.” It is said that more than one lakh migrant workers may want to leave the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/labourers-wanting-to-go-out-of-state-have-to-submit-application/article31485757.ece
02 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Stay back, appeals Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has appealed to all migrant workers to stay back in the State and cooperate with the government in resuming economic activities. The Chief Minister’s appeal is being seen as an attempt to ensure that their return to home States does not hamper resumption of economic activities, especially the resuming of work by industries, owing to shortage of workforce. Mr. Yediyurappa, who took to Twitter to extend May Day wishes to workers on Friday, told them that the government would resume economic activities soon. The government has already held a meeting with representatives of association of commerce and industries in this regard, he said. The government has appealed to the employers to protect the interests of their workers and pay their salaries, Mr. Yediyurappa said. “As you are aware, due to COVID-19 pandemic, economic activities had almost come to a standstill across the country and the worst affected were labourers. But the government has stood by you during this time of crisis. COVID-19 situation in India is much better than other countries because of your cooperation,” he said in the tweet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/stay-back-appeals-yediyurappa/article31485760.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All courts in State to stay closed till May 16||The order of closure of all courts in the State, including the High Court of Karnataka, has been extended till May 16. However, the High Court will take up for hearing, through videoconferencing, extremely urgent matters, tentatively on May 5, 7, 8 , 11, 13, 15, 18, 20, and 22, according to notifications issued by the court on Thursday. The High Court has also notified on its official website a list of old cases ready for final hearing. It has indicated that these cases could be taken up for hearing through videoconferencing if the advocates send e-mail communication by May 7.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/all-courts-in-state-to-stay-closed-till-may-16/article31485778.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||One more death, 24 new cases reported in State||The number of COVID-19 deaths in Karnataka rose to 23, with a 69-year-old man from Davangere succumbing to the infection on Friday. The patient, who had a history of SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) and diabetes, was on ventilator support. The State also saw 24 new positive cases, taking the total to 589. Of the new cases, eight are from Mandya and three of them have a travel history to Maharashtra. Six cases were reported in Davangere, three in Belagavi, two each in Dakshina Kannada and Kalaburagi. and one each in Vijayapura, Chickballapur, and Dharwad. There is one case each of SARI and Influenza-like Illnesses (ILI), and all the remaining patients had contact with other patients. Of the total 589 cases in Karnataka, 251 have been discharged. Of the 23 deaths, 22 were directly because of COVID-19. Mandatory tests With many ILI and SARI patients showing symptoms such as breathlessness and cough, which may be missed during screening, the Department of Health and Family Welfare has directed that all such cases be subjected to swab test, as per the standard operating procedure for COVID-19 testing. A circular issued by the department on Thursday stated that the fingertip pulse oximeter is an essential tool to identify ILI and SARI cases and must be made available at all fever clinics. All these cases must be subjected to a COVID-19 swab test. District health officers have been instructed to ensure availability of fingertip pulse oximeter and IR thermal scanners at every fever clinic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-more-death-24-new-cases-reported-in-state/article31485777.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Miscreants steal liquor||Miscreants broke into a bar in Nandi, on the outskirts of the city, by drilling a hole into the wall at the rear of the building. They were able to escape undetected with several bottles of liquor. The incident came to light on Friday morning when passersby saw the hole in the wall of Golden Bar. According to the police they damaged the CCTVs to avoid being identified. “They drilled a hole in the rear, entered the bar and made away with almost all the liquor stored there,” said the police. A senior police official said this is at least the second such burglary in a bar where liquor was stolen in Chickballapur district since the lockdown began. In Bengaluru, alcohol was stolen from the Forensic Science Laboratory. Due to the prohibition on the sale of liquor across the country during the lockdown, the Excise Department has sealed all bars and wine stores which resulted in a thriving black market. Many people and gangs that have been selling liquor for several times the cost of the Maximum Retail Price have been busted in the city since the start of the lockdown. The police suspect some of these rings may have resorted to burglaries of bars to source liquor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/miscreants-steal-liquor/article31485738.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP seals 100 metre radius in Jyothi Nagar||The BBMP on Friday sealed a 100 metre radius in Jyothi Nagar in Deepanjalinagar ward (158) after a positive COVID-19 case was reported from the area on Thursday. Seven primary contacts and 23 secondary ones have been quarantined, said a BBMP official. After inspecting the spot, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar tweeted that 713 people residing in 198 houses fall in the 100 m radius that has been declared as a containment zone. The area will be sealed for 28 days and all entry and exit points will be blocked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-seals-100-metre-radius-in-jyothi-nagar/article31485748.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||13 wards in red zone as of May 1||The State government on Friday released a revised list of red, orange and green zones in Bengaluru. Wards that have been declared as red zones have reported at least one positive case in past 14 days. Thirteen wards fall into the red zone: Hongasandra (with 28 cases), Padarayanapura (26), Jagajeevanram Nagar (5), Deepanjali Nagar (3), Bapuji Nagar (3), Chamrajpet (2), Vasanth Nagar (2) and Hampi Nagar (2). The other wards in the red zone - Yeshwanthpur, Hagadur, Hombegowda Nagar, Jayanagar East and Bilekhali - have one positive case each.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-wards-in-red-zone-as-of-may-1/article31485742.ece
02 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||E-pass being issued to utilise govt. services||Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has said that that 72 government services through 12 departments has been introduced in the district and to help the people avail these services online, e-pass is being given. In a release Ms. Deepa said those who wish to avail the facility have to submit documents of their work to www.supportdharwad.in The e-passes could be obtained for emergency medical services, funeral, and procuring medicines from other places, government duty, vehicle pass, health assistance, inter-district and interstate transportation of agriculture produce, distribution of social security pension, online education training, trade and commerce and public and private business. For the works related to RDPR, NREGS and drinking water projects, e-pass available at the ZP CEO office, for supply of essential goods, manufacturing units, retail business, bakery, delivery of meat, eggs, fruits and vegetables have to be availed at the HDMP Commissioner’s office. For collection and sale of milk, poultry and fodder transportation, people have to avail e-pass at the veterinary department deputy director office. Medical and surgical equipment, oxygen cylinder supply and raw materials for manufacturing of medical equipment have to avail pass from Industries Department joint director. For agriculture related activities and sale of agriculture produce, pass should be availed from Agriculture Department joint director, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/e-pass-being-issued-to-utilise-govt-services/article31485969.ece
02 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan dist. administration awaits instructions on handling returning migrant workers||The Hassan district administration is waiting for clear instructions from the State government on handling hundreds of migrant workers who have gone to different places and are expected to return to Hassan soon. From Mumbai alone, more than 4,000 people are expected to return in a few days. This issue came up for the discussion in a review meeting chaired by Health Minister B. Sriramulu on Friday. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish said so far no COVID-19 case had been reported in the district. However, the entry of hundreds of people from distant places is a cause of worry. “As per protocol, we have to quarantine all of them. We are contemplating geotagging them to keep a track of their movements,” he said. Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda said that over 4,000 people were ready to return to Hassan from Mumbai. “If such big numbers return, it would be difficult to quarantine all of them, besides providing food and shelter. The government should work give clear instructions on this,” he said. Mr. Sriramulu said he would discuss the issue with the Chief Minister. The Minister thanked the district administration for its measures to avoid the infection. The lockdown would be relaxed in the green zone, where no cases had been reported. However, it would take a long time for situation to return to normalcy. People would have to continue maintaining social distance and wear masks, he said. Mr. Sriramulu also appealed to the youth and health staff to donate blood as many blood banks were running out of stock. The government had launched a helpline for blood donation. Interested persons can call the number so that the officials could arrange pick and drop facilites. The Minister visited Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences earlier in the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hassan-dist-administration-awaits-instructions-on-handling-returning-migrant-workers/article31485956.ece
02 May 2020||HOPE ISLAND (EAST GODAVARI),KARNATAKA||Olive Ridley hatchlings released into the sea||The wildlife management authorities have released a staggering number of about 53,000 hatchlings of Olive Ridley Turtles into the sea on the Kakinada coast in the ongoing nesting season. The wildlife management division (Rajamahendravaram) is engaged in conservation of the turtle eggs by setting up five rookeries on the Kakinada coast.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/olive-ridley-hatchlings-released-into-the-sea/article31485752.ece
02 May 2020||HUBBAlLI/Belagavi/Mangaluru/Dharwad,KARNATAKA||Davangere district sees six positive cases in one day||The number of COVID-19 positive cases reported from Davangere district shot up to 10, with six new cases being confirmed on Friday. On Wednesday, a staff nurse [P-534] tested positive in the district and on Thursday an elderly man [P-556] also tested positive. All the new cases on Friday are family members of the two patients. The 34-year-old son and one-year-old grandson of the elderly man, his three daughter-in-laws, aged 31, 26 and 28, have tested positive. The 16-year-old son of the staff nurse has also tested positive. Already, all the family members of both the patients had been quarantined in the designated hospital. Meanwhile, the district administration, which has tightened lockdown restrictions, is yet to ascertain the source of infection of P-534 and P-556, as both had no travel history. Reliable sources said that both patients were reportedly not divulging details of their activities. Of the 10 cases reported in Davangere district, two have been discharged after treatment. Three more cases Three persons tested positive in Belagavi district. The new cases include a 30-year-old woman, and two men, who are 50 and 55 years old, from Kudchi in Raibag taluk. They are all contacts of P-301. They are in the district designated hospital and are responding to treatment. With these cases, the district reached 71 on Friday, with 61 active cases. Of the 71 cases, a 81-year-old woman has died, and 10 have been discharged from the hospital after they were cured. Interestingly, 56 of the 71 cases (79%) are from two clusters – Hire Bagewadi and Kudchi. Of the total 5,118 samples collected in the district, 3,367 have tested negative. Two cases in DK Dakshina Kannada has reported two more cases. According to a government bulletin, a 69-year-old male [P-578] from Bantwal, who is the secondary contact of the first victim of the disease in Dakshina Kannada [P-390] tested positive. The bulletin also said said that a 62-year-old male [P-579] from Boloor in the city, who is the primary contact of P-536 who tested positive on Thursday, also tested positive. With this, the number of active cases in the district is nine. Of the 18 positive cases that were reported from Dakshina Kannada alone, three have died and six persons have been discharged. The bulletin said that 99 persons are under quarantine in the district till Friday. Test reports of 662 samples are awaited. It said that 14 severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) cases were reported in the district on Friday. Hubballi man is positive A 57-year-old man from Hubballi in Dharwad district tested positive for the infection on Friday. According to a release by Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa, P-589 is a resident of Shanti Nagar in Hubballi and he had fever, cough and cold. He is being treated at KIMS hospital in Hubballi. With this the number of active COVID-19 cases in Dharwad district went up to eight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/davangere-district-sees-six-positive-cases-in-one-day/article31485958.ece
02 May 2020||HUBBALLI/Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Cured patients return home||A 59-year-old woman (P-304) from Gadag who has been cured of SARS COV-2 infection was discharged from AYUSH Hospital in Gadag on Friday. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath, ZP CEO Anand K., Superintendent of Police Yatish N., Health and Family Welfare Officer Satish Basarigidad, director of Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences P.S. Bhoosaraddi, and the health staff gave her a send-off and clapped as she moved out of the hospital premises. The ‘cured’ patient also got gifts such as a Betageri silk sari, masks, sanitiser, foodgrains, and essential commodities. Home quarantine As per the COVID-19 health advisory, the woman will be home quarantined for 14 days under the supervision of the Health Department. A regular follow up will be done by the Health Department, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said. Five discharged in Vijayapura As many as five more persons were discharged in the city on Friday. With this, the number of persons discharged rose to 11. More patients are expected to be discharged in a couple of days after completing the 14-day mandatory hospitalisation. The patients thanked the hospital staff and administration for taking care of them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cured-patients-return-home/article31485960.ece
02 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||United Hospital begins rapid testing||United Hospital at Kalaburagi began rapid testing for COVID-19 for all the patients at its facility from Thursday. Vikram Siddareddy, chairman of United Hospital, said the kits were imported from South Korea and were approved by Indian Council of Medical Research. He, however, clarified the kits will be used only for screening test and the confirmation in case of a positive test will be done by the government through RT-PCR testing. “Using the rapid test kits to screen for COVID-19 is part of our commitment towards maintaining high standards of patients’ safety,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/united-hospital-begins-rapid-testing/article31485968.ece
02 May 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Anxiety in villages in Mandya over cremation of Mumbai-based man||The cremation of the body of a Mumbai-settled autorickshaw driver at B. Kodagahalli, near Melkote, on April 24 has led to some anxiety in parts of Mandya district. Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh, however, said that no protocols were violated and there was no need to be alarmed. The 53-year-old Padavapura native, who had been residing in Mumbai for 15 years, died at the V.N. Desai Government Hospital at Santacruz on April 23. His embalmed body was brought to the district on April 24. The cremation was held under the supervision of personnel deputed on COVID-19 duty. The daughter, 24, son-in-law, 25, and grandson, 2, of the deceased who accompanied thebody from Mumbai (P-566, P-567, and P-568, respectively), and his second daughter staying in K.R. Pet (P-569) have tested positive for COVID-19. Villagers are now anxious, despite assurances from the Deputy Commissioner. Political leaders, including former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy, have criticised the authorities for allowing the cremation at B. Kodagahalli. Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner clarified that the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines permit movement of ambulances and the body was embalmed. Hence, it could reach the district by passing several check-posts en route to Pandavapura taluk, he said. A total of seven persons, including the wife of the deceased, attended the cremation. All seven have been placed under quarantine at the Morarji Desai Residential School. The documents given by the medical officer of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and by V.N. Desai Hospital state that the man died of cardiac arrest. Furthermore, he had been suffering from anaemia and blood pressure. His son-in-law works with the loan department of ICICI Bank and he often visited Wardha, Santacruz and other places, Mr. Venkatesh said. The health officer concerned decided to allow the cremation as the body was embalmedand the people who accompanied it had documents with them. “If the man had died of COVID-19, the authorities concerned [in Maharashtra] would not have allowed the relatives to take thebody to Pandavapura,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/anxiety-in-villages-in-mandya-over-cremation-of-mumbai-based-man/article31485769.ece
02 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||I PU results: DK all set to message students||In tune with the directive of the State government, the Dakshina Kannada Pre-University department is all set to message the results of the I PU examination to its students on May 5. They can also access the link of the website of Dakshina Kannada PU Principals Association https://result.dkpucpa.com. The 33,498 students will receive the SMS on the registered mobile numbers about the result at 9 a.m. Students can also go to the website and enter their registration number and date of birth to get the details, said Deputy Director of PU Department Mohammed Imtiyaz. For the last three years the department has been releasing the I PU results on the website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/i-pu-results-dk-all-set-to-message-students/article31485970.ece
02 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu shifts focus to monsoon preparedness||With only a month left for the onset of monsoon, the administration in Kodagu, which battled two devastating floods and landslips in the last two years, has shifted its focus on monsoon preparedness, after successfully combating the COVID-19 pandemic. Kodagu, which had a lone case more than a month ago, is presently free from COVID-19, with no case reported after March 19. The district has been placed in the green zone and certain lockdown curbs have been relaxed, including those on construction activities. Even as construction of houses for flood victims had picked up pace, the administration has proposed to hand over completed houses to the affected families before the monsoon sets in. Also, officials are in the process of identifying areas vulnerable to floods and landslips based on the data sourced from the Geological Survey of India (GSI) and also the data collated from previous tragedies. Minister for Housing V. Somanna recently inspected the houses and asked the engineers to complete them by monsoon. The administration, in 2019, had estimated Rs. 1,700 crore for rebuilding Kodagu after the calamities. Last year alone, the loss suffered by the coffee industry was over Rs. 53 crore while the black pepper industry’s losses had been pegged at Rs. 83 crore.  Task cut out Until August-September, key department officials will have their task cut out and cannot loosen up with multitasks on their hands, with the additional role of combating the pandemic. When contacted, Assistant Commissioner Jaware Gowda said the construction of houses for flood victims at Galibeedu and K. Nidaguni was under way and the work had not stopped during lockdown. Work was continuing with limited number of workers who were maintaining social distance. Now, the work had been expedited by employing more workers with strict social distancing and safety norms in place. In the meantime, monsoon preparedness has commenced on the lines of 2019 which helped the authorities to counter the rain havoc better and minimise losses. The tourism economy was badly hit because of two back-to-back tragedies. This year, much ahead of the monsoon, COVID-19 pandemic badly affected the tourism sector. Sources told The Hindu that the teams that worked during last two years had been continued for the monsoon tasks and entrusted with counter mission. “Identification of elderly persons, pregnant women, people living in remote hilly areas and in isolated homes and so on was being done and they will be shifted to safer places,” a source said. To be relocated Also, the administration has proposed to entirely relocate the affected families living illegally close to river banks to obviate sufferings similar to those undergone in 2018 and 2019. The administration has identified government land in five villages for relocating 237 affected families who were living in temporary dwellings close to the river banks and most of the dwelling had been destroyed in the floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kodagu-shifts-focus-to-monsoon-preparedness/article31485763.ece
02 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||750 workers stranded at Malpe harbour want to return home||Nearly 750 workers and fishermen from other States working in the mechanised boats at the Malpe Fisheries Harbour want to return to their native places. These fishermen from Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, West Bengal, Odisha, and Chhattisgarh have been staying at the harbour ever since the lockdown on March 24. Malpe, the biggest fisheries harbour in Udupi district, has 1,700 mechanised boats. Krishna Suvarna, president of Malpe Fishermen’s Association, told The Hindu that the mechanised boats stopped their operations since the lockdown. There were about 120 workers from the districts of North Karnataka. They had left in KSRTC buses in the last two days. “We have informed the district administration that the 750 workers too want to go to their native places. The authorities have told them to wait as this is an interstate matter requiring concurrence of the State and other governments,” he said. The association has been providing the fishermen lunch and dinner. Meanwhile, G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, said the State government had appointed nodal officers to deal with the issue of sending migrant workers back. “We will start online registration of migrant workers in our district from May 2. We already have data of migrant workers at Malpe and to which States they belong, which we will inform the nodal officers. These officers will have to coordinate and get the consent of the other States to send them back,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/750-workers-stranded-at-malpe-harbour-want-to-return-home/article31485966.ece
02 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||18 test negative in Udupi||Eighteen persons — 11 persons from Thekkatte village and seven from the toll plaza at Sasthan village — who had been quarantined in Udupi district on April 28 have tested negative for COVID-19, according to the Department of Health and Family Welfare on Friday. The 18 persons were quarantined after a 50-year-old man tested positive in Sathenahalli of Nagamangala taluk of Mandya district on April 27. The truck carrying the 50-year-old man from Vashi in Maharashtra to Chanarayapatna had passed through Udupi district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/18-test-negative-in-udupi/article31485964.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Students arrive from Kota||Around 150 students from North Karnataka who were stuck in various coaching institutions in Kota in Rajasthan were brought to Belagavi in KSRTC buses on Friday. They have been put up in various lodges in the city. Officers say they will be quarantined for two weeks here, before they are sent to their respective districts. They have all undergone primary health check up and no one is carrying any symptom that could link them to COVID-19 infection, a Health Department officer said. In another incident, around 50 migrant labourers from Bihar and Odissa who had come for road construction work in Belagavi APMC yard have requested the district administration to send them home. “We have been stuck here for nearly 40 days. We are starving here and our families are starving in our villages. We don’t have money and are therefore unable to send home any money. The contractor who has brought us here has not given us proper food. If we are sent home, we will be happy,” said Vikram Sango, one of the labourers. Meanwhile, panchayat officers offered help to a team of 34 migrant labourers from Yadgir district who walked from Maharashtra to Uchagavi in Belagavi district through the Chandagad forest. Officers provided them food and put them up in a government school. Social activist Sujit Mulgund has urged the state government to send the migrant labourers home. Buses should be arranged to take home labourers from Yadgir. Similar arrangements must be made for the labourers from Bihar and Odissa. Even the north Karnataka students should be sent to their respective districts, he said. He pointed out that the government order about movement of persons clearly stated that the students and labourers should be allowed to move to their destinations. This should be strictly followed, Mr. Mulgund said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-arrive-from-kota/article31485954.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Increase period of water release from Bhadra to save standing crops: KRRS||The Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS) has demanded the State government enhance the period of release of water from Bhadra reservoir to the canals to save standing crops. According to the schedule worked out by Bhadra Command Area Development Authority (CADA), it was decided to release water from Bhadra reservoir to the canals from January 1 to May 6. The command area of Bhadra reservoir is spread over 1.02 lakh hectares of land in Shivamogga, Chikkamagaluru, and Davangere districts. In a press release, H.R. Basavarajappa, honourary president of KRRS, said though water was released on January 7, it reached the tail-end region of the command area in Davangere district on January 25. Many farmers executed paddy saplings transplantation in the first week of March. The process of the grain formation in paddy plants has commenced and the crop needs water at this juncture, he said. Mr. Basavarajappa said as pre-monsoon rain was not as expected in the command area this year, arecanut, coconut and sugarcane crops also needed water. Water should be released from the reservoir to canals till May 25 to save crops, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/increase-period-of-water-release-from-bhadra-to-save-standing-crops-krrs/article31485962.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Wearing masks now mandatory in Bengaluru||The survey to be conducted is expected to be completed in five days. However, it will depend on how many teachers turn up for the training session to be held on Saturday and be part of the survey. Order issued Mr. Kumar has issued an order making it mandatory for teachers to be part of the health survey and that a failure to turn up for the training and survey will be considered a violation of the Epidemic Act, 1897. In an order, Mr. Kumar stipulated that masks and gloves have to be properly handed over to waste collectors in covers or closed bags as part of sanitary waste. Spitting, urinating and littering of any kind will also be considered a public offence.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/wearing-masks-now-mandatory-in-bengaluru/article31485765.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Guidelines expected today||Meanwhile, Excise Minister H. Nagesh has welcomed the Centre’s decision to allow sale of liquor from May 4 while maintaining social distancing. The Minister told the media that the demand for allowing liquor sale was long pending.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/guidelines-expected-today/article31485764.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pet dogs attack child in gated community||The police have booked a case against a couple for failing to control their pet dogs, which attacked an 18-month-old child in a gated community in Seegehalli. Nitin Ganjsinghani, a resident of the gated community, was taking a stroll on the premises on April 20 with his daughter on a tricycle. Sujay Mishra and Subra Mishra, fellow residents of the gated community, were also taking a stroll with two German Shepherd dogs. While the child’s father and the couple were engaged in a conversation, the dogs pounced on the child. The child had to undergo a surgery for the injuries. Kadugodi police have registered a case against the couple under Section 289 of the Indian Penal Code for “negligent conduct with respect to animal”, which carries a fine of Rs. 1,000 or a jail term that may extend up to six months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pet-dogs-attack-child-in-gated-community/article31485749.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Moving ahead||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/moving-ahead/article31485741.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Close crop||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/close-crop/article31485774.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ex member of ZP shot dead||A former member of Belagavi zilla panchayat was shot and killed in Rajapur village on Friday, apparently over property dispute with relatives. The body of Chintamani Ramappa Meti, 55, was found in his field near Moodalagi in Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ex-member-of-zp-shot-dead/article31485952.ece
02 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Change of strategy in fighting COVID-19 in Anantapur||The Anantapur district administration has announced a change of strategy in its fight against COVID-19, and will now identify the most vulnerable people in the population and save their lives instead of just indulging in containment activity. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu at a press conference on Friday said the 4th Fever Survey was being done in an intensive manner and instead of health/ward volunteers asking if someone was having fever, they would physically check and ensure none above 60 years of age or people with co-morbid conditions were left out along with pregnant women. “Our primary aim will be specifically identify these vulnerable classes and provide them all possible care and protection so that number of deaths are reduced. With the relaxation of lockdown in green zones, the activity in society will limp back to normal with 275 industrial units starting their operations in Anantapur and agriculture activity also in full swing,” Mr. Chandrudu said. ‘Police excesses’ Asked about the excesses by the police personnel in some parts of the district, which had come to the notice of the media and district administration through videos of some farmers being harassed, Mr. Chandrudu said a joint meeting was held on Friday with DIG Kanti Rana Tata and Superintendent of Police regarding the “objectionable” behaviour of the police personnel and they had promised to check it at their level. Of the 63 mandals and 12 Urban Local bodies in the district, only 10 were in the red zone, while the remaining were either Orange or Green and many activities allowed by the Central government could be taken up. Toll-free number A new toll-free number 18004256246 has been activated from Friday for getting testing done voluntarily. Those registering for the test would be prioritised depending on their necessity. Those with mild symptoms or asymptomatic can either be in their own house in home quarantine or sent to COVID Care Centres where 1,000 rooms are ready.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/change-of-strategy-in-fighting-covid-19-in-anantapur/article31485687.ece
02 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bodies of two students brought from Manila||The bodies of two Indian students, who were killed in a road accident in the Philippines last month, were brought back to Anantapur on Friday morning. Revanth Kumar Kathikela (22) and Vamsi Kondigalla Peddinti (19), hailing from Kadiri and Anantapur respectively, were studying medicine in Cebu City in the Philippines. The duo was out shopping on April 6 when their two-wheeler was hit by a car; both students succumbed to their injuries on the same day. Several public representatives visited both houses to offer their condolences to the bereaved families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bodies-of-two-students-brought-from-manila/article31485688.ece
02 May 2020||ANANTAPUR / KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Transport of migrant labourers, other stranded persons begins||The Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Corporation began its first operation of transporting stranded migrant labourers from Jalore in Rajasthan and Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh with District Collector Gandham Chandrudu and Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy formally flagging off two buses here on Friday. The District Collector said a survey was done on the number of migrant labourers, who were either working here or got stuck here during transition from other places, and arrangements were being made to send them to their places either by RTC buses or by the trains to be run by the South Central Railway from various locations in the State. Over 7,000 such migrant workers and stranded people were staying in 30 shelters, all of them wish to leave for their native places to be with their near and dear, he said. In the first batch, 65 labourers after proper medical screening were sent in two buses and 51 of them from Prakasam district were sent to Addanki and Kokunta. RTC Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni said in all they run five buses -- two from Anantapur, one each from Bukkapatnam, Kadiri, and Gooty. Meanwhile, in Kurnool, the operation continued. Kurnool District Collector G. Veerapandian said in all 24,176 persons had been identified for transpor from Guntur to various locations in the district and the operation would end on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/transport-of-migrant-labourers-other-stranded-persons-begins/article31485686.ece
02 May 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stranded fishermen excited to meet families after 9 months||The excitement in their voice was evident as Rayathi Bobbili (32) of Bukka Veedhi in the city, and Manmadh (42) of Bheemunipatnam, who were part of the stranded fishermen from Andhra Pradesh and returning from Gujarat, as this correspondent spoke to them over phone on Friday. It may be recalled that 4,125 fishermen from Andhra Pradesh, including 418 from Visakhapatnam and various parts of the district, were stuck at the Veraval Port in Gujarat due to the lockdown. They are being brought back home by buses following intervention by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “We went to Veraval in July last on an eight-month contract to work on fishing trawlers operated from the port. We had completed our contract in mid-March and were planning to return, when the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Since then, we were living on the boats eating whatever the authorities gave us,” said Mr. Manmadh, recalling the harrowing experience. Manmadh, who works as a cook on the trawler, is paid Rs. 10,000 a month. There would be nine fishermen on each trawler that goes out for fishing. He longs to meet his wife and his school-going daughters aged 11 and 9 years. “A total of 24 fishermen from our area (Thota Veedhi) went to Gujarat. We work for eight months at sea and spend the remaining four months with our families back home,” he said. “We haven’t had proper food since the bus left Gujarat on the night of April 28. We were given potato chips, biscuits, mixture and some bland ‘rotis’ (pulkas). We were crammed in the two-tier sleeper bus with four persons sitting on each berth. I have been talking to my family every day and I am excited at the prospect of meeting them after nine months,” he said. Echoing his feelings, Rayathi Bobbili said that all the medical tests were conducted in Gujarat and hopes that they would be sent home without any further delay. “The bus is at Karimnagar now and the driver, who is from Rajkot, doesn’t seem to know the route properly,” he said around 3 p.m. on Friday. “A total of 418 fishermen are from Visakhapatnam district, while a majority of the remaining are from Srikakulam district. The fishermen from Andhra Pradesh are arriving in 54 buses. We will receive and accommodate them at the Railway Kalyana Mandapam, near New Colony, and the Port Kalyana Mandapam at Salagramapuram. They would be examined by a team of doctors and their blood samples taken,” Joint Director of Fisheries Phani Prakash said. The buses with fishermen from Visakhapatnam are expected to reach Vizag late on Friday or in the early hours of Saturday.  We will receive and accommodate them at the Railway Kalyana Mandapam, near New Colony, and the Port Kalyana Mandapam at Salagramapuram. They will be examined by a team of doctors and their blood samples taken||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/stranded-fishermen-excited-to-meet-families-after-9-months/article31486117.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka, Tamil Nadu report two deaths||With the death of two patients in Andhra Pradesh from COVID-19, the toll in the State went up to 33 on Friday. Karnataka reported one more death in Davangere. There were 24 new cases in Karnataka, taking the State’s total to 589. Of the new cases, eight were from Mandya, three of them with a travel history to Maharashtra. Six cases were reported in Davangere, three in Belagavi, two each in Dakshina Kannada and Kalaburagi and one each in Vijayapura, Chikkaballapur and Dharwad. There was one case each of patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) and other patients had contact with positive cases. Of the 589 cases who tested positive, 251 had been discharged. There were 22 COVID-19 related deaths. ILI and SARI patients had symptoms such as breathlessness and cough, which may be missed during screening. The Department of Health and Family Welfare had directed that all such cases be subjected to swab test for COVID-19. A circular said the finger tip pulse oximeter was essential to identify ILI and SARI cases. The meter along with IR thermal scanners should be provided to all fever clinics in every district. 60 cases in A.P. With 60 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, COVID-19 tally in Andhra Pradesh rose to 1,463, including 1,027 active ones. With 411 (335 active) cases, Kurnool district was at the top accounting for 25 of the 60 new cases. Guntur followed with 306 (201 active), and Krishna with 246 (201 active) ones. Nellore had 84 cases (38 active), Chittoor 80 (58), Kadapa 79 (42), Anantapur 67 (41), Prakasam 60 (37), West Godavari 58 (39), East Godavari 42 (25), Visakhapatnam 25 (5) and Srikakulam 5 (5). Also, 403 persons were discharged from hospitals. Ten people had so far died in Kurnool, eight each in Krishna and Guntur, four in Anantapur and three in Nellore. Meanwhile, 7,902 samples were tested during the 24-hour period till Friday. Kerala looks ahead In a relief to Kerala, no COVID-19 cases were reported on Friday, after a slight spurt over the past few days and the hotspots jumping to 80. “No new cases were reported on Friday and samples of nine people were negative. The active cases touched 102,” State Health Minister K.K. Shailaja said in a press release. Earlier, it was on March 17 and March 18 that no fresh cases were reported. So far, 392 people had been treated and discharged and 102 were undergoing treatment in hospitals, 21,499 people were under observation, including 432 in various hospitals.  Tamil Nadu reported yet another massive spike in the number of new coronavirus disease (COVID-19) cases on Friday. Another 203 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, with Chennai alone accounting for more than 85% of the new cases. With 176 new cases, the city’s tally of COVID-19 positive cases surpassed the 1,000 mark. The State’s COVID-19 case count was 2,526 (1,670 men and 856 women). .  (Inputs from Vijayawada, Chennai Bureaus and PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-pradesh-karnataka-report-three-deaths/article31485668.ece
02 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adopt a cobra for Rs. 2,000, an elephant for Rs. 1.75 lakh||Would you like to adopt an Indian cobra for as low as Rs. 2,000 per annum or an Asiatic elephant Rs. 1.75 lakh? Bengaluru’s Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) has a new programme for people with an interest in conserving wildlife by adopting animals at the zoo. Certain privileges such as gift voucher for a zoo visit and the display of names on an adoption board would be extended, depending on the amount donated. “The animal adoption programme is an opportunity for you to get involved with supporting feed and veterinary care expenses for zoo animals with provision for Income Tax rebate under Section 80G. There are 21 elephants that can be adopted online,” said zoo officials. The BBP has released a list of animals that can be adopted. Patrons can adopt a King cobra and Indian rock python for Rs. 3,500 per year, or a jungle cat and the Assamese Macaque for Rs. 5,000. Adoption of a black buck and sambar will cost you Rs. 7,500 per year, an emu is billed at Rs. 10,000, and a spot-billed pelican at Rs. 15,000. “The purpose of the adoption programme is to create awareness and connect with people involved in conservation activities, not just generating revenues,” the Executive Director of the government-run BBP, Vanashree Vipin Singh, told PTI on Friday. “We don’t run this programme with a profit motive.” The zoo, which sees an annual footfall of around 15 lakh persons, has been closed since the middle of March following the lockdown declared in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. It received a record 23,000 people on a single day on January 1 this year. The animal adoption initiative is part of the BBPs outreach programme as people are not able to visit the zoo due to the lockdown. In other times, visitors to the zoo can sign up to adopt animals, Ms. Singh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/adopt-a-cobra-for-rs-2000-an-elephant-for-rs-175-lakh/article31485656.ece
02 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fewer cases recorded in cluster containment zones in Guntur||Guntur district recorded 306 COVID-9 positive cases so far as the nationwide lockdown entered its sixth week. On the positive side, there have been fewer cases recorded in cluster containment zones in Guntur city in the last five days. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that of the 680 tests conducted in Guntur city in the last five days, only five samples tested positive. No fresh cases had been recorded in nine of the 12 cluster containment zones in the last 48 hours. Collector’s plea Of 286 persons hospitalised in various COVID hospitals, 79 have been discharged and advised home quarantine. But most of the tested persons are asymptotic making it difficult for healthcare personnel to identify them. “We urge all those who show any symptoms of COVID, like dry cough, loss of appetite and fever, running nose to come and voluntarily test themselves. We also advise all those above 60 years to remain indoors and avoid any public contact,” said the Collector. The Collector said that seven hospitals have been designated as COVID hospitals. Testing had been scaled up and TrueNAT testing kits had been kept in Guntur and Nararsaraopet. DIG PHD Ramakrishna said that in view of extended lockdown there would be more stringent restrictions on movement of people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fewer-cases-recorded-in-cluster-containment-zones-in-guntur/article31486093.ece
02 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospital sealed for treating COVID patient||A private hospital at Kothapet was on Friday sealed and cases were booked against its managing director for allegedly treating a hotel owner, who later died of COVID-19. The police said that the 53-year-old hotel owner had undergone treatment for a few hours at the hospital on April 25 before he was advised to approach the fever hospital. He died on Saturday last and samples taken after his death tested positive. During police investigations, it was found that the patient visited the Kothapet hospital. Acting on it, Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar asked the police to book cases under the Epidemic Diseases Act.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hospital-sealed-for-treating-covid-patient/article31486094.ece
02 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM ‘irked’ by lapses in procurement of paddy||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday gave a piece of his mind to officials of the Agriculture Department, and expressed concern over reports of a portion of paddy being exempted from procurement in Krishna district. “I am disappointed as such incidents are happening in the district where we, the Chief Minister, the Chief Secretary, and the DGP, are residing. I ask the officers not to spare the guilty in such cases and punish them severely. I don’t want to see any farmer suffer in these difficult times. I don’t want to see any farmer throwing his produce on the road, and these sights have become too familiar in the previous government,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Processing units At a review meeting on agriculture and agro processing units, he asked the officials to explore the possibility of setting up mango, banana, and tomato processing plants. He also asked them to set up agriculture advisory boards in every district. The Rythu Bharosa Kendras should be made fully functional with Internet and power facilities, he said, and also sought efficient market intelligence for each crop, the details of which should be shared with the farmers. Minister for Agriculture K. Kannababu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-irked-by-lapses-in-procurement-of-paddy/article31486100.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special trains ferry workers home||In a move to help migrant workers return home, Kerala and Telangana operated special trains on Friday. One train to Jharkhand was run by the South Central Railway (SCR) and the Telangana government from Hyderabad. In Kerala, the first ‘Shramik Special’ left Aluva for Odisha. The Railways will similarly operate five special trains from Kerala on Saturday. The train from Hyderabad was arranged for 1,225 labourers hailing from Jharkhand. It had 22 sleeper coaches and left Lingampally in the western suburbs for Hatia, in Ranchi district, at 4.50 a.m. The workers were brought in 56 buses from construction sites on the Indian Institute of Technology-Hyderabad (IIT-H) by the police and the Sangareddy district administration. They were then screened, and their details collected. Station barricaded The Lingampally station was barricaded to prevent outsiders from getting in. SCR officials said the operation was taken up at the request of the Telangana government and secrecy was maintained after incidents in Mumbai where rumours brought thousands of labourers to railway stations. SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya asked the authorities to arrange food and water en route for the 24-hour non-stop journey. In each bogie, about 52 people were accommodated, maintaining social distancing, and Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police personnel were deputed as escort, said Chief PRO Ch. Rakesh. Tickets were issued to workers, and officials indicated that the Telangana government would meet the expenditure. Train to Bhubaneswar The non-stop special carrying 1,140 migrant workers from Aluva in Kerala left for Khurda Road (near Bhubaneswar) on Friday night. It was the first such train for migrant workers stranded in the State. The train with 24 carriages took in 35 to 50 workers per coach as per social distancing norms. Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, District Collector S. Suhas, and District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik were present. Workers from Odisha account for nearly 12% of the migrant workforce in the district. “Migrants from Perumbavur, Muvattupuzha, Kothamangalam and Kuruppampady were screened and issued medical certificates,” said C. Jayakumar, inspector, Perumbavur.  (With inputs from Kochi Bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-trains-ferry-workers-home/article31485658.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Superfine paddy in 25 lakh acres mooted for next season in TS||Strengthening of agriculture sector to make it the mainstay of the economic activity in the State by encouraging food processing and agro-based allied industries in rural areas was favoured as the focal point of the new comprehensive agriculture policy being prepared by the government. A round-table meeting for preparing the draft was held in Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU) here on Friday and was attended by ministers S. Niranjan Reddy (Agriculture) and G. Kamalakar (Civil Supplies), State Planning Board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar and Rythu Bandhu Samithi (RBS) Chairman P. Rajeshwar Reddy and they put forth their views. Improved irrigation facility, free 24×7 power supply to agriculture, Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima scheme and procurement have infused confidence among the farming community during the last few years. The ministers wanted inputs from officials on the food and horticulture crops being consumed in the State and the crops being grown. They suggested more competitive marketing strategy and introduction of high-yielding varieties and also encouraging alternative crops like oil palm. They stated that increase in oilseeds production would help bring down the import bill as the country was largely dependent on import of edible oils. They also asked the officials to encourage farmers to take up cultivation of superfine varieties of paddy at least in 25 lakh acres in the next crop season as such rice had huge demand in the market not only in the State but also all over the country. Further, they also suggested to the officials to give a push to cultivation of seed crops. Civil Supplies Corporation chairman M. Srinivas Reddy, Seed Development Corporation chairman K. Koteshwar Rao, Oilfed Chairman K. Ramakrishna Reddy, Agriculture Production Commissioner and Secretary B. Janardhan Reddy, Oilfed MD K. Nirmala, Horticulture Commissioner L. Venkatarami Reddy, Civil Supplies Corporation MD P. Satyanarayana Reddy, Vice-Chacellor of PJTSAU V. Praveen Rao also participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/superfine-paddy-in-25-lakh-acres-mooted/article31486010.ece
02 May 2020||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youths with suspected Maoist links raided||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) carried out searches at the houses of Vijith Vijayan and Abhilesh Padacherry, supected to be associated with the proscribed Communist Party of India (Maoist), in Kozhikode on Friday. An official release said that several digital devices, including eight mobile phones, seven SIM cards, two memory cards, one laptop, seven pen drives and one voice recorder, nine books and numerous documents supporting left-wing extremism and the CPI (Maoist) had been seized. Investigation in the case revealed that they were instrumental in recruiting Allan Shuhaib and Thwaha Fasal, now expelled CPI(M) members, who were booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for alleged links with Maoists last year. The case was originally registered on November 1, at the Pantheerankavu police station in Kozhikode against them and a third suspect, C. P. Usman. Shuhaib and Fasal were arrested with documents and propaganda material supporting the CPI (Maoist) while they were conducting a meeting with Usman, who managed to escape from the scene. The case was re-registered by the NIA, which took over the case on December 18. Investigation established that Shuhaib, Fasal and Usman were members of the CPI (Maoist) and they had committed unlawful activities. Further investigation is on, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youths-with-suspected-maoist-links-raided/article31485669.ece
02 May 2020||KURNOOL / ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positive cases rise in Kurnool, doctors sound alert||Number of positive cases rising everyday in the district has alerted the doctors and paramedical staff engaged in the treatment of COVID19 and non-COVID patients in Government General Hospital. While 25 new cases were registered in Kurnool district on Friday, 19 of them came from Kurnool city and 6 from Nandyal, thus giving a relief to the administration that the rest of the district did not report new cases. In all 411 positive cases have been reported so far and of them 10 died (one death was reported on Thursday) and 84 persons have been discharged including 18 on Saturday from the two COVID19 Hospitals - Shantiram and Viswabharathi. Another 250 persons were also sent to their homes from quarantine centres. In the Kurnool Government Medical College hall a meeting was held under the chairmanship of Principal P. Chandrasekhar and incharge GGH Superintendent Dr. Bhagawan. They addressed the concerns of the treating doctors and inquired from them about the availability of safety equipment like N95 masks and PPEs. Any need or deficiency must be brought to his notice, said Dr. Chandrasekhar, so that he could take it up with the higherups. In Anantapur meanwhile, six new cases were reported on Friday with a total number of positive cases going up to 67 and of them 24 getting discharged including two on Friday. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said the strategy of samples testing was also targeted at vulnerable locations and of them one or two cases were coming everyday. “We are not interested in testing in Green Zones and showing NIL results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/positive-cases-rise-in-kurnool-doctors-sound-alert/article31485685.ece
02 May 2020||NANDIGAMA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Gujarat returnees receive warm welcome at border check-post||Jaggaiahpet MLA Samineni Udaya Bhanu and Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu received the migrant labourers who returned from Gujarat on Friday. The SP and DRDA officer Srinivasa Rao welcomed the migrant labourers on the AP-Telangana border at the Garikapadu check-post. About 4,500 fishermen of A.P. were stranded in Gujarat due to the lockdown. On knowing about their travails, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy spoke to his Gujarat counterpart and got the issue resolved. ‘Follow protocol’ The fishermen were shifted in 58 buses from Gujarat, and they would be sent to their native districts and villages after conducting a series of medical tests, said the YSRCP MLA.  Mr. Ravindranath Babu supervised food, drinking water and other facilities at Garikapadu village. He asked the fishermen to cooperate with the officials by following COVID protocol. “As many as 33 buses carrying 2,471 fishermen reached the check-post at 8.30 p.m. and 25 more buses have to come. The government has made all arrangements for them to reach their hometowns,” he said. Mr. Ravindranath Babu told The Hindu that the fishermen of Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and other districts would reach their native places by Saturday morning. Arrangements have been made for providing food to the fishermen who were en route from Telangana. “Instructions have been given to personnel to provide hospitality to all the fishermen,” the SP said. The fishermen thanked the Ministers and officials for facilitating their return. The fishermen also praised the services of the Krishna district police on the State borders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gujarat-returnees-receive-warm-welcome-at-border-check-post/article31486115.ece
02 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore sees more discharges from isolation ward on single day||Sixteen COVID-19 patients were discharged from the isolation ward in SPSR Nellore district in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of active cases has come down drastically to 37 in the district. Forty-three persons have so far recovered while three succumbed to the dreaded disease, according to health officials. The health situation has vastly improved thanks to relentless efforts of the health staff, State Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav said. No fresh case has been reported on Friday. “Those under treatment are showing good signs of recovery. Another 10 to 15 persons are likely to be discharged during the next week,” Dr. Anil Kumar said after reviewing the health situation with district officials. Facilities have been created in the quarantine centres for people to observe fasting and other austerities associated with holy month of Ramzan. He thanked the members of the minority community for observing the holy month from their homes and avoiding community prayers on a call given by Chief Miniser Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Rythu Bharosa programme will be implemented coinciding with kharif cropping season next month, Dr. Anil Kumar said. Restrictions District Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu said the restrictions imposed during the lockdown would be continued with more vigour to ensure that there were no fresh cases in the district which has been brought under red zone category by the Union Government. Stern action would be taken against those moving out of their homes without any valid reasons, said Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Bhushan. A committee was constituted to take care of stranded migrant workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/nellore-sees-more-discharges-from-isolation-ward-on-single-day/article31485693.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI begins probe into two Kerala-based NGOs||The Central Bureau of Investigation has taken over a case of alleged embezzlement of funds by the then director of two non-governmental organisations in Kerala. Among those named in the FIR are Joseph Pulikunnel J.P., Good Samaritan Projects India, Catholic Reformation Literature Society and unknown persons. Pulikunnel passed away in December 2017. FCRA invoked The case was initially registered at the Valiyathura police station in Thiruvananthapuram in September 2012. The Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) was also invoked. The CBI took over the investigation following the State government’s consent. It was alleged that Pulikunnel, director of Good Samaritan Project India and Catholic Reformation Literacy Society, misappropriated funds received from Woord en Daad (W&D), a Holland-based charitable organisation, between January 1974 and December 2009. According to the FIR, the accused bought landed properties and buildings by using the charitable funds received from W&D and also sold them at huge profits.As alleged, Rs. 2.1 crore was misappropriated by violating the FCRA.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-begins-probe-into-two-kerala-based-ngos/article31485663.ece
02 May 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP MLA demands aid for unorganised sector workers||Rajamahendravaram Rural MLA Gorantla Buchaiah Chowdary on Friday launched a 12-hour relay hunger strike at his residence here, demanding that the State government offer immediate financial aid of Rs. 5,000 to the families of workers in the unorganised sector. Mr. Chowdary said that the workers in the unorganised sector have been badly affected due to the COVID-19 lockdown, and said that each family should be given financial aid of Rs. 5,000. The MLA also urged the State Government to reopen the Anna Canteens, which have been shut down, and implement the Chandranna insurance scheme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-mla-demands-aid-for-unorganised-sector-workers/article31485690.ece
02 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Quarantine centres set up for fishermen||The Srikakulam district administration has established 31 quarantine centres for fishermen returning from Gujarat. As many as 2,911 fishermen from Veraval were expected to reach Srikakulam in the early hours of Saturday. Officials have arranged special buses to ferry them to their native places. The State government directed the district officials to make arrangements for the return of the fishermen after the death of a fisherman at Veraval triggered an uproar. While hailing the government’s gesture, Srikakulam Fishermen Community Welfare Association leader Duda Sudhakar urged it to ensure livelihood for the fishermen locally as they would not be in a position to go to Gujrat in the near future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/quarantine-centres-set-up-for-fishermen/article31486104.ece
02 May 2020||T. Appala Naidu,ANDHRA PRADESH||A safe nesting ground for Olive Ridleys||The wildlife management authorities have released a staggering number of about 53,000 hatchlings of Olive Ridley Turtles into the sea on the Kakinada coast in the ongoing nesting season. The wildlife management division (Rajamahendravaram) is engaged in conservation of the turtle eggs by setting up five rookeries on the Kakinada coast - Hope Island in Coringa Sanctuary, Sacramento, S. Yanam, Pora, and Vasalatippa. The rookeries have covered nearly 50-km stretch of the coastline from where the local communities and the forest staff have collected the eggs for conservation. The conservation status of the Olive Ridley Turtles is ‘vulnerable’, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Forest Range Officer (Wildlife-Kakinada) B.V. Durga Prasad has told The Hindu : “As many as 53,388 turtle hatchlings have been released into the sea from 492 nests by April-end. As many as 640 nests have been identified and conserved this year, collecting 74,813 eggs between the Hope Island and Vasalatippa nesting grounds on the Kakinada coast.” On the ground, there are 148 nests from where above 21,000 hatchlings will be released into the sea. The nesting season is expected to end by May 15-18, during which the last bunch of hatchlings are expected to be released into the sea. Last year, wildlife authorities conserved nearly 75,000 eggs by roping in local communities to maintain the rookeries. A majority of local communities deployed at the rookeries are fisherfolk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-safe-nesting-ground-for-olive-ridleys/article31486103.ece
02 May 2020||Thrissur,ANDHRA PRADESH||No pomp, gaiety at Thrissur Pooram this year||For the first time since its inception, Thrissur Pooram will be observed on Saturday with rituals within the temple premises, that too with participation of just five people each. In the wake of the lockdown in connection with COVID-19, the organisers decided to cancel all celebrations. The Kodiyettam ceremony was conducted with mere rituals, without the accompaniment of percussion instruments or elephants parading at the Thiruvambadi and Paramekkavu temples. The priests carried the idols of both temples for ‘ arattu ’ by foot. Though Thiruvambadi, one of the main organisers of the Pooram, demanded permission to conduct the event with one elephant and a percussion ensemble with 10 persons, the plan was shot down. The other participating temples didn’t even conduct the Kodiyettam (flag hoisting) ceremony. There are 10 participating temples in the Thrissur Pooram. No elephant this year Usually the 36-hour-long celebrations start with the Vilambaram ceremony in which Neythilakavilamma, deity of one of the participating temples, on the top of an elephant will open the Thekke Gopura Nada of Sree Vadakkunnathan Temple, and declare open the celebrations. For the past few years, Thechikkottukavu Ramachandran, the controversial elephant with a huge fan following, used to carry the idol of Neythilakkavilamma for the Vilambaram ceremony. After the celebrations were cancelled, elders recalled that the Pooram was conducted with just one elephant at the time of the India-China war. Lakhs of people from across the world used to make a beeline to the Thekkinkadu maidan and Swaraj Round in Thrissur to witness the sound, music and colours of the 36-hour-long extravaganza.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-pomp-gaiety-at-thrissur-pooram-this-year/article31485671.ece
02 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade unions protest ‘anti-worker’ measures||May Day was a sombre affair here this year as activists of trade unions railed against an alleged raft of anti-worker measures instituted by the government. The activists said that the measures have hit them harder than expected, as they coincided with the coronavirus lockdown. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam’s decision to remove 1,400 contract employees in one go was criticised as ‘anything but humane’. Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) Chittoor district (East) committee said that the workers had risked their lives to serve the pilgrims, only to be shown the door at a time of crisis. CPI district secretary A. Rama Naidu said that the anti-worker measures would not be tolerated. In Srikalahasti, TDP leader P.R. Mohan hailed the frontline workers and distributed fruits to policemen guarding red zones and to sanitary workers. At Kadapa, Insurance Corporation Employees Union (ICEU) president Avadhanam Srinivas, vice-president S. Akbar Basha and general secretary A. Raghunatha Reddy hoisted the red flag and took a vow to safeguard and retain LIC in the public sector. ‘Untied fight’ Ongole Special Correspondent adds: Members of trade unions on Friday vowed to unitedly fight for the protection of workers’ rights in the aftermath of the lockdown. Communist Party of India (Marxist) district secretary P. Anjaneyulu led the activists of Centre of Indian Trade Unions in observing May Day at the Sundaraiah Bhavan.  No massive gatherings Srikakulam Staff Reporter adds: May Day was observed sans pomp and gaiety that is usually associated with the occasion, in Srikakulam district, owing to the lockdown. There were no massive gatherings at Kothavalasa and Pydibhimavaram industrial zones. However, Trade Unions like CITU, AITUC, INTUC organised meetings, in compliance with the lockdown rules, at Srikakulam and Pydibhimavaram on Friday and recalled the contribution of workers in development of the country. CITU State vice president D. Govinda Rao urged the workforce to gear up to protest against the proposed 12 hours duty instead of eight hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trade-unions-protest-anti-worker-measures/article31485697.ece
02 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chevireddy to give dole for COVID patients||Government whip and TUDA Chairman Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy has announced Rs. 10,000 for the COVID patients on getting discharged and Rs. 3,000 for the suspects leaving the quarantine ward. He handed over a cheque for the purpose to the quarantine ward officials through TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy as a special gesture, as the latter celebrated his 60th birthday on Friday. According to Mr. Bhaskar Reddy, this was not only an incentive to the likely carriers scared of going into isolation and quarantine, but also to let them take nutritional food and lead a decent living in hard times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chevireddy-to-give-dole-for-covid-patients/article31485695.ece
02 May 2020||TUNI,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 new cases detected in Tuni||Three persons, including two women, tested positive for COVID-19 in Tuni town of East Godavari district on Friday. The three, aged 39, 42, and 50, belong to two different families and are relatives of a 52-year-old woman who tested positive in Peddapuram town on Tuesday. By Friday, five contacts of the woman reported positive. Peddapuram Revenue Divisional Officer S. Mallibabu said, “All the six patients who tested positive since Tuesday belong to Peddapuram and Tuni towns and travelled on the same bus to attend a wedding in Vijayawada in March.” East Godavari officials admitted the three new patients to the GSL Hospital in Rajamahendravaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-new-cases-detected-in-tuni/article31485689.ece
02 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commodities centres opened for red zones||In order to cater to the needs of people living in the red zones across the city, the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation and the Mission for Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (MEPMA) have established four Essential Commodities Centres for the supply of essential goods. Minister Velampalli Srinivas and Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh inaugurated the centres on Friday. The centres which will be supplied with goods by M-Mart (Group Bazaar) will deliver groceries, vegetables, meat and health care items at the doorstep of the citizens upon receiving orders through phone. The centres are located in Vidyadharapuram, Kedareswara Pet, Krishnalanka and Machavaram. Orders can be placed by contacting the persons concerned through the following numbers. Vidyadharapuram9492449928,9494221577,9491231577, Kedareswara Pet9492877668,9492129788,9441696022, Krishnalanka9493593199,9491622936,9492375751and Machavaram9491975756,9490375756,9491575701.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/commodities-centres-opened-for-red-zones/article31486091.ece
02 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC begins ferrying stranded migrant workers||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) is ferrying migrant labourers stuck at different places across the State to their native places in accordance with the directions issued by the Central Government. District Collectors, Regional Managers (RMs) and depot managers were arranging buses to different districts for shifting the labourers, staying in shelter homes across the State. According to sources, about 76,000 people, mostly migrants, who came to Andhra Pradesh to work in different sectors, got stuck due to the global health emergency. Some workers were stranded along with their families after the lockdown was imposed across the country to clamp down on spread of coronavirus. With the Centre giving relaxation from April 28, the State government has made arrangements for the return of workers hailing from Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Telangana. Thousands shifted APSRTC Executive Director (Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy said as many as 22,866 labourers were shifted to different districts in the State by arranging 750 buses. The district Collectors concerned are giving the requirement of services to shift the workers from the shelter homes, and the RMs were providing buses accordingly, he said.  Inter-State services “Buses are being operated from all districts to shift the migrant workers. More people would be shifted in the next few days,” the Executive Director said. Migrant labourers of Gujarat were sent in two buses, which brought the stranded fishermen from there. APSRTC will operate inter-State services soon to transport the migrants to other States, Mr. Brahmananda Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-begins-ferrying-stranded-migrant-workers/article31486113.ece
02 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘We have to live with COVID’: Buggana reiterates Jagan’s line||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy defended Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s assertion that coronavirus cannot be eliminated and “we have to live with it”, and took a dig at the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) for “spreading lies” and criticising the State government. “The Chief Minister spoke nothing but facts. Even the World Health Organisation (WHO) said that it is inevitable that the people have to live with coronavirus. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said face masks were going to be part of our lives,” he said at a press conference on Friday. TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, however, was making baseless allegations, he said. Highest tests The Minister said Andhra Pradesh stood first in the country with regard to COVID-19 tests. While the total population is 5.34 crore, the government had conducted 1,02,460 tests. It amounted to 1,919 tests per million (TPM), which was the highest in the country. Tamil Nadu was placed second with 1,534 TPM followed by Rajasthan (1,344 TPM) Maharashtra (1,086 TPM) and Gujarat (984 TPM), he said. While the rate of positive cases in the country was 4.12%, it was 1.4% in Andhra Pradesh. The death rate was 6.88% in the world, while it was 3.17% in India and 2.4% in the State, he said. “Andhra Pradesh can say proudly that 60 positive cases were reported in the last 24 hours. It is because the government is conducting the highest number of tests and identifying the people suffering from COVID-19,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/we-have-to-live-with-covid-buggana-reiterates-jagans-line/article31486101.ece
02 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Volunteers disburse pension to 93% beneficiaries on Day One||The State government disbursed pension to 53 lakh beneficiaries by evening on Friday, the first day of the month, covering 94% of the beneficiaries under the YSR Pension Kanuka. For the third successive month, and second during the lockdown, pension was disbursed at the doorstep of the beneficiaries by the village and ward volunteers, who began the process at dawn. Unlike the previous month, the volunteers did not capture the biometric details of the beneficiaries. Instead, they took the photographs of the pensioners to upload the same onto the server. They geo-tagged the details using the special mobile app. As many as 2,37,615 volunteers were involved in the process. The government released Rs. 1421.20 crore for the purpose. The amount was credited to the accounts of the village secretaries through the AP SERP. The social security pensions are given to the otherwise abled, widows and people suffering from identified diseases. If any of beneficiaries are not available, or are stuck at other places due to the lockdown, the pension will be given to them through portability. Besides disbursing the pension, the volunteers also created awareness among the beneficiaries on the need to stay at home to stay safe. They also enquired about the health condition of the beneficiaries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ap-volunteers-ensure-pension-disbursal-to-93-beneficiaries/article31485662.ece
02 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State to get mobile testing lab soon||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and the Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences (SVIMS) are jointly setting up a mobile Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) at a cost of Rs. 1 crore. It will help in scaling up the COVID testing capacity and also be useful in future R&D activity, according to Special Chief Secretary (Health, Medical and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy. Briefing media persons on the COVID containment measures on Friday, Dr. Jawahar Reddy said VRDLs would be established soon in Srikakulam and Prakasam districts and the existing NACO-approved HIV viral load testing labs in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada would exclusively cater to testing samples coming from Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts. Besides, five cartridge-based nucleic acid amplification testing machines used for detecting tuberculosis were being pressed into service. ‘A.P. ahead of others’ Dr. Jawahar Reddy said the doubling time of cases in the State was 10 days compared with the national average of nine arrived at on the basis of data related to the April 9-May 1 period. The positivity rate in A.P. in the last 24 hours stood at 1.43% against the national - level figure of 3.87%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-to-get-mobile-testing-lab-soon/article31486097.ece
02 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||GATE online classes from May 11||Following instructions by Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, Department of Higher Education and Jawaharlal Nehru Technological Universities in the State have designed curriculum for online coaching classes for students who want to take GATE. Students can start registering names from May 2 on www/jntua.ac.in/gate-on lin e-classes/registration, and the last date for registration is May 7, while classes will start from May 11. S. V. Satyanarayana, Director, Academic and Planning, JNTU-Anantapur (e-mail:svsatya7.chemengg@jntua. in, mobile: 9849509167) and V. Srinivasulu, Director, Faculty Development Centre, JNTU-Kakinada (e-mail:fdc@jntuk.edu.in, mobile number: 9701278555) are the coordinators of the online coaching programme.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gate-online-classes-from-may-11/article31486095.ece
02 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Challenges Kanna||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy has reacted sharply to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Kanna Lakshminarayana’s allegations that the Minister was a director of the company which supplied rapid test kits to the State. At a press conference here on Friday, the Minister challenged the BJP leader to prove his allegations. “I will resign from my post by 9 am tomorrow if he proves that I am director of that company,” he said, adding it was not proper on the BJP leader’s part to level baseless charges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/challenges-kanna/article31486105.ece
02 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Joint panel to look into mangroves issue||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has constituted a committee to look into the alleged destruction of mangrove forests in Kakinada. On Thursday, the NGT Chennai Bench constituted a five-member committee with senior officials from the Ministry of Environment and Forests and the A.P. Coastal Zone Management Authority, a senior officer nominated by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests, the East Godavari Collector and the District Forest Officer (DFO). As there were conflicting claims in the petition filed by Supreme Court advocate Sanjay Upadhyay on behalf of environmental activist Bolisetty Satyanarayana and NGT advocate D. Madhuri Reddy on behalf of the Andhra Pradesh government, the tribunal appointed a joint committee “to ascertain the facts.” The tribunal posting the next hearing for August 18 gave the joint committee three months to submit its report by email.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/joint-panel-to-look-into-mangroves-issue/article31486112.ece
02 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CII, FAPSIA thank CM for reaching out to MSME sector||CII - Andhra Pradesh chairman D. Ramakrishna and vice-chairman D. Tirupathi Raju have welcomed the financial assistance announced by the government for the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME). They stated that clearance of pending incentives and other measures announced would help the MSMEs meet their working capital requirement, and, thereby, mitigate the impact of the lockdown. The CII had urged government towaive minimum power demand charges for the industries , they said, and thanked CM Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddyfor addressing the concerns raised by the MSMEs. The Federation of A.P. Small & Medium Industries Associations (FAPSIA) too thanked Mr. Jagan for extending relief .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cii-fapsia-thank-cm-for-reaching-out-to-msme-sector/article31486096.ece
02 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||9-hour power supply for farm sector||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered the Energy Department to give nine-hour power supply during day time to farm sector under 100% of feeders from the next rabi season. In a review meeting with officials of the A.P. power utilities on Friday, Mr. Jagan said the construction of solar power plants with 10,000 megawatt capacity which are mainly intended to cater to the demand from agriculture, should begin by May-end. Officials told the CM that the works on agriculture feeders were hampered by the lockdown and they would be expedited once the restrictions were eased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/9-hour-power-supply-for-farm-sector/article31486107.ece
02 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools to remain closed till June 11||The Department of School Education on Friday announced that all schools in the State would remain closed till June 11 for summer holidays. An official statement issued to this effect said, subject to the outcome of COVID-19 situation, the reopening date would be informed later. English medium The government, meanwhile, asked the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) to frame guidelines for introduction of English medium in classes I to IV from the new academic year. In an order, the government said the Council officials should not lose sight of the Right to Education norms while framing the guidelines. The exercise was being taken up immediately after the government secured the parents’ nod in a survey on their preference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/schools-to-remain-closed-till-june-11/article31486108.ece
02 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City ‘records’ first COVID-19 death||The city reportedly recorded its first COVID-19 death, when a 62-year-old man from Chengalraopeta in the old city area died, here at the King George Hospital in the early hours of Friday. According to officials at the KGH, the man was brought for treatment with some kidney ailment on Thursday night. But seeing the symptoms, the doctors conducted a swab test for COVID-19, but before the reports could come he died. Considering it to be a death due to kidney ailment, the body was handed over to the family members. But once the reports came in indicating that he was COVID-19 positive, we rushed a team to the house of the deceased and conducted the last rites as per the protocol, said KGH Superintendent G. Arjuna. However, Principal of Andhra Medical College, Dr. P.V. Sudhakar said that though the test results may show positive it cannot be certified as a COVID related death. “It has to be certified by an eight-member committee headed by the Director of Medical Education,” he said. Health officials said that the area has been contained and contact listing, containment mapping and sanitisation of the area has begun. Nearly 30 close contacts of the patient apart from a number of KGH staff have also been quarantined. Two new COVID-19 cases — A 60-year-old woman from Madhavadhara and the second one another 50-year-old woman from Dandu Bazaar area in Maharanipeta — were confirmed by the State health bulletin which was released on Friday morning. Hours after the COVID-19 positive case from Dandu Bazaar came to light, officials from the Health Department collected samples of close contacts of the woman. It was learnt that one contact of the woman reportedly tested positive on Friday morning, while three others tested negative. However officials are yet to confirm about the new case. As per the Health Department, Visakhapatnam, by Friday evening, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported in the district is 27, including one death. However, another positive case from Maharanipeta and the Chengalraopeta death case is yet to be officially announced in the State health bulletin. Police teams and health officials are on toes tracing the contacts of all the new cases. In the case reported from Madhavadhara, we learnt that the family members were in touch with Delhi returnees. Similarly, in the Maharanipeta case, a close contact of the COVID-19 patient works as a water purifier mechanic. He had to attend complaints during this lockdown also. We found that he had attended a complaint of a family, that had travel history to Hyderabad and Vijayawada, said a senior health official, who is monitoring the containment zones and quarantine facility in the district.However, we are yet to ascertain how the Chengalraopeta case was infected, he said, adding that more or less, nearly 100 persons have been quarantined in all these new cases. ‘No cooperation’ Another senior official from the Health Department expressed concern that when the surveillance teams reach the houses to conduct survey, many people do not respond properly. “While a few close the door at the face of ward volunteers, many do not reveal if the inmates have any health issues,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-records-first-covid-19-death/article31486121.ece
02 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strengthen lockdown enforcement: Collector||After two new COVID-19 positive cases, District Collector V. Vinay Chand conducted a meet with the officials from various departments to review the situation and asked the officials to strengthen lockdown enforcement. Mr. Vinay Chand asked the Police Department to make sure the containment zones have only one entry and exit point. He also instructed them to set up a checkpost to curb movement of people. The Collector also asked the GVMC officials to submit the containment mapping to the Police Department. He said that the surveillance should be done very strictly in the containment zones and list out the high risk contacts and low risk contacts. Paderu Sub-Collector S. Venkateswar, Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar, District Medical & Health Officer S. Venkateswara Rao andothers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/strengthen-lockdown-enforcement-collector/article31486124.ece
02 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sathya Sai devotees reach out to the needy||The guiding principle of Sri Sathya Sai Baba was: ‘Service to man, is service to God’, and Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisations (SSSSO) is implementing it in letter and spirit by extending a helping hand to migrant labourers and needy people through 86 community kitchens across the country. These community kitchens serve 28,000 to 33,000 packets of cooked food every day across different States. The organisation is cooking breakfast, lunch, and dinner in these community kitchens as per approved government norms and distributing meals through government nominated agencies. Under this initiative, it has already served 5,68,000 food packets till date. SSSSO also distributed ‘Amrit Kalash’ grocery packets to needy families across different States. These packets, which can last for 10 days for a family of four include 11 essential items like rice, wheat flour, pulses, salt and sugar. It has distributed 10,99,000 lakh kg cereals to over 86,000 families till date under the initiative. The Mahila Vibhag of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisations has embarked upon the production of safety masks for distribution to frontline health and sanitation workers. It has already donated over two lakh safety masks in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Punjab till date. SSSSO All India president Nimish Pandya noted that the unprecedented crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic calls for united action to help the most deprived sections of society. The motto of SSSSO: ‘Love all and serve all’ and it would continue to serve humanity till the lockdown was completely lifted by the government. SSSSO is planning to continue the two initiatives of community kitchens and provision of grains and cereals on a mass scale beyond the lockdown period, when restrictions are eased. It is enhancing the capacity of community kitchens to reach around 1,00,000 meals every day from the current 28,000 to 33,000 meals a day and reach out to around 4,00,000 needy families with a distribution of 50,00,000 kg cereals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sathya-sai-devotees-reach-out-to-the-needy/article31486129.ece
02 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Investors hail bailout package for MSMEs||The package announced by the State government to bail out micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) sector from the losses suffered by them due to COVID-19 pandemic has been welcomed by the investor community. Investors thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for taking timely action to help them wriggle out of the crisis. CII national council member Gunturu Sivakumar said, “We thank the Chief Minister and Minister for Industries and IT M. Gowtham Reddy for promptly addressing the industry issues .” The State has nearly 26 lakh MSMEs employing 70 lakh people and this announcement will benefit nearly one lakh industries.  One of the requests from the Industry was the waiver of Minimum Demand charges for the period not being used and the State considered waiving this for the months of April/May and June 2020 for MSMEs to the tune of Rs. 188 crore, Mr. Sivakumar told The Hindu . While welcoming the incentives, CII A.P. past chairman R.V.S. Rudraraju applauded Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Mr. Gowtham Reddy for taking a timely decision to clear incentives, waive electricity minimum demand charge and most importantly the decision to provide low interest loans for MSMEs. According to Neeraj Sarda, past chair of CII Vizag zone and Deputy MD of Sarda Metals & Alloys Ltd, the decision taken to release the pending incentives for MSMEs since 2014-15 and disbursing it within the next two months is an opportune step in difficult times.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/investors-hail-bailout-package-for-msmes/article31486127.ece
02 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Yarlagadda tears into English medium critics||Citing the overwhelming response in favour of English medium in government schools from Classes 1 to 6 for the decision taken by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy knowing people’s pulse, Chairman of the Official Language Commission Yarlagadda Lakshmi Prasad dared those who opposed the GO (on English medium since then struck down by the High Court) whether they would press for a compulsory Telugu medium section in private schools and teaching of it as a subject from Classes 1 to 10. In its affidavit in the High Court, the State government had said that it would run a Telugu medium school in each mandal and provide transport to students to reach it thereby giving an option as was being demanded, Dr. Lakshmi Prasad said. The government struck a blow for Telugu by making it a compulsory subject in all the schools up to Class X in the GO, he said, criticising former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu, Jana Sena president Pawan Kalyan and others for politicising the issue. At present, several private schools students could take up other languages such as Sanskrit, French and Hindi up to Class Ten without learning Telugu. ‘CM did the right thing’ Stating that the schools run by several prominent persons and the NTR Trust were in English medium, Mr. Lakshmi Prasad wanted to know whether they would support his demand for compulsory Telugu medium in private schools and its teaching as a subject up to Class 10. He clarified that the Official Language Commission came under the Ministry of Language and Culture and would oversee the implementation of Telugu as official language in government offices. In the options collected by the government, more than 91% favoured English medium, Dr. Lakshmi Prasad said. The Chief Minister’s decision to introduce English as medium of instruction followed an overwhelming demand from parents during his padayatra before elections, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/yarlagadda-tears-into-english-medium-critics/article31486109.ece
02 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood donation camp organised||Marking May Day, CITU and Defence Coordination Committee organised a blood donation camp at M.S M. School at NGOs’ Colony. KGH Superintendent G. Arjuna, who inaugurated the camp, said blood was needed for the ill with the lockdown in force and lauded CITU for the gesture to help the pregnant and children. Raju of KGH Blood Bank and his team conducted the camp. Public Sector Coordination Committee convener S. Jyotiswara Rao and Y. L. Narasimha Rao of KGH were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/blood-donation-camp-organised/article31486126.ece
02 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JC: sanitisers, masks given to FP dealers||Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar inspected various fair price shops in the city on Friday. He inspected an FP shop in a red zone area and inquired from the cardholders on the distribution of rations to them. He said 19,900 bottles of 100 ml sanitisers and an equal number of masks were distributed to ration depots in the district. He said the masks were meant for the use of ration dealers and santiser was meant for both dealers and cardholders. He underlined the importance of proper utilisation of masks and sanitiser apart from observing social distancing norms to check the spread of the virus. District Supply Officer Nirmala Bai was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jc-sanitisers-masks-given-to-fp-dealers/article31486118.ece
02 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SP distributes safety gear to policemen||Superintendent of Police, Visakhapatnam Rural, Attada Babujee, distributed Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits and other safety gear for the policemen who have been relentlessly working during the COVID-19 crisis, in the rural areas of Visakhapatnam district, here on Friday.About 250 full body kits, 15,000 sanitisers, 55,000 masks, 14,000 soaps, 800 caps, 9,500 gloves, 450 aprons, 500 face shields, 50 medical kits and 25 mosquito nets, were distributed. Mr. Babujee said that police family welfare help desks were set up at Armed Reserve, Kailasagiri and SP Camp office for the sake of police families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sp-distributes-safety-gear-to-policemen/article31486125.ece
02 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low-pressure area forms in Bay of Bengal||A low-pressure has formed over south Andaman Sea and adjoining south east Bay of Bengal on Friday. The associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 4.5 km above the mean sea level. It is likely to become more marked over the same region during the next 48 hours, concentrate into a depression over Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 48 hours and is likely to intensify further thereafter, according to the IMD. It is likely to move north-north westwards gradually till May 5. The cyclonic circulation over south Odisha and neighbourhood, extending up to 0.9 km above msl has become less marked. Thunderstorm and lightning is likely to occur at isolated places over north coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam. Thunderstorm and lightning accompanied with gusty winds, speed reaching 30 to 40 km/hr is likely to occur at isolated places in south coastal A.P. till Saturday morning.Thunderstorm and lightning accompanied with gusty winds is likely to occur at isolated places over north and south coastal AP and Yanam from May 3 to 5 and in Rayalaseema on May 4 and 5. The Cyclone Warning Centre, Visakhapatnam, has cautioned fishermen against venturing into the sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-pressure-area-forms-in-bay-of-bengal/article31486119.ece
02 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telemedicine introduced in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram||The Vizianagaram and Srikakulam district administrations have launched the tele-medicine system to help patients have consultation with doctors and get medicines easily. It is expected to be a boon for patients. Many private doctors stopped practice with the fear of coronavirus and stringent lockdown norms. Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal said that patients should give a missed call to 14410 to get the tele-medicine facility. He said that the government would ensure home delivery of medicines in case of emergency. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas said that the patients in rural areas would benefit a lot from the tele-medicine service. He urged people to contract 9490576658 for the facility in Srikakulam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telemedicine-introduced-in-srikakulam-vizianagaram/article31485694.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Testing times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/testing-times/article31486099.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Struggle for survival||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/struggle-for-survival/article31486131.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crossing the line||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crossing-the-line/article31486111.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mahbub Gunj closed down||The renowned Mahbub Mansion Market Yard also known as Mahbub Gunj at Malakpet has been shut down following two persons from the market testing positive for coronavirus infection a few days ago. The market, which had been abuzz with activity for several days even after the lockdown was imposed, wore a deserted look with barricades erected by the police. Only the vehicles spraying disinfectant solution are being allowed twice a day, and it will continue for a week more, officials said. A decision to close down the market was taken after a trader tested positive for COVID-19 a couple of days ago. He was assumed to have contracted the infection from a worker who had travelled from Pahadi Shareef area outside GHMC limits. Subsequently, two family members of the trader, his wife and son too tested positive for the infection, leading to their home in Saroornagar area being barricaded as a containment zone. Tracing on Health authorities were on the job of tracing down other traders and workers of the market for fever monitoring, officials said. Mahbub Gunj is famed as a wholesale destination for commodities such as onions and dry chillis, which arrive here in large quantities from across the country. The market was emptied of all the stocks of onions before it was sealed, as onions were a perishable commodity, said Radha, chairperson of the Market Committee. “Stocks are now being unloaded at other markets at Bowenpally, Madannapet and Gudimalkapur. There is no fear of dearth of onions and rates getting jacked up, as majority of the commercial establishments such as hotels, restaurants and eateries are now shut. All we have is domestic consumption, and there is not much demand,” Ms. Radha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/mahbub-gunj-closed-down/article31485999.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court rider on water release to Kondapochamma||Telangana High Court on Friday directed the State government to release water into Kondapochamma reservoir only after surveying, quantifying and harvesting standing crops of people losing lands. A Bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A. Abhishek Reddy instructed the authorities to video record the entire process and present it to the High Court. Advocate General B.S. Prasad was directed to inform the HC on the next date of granting land to Kondapochamma oustees. Some villagers of Bahilampur and Mamidyala in Mulugu mandal of Siddipet district moved the HC questioning the quantum of compensation and harvesting of standing crops in their lands which were getting submerged. Passing the order in the case, the HC Bench said the AG had assured that land-losers would be paid compensation and other benefits relating to rehabilitation and resettlement as per the law. In the backdrop of AG’s assurance, it is for the people losing lands to accept the compensation and reap the benefits of rehabilitation and resettlement, the Bench said. Referring to villagers’ contention that they be given land for the land being lost under the reservoir, the AG told the HC that the government would surely consider the matter. He, however, said that he could not give an assurance on the matter as details of the availability of land needs to be ascertained. He sought time for securing instructions on the matter. Since the reservoir was scheduled for inauguration on Monday, he sought permission for harvesting the standing crops that would be submerged due to release of water. The bench gave a detailed procedure to be followed by Siddipet district administration o harvest the standing crops. Surveying, quantifying and harvesting of the standing crops should be done in the presence of the oustees. No villager should be forced to sign on any blank papers. All documents to be signed be in Telugu, the bench said. The standing crop harvested should be stored at a safe place, the HC added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/high-court-rider-on-water-release-to-kondapochamma/article31486013.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Glitches galore in govt’s cash aid programme||The ambitious programme launched by the State government envisaging crediting of Rs. 1,500 cash to the accounts of white ration cardholders continues to encounter problems. After the initial difficulties in collecting the data pertaining to the accounts of all cardholders, the Civil Supplies department, which is the nodal agency for implementing the programme, is said to be faced with mismatch in the account numbers and Aadhaar numbers of cardholders. The programme was launched early this month, following an assurance by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao that Rs. 1,500 each, totalling Rs. 1,314 crore, would be credited to the accounts of white cardholders. The amount, according to them, would enable them to buy groceries other than rice to overcome the financial problems faced by them due to the ongoing lockdown. The department, after obtaining consent of the Finance department, successfully credited Rs. 1,112 crore to the accounts of 74 lakh beneficiaries out of the more than 87.5 lakh cardholders across the State. These 74 lakh cardholders, according to the records available with the department, were regular users of the white ration card lifting their monthly quota of essentials from fair price shops. But there were complaints from a section of cardholders that they were being denied the benefit as they had no bank accounts. In respect of such cases, the department announced that they would not be left over and, accordingly, initiated the process of providing the assured amount to genuine beneficiaries through post offices covering around 5.2 lakh beneficiaries. Even as the process is under way, the department is now faced with mismatch in the accounts and Aadhaar numbers in the data obtained by it and it was accordingly decided the take steps for rectifying the errors and synchronising the data. In addition, about 6 lakh cardholders had been set aside from the ambit of the scheme as they had not used their ration cards for more than six months. “But, it is observed that over 2 lakh such cardholders have drawn their ration from fair price shops, albeit after long gaps, in April since the scheme was announced. We are verifying the data of such beneficiaries and the amount will be credited to these accounts once the verification process is completed,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/glitches-galore-in-govts-cash-aid-programme/article31486024.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TISS team generates data on migrant workers||The faculty of Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Hyderabad, which has done a survey to find the needs of migrant workers who were thrown off guard by the imposition of lockdown has identified that an authentic database on migrant workers remained a critical gap in matching the immediate needs of the workers with the relief measures extended by the government and civil society organisations. The mapping exercise on ‘Socio-economic vulnerabilities and rapid assessment of needs of migrant workers in Hyderabad’, conceived and conducted by the TISS team in collaboration with Rachakonda Police Commissionerate has indicated that an authentic database order will go a long way in matching pressing needs of the migrant workers with the relief measures, and put in place more coordinated and focused short-term and long-term policy interventions. Even now, after almost a month of lockdown, a number of key concerns such as food, livelihoods, shelter and transport remain to be addressed at the policy and intervention levels while visuals of lengthy lines of hungry and tired migrant workers on a long march home have become enduring images of the crisis fuelled by COVID-19. The objectives of the survey are to capture the migrant workers’ socio-demographic profile, economic and current health status, perceived most important needs and immediate assistance needed from the government. 35-item schedule The TISS faculty team developed a brief 35-item schedule as a Google form that could be accessed on a smartphone for the data collection, said U. Vindhya, deputy director, TISS-Hyderabad Campus. Helping the TISS team in data collection are a set of volunteers from Citizens’ Council called Rachakonda Security Council under the aegis of Rachakonda Police Commissionerate. They also helped in mobilising identified migrant workers from the jurisdiction of each police station, she said. In the exercise that began on April 15, so far 8,235 individuals have been interviewed across nine police station limits. “The data generated will enable a rapid assessment of migrant workers’ needs so that more coordinated, focused and organised relief measures can be initiated to mitigate their suffering,” Prof Vindhya said. For instance, in the early days of lockdown, many organisations started distributing food packets. Talking to migrants from northern States revealed that they would be happy to get dry rations and rather cook themselves. Accordingly, Rachakonda Police officials coordinated the relief by talking to donor agencies. The data can also be used by the administration to plan and coordinate transportation of the migrant workers to their home states. The long term outcome is the use of data for advocacy and further research as the database has details such as migrant workers’ current location in the city, occupation and contact number, details of home State, district and panchayat they come from, socio-economic details like living arrangements, family members, remittance pattern, support received from government and NGOs during lockdown et al.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tiss-team-generates-data-on-migrant-workers/article31485984.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS expects Centre to run more trains for migrants||As the first train carrying migrant labour to Jharkhand departed from here, the State government is expecting the Central government to deploy more such trains to transport migrant workers to their native States. According to Labour department officials, surveys conducted by the department revealed that there are around 2.2 lakh migrant workers engaged in different works here. Migrants from four States – Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh – constitute a major chunk of those working in the State. “The number can be still higher if the migrants working in the establishments not registered with the department are taken into consideration,” a senior official said. After the Central government has issued revised guidelines allowing migrants to move to their native States, the department is expecting the Centre to operate more trains to transport these workers. Trains originating from southern States like Tamil Nadu are likely to be routed through the State to enable movement of the workers engaged here to distant destinations like Bihar. “Some trains bound to distant destinations like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are likely to start from Telangana, but a decision on this will be taken based on the number of workers stationed here,” the official said  . Trains are the only mode of transport as it could take three to four days if they are sent by buses and the scope for the spread of virus because of the halts they would make midway for food and other requirements could be minimised by trains. Once they reach the specified destination, it will be the responsibility of the respective governments to transport them to their respective villages/towns at its own expense. According to the protocol evolved for ensuring safe transport of the migrants, the Labour department is making arrangements to conduct preliminary health checks like thermal screening of workers intending to go to their native States. “Full tests will only be done after they reach their native States. Depending on the condition of workers, the respective governments can send them to quarantine or ask them to observe home quarantine by making necessary stamping arrangements,” the official said. Arrangements are being made to issue transit passes to groups of migrants from neighbouring States like Chhattisgarh who are willing to engage their own vehicles. Vehicles with such permits should not be made to stop for more than one minute at the checkposts located within the State while these vehicles could make brief halts at the inter-State checkpoints.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-expects-centre-to-run-more-trains-for-migrants/article31485985.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||May Day fete on low key||May Day celebrations, usually a big event by Left parties, was a low-key affair on account of the lockdown with a handful of activists clad in red at their respective party offices. Communist Party of India (CPI) State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy hoisted the flag at the office of the All India Trade Union Congress and addressed the gathering. He criticised the “indifference” of the Central government towards the plight of migrant workers in the present circumstances. At the CPI (M) State office, party central committee member Cherupalli Sitaramulu hoisted the flag. He defended the decision of the party to observe May Day without the usual demonstrations, rallies and meetings in view of the lockdown. He said the going would be tough for workers after the lockdown was lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/may-day-fete-on-low-key/article31485993.ece
02 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘TRS diverted Rs. 1,000cr. from construction workers’ fund’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy alleged that the TRS government has diverted nearly Rs. 1,000 crore funds collected towards the Building and Other Construction Workers’ (BOCW) cess. Speaking after hoisting the INTUC flag on International Labour Day at Gandhi Bhavan on Friday, he also alleged that the State government has diverted Rs. 335 crore of BOCW cess to Civil Supplies Corporation and the remaining to other departments. “These funds were exclusively meant for the welfare of building and other construction workers and many states used this fund to transfer up to Rs. 3,000 to each registered building and other construction worker during lockdown,” he claimed, and demanded that the State government provide Rs. 3,000 each to all registered building and construction workers from the BOCW cess fund. The TPCC chief said the Chief Minister made tall claims during a live press conference on taking care of migrant workers in the State but didn’t even have an estimate. Earlier, he claimed there were nearly 3.5 lakh migrant workers and later increased it to 6 lakh. But on April 30, Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav said there were over 15 lakh migrant workers in the State. The variance reflects how the CM misled on the numbers, he said. He said that Congress leaders would meet Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan next week to submit a representation seeking help for migrants. Later in the evening, he addressed party cadre through Facebook on issues related to COVID.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trs-diverted-rs-1000cr-from-construction-workers-fund/article31486018.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR: bold reforms to reboot economy||To reboot and energise the Indian economy post-COVID, IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao suggested several measures, including constitution of an empowered strategy group with representatives from various sectors, to follow up on investment opportunities. “India has a great opportunity and lets grab it aggressively,” he said pitching for a coordinated strategy to revitalise the economy similar to the combat against the coronavirus. Mr. Rao expressed his views in a series of tweets to Union Minister for Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal. The strategy group should comprise representatives of Central and State governments, economists, policy makers, bankers and industry leaders. He said only bold reforms imbibing best practices of EoDB can propel India into the top 20 of the world rankings. He argued for revisiting old labour laws and bankruptcy laws and update them apart from providing a guarantee and to honour consistency in State policies to investors. Capacity building in infra sector and improving skills is vital, he said while emphasising the need to focus on creating world-class industrial infrastructure in a mission mode over the next one year, including self-contained industrial parks and corridors. He also argued for promoting mega industrial parks like Hyderabad Pharma City and Kakatiya Mega Textile park as projects of national importance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-bold-reforms-to-reboot-economy/article31486022.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Guidelines issued for disposal of COVID biomedical waste||The Telangana State Pollution Control Board has issued a statement with guidelines from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for handling, collection, transportation, treatment and disposal of bio-medical waste generated from treatment of COVID-19 patients and suspects. These include use of separate colour-coded bins or containers in wards, proper segregation of waste as per Bio Medical Waste Management rules and CPCB guidelines, and use of double-layered bags for collection of waste from isolation wards. It specifically mentions disposal protocol for each of the PPE components into different colour-coded bins. Bags, containers and trolleys used for collecting biomedical waste from COVID wards should be labelled for identification and priority accorded in treatment and disposal. Inner and outer surfaces of bins and containers should be disinfected daily. Separate record of waste generated from isolation wards should be maintained by healthcare establishments and common biomedical waste management facilities (CBMWTF). Opening or operation of COVID-19 ward and ICU ward should be reported to PCB and respective CBMWTFs. Dedicated sanitation workers should be deputed for biomedical waste, and waste from quarantine centres should be collected separately in suitable containers provided by the respective ULBs. The operator of the CBMWTF should be alerted to collect the biomedical waste as soon as it gets generated. COVID-19 waste should not be stored for more than 24 hours. Adequate PPEs should be made available for workers at CBMWTFs. Dedicated vehicle with separate label should be used to collect COVID waste and sanitised after every trip. Waste generated from suspected patients at home should be collected in separate bags and handed over to authorised waste collectors engaged by local bodies, or the ULB should engage CBMWTFs to pick up such waste either directly or from identified collection points. Used masks and gloves from home quarantine or other households should be kept in paper bag for a minimum of 72 hours prior for disposal as general waste. It is advisable to cut masks to prevent reuse. Healthcare facilities and agencies operating the sewage treatment plants should continue to ensure disinfection of treated waste water to inactivate coronaviruses. Operators of Effluent Treatment Plants and STPs attached with discharge from healthcare facilities should adopt standard operational practices, basic hygiene precautions, and PPEs prescribed. Utilisation of treated waste water in healthcare facilities may be avoided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/guidelines-issued-for-disposal-of-covid-biomedical-waste/article31485988.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rain with gale lashes city||Heavy rain accompanied by strong wind beat down on several localities of the city on Friday, bringing relief to people. The rain which started about 2.30 p.m. with heavy window-rattling wind, continued for about half an hour to one hour across various localities. The eastern side of the city bore the maximum brunt, with Alkapuri in Saroornagar mandal recording two centimetres of rainfall in about half an hour. Outside GHMC, Keesara received close to three centimetres of rainfall. The Meteorology department’s weather station at Begumpet recorded about 1.5 centimetres of rainfall, while Ramantapur, IS Sadan and Asmangadh areas recorded 1.3 centimetres. Nagole, Uppal, Medipally, Abdullapurmet, Nampally, Bandlaguda, Marredpally and Musheerabad areas recorded over one centimetre of rainfall. As per the data recorded at automatic weather stations across the city, Begum Bazar, Patigadda, Amberpet, Kurmaguda, Ghansibazar, Vanasthalipuram, Hastinapuram, Prashanth Nagar, Chandulal Baradari, Qutbullahpur, Habsiguda, and Addagutta areas too received considerable rainfall. Estimating the wind speed at 32 kmph, the Department of Meteorology attributed the rain to the low pressure over the South Andaman sea and the South East Bay of Bengal, besides the upper air circulation at the height of 4.5 kilometres. It may be strengthened in the coming 48 hours, and turn into depression around the region of South West Bay of Bengal, the department alerted. As a result, Telangana may experience light to moderate thunder howers, an advisory from the department said. Maximum temperatures might reach 41 degrees to 43 degrees C at some locations, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-with-gale-lashes-city/article31485997.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre working on Metro safety protocol||The Union Ministry of Urban Development is holding discussions with Metro rail authorities in various cities across the country to come up with comprehensive safety protocols for travel in the mass rapid transit systems, once the government lifts the lockdown. Hyderabad Metro Rail managing director N.V.S. Reddy informed on Thursday that the Centre is likely to bring certain guidelines on Metro travel and various states and cities will be taking decisions appropriately. “It is not yet clear when the government wants to allow public transport after lockdown. Metros have a particular mode of travel and are totally air-conditioned. Hence, they add a new set of challenges to the authorities,” he admitted. In the meantime, making use of the non-operation of trains, HMR along with concessionnaire L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) is undertaking several repair and maintenance activities like cleaning up the Metro viaduct and replacing blocked rain water pipes to prevent water stagnation during the forthcoming monsoon. Checking bearings, overhead electric system, and signalling tests are being carried regularly, he said. The signalling and communication data is being transmitted to Thales in Canada, which has installed the Communications Based Train Control (CBTC) system, for taking up any improvement and rectification for any technical glitches detected. Rail grinding works are also being undertaken on Corridor Two or the Green Line between Jubilee Bus Station (JBS) and Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (MGBS), Imliban, to reduce the noise levels. “We are running two trains every day on the test track at Uppal depot and in the Metro corridors for ensuring operational readiness,” said Mr. Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-working-on-metro-safety-protocol/article31486003.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to strengthen O&M cadre||As part of its plans to strengthen the operation and maintenance (O&M) wings in all major and medium irrigation projects in the wake of increasing workload, the State government has decided to increase the cadre strength in coming months. The cadre strength is likely to be increased with the help of recruitment after making internal adjustments of the qualified personnel. The State government has already prepared a tentative list of proposed increase of cadre in major and medium irrigation projects by sending proposals to the administrative heads of all such projects to cross-check the requirement one more time. Apart from flood gates, and pump and generator operators, the O&M cadre includes work inspectors, electricians, fitters, and helpers-cum-lascars. Sources in the irrigation department told The Hindu that the existing O&M cadre strength was 174 in 16 major irrigation projects. However, 114 of the cadre are helpers-cum-lascars followed by 30 operators and 25 work inspectors. “Except for Nagarjunasagar and Sriramsagar projects, where the O&M cadre strength of all categories was 63 and 50, respectively, the staff handling the all-important task is very little,” a senior engineer explained and pointed out that it was only 16 for Jurala and 12 for Kaddam projects having localised ayacut of over 1.02 lakh acres and 68,000 acres, respectively. For other projects, their strength is in single digits. The O&M cadre position is even worse in the 36 medium irrigation projects. The field engineers posted have been shouldering the responsibility of gates operation with the help of other staff, sources stated. However, after identifying the fact that insufficient O&M cadre has been affecting water regulation amounting to even wastage, administrators of irrigation department have proposed strengthening of O&M cadre with another 327 personnel in major irrigation projects. According to sources, a lion’s share of them would be helpers-cum-lascars as their strength is proposed to be added by another 166.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-to-strengthen-om-cadre/article31486008.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||US firm lends a helping hand to Akshaya Patra||The Akshaya Patra Foundation received $100,000 (approximately Rs. 75,28,500) from Xilinx Inc., an American technology company, to provide food relief to people of vulnerable communities during the lockdown. Xilinx’s generous donation will enable Akshaya Patra to distribute 13,636 food relief kits (5,72,727 meal servings) to the affected people in Hyderabad, Sangareddy, Andole, Neradigunta, Yeraram, Isnapur, Siddipet, Gajwel, and Patancheru as per directions of the local administration. “We applaud the sincere and timely work of the Akshaya Patra Foundation,” said Ajay Naini, vice-president and Hyderabad site director of Xilinx, and added, “It is a privilege to be a partner for such a cause and contribute to the society at this critical time.” In Telangana, the foundation and associate trusts are working with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and local municipalities to serve about 2 lakh cooked meals daily to migrant workers and daily-wage earners who have lost their livelihood in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak and the subsequent nation-wide lockdown. Over 41,000 food relief kits with essential groceries have been distributed so far, said regional president-Akshaya Patra (Telangana and Andhra Pradesh), Satya Gaura Chandra Dasa on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/us-firm-lends-a-helping-hand-to-akshaya-patra/article31485982.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Techies may continue to work from home||The IT and ITES companies, which have stabilised ‘work from home’ regimen for their employees, will take their own time in resuming normal work routine even after lockdown is lifted in the State. “No coronavirus cases have been reported during the lockdown period in the IT industry so far. Even if employees are willing to work from offices after the lockdown is lifted, we want to be cautious,” said an IT company head. The Centre’s guidelines said 50% of employees can report to work after lockdown is relaxed in the IT sector. Another MNC company said they have decided to make their employees work from home till end of May and decision will be reviewed then. With easing of lockdown, one is not sure how social distancing will be maintained. With reports of several COVID-19 positive persons remaining asymptomatic, the IT sector will not want to take any chances as it can impact their operations if employees fall sick. “The companies have been able to maintain their global operations since the imposition of lockdown. We want to wait till the coronavirus curve is flattened,” an MNC company representative said. Even if the lockdown is lifted after May 17, public transport and private cabs may not resume immediately. If social distancing norms have to become a way of life for the next few months, more public transport buses and cabs will be needed to carry fewer passengers. Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) representatives said employees can come in reasonable numbers if buses are allowed to operate at least in key routes. The IT sector has proposed to allow up to 10% to 20% employees initially to work from office. But 15% of them need transport support by buses and cabs. Another issue is if employees have to work from office, then cafeteria located within the companies should open. The client companies of IT sector based in US, UK at present are under lockdown too but after two weeks, they may not be so understanding to adjust and continue to put up with constraints of working from home. A section of employees however are looking forward to go back to office environment. One complaint across the IT sector employees is chairs at home are not ergonomic and many have been suffering with back pain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/techies-may-continue-to-work-from-home/article31486007.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Plea against SC order on tribal teachers’ quota||The State government will shortly file a review petition against the judgment of the Constitutional Bench of the Supreme Court striking down cent per cent reservation in teacher posts in Scheduled Areas. In tune with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s decision, the government is going ahead to file the petition with thorough supporting material, said Tribal Welfare Minister Satyavathi Rathod. She reviewed the preparation of the petition with Tribal Welfare Commissioner Christina Z. Chongthu and Additional Director V. Sarveshwar Reddy. Ms. Rathod said that the government was taking legal opinion and the views of experts, public representatives and elders of tribal groups with a view to ensure that the petition took utmost care of the interests of tribal teachers. The government will not compromise on the interests of tribals. She also said the government order on reservation of teacher posts to tribals was issued in the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh in 2000. Therefore, the petition was being prepared in coordination by governments of both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plea-against-sc-order-on-tribal-teachers-quota/article31486016.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC modifies order in Prabhas farmhouse case||Telangana High Court modified an order in a writ petition filed by film actor Prabhas, relating to a farmhouse in Raidurg, restraining the Revenue authorities from demolishing it. However, possession of the farmhouse cannot be handed over to the actor, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice P. Naveen Rao said. The bench directed the trial court of Kukatpally in Rangareddy district to deal with the application to vacate an interim injunction order passed by it restraining the authorities not to interfere with the property. The vacate application filed by the Revenue authorities should be decided on merits without getting influenced by observations made by the HC, the bench said. The actor and the authorities can challenge the trial court order. Two years ago, Mr. Prabhas filed a petition in Kukatpally court challenging seizure of his farmhouse in Raidurg by Revenue authorities. The court issued interim orders staying it till April 3, 2020. Meanwhile, the actor filed a writ petition in HC. A coordinate division bench of the HC held that the dispossession of the actor from the property was unlawful. It directed the government to decide the actor’s application for regularisation of the land measuring 2,083 square yards in part of which the farmhouse was built. The bench said possession of the farm house cannot be given back to the actor until the government decides regularisation request. The division bench modified the order and said the authorities cannot demolish the property and directed the trial court to adjudicate the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hc-modifies-order-in-prabhas-farmhouse-case/article31485991.ece
02 May 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Central team visits Maternity Hospital||The Inter-Ministerial Central Team inspecting the COVID-19 containment measures in the city visited the Government Maternity Hospital, Petlaburj, on Friday and interacted with patients, doctors and paramedical staff. Later, they conducted a review meeting with Khairatabad Zonal Commissioner Praveenya and deputy commisisoners with regard to implementation of lockdown and containment measures. Visiting a construction site at Errum Manzil, the team headed by Additional Secretary, Ministry of Jal Shakti, Arun Bharoka, enquired about the facilities provided to migrant workers. They also visited the Centre for DNA, Fingerprinting and Diagnostics at Uppal and interacted with Director Debshish Mitra and others, a press release from GHMC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/central-team-visits-maternity-hospital/article31486000.ece
02 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Helpline for psychological assistance on COVID fears||The Association of Health Psychologists in collaboration with UNICEF, Action Aid, Dr. Reddy’s Foundation, APTS Social Service Forum, Raithu Swarajya Vedika and Asha Hospital have started a helpline for tele-counseling under the banner ‘Support for Emotional Rehabilitation of Virus Victims’ (SERV). Free counselling will be provided for any emotional or interpersonal problems due to COVID-19 or lockdown. “COVID-19 is typically an issue related to health psychology. Meeting this challenge requires a biopsychosocial approach for optimising the outcome. Medical intervention alone cannot address the broad need for wellbeing,” said Meena Hariharan, founder president of the Association of Health Psychologists. People can call on 99850-10680 for help, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/helpline-for-psychological-assistance-on-covid-fears/article31485986.ece
02 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Corruption in irrigation tenders: Nagam||Former Minister and Congress leader Nagam Janardhan Reddy has alleged corruption in the tenders called for lifting the third tmc water in the Kaleshwaram project and demanded that tenders be cancelled immediately. In a statement here, he said that when the entire country was under lockdown with literally no money with the government to pay even salaries and pensions, it was surprising that tenders worth Rs. 27,000 crore were called and finalised without any bidding. He alleged that the works were given to contractors close to CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao. “How can contractors participate and bid without even visiting the sites,” he asked. He wanted to know when there were no distributory canals and other infrastructure to use the present two tmc water, where was the need for obtaining loans of Rs. 27,000 crore to lift the third tmc.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/corruption-in-irrigation-tenders-nagam/article31486019.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||For Briefs/||A group of IRS officers belonging to Telangana and working in Income Tax, Indirect Taxes and Customs wings in the State have donated Rs. 3,60,500 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund as their contribution towards the fight against coronavirus. Additional Director DRI (Hyderabad Zone) Prasad Adelli, Director (Finance) Singareni Collieries Company Ltd N. Balaram and others handed over the challan to Minister K.T. Rama Rao here on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-briefs/article31485990.ece
02 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Children’s specialist passes away||Well-known paediatrician and former superintendent of Niloufer Hospital P. Sudarshan Reddy passed away on Friday. Dr. Reddy, who was also head of the Paediatrics department, Osmania Medical College and General Hospital, worked in several private hospitals. An alumnus of the Osmania Medical College, he was a senior member of Indian Academic of Paediatrics (IAP), Telangana chapter. IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao tweeted expressing his condolences and said Dr. Reddy was his doctor as well when he was a kid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/childrens-specialist-passes-away/article31485994.ece
02 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Centre notifies HC judge appointment||The Centre has announced the nomination of B. Vijaysen Reddy as judge of the Telangana High Court, following an earlier recommendation of the Supreme Court collegium. A notification issued by the Union Ministry of Law and Justice stated that he would be Telangana HC judge from the date of assuming charge of office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/centre-notifies-hc-judge-appointment/article31486011.ece
02 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||For Briefs/ Record paddy procurement in April||The State government has procured about 22.55 lakh tonnes of paddy from farmers this April, in 22 days after commencing the exercise on April 9, chairman of Rythu Bandhu Samithi (RBS) Palla Rajeshwar Reddy stated here on Thursday. He said that the procurement last April was only 12 lakh tonnes. The procurement this year has been done at 5,817 centres run by the Civil Supplies Corporation, women self-help groups, Markfed and rice millers. On Thursday, a record quantity of 2 lakh tonnes was purchased from farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/for-briefs-record-paddy-procurement-in-april/article31486025.ece
02 May 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Rs. 500 cash, essentials for weavers||In the wake of the crisis in the powerloom industry in Sircilla following the lockdown, IT and Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao instructed the district authorities to distribute Rs. 500 cash and Rs. 500 worth essential commodities to each powerloom weaver in the town. On the occasion of May Day on Friday, Collector D. Krishna Bhaskar and Telangana State Cooperative Apex Bank (TSCAB) chairman K. Ravinder Rao formally launched the distribution of cash and essentials to the weavers. The Collector said that they would distribute the essentials to over 5,000 powerloom weavers of the town through various municipal corporators in the respective localities. The TSCAB chairman said that powerloom weavers are facing problems due to unemployment following the implementation of the lockdown. However, he said the government would provide all assistance to the weavers of the town and protect the powerloom industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rs-500-cash-essentials-for-weavers/article31486027.ece
02 May 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||IIT-H to collaborate with Hong Kong firm||The Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad (IIT-H), is going to collaborate with New Frontier Capital Management, a financial firm based in Hong Kong with offices in Tokyo and Singapore, to establish a global network for ventures as well as to create a venture ecosystem. The core objective of this partnership will be to promote innovation, research and incubation. An MoU was signed by B.S. Murty, Director, IIT-H, and Shigeki Usuki, Chief Executive Officer, New Frontier Capital Management. This pact will also enable New Frontier Capital Management to set up an office on IIT-H campus. “Japanese corporations have a strong interest in innovation coming out of India. Through the collaboration, we expect to further the mutual relationship between India and Japan, especially in fields of venture and innovation. The MoU will enable us to establish our office on IIT-H campus to promote more information-sharing both ways,” said Mr. Usuki.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iit-h-to-collaborate-with-hong-kong-firm/article31485989.ece
02 May 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||A man killed his four-year-old daughter by slitting her throat at Gonglur tanda in Pulkal mandal late on Thursday night. According to Jogipet Circle Inspector B. Srinivas, Ramavath Jeevan lived there with his wife, two daughters and a son. He was depressed and a habitual drinker, police said. The accused was arrested and remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/brf/article31486028.ece
02 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Judge to visit oustees’ houses||The HC on Friday directed Ms. Saritha, IVth Additional District Judge, Siddipet, to immediately visit the village concerned or to the place where the petitioners have been shifted by the district administration and to record the statements of the petitioners under Section 164 of CrPC with regard to the way they were dealt with both by the Collector and the RDO. “A report with regard to what transpired between 27.04.2020 and 01.05.2020 should be submitted by the IVth Additional District Judge, Siddipet. The Judge is further directed to take photos of dwellings of petitioners. The said report shall be submitted by her on or before May 6,” said the HC order. Court has also directed the Collector to shift the oustees to the 2BHK houses available at Gajwel, to permit the oustees to collect their belongings at their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/judge-to-visit-oustees-houses/article31486029.ece
02 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||17 new cases in Gautam Buddha Nagar||Seventeen new cases of COVID-19 were reported from Gautam Budhha Nagar on Friday, an official release said. With this, the total number of cases in the district has touched 155. Of this, 90 infected persons have recovered. “Out of 333 sample reports received on Friday, 17 have been found positive,” said Sunil Dohre, District Surveillance Officer, Gautam Buddha Nagar. The maximum number of positive cases have been reported from Noida Sector 8 where 10 new cases were reported, which included two 10-year-old children. Dr. Dohre said that so far 3,618 samples had been tested and 697 persons were in institutional quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/17-new-cases-in-gautam-buddha-nagar/article31485940.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. to double amount of free ration per person: Kejriwal||The Delhi government has decided to double the amount of free ration being provided to each person — that is 10 kg against 5 kg ration per month — Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Friday. Ration kits will also be handed out. On students stranded in Rajasthan, Mr. Kejriwal said: “Many students from Delhi had been studying in Kota and they had been waiting to come back to their city. But, we could not take any action without approval from the Centre. The Centre has allowed the movement now, and around 40 private buses will be leaving for Kota.” The Delhi government is also in talks with other States on the status of migrant workers. “I have been getting calls and messages and being asked as to how people from Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, and Bihar would travel back to their houses. We are regularly communicating with these State governments and the final plan will be shared soon. Please be patient till then and stay at home for your own safety and the safety of your family members,” he said. Increase in testing Delhi had 3,515 cases till Thursday night which rose to 3,738 on Friday. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that out of the 3,515 COVID-19 cases in Delhi, 1,100 had recovered and had been discharged from hospitals, adding that the testing rate had increased here. He added that of the 3,515 cases, 59 people had lost their lives and there were 2,362 active cases. The common perception, he said, would be that there was a sudden and steady rise in the number of cases, but there was also an increase in testing of samples to monitor those who have been infected and treat them thereafter. “In Delhi, we are conducting 2,300 tests per 1 million people, as compared to the country’s average, which is 500 tests per 1 million people. Hence, it seems like the cases are rising in Delhi. The positive aspect of this, however, is that infected people are recovering. A total of 1,100 people have recovered and were discharged so far. The rate of recovery is increasing,” he said, adding that at 59, the death ratio was much less in the Capital compared to other States and countries. Plasma therapy “We had gotten the plasma therapy trial permitted by the Centre in Lok Nayak Hospital. The patient who was given the first trial and was admitted to an ICU in a critical condition has recovered and has been discharged from the hospital... A few statements on behalf of the Union government led the people to believe that plasma therapy will be halted in Delhi. The Union government said that only the States which have received the permission should conduct the plasma therapy trials. Initial results are satisfactory and we hope that this technique can be treated as a sustainable solution for the future,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The Delhi government, he also said, was contacting the 1,100 people who had recovered. He claimed that almost every one of them was ready to donate their plasma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-to-double-amount-of-free-ration-per-person-kejriwal/article31485943.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘It is tough to procure food to break fast during Ramzan’||Apart from the nationwide lockdown which rendered him out of work, Mohammad Ashraf Hussain, a tea stall owner near Nizamuddin, said that procuring food for the family to break their fast during the holy month of Ramzan had proved to be particularly difficult. For several others like Mr. Hussain, the cooked meals provided by the State government and distributed at fixed timings meant that they were on their own for iftaar and sehri . “Before the Ramzan began, we were going to a nearby school and getting cooked meals. But now the weather has also changed and it is so hot that we cannot even save the food for later. So we are managing somehow by borrowing some ration from the locals so that we can at least break our fast. At times, the police personnel deployed in the area also come forward to give us some food from their share,” said 30-year-old Sonia Khatoon. Despite government directives, several ration shops were still not distributing ration to those without ration cards, many complained. “While we do not have ration cards. We do have Aadhaar cards which we showed to those who were distributing ration. But they asked us to go away and refused to give us any ration. We are not being able to store the cooked meal for later and neither can we make something for ourselves. What do the poor like us do in such a situation?,” said Ms. Khatoon, who along with 20 others, have been surviving without a roof above their head. Complaining about erratic food supply, several others from the riot-affected areas said that they had been unable to obtain the free ration promised by the government which was forcing them to buy raw material from local shops, despite being cash-strapped. Imran Ansari (21), a resident of Shiv Vihar, one of the most affected areas in the riots which took place here in February, said that this year’s Ramzan was unlike other times as the family’s struggle continued. “We have not received any ration from the government. We had visited a couple of times but every time had to return empty-handed. We have been facing such struggle since the riots. I lost my father three days back and now our source of livelihood is also gone. I have been buying stuff from local shops on credit so that we can have at least a basic iftaar ,” said Mr. Ansari. Shoaib, a resident of Ashok Nagar, where a mosque was vandalised during the riots, said: “Till now, we have only received the initial compensation from the government. Our shop and house were both looted and burnt. By the time we could think of standing on our feet again, the lockdown started. So we shifted to a relative’s place. Here we are sharing resources and observing roza . With limited cooked meals being provided, it’s difficult to support large families. So we can only depend on each other somehow for Ramzan this year.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/it-is-tough-to-procure-food-to-break-fast-during-ramzan/article31485934.ece
02 May 2020||NEW Delhi,||City reports two deaths, 223 new cases; AAP MLA infected||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA from Karol Bagh Vishesh Ravi was among the 223 people who tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. Two deaths were also reported in the city, taking the toll to 61. The total number of cases now stands at 3,738. As per the Delhi government health bulletin, 73 people made a recovery on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,167. Mr. Ravi said that he had tested positive along with his brother Ankit Ravi and was currently self isolating as he was asymptomatic. Mr. Ravi is a three-time AAP MLA and was advised to get tested by his doctor on April 29 as he was running a fever. His results came back positive on Friday. Meanwhile, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority said that from now on, COVID-19 sampling and testing data will be collected at the level of the chief district medical officer under the supervision of the concerned district magistrate. The move is aimed at reducing “difficulty in reconciling data of samples collected, number of tests carried out and the pendency in various labs and institutions, which is hampering effective management of the pandemic,” Delhi Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, who is also the DDMA chairman, said in an order.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/city-reports-two-deaths-223-new-cases-aap-mla-infected/article31485942.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||Baijal reviews status of COVID-19 management in city||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Friday reviewed the status of COVID-19 management in Delhi through video conference with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and senior Delhi government and Delhi Police officers. Secretary (Health) made a detailed presentation on the status of COVID-19 management in the city, presented detailed analysis of spatial distribution of COVID-19 cases, containment zones and ward wise mapping of red, orange and green zones. “It was informed that recovery rate in Delhi is higher than the rest of the country and Delhi has conducted almost six times more tests than the national average per million population. The L-G directed all stakeholders for scaling up their efforts to rein in the COVID-19 pandemic,” Raj Niwas said in a statement. “L-G advised field officials to delineate containment zones properly to ensure their effective management, instructed field officials to adopt strict perimeter control measures, carry out active house-to-house surveillance and trace contacts extensively as per guidelines...He also advised narrowing down of containment zones into micro containment zones for effective management,” the statement said. The Raj Niwas said that the L-G instructed the Health Department to develop an action plan to convert red zones into orange to green zones and handhold field machinery in maintaining the green zones. He also instructed that the steps required to augment testing capacity should be taken immediately. He also instructed for extensive testing as per guidelines and ensure faster results of tests in a time-bound manner. Mr. Baijal directed to provide protective gear to all frontline workers who are performing their duties at vulnerable places, especially the containment zones and hotspots||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/baijal-reviews-status-of-covid-19-management-in-city/article31485946.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||Minorities panel chief apologises for tweet||Delhi Minorities Commission Chairman Zafrul Islam Khan has sought to clarify that the tweet issued by him on April 28 thanking Kuwait for taking note of the persecution of Indian Muslims, in the context of the violence in north-east Delhi, had “pained some people”, which never was his intention. “I realise that my tweet was ill-timed and insensitive in view of our country facing a medical emergency and fighting an unseen enemy. I apologise to all whose sentiments were hurt. Further, the limitation of a tweet, which has to be very short by its very nature, was also responsible that the whole narrative was not made out in plain language,” he said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/minorities-panel-chief-apologises-for-tweet/article31485937.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ensure ration is given to all: DRAA to CM||The Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyaan (DRAA) on Friday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal urging the government to ensure that ration is provided to all, in compliance with orders of the Delhi High Court. The DRAA also urged the government to devise off-line modes for those without ration cards, apart from the e-coupon system which is already in place, to ensure a larger coverage. “To enable and facilitate inclusion, the system must also be provided in an off-line mode...,” read the letter to the Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ensure-ration-is-given-to-all-draa-to-cm/article31485932.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||Two more policemen test positive||Two more policemen posted with the Delhi Police Crime Branch who allegedly visited a Nizamuddin centre here have tested positive for COVID-19, the police said on Friday. The policemen had visited the building for investigation purpose, they said. The police said around 15 Crime Branch staff who came in contact with one of the policemen have been advised home quarantine after he was tested positive for the virus. A case has been registered against Maulana Saad of the Nizamuddin headquarters of the centre under relevant sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act and IPC for allegedly violating government orders as regards the management of the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-more-policemen-test-positive/article31485935.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||Family courts to reopen to hear fresh divorce cases||The Delhi High Court has decided to reopen the family courts, which had stopped functioning during the lockdown, to hear fresh divorce matters and the cases where argument have been heard and judgment or order reserved. The cases in which arguments have already been heard and the order or judgment has been reserved, shall be given priority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/family-courts-to-reopen-to-hear-fresh-divorce-cases/article31485931.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||90 cases registered, over 2,600 people detained for defying lockdown norms in Delhi||Ninety cases were registered and 2,654 people detained in the Capital on Friday for violating government orders pertaining to the lockdown imposed to control COVID-19 spread, the police said. According to the data shared by the police, 90 cases have been registered under IPC Section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) till 5 pm.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/90-cases-registered-over-2600-people-detained-for-defying-lockdown-norms-in-delhi/article31485936.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Labour pain||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/labour-pain/article31485939.ece
02 May 2020||BHILWARA,||Bhilwara residents yearn for restoration of normalcy||Married to a textile trader, Alka Ladha, 40, who shifted from Chittorgarh to her matrimonial home in 2002, has spent the last 18 years taking care of her joint family as a homemaker. The lockdown enforced to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, followed by an “all-down curfew” in Bhilwara, has brought upheavals to her life that she had never anticipated. Neither has Ms. Ladha stepped out of her home for more than six weeks, nor have her two teenaged children asked for their favourite fast food or gadgets from the market. The sense of anxiety on being confined to home is visible on the faces of her daughter, Ridhima, 18, who returned from her coaching institute in Kota just in time, and Riyansh, 14, who now attends online lessons from his school. During the aggressive curfew imposed in the textile city, which had initially emerged as the worst-affected hotspot in Rajasthan, the Ladha family, residing in Sanjay Colony, had faced the difficulties of financial losses, paucity of essential items and disruption of education with equanimity. “This is a health emergency... It is our duty to assist the authorities in their attempt to break the chain of virus transmission,” Ms. Ladha told The Hindu . Supply of essentials The city with a 4-lakh population is served by the vans of Sahakari Upbhokta Bhandar, which make the rounds of the residential localities to supply milk, vegetables, groceries and other essentials. Working on the two fronts of identification of patients and containing the spread of novel coronavirus, the administration has extended the 11-day-long “all-down curfew” till the time that the nationwide lockdown’s restrictions are eased. With the residents expecting their lives to limp back to normal sooner rather than later, stories of grit, determination, compassion, philanthropic gestures and even help to the animals have emerged in the city, which has so far succeeded in preventing community transmission of the disease. Institutions and community groups have come forward to assist migrant workers and poor families with food rations and essentials. Yashdeep Bhalla, Station House Officer of the Kotwali police station, said while numerous social groups were regularly handing over food packets and dry ration kits to the police for distribution among the needy, he himself was going every evening to the nearby Smriti Van to feed the garden’s ducks and fish. “Birds and animals are hungry these days. I thought I should play a part in their conservation,” he remarked. Fabric hub Known as India’s largest manufacturer of fabric, Bhilwara’s textile industry — worth about Rs. 35,000 crore, including exports — has come to a standstill. Chartered Accountant Gautam Gagrani said the industry has faced tremendous losses and the balance sheets of most of the units had not been cleared, while the GST returns were yet to be filed. “It is still not clear how will they survive and restart their production. There is no demand even in the global market.” ‘Govt. support must’ Giriraj Ajmera, owner of Jai Shiv Syncotex, said since the business and export channels were not going to open soon, the normalcy in production could not be restored without the government’s support in the form of interest subsidy and labour wages through the Employees’ State Insurance funds. Mr. Ajmera said his firm’s clients were mostly in Afghanistan, from where no orders had been received during the lockdown despite the Id-ul-Fitr festivities approaching fast. The Mewar Chamber of Commerce & Industry has demanded that Bhilwara district be reclassified as green zone from red zone, as only 35 COVID-19 positive cases had been detected here so far, and permission granted to restart over 400 micro, small and medium enterprises. The chamber’s secretary-general R.K. Jain said the continued closure of units would risk MSME loans worth Rs. 12,000 crore becoming non-performing assets for the banks. As the administration gears up to face the challenge of more than 10,000 migrant labourers returning home from other States, the rapid response teams of the health department have mobilised resources for screening the returnees and sending them to quarantine facilities if infection is suspected. ‘Ruthless containment’ Having so far controlled the pandemic through massive contact tracing and screening of the district’s entire population of 24 lakh inhabitants, making it a model of “ruthless containment” of the virus, the health authorities here are determined to not let their guard down.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bhilwara-residents-yearn-for-restoration-of-normalcy/article31485927.ece
02 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||‘Return of migrants by buses, trains only’||More and more Odia people returning from other States are testing positive for COVID-19, even as the State government on Friday said it was making all efforts to facilitate their return by buses and special trains during the coming weeks. The total number of COVID-19 cases increased to 149 with detection of seven new cases in different districts of the State on Friday. Of the seven news cases, while two youths found positive in Bolangir district had returned from Tamil Nadu, the four in Jajpur district and one in Balasore district had West Bengal links. Out of the total 149 cases, 93 were undergoing treatment at exclusive COVID hospitals. While only one patient has died so far, the number of persons recovered increased to 55 on Friday with discharge of 14 persons during the past 24 hours, officials said. Announcing the government’s strategy for return of Odia people from outside the State, Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy sought the cooperation of officials and people’s representatives at gram panchayats and urban local bodies to ensure quarantine and testing of all the returnees upon their arrival. Mr. Tripathy said that Odia workers, students, professionals and patients stranded in other State will be allowed to return by buses and special trains only. While some people have started returning from other States by buses, one special train each was scheduled to leave for Odisha from Kerala and Gujarat on Friday night, he added.  Eleven check points While the buses bringing people will be allowed to enter Odisha at 11 designated check points, the special trains coming from outside the State would be allowed to stop at particular stations on their respective routes from where the returnees would be taken by buses to their respective destinations. All returnees will be stamped with indelible ink for quarantine by the health authorities. All the returnees should have their registration done through the website which the State government had launched on March 24 before they board the buses or trains for returning to Odisha, said Mr. Tripathy. He further said that health screening of those who would come by trains would be done by the local authorities before they board the train and the health screening of those coming by buses would be done at the camps set up at the entry points on the State boarder. All the returnees would be put on quarantine at the facilities created by the government at the panchayat or urban body levels as well as their homes. Screening and testing of samples would be carried out at the community level, said Mr. Tripathy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/return-of-migrants-by-buses-trains-only/article31485922.ece
02 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Aligarh records second COVID-19 death||One COVID-19 person died in Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital because of comorbid conditions on Friday morning. “The 15-year-old girl was brought to the hospital from Etah on April 28. She was suffering from an advanced stage of tuberculosis. She was admitted to the isolation ward and her COVID-19 test was conducted, which came positive. She passed away on Friday during treatment,” said Prof. Shahid Siddiqui, Principal of JNMCH. This is the second COVID-19-related death in Aligarh. Prof. Siddiqui said the JNMCH continued to provide patient care to non-COVID-19 emergency cases in its trauma and emergency section, fever clinic and the obstetrics and gynaecology section. Meanwhile, AMU students who hail from different districts of Uttar Pradesh started vacating their hostels on Friday. According to official sources, around 1,000 students left for their homes. “Thirty-nine buses carrying 30-35 students each left the campus on Friday,” said Syed Ali Nawaz Zaidi, Deputy Proctor of AMU. “The buses are 50 seaters but students were asked to follow the norms of social distancing,” he added. “There are around 1,800 students in AMU who belong to different districts of U.P. The district administration has provided us buses and students are making use of the opportunity,” said Mohd Wasim Ali, Proctor of AMU. He said students were being screened before boarding the buses and a certificate was given to them by the university doctors. He said the movement was happening as per the advisory issued by the Registrar on Thursday. ‘No compulsion’ “There is no compulsion on students to leave the campus but the university may not be able to provide transport if they decide to leave the campus at a later date,” he added. One more death was reported from Moradabad as a 74-year-old, who was tested positive, passed away during treatment in Delhi, a health department official said. With this, the toll in Moradabad because of COVID-19 has reached four. The district has 61 active COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/aligarh-records-second-covid-19-death/article31485918.ece
02 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Most of west U.P. in red or orange zone||Almost the whole of western Uttar Pradesh is in either red or orange zone in the list released by the Union Health Ministry on Friday. Only Hathras has made it to the green zone. Both Aligarh and Mathura, its neighbouring districts, have been put in the red zone. The other districts in the red zone from the region include Agra, Firozabad, Bulandshahr, Meerut, Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bijnor, Amroha, Rampur and Moradabad. Out of these, Agra has the most cases. While Gautam Buddh Nagar with 155 positive cases continues to be in the red zone, Ghaziabad, with 71 positive cases, has now been put in the orange zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/most-of-west-up-in-red-or-orange-zone/article31485919.ece
02 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||SGPC chief questions Nanded numbers||Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Gobind Singh Longowal on Friday demanded a probe into the large number of Nanded Sikh pilgrims testing positive for COVID-19 on their return to Punjab, expressing the apprehension that they probably contracted the virus during the travel back home in State buses. He claimed that all pilgrims were tested thrice during their month-long stay in Nanded and never showed any signs of illness. ‘Tests clear in Nanded’ Referring to a video of Sant Baba Balwinder Singh Ji Gurudwara Langar Sahib Nanded on Facebook, Mr. Longowal, speaking to The Hindu over phone, said the priest had claimed that the Sikh pilgrims during their stay in the gurdwara were tested thrice, but were found healthy. Raising questions over the “discrepancy” in the testing results, the SGPC chief said it was a matter of investigation. “It seems that the pilgrims seemingly contracted the virus during their stay at Indore and other places during the journey. This also needs to be investigated,” Mr. Longowal said, adding that bringing back the devotees by air could have prevented the infection. As many as 3,525 pilgrims from Nanded (Maharashtra) and 153 students from Rajasthan’s Kota have returned to Punjab over the past four days. Besides, 3,085 labourers were also received at the Fazilka-Rajasthan border. Of those who have returned from Nanded, test reports were received for 577 persons till April 30 and 20% tested positive. Of the 105 fresh cases reported in the State on Thursday, 98 involved those from outside. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has attributed the infections in the State to three sources – Non-Resident Indians, religious congregation at Nizamuddin and Nanded returnees. The large-scale infection of Nanded returnees has also led to fears of their vilification on the lines of those who participated in a religious congregation at Delhi’s Nizamuddin. Making an appeal to the masses to show restraint, Mr. Longowal has called upon them to treat the pilgrims as their “own people”. ‘Don’t listen to rumours’ Baba Balwinder has also appealed to the people not to pay heed to rumours on social media. In his Facebook message, Baba Balwinder asked how the sevadars and the priests were healthy when the Sikh pilgrims were infected in such large numbers. He said thermal screening of the pilgrims was carried out everyday during their stay in Nanded. Mr. Longowal has also offered to arrange for the stay of the Sikh pilgrims in gurdwaras, saying he was getting calls from them complaining about the poor arrangements in the Deras.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sgpc-chief-questions-nanded-numbers/article31485924.ece
02 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Fuel cess hike anti-people, says Hooda||Leader of the Opposition and former Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Friday termed “anti-people” the decision of the Haryana government to increase the cess on petrol and diesel; fees on vegetables, fruits and bus fares. He said the decisions were contrary to the expectations of the people and the suggestions of the Opposition. Mr. Hooda said he had suggested to the government that immediate relief should be provided from electricity bills, loan instalments, rents, taxes and inflation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/fuel-cess-hike-anti-people-says-hooda/article31485921.ece
02 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Distancing becomes a distant issue in Prayagraj||A video emerged on Friday showing migrant workers bunched together closely while an official distributes bananas to them in Prayagraj district. The short clip caused outrage on social media as distancing norms were ignored while handing out the fruits to the migrant workers. After many social media users criticised the method of feeding the migrants, the district administration clarified that it was not a quarantine centre. “It’s CAV College where immigrants from M.P. are taking rest during their transit,” the district administration said. The administration said bananas were being distributed among the migrant workers but when “this chaos started” the distribution was stopped immediately. “Later it was distributed in the buses when they all sat on their seats,” said the Prayagraj administration. Prayagraj, along with Jhansi, is the exchange point for migrants returning from Madhya Pradesh and those going back home in that State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/distancing-becomes-a-distant-issue-in-prayagraj/article31485920.ece
02 May 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. revenue collection nosedives||The Uttar Pradesh government collected only 1.2 % of its targeted revenue in the Excise Department for April due to the lockdown. The collection in the Stamp and Registration Department was even lower, at just 0.9% of the target. While the government had set a goal of Rs. 3,560 crore in the Excise Department, it could achieve only Rs. 41.96 crore, a mere 1.2%. Sharing the details with The Hindu , Finance Minister Suresh Khanna said in a statement that only Rs. 15.60 crore out of the targetted Rs. 1,686 crore could be achieved in April in Stamp & Registration Department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-revenue-collection-nosedives/article31485925.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||‘COVID-19 has made our approach to issues of PwD more hands-on’||Activists and groups dealing with differently abled persons have been appreciative of the sensitivity with which Kausar Hilaly , Assam’s Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities, has approached issues related to those with special needs. One of the outcomes is a standard operation procedure for providing emergency support to PwD. What measures have your office taken to address the issues of PwD since the lockdown began? COVID-19 has shifted the role and responsibility of the State Commissioner from that of a passive regulatory agency to one that requires a hands-on approach. The biggest challenge was dissemination of information in an accessible format for PwD. The ASDMA was persuaded into developing short videos in Assamese with sign language for the hearing impaired and uploading those on digital platforms. Similarly, material was printed in Braille and distributed for the visually impaired. The Chief Minister’s Office and media houses have accepted our request for providing information in sign language. Among other challenges was the supply of essential goods and medicines to PwD and facilitating the mobility of their caregivers. The Deputy Commissioners were contacted directly whenever the need arose and steps taken in double-quick time. How did the SOP for PwD in COVID-19 context come about? I had written a letter to the ASDMA Chief Executive Officer on April 18 seeking issue of directions to the DCs to provide essential goods and services to PwD, by including them in the category of vulnerable persons. I emphasised that disaster reduction and mitigation based on disability inclusion is the need of the hour and sought taking of steps to ensure the PwD against hunger. The ASDMA notified the SOP on April 24. It is a comprehensive document covering most of the issues escalated to the ASDMA and I understand that no other State has issued any similar notification. The SOP has been printed in Braille and is being uploaded on the Social Welfare Department’s website. Wide publicity is being given so that PwD can approach the authorities for services notified. How does your office address the issues of PwD? The PwD comprise 1.54% of Assam’s total population of 3.11 crore (Census 2011). In normal circumstances, I am not required to coordinate with PwD directly. Those seeking redress of grievances approach me either personally or email their petitions. I take a call on how the petition is to be processed based on the contents. Has there been any initiative for financial aid to PwD affected by the pandemic? I have been informed that all disability pensions till March 31, 2020, were released by the Directorate of Social Welfare to the beneficiaries. Did Assam factor in the needs of PwD from the very outset when responding to the pandemic? The fact that authorities responded quickly to any SOS from PwD, as conveyed through my office,does go to show that the stakeholders are sensitive to their needs in the State.  The SOP is a comprehensive document covering most of the issues escalated to the ASDMA||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-has-made-our-approach-to-issues-of-pwd-more-hands-on/article31485929.ece
02 May 2020||Washington,||Trump points finger at China laboratory||U.S. President Donald Trump has said he has seen evidence the new coronavirus originated in a Chinese lab, an assertion that threatened on Friday to turn a health emergency into a diplomatic crisis The statement was immediately undermined by intelligence officials and top diplomat Mike Pompeo, who said: “We don’t know precisely where it began.” But the claim — already denied by Beijing — could stir tensions even as the World Health Organization (WHO) asks to be allowed to take part in a Chinese investigation into the “animal origins” of the pandemic. The lockdowns that have frozen the global economy for weeks continued to ease, with South Africa and Austria allowing some businesses to reopen from Friday, joining other parts of Europe and some U.S. States that have begun to emerge in the last few days. Death rates slow down While death rates slowed in most of Europe, the global toll from the pandemic has now topped 2,30,000. Scientists believe the killer virus jumped from animals to humans, emerging in China late last year, possibly from a market in Wuhan selling exotic animals for meat. But speculation has swirled about a top-secret lab, and seems to have been taken up by the U.S. President. Asked if he had seen anything to make him think the Wuhan Institute of Virology was the source of the outbreak, Mr. Trump replied: “Yes, I have.” But he refused to give details and Secretary of State Pompeo indicated he had not seen definitive evidence. Germany has accelerated plans to start lifting its lockdown, preparing to ease curbs on public life and reopen religious institutions, museums and zoos. Neighbouring Austria followed suit on Friday with people allowed to go out again freely and gather as long as the group does not exceed 10 people — or 30 for funerals. Italy to reopen airports Italy, once the world centre of the outbreak, said it was hoping to reopen two major airports next week but would move slowly. And British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, recovering from COVID-19, said his country — which has the world’s third-highest death toll, behind the U.S. and Italy — would publish a roadmap next week on easing restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-points-finger-at-china-laboratory/article31485598.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||‘There should be a common regional strategy in the fight against COVID-19 ’||In an interview with The Hindu , Maldivian Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid spoke of a range of issues from the country’s fight against COVID-19 to regional collaboration. Edited excerpts: How is the Maldives dealing with COVID-19? As of 3 p.m. on May 1, we have 468 confirmed positive cases. This includes 145 Maldivians and 323 foreigners. They are from Bangladesh, India, Italy, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal and the U.K. Unfortunately, there has been one death, of an 83-year-old woman. We saw the highest number of confirmed cases recorded — 107 — in a single day on April 30. The government is isolating all positive cases in dedicated isolation facilities and taking their direct contacts into quarantine. Elderly persons are being kept in the dedicated hospital facilities in Malé. Contact tracing is done extensively. You have a National Task Force on COVID-19 chaired by the President. What is its strategy? All our key stakeholders have worked together since the beginning of the first reports [of COVID-19] from late January. The challenge has always been that in the event of a major breakout, our health services would be stretched immensely. The shortage of healthcare professionals is felt more acutely in such a crisis. We made very difficult decisions early on. We temporarily suspended direct travel from China on February 4, 2020. As you know, China is our biggest source market for tourism, and this was in the middle of the peak season. The virus was first reported in one of the atolls, and has now reached Male. How are you arresting the spread? We had managed to prevent community spread for over a month, until we found the first positive case in Malé city on April 15. Since then, the rate of spread has escalated significantly. In the past 15 days alone, 448 cases have been confirmed. We are now dealing with containing the spread of the virus in our largest population centre. Malé city has been under lockdown since April 15. This is, as you can imagine, a challenging situation. This city is one of the most congested areas in the world, with a large population of migrant workers as well. The Maldives’s primary revenue-earning tourism sector is affected very badly. What are the options you are looking at to revive your economy? Our economy is heavily dependent on tourism. And the disruption in global travel and connectivity has resulted in the closure of the entire industry. And falling demand, and resulting decline in price for fish globally, has impacted the fisheries sector, which is our second largest economic sector. The Maldives imports nearly everything, from basic staple food, to luxury goods, to everything consumed in the tourist resorts. We pay for these imports from hard currency earned from tourism and fish exports. Last year, we projected a rise of 8% in tourist revenues. Revenue generated by the tourism industry accounts for over 70% of the country’s GDP. Now, tourist arrivals are expected to decline by 50%. The sharp reduction in tourist arrivals this year and shutting down of the tourism industry have brought a cash flow crisis to the government. The government has taken a number of measures, including reducing expenditure and introducing a financial stimulus package with $161.9 million to prevent the closing down of local businesses. How does the Maldives view the prospect for regional collaboration? The Maldives is, and has always been a firm believer of strong regional cooperation, especially in the face of adversity, such as the one we are facing now. A common regional strategy must create space for closer cooperation among the health emergency agencies to ensure that the countries in SAARC have unhindered exchange of information. Secondly, because the economic impact of this pandemic on our region will be immense, to formulate an economic relief package. Third, to start discussing a long-term recovery plan for the region. The Maldives has been working on restructuring its external debt. How does COVD-19 impact your engagement with donors? The Maldives has been very fortunate in its friendships, as we have a number of trusted partners and friends. India is one such partner and friend. On debt, the Government has set in place a debt sustainability strategy since early 2019, and has been pursuing its borrowing, revenue generating, and expenditure policies based on the strategy. However, the unexpected and sharp decline in government revenue will impact the previous forecasts and the current debt sustainability strategy, and the Finance Ministry will be making the necessary adjustments as required. For the full interview, log on to www.thehindu.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/there-should-be-a-common-regional-strategy-in-the-fight-against-covid-19/article31485593.ece
02 May 2020||COLOMBO,||Gotabaya rules out reconvening dissolved Sri Lankan Parliament||Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa on Friday ruled out reconvening the dissolved Parliament using his discretionary powers. In a letter signed by his secretary — released to the media on Friday — the President said the Opposition parties “do not believe in holding elections and instead engage in a narrow political agenda at a crucial time when the government is striving to safeguard public health, social security and welfare”. The letter comes days after leaders of major political parties in Opposition wrote to President Rajapaksa, urging him to reconvene Parliament that he dissolved on March 2, using his discretionary powers, to enhance the country’s COVID-19 response by passing “necessary laws”. Further, they pledged “responsible cooperation”, assuring the President that they would not draw salaries or thwart any “legitimate actions” of the government. However, President Rajapaksa said the requirement to abide by Article 70 (7) of Sri Lanka’s Constitution didn’t arise. He was referring to the article evoked by the Opposition that says that if “the President is satisfied that an emergency has arisen of such a nature that an earlier meeting of Parliament is necessary”, he may summon the dissolved legislature by proclamation. Polls postponed Sri Lanka’s Election Commission postponed the general elections — earlier scheduled for April 25 — to June 20 in the wake of COVID-19, but many Opposition parties have objected to the new date, citing likely public health risks. Some have also pointed to the risk of an “imminent constitutional crisis” posed by the new poll date, as the Constitution requires Parliament to be summoned not later than three months after the proclamation dissolving the House [March 2]. President Rajapaksa has earlier said the poll date was the prerogative of the Election Commission. Sri Lanka reported a total of 671 cases as of Friday. The country saw a spike in the number of cases after over 200 Navy personnel tested positive last week. Sri Lanka has been in near-total lockdown since March 20, with government-imposed curfews in high-risk districts, including Colombo that has the most number of cases. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa has invited all MPs of the last Parliament for a meeting at Temple Trees, his official residence, on Monday. PM Rajapaksa earlier convened a party leaders’ meeting to discuss Sri Lanka’s response to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/gotabaya-rules-out-reconvening-dissolved-sri-lankan-parliament/article31485594.ece
02 May 2020||Kabul,||Ghani, Abdullah reach ‘tentative deal’||A bitter feud between Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and his rival Abdullah Abdullah appeared closer to resolution on Friday after Mr. Abdullah said the two men had moved forward in talks. “We have made progress in negotiations & reached tentative agreement on a range of principles. Work on details is underway to finalize the agreement,” Mr. Abdullah said on Twitter. The dispute has proved a huge distraction for Afghanistan at a terrible time, with the coronavirus crisis worsening daily and the Taliban stepping up attacks despite a deal they signed with the U.S. in February. “We hope to finalize the political agreement at the earliest so that we can pay undivided attention to tackling COVID-19 pandemic, ensuring a just, dignified & lasting peace, & confronting the security & economic challenges in a spirit of national unity & solidarity,” Mr. Abdullah tweeted. Mr. Ghani’s office did not immediately comment. Speaking on condition of anonymity, an Afghan official said Mr. Abdullah has made a multi-pronged proposal to Mr. Ghani. The offer would see Mr. Abdullah appointed to lead eventual peace talks with the Taliban while also getting a 50-% share of the government including several high-ranking positions for his allies. Mr. Abdullah would also gain the title of “executive Prime Minister”, the official said, stressing that Mr. Ghani has not accepted the proposal. On Thursday, Mr. Ghani’s second Vice-President, Sarwar Danish, confirmed that Mr. Abdullah would be leading the peace council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ghani-abdullah-reach-tentative-deal/article31485588.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Wages, rights, justice||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/wages-rights-justice/article31485587.ece
02 May 2020||Tokyo,||Japan to extend emergency||Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe said Friday the government would plan for an approximately month-long extension of a state of emergency declared over the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Abe put in place an initial month-long state of emergency for seven regions on April 7, later expanding it to cover the entire country. But with the measures due to expire on May 6, Mr. Abe said he had instructed his minister for the virus outbreak Yasutoshi Nishimura to plan for an extension. Japan has seen nearly 14,300 infections and 432 deaths so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/japan-to-extend-emergency/article31485591.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||PM meets HM, FM, Rail Min to discuss post lockdown strategy||Ahead of the scheduled end of the extended nationwide lockdown, PM Narendra Modi on Friday met key Ministers, including Home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, apparently to discuss an exit strategy. Sources said the PM has been holding discussions on various post-lockdown aspects.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pm-meets-hm-fm-rail-min-to-discuss-post-lockdown-strategy/article31485628.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||The mystery of the low COVID-19 numbers||On March 17, West Bengal recorded its first case of COVID-19 when an 18-year-old student, who had returned from London, tested positive for the virus. The student had been admitted to the Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General Hospital, located about a kilometre away from the Eastern Metropolitan bypass in Kolkata. Despite being thrust into the limelight, the primary referral hospital for COVID-19 cases remained quiet. People continued to walk in; the guards did not stop anyone. They did not even object to a television crew that headed to the building later that night. The next morning, however, there was frenetic activity at Nabanna, which houses the State Secretariat, when it became public knowledge that the student was the son of a senior official in the State Home Department. The student had been in contact with his parents and his driver after his return to India on March 15. His mother had attended office till March 17 and met senior officials, including the Home Secretary of West Bengal. To make matters worse, reports said that the student had delayed his visit to a testing centre and had visited a shopping mall in the city, despite government instructions that those returning from abroad must remain in quarantine for 14 days. Several officials were furious about this serious and dangerous lapse of judgment. Changing bulletins Nearly a week later, on March 23, West Bengal recorded its first COVID-19-related death when a 57-year-old succumbed to the virus. The case was a matter of concern as it was unclear where the man, a resident of Dum Dum and an employee of the Eastern Railways, had contracted the virus. His family denied Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s statement that he had travelled abroad. The confusion over his travel history also reflected in the Heath Department’s official bulletin: it simply did not say anything about his travel history. In fact, from that day onwards, the Health Department, in its bulletins on COVID-19, stopped carrying any details about the travel histories of the infected and dead. The daily bulletin, which was first released as early as February, was initially an important tool for keeping the people informed. However, as cases grew in the State, the bulletins were constantly altered — sometimes to omit certain details and at other times to add details. This not only caused confusion and panic, but also raised eyebrows about the government’s handling of the crisis. This was surprising given how Banerjee appeared to be making all the right moves in the beginning of the outbreak. Between the time of the first reported COVID-19 case and the first COVID-19-related death in West Bengal, the government issued dozens of notifications and orders. The most significant one was issued on March 22. Titled ‘Complete Safety Restriction’, it announced a complete lockdown in West Bengal from 5 p.m. on March 23, a day before Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown. A meeting of major political parties was called to discuss ways of fighting the deadly virus. The Chief Minister demanded special packages from the Centre and visited markets and hospitals. An image circulating on social media at the time showed her drawing circles on the road in front of a shop to demonstrate to people how to practise physical distancing. Regular meetings with senior health and district officials were broadcast live on local television news channels. The State government announced a Rs. 200 crore fund and urged people to donate to the State Emergency Relief Fund that had been set up to contain the crisis. Quarantine centres were set up in every district. A separate COVID-19 hospital was identified and made functional. The police appeared to be enforcing the lockdown strictly by arresting hundreds of violators in Kolkata alone. Setting up a task force But in the last few days of March, it became clear that the virus had spread to different parts of the State: a resident of Kalimpong in North Bengal died, several in Howrah succumbed to the infection, and Purba Medinipur and Nadia districts also registered cases. Between March 31 and April 2, the death toll jumped from two to seven. Those who had died had no confirmed travel history outside the country. On April 2, a committee of doctors engaged by the State government as a Special Task Force against COVID-19 met at the State Secretariat and announced that the death toll had increased to seven. However, within an hour, the government revised the number. Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said that the death toll was not seven but three, as four people who had died were admitted with “co-morbidities”. On April 3, the West Bengal government issued a notification announcing that an expert committee would be set up for “conducting audit of the suspected deaths due to COVID-19”. The committee’s task was to audit all those people who had died after testing positive for the virus and examine “whether they died of the viral infection or co-morbidities”. The two terms, ‘audit committee’ and ‘co-morbidities’, came to dominate the discourse on the pandemic in West Bengal over the next few weeks. More and more reports of COVID-19-positive patients dying were published in the media, but the official death count remained low. This was because the audit committee was busy examining each and every case. The figures were updated only with its approval. Journalists, doctors and Central teams began raising questions about the committee’s method in arriving at the findings. The bulletins caused more suspicion about the accuracy of the numbers. On April 2 and 3, the government did not release the official bulletin. The April 4 bulletin had no column on COVID-19-related deaths. This continued for a couple of days until April 7, when the government finally re-introduced the column specifying how many had died in West Bengal of SARS-CoV-2. From bad to worse Unlike most places in the country, the West Bengal government relaxed lockdown-related restrictions. It allowed sweet shops and flower markets to remain open, apparently to give people some relief. It issued exemptions in labour-intensive sectors such as tea and jute. These were not isolated instances but part of the government’s stated policy of having a “lockdown with a human face”. Towards the end of April, Banerjee announced that tea stalls and local paan shops would be kept open in safer areas of the State. Even buses were allowed to ply in the eight districts of the State which had not recorded COVID-19 cases yet. Despite her advocating physical distancing, the scenes from the markets of Kolkata and Howrah presented a worrying picture. Banerjee announced that markets and shops selling essential commodities would remain open. People thronged the markets daily to stock up on groceries and other essential goods. The government struggled to implement its stated policy, while also implementing the lockdown. The police was accused of engaging in excesses in their attempts to keep people from congregating. On March 27, when Banerjee chided the police, the results were swift. In the next 24 hours, the number of people prosecuted for violating the lockdown in Kolkata fell to 182 from 453. The nightmare of trying to enforce physical distancing got worse on March 25 when thousands of people stranded due to the nationwide lockdown packed into Howrah Station. Banerjee claimed that the government had arranged to feed about 2 lakh migrants from other States, in 711 camps. She also wrote to 18 Chief Ministers urging them to provide essentials to the migrants from West Bengal stuck in their respective States. Even as the situation went from bad to worse, attempts continued to stonewall questions from the media on the location of hotspots in the State. Sinha said on April 4, “Everyone does not need to know everything.  We are putting information which people need to know”. Instead of announcing the total number of infections, for instance, the government simply published the number of active cases. This number excluded the number of recoveries and deaths. As on April 30, the active cases in the State stood at 572, while 139 COVID-19 patients have been discharged after treatment.   Testing problems While COVID-19 cases emerged in many districts in south Bengal, and in a few districts in north Bengal, Howrah and Kolkata especially posed a challenge. According to the 2011 Census, about 31% of the total population in Kolkata resides in urban slums. The administration struggled to deal with the large crowds in front of ration shops in urban slums. It was in the slums that the first rapid antibody tests were conducted  on April 21. Of the 14 samples collected, two people tested positive. Official records show that testing started as early as March 3, almost two weeks before the first case was detected. The National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases (NICED), a facility of the Indian Council of Medical Research, was the only testing facility in the first few days of the outbreak. NICED provided training to other testing centres of the State, particularly the medical colleges and hospitals. But until April 15, one and a half months after testing started, the fourth most populous State in the country was struggling to conduct 400 tests on a daily basis. Initially the State government said it did not have enough testing kits and urged the Centre to provide more kits. Officials of the NICED denied any shortage of kits, however, and said that the samples reaching them had reduced significantly. Their statement indicated that the State preferred its own medical colleges to the Central government institution. The State Health Department also alleged that tests conducted using the RT-PCR testing kits provided by ICMR-NICED were proving to be non-conclusive. Every sample had to be tested twice or thrice, it said, which was causing delays. “We received instructions from the ICMR not to distribute the faulty kits. The kits have lost their activity due to problems in storage level at the medical college level or during transportation,” NICED director Shanta Dutta said.  This development triggered a major controversy with the Trinamool Congress accusing the Centre of not providing even the most basic resources to fight the pandemic. By the end of April, the State began testing at 14 facilities. It tested 2,000 samples a day. Yet, with over 16,500 samples tested by the end of April, West Bengal still ranked the lowest among the bigger States in terms of testing. It was testing 183 per million of the population, whereas the national average was  613.   Centre-State differences The NICED issue was not the only one that revealed the differences between the State and Centre. The Centre’s decision to send two inter-ministerial central teams (IMCTs) triggered a public spat between the West Bengal government and the Centre. Banerjee made it very clear that she was was unhappy about the IMCTs’ visit and sent a strongly worded letter to Modi saying “such unilateral action on the part of the Central Government is not desirable at all”. The Chief Secretary said that the Central teams had arrived in the State without any consultation with the State government and would therefore not be allowed to tour West Bengal. However, the State government softened its stand after receiving a letter from the Union Home Secretary, which said that the Central teams “have been specifically restrained from making any visits” which amount to “obstructing the implementation of the orders issued by the Central government under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and equally binding directions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court”. For the next few days the IMCTs raised questions on almost all aspects of COVID-19 management in the State, from the number of ventilators in hospitals, quarantine facilities, delays in test reports, and the use of personal protective equipment for medical staff. Letters addressed to the Chief Secretary by the IMCTs stationed in the city and north Bengal were made public, and dominated the headlines for several days. Meanwhile, while the Central teams were visiting the State, the Chief Minister took to the streets once again. This time, she did not distribute masks or speak to the people directly; instead, she addressed them via a microphone while being seated inside a police vehicle. She appealed to the people to remain inside their homes during the lockdown. For several days, Banerjee went around different areas appealing to people to respect the lockdown. On April 24, the IMCTs sought to know details of the procedure which the audit committee was following to announce COVID-19 deaths. On the same day, the State government shared for the first time the total number of deaths related to COVID-19 in the State. It said that the audit committee had examined 57 deaths and found that 18 were related to the virus; the rest were due to severe co-morbidities. On April 30, the State government announced that since the outbreak of the pandemic, 105 persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 in West Bengal had died. Of these, 33 deaths had died of COVID-19 and 72 had died of co-morbidities. Interestingly, this revelation came a day after Banerjee said that it was the Health Department’s decision to set up the audit committee and that she had nothing to do with it. Banerjee holds the health portfolio in the government. Virus infects healthcare workers While the State and Centre were busy writing letters to each other, healthcare providers at State-run hospitals were getting infected at a rapid pace. By the end of April, more than 20 healthcare staff, including at the Medical College, Kolkata, one of the oldest medical colleges in the country, had tested positive. A doctor at the hospital said N95 masks and personal protective equipment available were not enough; that they were available only for those who had the highest risk of getting infected. This endangered the lives of medical professionals, he said. The situation was similar in other medical college and hospitals of the State. Speaking on condition of anonymity, the doctor cited an instance that occurred on April 8 to illustrate how the government was not taking the situation seriously. A pregnant woman with COVID-19 symptoms was brought to the gynaecology department. She was not shifted to the COVID-19 facility and came in contact with doctors and health workers of three consecutive shifts. The doctor, who was working at the emergency department, later showed symptoms of the disease and was placed under quarantine. Like many of his colleagues, he stood in queue, gave his samples and waited for the reports.        On April 26, a senior health official of the West Bengal government died. The news sent shockwaves across the health sector. The Calcutta High Court, which is also hearing a matter on the spread of COVID-19, wanted to know whether enough pieces of personal protective equipment were available for frontline health workers. Highlighting the fact that more and more healthcare workers are testing positive for the virus in the State, the West Bengal Doctors Forum has emphasised the need for intensive testing for healthcare professionals. At the Medical College, Kolkata, a doctor heaved a sigh of relief after testing negative for the virus. “My test results are negative, but my colleagues and friends are testing positive. Even today a postgraduate trainee at the hospital has tested positive. I don’t know what the future holds for us,” he said. ‘Clerical mistakes’, data updates The West Bengal government has not only been criticised for allegedly hiding data and for its low testing rate. In the last week of April, a 70-year-old man died after being readmitted to a State-run health facility in Kolkata. The hospital had initially released him saying he had tested negative for the virus. A day after he was released, it asked him to get readmitted. The hospital said he was COVID-19 positive and that he had been released by mistake. While the government did not comment on this case, the Chief Minister said “minor clerical mistakes” should not be highlighted. It was only in the last week of April that the State government started sharing more information about the spread of the outbreak. It released the list of containment zones in the State (444 on April 30). Almost 60% of these containment zones (264) are in Kolkata, followed by 72 in Howrah and 70 in the adjoining district of North 24 Parganas. West Bengal has contested the Centre’s May 1 list that shows 10 districts of the State being in the ‘red zone’. It insists that only four districts should be included in the category. Communication from the State to the Centre revealed that on April 30, West Bengal had 931 COVID-19 infections. With 489 cases, Kolkata alone accounted for over 52 % off all infections in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-mystery-of-the-low-covid-19-numbers/article31485585.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s about food, nutrition and livelihood security||The current national lockdown to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the problems of food, nutrition and livelihood security confronting a large number of rural people, in particular, migrants to cities. While some measures have been announced, such as provision of additional rice or wheat, some pulses and oil free of cost, as well as Rs. 1,000 cash for the purchase of other essential commodities through the Public Distribution System (PDS), we need to understand the different dimensions of food security in a holistic manner in order to address this problem in its totality. The first is the availability of food in the market, and this is seen as a function of production. Fortunately, thanks to the Green Revolution, today we have enough food in the market and in government godowns. This is a great accomplishment by Indian farmers who converted a “ship to mouth” situation to a “right to food” commitment. Yet we cannot take farmers’ contributions in terms of sustaining production for granted. While some special exemptions have been given to the agricultural sector, farmers are confronted at the moment with labour shortages, many of the inputs, including seeds, are expensive or unavailable, marketing arrangements including supply chains are not fully functional, pricing is not remunerative, and public procurement is also not adequate. There is no room for complacency, as in the absence of demand, the lack of storage or value addition facilities, especially for perishable commodities, we do not yet know exactly what the impact of the current pandemic will be on the kharif sowing and food availability in the future. Widen the food basket The second dimension is the access to food, which is a function of purchasing power, as unless you are a farmer and grow your own food, others have to buy it. Fortunately, the government, through the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and the PDS, has assured some additional food to every individual during this crisis. This should be further strengthened and the food basket widened by including millets, pulses and oil. Steps should also be taken to avoid hidden hunger caused by the deficiency of micronutrients in the diet. In light of the closure of schools and anganwadi centres, and the consequent disruptions in the provision of midday meals or other nutritional inputs, it is important to pay attention to the life cycle approach advocated in the NFSA, particularly the first thousand days in a child’s life, when the cognitive abilities of the child are shaped. We may otherwise see negative effects on nutritional security in the medium to longer term. Food security and access to nutritious, good quality food is also contingent on job security. Today, a lot of people employed both on farms and in the non-farm sector are without jobs. If job security is threatened, then so is food and nutrition security. We have to ensure people do not lose their jobs, and one way of doing this will be to ensure value addition to primary products. One example of such value addition is the Rice Biopark in Myanmar, wherein the straw, bran, and the entire biomass are utilised. This would of course mean some attention to and investment in new technologies that can contribute to biomass utilisation. The Amul model provides a good example from the dairy sector of improved incomes to milk producers through value addition. Similar attention needs to be given to the horticulture sector on a priority basis. Women farmers are at the forefront of horticulture and special attention needs to be given to both their technological and economic empowerment during this crisis. Work under MGNREGA A second pathway to livelihood security for small and marginal farmers and landless households, and women within them, is strengthening the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). The definition of a worker in MGNREGA has so far been applied only to unskilled, manual work, and not to skilled jobs in agriculture and allied activities. Given the lack of jobs and incomes during the COVID-19 crisis, it is imperative to expand the definition of work in MGNREGA to cover skilled work related to farmers and their farming activities. This is particularly important for women farmers and workers, who should not just be given tasks of carrying stones or digging mud. Apart from farming, they engage in a range of essential care tasks, including caring for children, the elderly and sick people. These tasks, often invisible, need to be recognised as work and supported with appropriate education, including on nutrition. Focus on non-food factors The third dimension of food security is absorption of food in the body or its utilisation, which is dependent importantly on sanitation, drinking water and other non-food factors, including public health services. Ensuring that these services are functional depends on the capacities of the local panchayats and their coordination with other local bodies. The lack of adequate clean water in particular has come to the fore in both rural areas and urban slums in the context of COVID-19, where one of the key measures for stopping transmission relates to frequent hand-washing. If we can ensure food availability, food access and food absorption, then we have a fairly robust system of food and nutrition security. All the above dimensions are, however, now threatened by the novel coronavirus, as discussed earlier. It is very critical to highlight the linkages between agriculture, nutrition and health. While the PDS may be able to meet calorie needs, the inability to harvest, transport and market perishable fruits and vegetables at remunerative prices during the current crisis, has not just deprived farmers of incomes and livelihoods, but consumers too are deprived of micronutrients in their diets. Farmers making losses, and agriculture moving from being job-led to jobless, raise questions about the sustainability of the production cycle. At the same time, this can have long-term consequences on nutrition and health security. India avoided what could have been a big famine in the 1960s through the help of technology and public policy, which actively worked with and supported farmers to achieve significant increases in yield. Today’s problems are not as daunting. Through a combination of farmers’ cooperation, technological upgrading and favourable public policies in procurement, pricing and distribution, we can deal with the fallouts of the pandemic. We hope that this pandemic will help recognise the contribution of our farmers. M.S. Swaminathan, eminent agricultural scientist, is Founder of the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation, Chennai. Nitya Rao is Professor, Gender and Development at the University of East Anglia, Norwich, U.K.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/its-about-food-nutrition-and-livelihood-security/article31485579.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Taiwan’s coronavirus protocol shows how it is done||The threat of emerging infectious diseases to global health and the economy, trade, and tourism has never abated. Pandemics can spread rapidly around the world because of the ease of international transportation. Among the most salient examples are the Spanish flu of 1918, the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) outbreak of 2003, and the H1N1 influenza of 2009. Intermittently, serious regional epidemics, such as the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) in 2012, Ebola in West Africa in 2014, and the Zika virus in Central and South America in 2015-16, have also reared their heads. Today, a novel form of pneumonia that first emerged in Wuhan, China, at the end of 2019 and has since been classified as coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has caused a global pandemic. As of April 8, 2020, World Health Organization (WHO) data shows that 1.35 million people had been confirmed as having the disease, with 79,235 deaths in 211 countries/areas/territories. Taiwan too has not been spared. Taiwan’s strategy In the 17 years since it was hit hard by the SARS outbreak, Taiwan has been in a state of constant readiness to the threat of emerging infectious disease. As a result, when information concerning a novel pneumonia outbreak was first confirmed on December 31, 2019, Taiwan began implementing onboard quarantine of direct flights from Wuhan that same day. On January 2, 2020, Taiwan established a response team for the disease and activated the Central Epidemic Command Center (CECC) on January 20 as a level 3 government entity, upgrading it to level 2 and level 1 on January 23 and February 27, respectively. The CECC is able to effectively integrate resources from various ministries and invest itself fully in the containment of the epidemic. As of April 9, Taiwan had tested a total of 42,315 persons showing 380 confirmed cases, of which 54 have been indigenous, 326 imported and five deaths; 80 people had been released from hospital after testing negative. Despite its proximity to China, Taiwan ranked 123 among 183 countries in terms of confirmed cases per million people. This has shown that Taiwan’s aggressive efforts to control the epidemic are working. Harnessing technology Disease knows no borders. In response to the threat of the COVID-19 epidemic, Taiwan has implemented dynamic plans concerning border quarantine measures, including onboard quarantine, fever screening, health declarations, and a 14-day home quarantine for passengers arriving from nations it has listed under the Level 3 Warning. Moreover, Taiwan has established an electronic system for entry quarantine, which allows passengers with a local mobile phone number to fill in health information using a mobile phone. A health declaration pass will then be sent to them as a text message. This is connected to the community care support management system, which allows government agencies to provide care services and medical assistance. The travel history of individuals is now stored on the National Health Insurance (NHI) card to alert physicians to possible cases and prevent community transmission. For those undergoing home quarantine or isolation, the government is working with telecom operators to allow GPS tracking of their locations. Quarantine offenders are subject to fines or mandatory placement according to relevant laws and regulations, so as to prevent transmission. Taiwan has also increased its laboratory testing capacity, expanded the scope of its surveillance and inspections based on trends of the COVID-19 epidemic, and retested people with higher risk who had already tested negative, including patients with symptoms of severe influenza, community cases with upper respiratory tract infections who were already being monitored, and cluster cases of upper respiratory tract infections, to identify suspected cases and perform treatment in isolation wards. Meanwhile, it has designated 50 regional hospitals and medical centres and 167 community hospitals and clinics to create a tiered system for testing. These hospitals and clinics are required to set up special wards or areas; in principle, COVID-19 patients are isolated and treated individually in these wards and areas to prevent nosocomial infections. Moreover, Taiwan has banned the export of surgical masks since January 24, requisitioned masks, and expanded domestic mask production to more effectively allocate masks. On February 6, Taiwan launched a name-based rationing system for mask purchases at NHI-contracted pharmacies and local public health agencies. It added an ordering system for masks on March 12. This allows people to order online and pick up masks at convenience stores. These measures have helped us achieve effective allocation of limited resources and meet health-care, epidemic prevention, household, and industrial needs. Global linking and beyond A crisis anywhere readily becomes a problem everywhere. Global health security requires the efforts of every person to ensure an optimal response to public health threats and challenges. Taiwan, though not a member of WHO, cannot stand alone and must be included in the fight against such threats and challenges. Taiwan has fulfilled its responsibilities as a global citizen and abided by the International Health Regulations 2005 (IHR 2005) in notifying WHO of confirmed COVID-19 cases. Moreover, Taiwan has communicated with other countries such as Japan, the Republic of Korea, Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, the United States, Canada, Italy, France, Switzerland, Germany, the United Kingdom, Belgium, and the Netherlands, as well as the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, to share information on confirmed cases, travel and contact histories of patients, and border control measures. Taiwan has uploaded the genetic sequence of COVID-19 to the GISAID Initiative, or the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID). Taiwan has worked with global partners to respond to the threat of COVID-19 to ensure that global health is not imperilled by a lack of communication and transparency. If it is indeed WHO’s mission to ensure the highest attainable standard of health for every person, then WHO needs Taiwan just as Taiwan needs WHO. Yet, Taiwan has long been excluded from WHO due to political considerations. This has been regrettable given all that Taiwan could share with the world thanks to its renowned public health experience, health system, the NHI, and ability to perform rapid testing as well as research and manufacture vaccines and drugs against COVID-19. We can also share our methods for analysing the virus. We hope that after this pandemic abates, WHO will truly understand that infectious diseases know no borders, and that no country should be excluded, lest it become a major gap in global health security. WHO should not neglect the contribution to global health security of any nation. We urge WHO and related parties to acknowledge Taiwan’s long-standing contributions to the international community in the areas of public health, disease prevention, and the human right to health, and to include Taiwan in WHO and its meetings, mechanisms, and activities. Taiwan will continue to work with the rest of the world to ensure that all enjoy the fundamental human right to health, as stipulated in the WHO Constitution. Echoing the mantra of the United Nations’ 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, no one should be left behind. Dr. Chen Shih-chung is Minister of Health and Welfare, Taiwan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/taiwans-coronavirus-protocol-shows-how-it-is-done/article31485581.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Ominous contraction||The latest data on core sector output is signalling that considerable economic pain lies ahead in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown that commenced on March 25. The provisional figures released by the Commerce Ministry show that production at all but one of the eight industries comprising the core sector shrank in March from a year earlier, resulting in the sharpest contraction in the index since the new series began in April 2012. That output contracted by as much as 6.5% in a month when most economic activities ground to a halt only in the last seven days, is a worrying augury. While output at petroleum refineries slid only by a marginal 0.5% as a bulk of the transportation sector was idled only in the last week of March, the 7.2% and 13% contractions in electricity and steel production, respectively, reflect the underlying stress in the economy, most crucially on the demand side. With all non-essential industries and commercial establishments ordered shut as part of the lockdown, demand for electricity declined by more than 9% in March, according to data from the National Load Despatch Centre. While the power sector has been exempt from the lockdown because of its essential nature, the slump in demand from commercial customers is bound to have a significant sector-wide cascading impact as a result of heightened cash flow problems at the already stressed distribution companies that deliver electricity over the last mile to consumers. Coal, the only sector to post a positive figure in March as output expanded 4%, also presents a far from reassuring picture as growth slowed sharply from February’s 11.2% and was less than half the 9.1% pace seen in March 2019. And with demand for coal from user sectors spanning thermal generators and the key process industries of steel and cement unlikely to revive any time soon, production of the crucial commodity is very likely to shrink in April. With the construction sector hit hard by the lockdown and likely to face serious labour supply issues even after the economy gradually reopens, cement may see production shrink in the first month of the new fiscal year by an even greater extent than the 25% drop seen in March. The mayhem in the oil market with global crude prices tumbling is also certain to undermine the industries in the energy sector. Undoubtedly, April’s overall core output appears headed for an even sharper contraction. And with the eight major industries having a weight of 40.3% in the broader Index of Industrial Production, it is certain to drag industrial output as a whole into negative territory. The Centre may be left with little option but to massively lift public spending on infrastructure once the lockdown eases in order to revive the reeling economy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ominous-contraction/article31485573.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Recovering early||Data for COVID-19 is still a long way from giving a complete picture, but it is encouraging that the basic metric of the number of those recovering as a share of confirmed infections is showing improvement in India. The Health Ministry has said that the percentage of recoveries currently stands at just over 25, almost double of what it was two weeks ago. National data on other parameters appear similar to disease trends witnessed globally, with the worst outcomes encountered among elderly patients — translating into a case fatality rate of 51.2% for Indians older than 60. What is important to note, however, is that whether it is recovery or death, not all cases are recorded for a variety of reasons. There may be untested people who have recovered. Also, in the long term, most recover from the infection. It is therefore imperative to find positive cases early and assess the pace of recovery accurately. Among the countries moving to a mass-testing strategy after a measured lockdown and successful control over viral transmission is New Zealand. In terms of deaths, there could be unknown fatalities caused by COVID-19 outside hospitals. Doctors in the United States have made a contrasting determination: of people who had the virus, but died of unrelated causes. These findings and trends underscore the importance of research on the progression of the pandemic in India. The comparatively low death rate from COVID-19 in India, officially estimated at 3.2%, remains a topic for systematic study. Even accounting for inability to identify all virus-caused deaths and misclassified fatalities, the absence of a large number of severely distressed patients in hospitals stands in contrast to the experience abroad, notably in the U.S., as well as many countries in Europe. The Johns Hopkins database gives the fatalities per 100 confirmed cases as 15.7% for the U.K. and Belgium, for example. There are many hypotheses for the less dismal outcome in India based on the impact of climate, benefits of immunisation, and other possible factors, but they remain untested. While India’s fatalities may be low, and an improved recovery rate will help revive the economy, there is genuine worry that patients with non-COVID-19 conditions are at greater risk for poor health outcomes due to lack of access to care during the pandemic. The public health strategy for COVID-19 has to sharply focus on helping people determine their infection status through widely available testing. This will enable selective quarantining, planning of welfare measures and participation of people who have recovered in trials for potential therapies such as convalescent plasma transfusion. With a relaxation of the lockdown, India’s strategy will need precise and intensive measures to drive down the reproduction number for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/recovering-early/article31485572.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||Australia tops Test, T20 rankings||Australia has deposed India in the world Test rankings and Pakistan in the Twenty20 standings, the International Cricket Council said on Friday. Just two points separate Australia (116), New Zealand (115) and India (114) in the Test standings, with cricketsuspended due to the coronavirus pandemic. Leads WTC table India, which had held the No. 1 spot since October 2016, stays on top of the World Test Championship table. In 2019, India claimed its first-ever Test series win in Australia, but Australia drew the Ashes 2-2 before blanking Pakistan and New Zealand at home to cap off a successful season cut short by the coronavirus outbreak.  The annual update of the rankings eliminates results from the 2016-17 season when India won 12 and lost just one Test. The system also gives more weight to matches played since May 2019 than those of the previous two years. South Africa suffered the biggest fall of eight points, which sees it drop below Sri Lanka to sixth place. England is fourth. In the ODI rankings, World champion England consolidated its No. 1 position, followed by India and New Zealand. In the T20 chart, Australia ended Pakistan's 27-month stay at the top to reach the summit for the first time since rankings in the shortest format were introduced in 2011. Pakistan is now fourth while England jumped to second and India to the third spot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/australia-tops-test-t20-rankings/article31485712.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tokyo Olympics will be ‘all body, no soul’, says Praveen Kumar||Discus thrower Praveen Kumar Sobti is a two-time Olympian, a Commonwealth Games medallist, a double Asian Games gold medallist and one of the rare ones to win a medal in three consecutive editions. He has also lived through the 1972 Munich Olympics — perhaps one of the darkest episodes in terms of Olympic history — and believes that just like that edition irrevocably changed Olympics, the Tokyo Games would be a watershed one. “Personally, I believe Mexico (1968) was the last of the true Olympics in terms of freedom, openness and celebration. After Munich (and the massacre) things haven’t been the same. In terms of security, restrictions and the whole idea of Olympics, it was a turning point. Tokyo will be the same,” Praveen, who played Bheem in the popular series Mahabharata now being re-telecast on Doordarshan, told The Hindu . Mere formality “The Olympics next year will be a mere formality. The momentum that was building up was targeted for 2020 before COVID-19 struck. People were training for four years to peak this year. “Now you have to maintain your performance for one more year. For a professional sportsperson, that is extremely difficult,” he categorically said. “Athletes will go down, they have to, and then try and peak again within one year. Four years of planning has to be replicated in 12 months. Anyone who says it won’t affect doesn’t understand sports,” he added. Praveen won the discus gold at the 1966 and 1970 Asiad and silver in 1974. He also won bronze in hammer throw in 1966 and added a silver in the same event at the Kingston Commonwealth Games that year. He believes that the mental and emotional comeback for athletes from the pandemic would be equally tough. “Athletes would also be disheartened. Training for Olympics is a single-minded pursuit and when that target is suddenly pushed away, things change. The competitions and competitors may or may not be available again whenever training starts,” he added. Economic impact There are economic ramifications as well, he explained. “The companies supporting Olympics and athletes will also be suffering and that will affect preparations. Morale would be hurt. To be honest, people are a lot less interested in sports right now as the attention is on more important considerations. “How can the spirit, the essence of Games remain the same? It will be all body, no soul,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tokyo-olympics-will-be-all-body-no-soul-says-praveen-kumar/article31485734.ece
02 May 2020||Chennai,||I have to start all over again now: Natarajan||Far removed from the city where he spends most of his year, Tamil Nadu pacer T. Natarajan is enjoying quality time with his family in his hometown Chinnappampatti, near Salem. But the 28-year-old also feels hard done by — the IPL’s indefinite postponement because of COVID-19 means that he has to wait to build on his domestic performances this season. No fitness concerns Speaking to The Hindu , Natarajan said, “This year I played through the season without any fitness concerns and I was very happy with the performance. I was confident I would get a few games [for Sunrisers Hyderabad] as I was in a good place with my bowling, but now I have to start all over again.” The left-armer took 18 wickets in the Ranji Trophy at an impressive average of 17.94 and had a commendable showing in the shorter formats as well, adding new skills to his repertoire. “Over the last two years, I worked on being able to bring the ball into the right-hander and I feel I am bowling my best now,” he added. When he burst onto the scene six years ago, it was a huge deal for someone from a small town in the State. He generated big buzz when Kings XI Punjab paid Rs. 3 crore for him in the 2017 IPL auction. Since then, Natarajan has put his earnings back into the game, starting an academy in his hometown with a couple of turf wickets and inspiring a new crop of cricketers. Last year G. Periyasamy, who hails from the same town as Natarajan, made a name for himself in the TNPL and played for Tamil Nadu in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy. For the 2020 edition of the TNPL, two more cricketers from Salem who have worked with Natarajan’s academy, pacers G. Aravindh and V. Gowtham, have been picked by Lyca Kovai Kings and Siechem Madurai Panthers. Speaking on an Instagram chat, Natarajan said, “There are a lot of talented cricketers in every part of the State and they just need some guidance. “I had A. Jayaprakash to guide me and I am doing the same now. It feels good that we now have four cricketers from here.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/i-have-to-start-all-over-again-now-natarajan/article31485782.ece
02 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Shabbir Ali relives Bangkok youth title||Iran has always been a team to beat in Asian football at the youth and senior level. The powerhouse from Persia brought out the best in Indian players, among whom is Shabbir Ali, a youth international and later a member on the senior squad. The ace striker grabbed a goal in the 1974 Asian Youth Championship final match against Iran at Bangkok, went on to receive the trophy as captain after India drew 2-2 and the teams were declared joint-winners. Iran’s hallmark In a chat with The Hindu , Shabbir recalled India’s only title in Asian football so far which was won 46 years ago on this day (April 30, 1974). “Iran displayed physical play and skill, a combination of rough-and-tough tactics and build-up from the back, with sudden switches in tactics being its hallmark — then and now,” quipped Shabbir about the final match in Bangkok. “Nobody gave us a chance against Iran, the defending champion, so we were over the moon when the final whistle sounded. Team spirit and team effort, from players and coaching staff, made it happen.” Later on, his Kolkata league career as a star in East Bengal, Mohammedan Sporting forwardline, the on-field tussles against Iranian pros Majid Beskhar, Jamshed Nassiri and Mehmood Khabazi (EB vs MS) are fresh in memory. Switch to Sporting Shabbir returned from the Bangkok triumph to Mumbai and resumed duty for Tata Sports Club in the Harwood League. Three seasons later, he joined EB. By the time the three Iranians joined EB to create a buzz in debut season, Shabbir had switched to Mohammedan Sporting. Shabbir said: “The performances against Iran (final) and Thailand (semifinal) at the Asian Youth boosted my confidence. My ambition was to represent my State (Maharashtra) and try to get into the senior national side..”  Shabbir graduated to senior India, played till 1984 alongside club career, later took up coaching and was honoured with the Dhyan Chand award for Lifetime Achievement by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shabbir-ali-relives-bangkok-youth-title/article31485703.ece
02 May 2020||COIMBATORE,||Does badminton need a scoring revamp?||The Badminton World Federation (BWF), a couple of years ago, had expressed interest in replacing the current scoring system — 21 points, best of three games (21x3) — with an 11-point, best-of-five format (11x5). However, this was rejected by the member associations. The pandemic lockdown appears to have allowed BWF president Poul-Erik Hoyer the time to mull over the idea and restate his case. In a recent interview, Hoyer said that he still wants to change the scoring format because it’s long and not as exciting for spectators as a shorter, sharper game. His intention is to make badminton keep pace with other international sports.  India’s chief badminton coach P. Gopi Chand was surprised to hear this and was willing to discuss the subject. “Is that really going to make a change? I don’t think so. It does not actually shorten the game by a big standard. In fact, you could end up playing for longer durations,” Gopi told The Hindu on Wednesday. “If there is speculation about a change in the scoring system to 11x5, then I would prefer the 15x3 rally format as it cuts down 18 points. Anyway, we can all have our preferences, but if a change happens it happens. “As players and coaches, we have to adapt to it. There’s no point in brooding or thinking about it,” Gopi added. But he preferred not to speculate about the possibility of a change. Not taken off Former national coach U. Vimal Kumar said the BWF had tried to push the idea through, but it hadn’t taken off. “The sport is doing well and nothing needs to be done now. I also feel that it (format change) has not been discussed properly. “They must take the views of the players, but I am not for the change,” he said and quickly added that it can suit one brand of badminton — the attacking kind.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/does-badminton-need-a-scoring-revamp/article31485708.ece
02 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Umpiring in the time of the pandemic||Umpiring in lockdown? Yes, it’s happening! ICC panel international umpire C. Shamshuddin is officiating as third umpire in simulated match situations online, thanks to ICC’s efforts, to keep everyone ready for the job once the COVID-19 pandemic ends. The 50-year-old from Hyderabad said that it is an ICC initiative for training with Denis Burns, an umpire coach. He is conducting it from UK for the six umpires from India, including two women, since the lockdown began. “The one-hour session enables us offer our judgement in tough match-situations (video footage),” Shamshuddin said in a chat with The Hindu on Tuesday.  Tough job “The reason why these sessions are being held is that it is felt that the job of a third umpire is the toughest, with millions watching on TV waiting for a decision in crunch situations sometimes,” Shamshuddin said. “The on-field umpire can make a mistake, but not the TV official,” said Shamshuddin. “From the outside, the TV umpire’s job might look easy as everybody feels it is just watching replays and giving the verdict. “But, when you sit in that seat with the DRS in place, the pressure and expectations are something that pose a bigger challenge than what on-field umpires sometimes face,” said Shamshuddin, who made his international debut in 2013.   In the lockdown, Shamshuddin is helping his school-going kids prepare for the next academic year. He is also financially helping HCA umpires who have no regular jobs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/umpiring-in-the-time-of-the-pandemic/article31485974.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Leading players’ Art of Living||Every difficult situation is an opportunity to grow, and get better. A bunch of leading athletes chose to get initiated into the Art of Living during lockdown. Former tennis player Shruti Dhawan conducted the course, along with another tennis player Akash Sharma and shooter Pragya Rathore. A footballer and an IITian Dinesh Ghodke, who conducts advanced course in the art, addressed the athletes during the concluding session. Shooters Sanjeev Rajput, Abhishek Verma, Deepak Kumar, Kajal Saini, Varsha Tomar, Shreya Saksena, Ayushi Podder, Anshika Satendra, squash champion Saurav Ghosal, former cricketer Gargi Banerjee, tennis players Vishnu Vardhan, Ankita Raina and coaches like Ankita Bhambri, Shivang Mishra, Manoj Kumar took part in the course.  “Cut the past, shut the future, and stay in the present,” said Shruti, as she talked about living in the moment and using breathing technique and meditation to gain control of the mind and thus emotions. “Indian sports can reach another level,” said Dinesh, about meditation having the power to take one to the top.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/leading-players-art-of-living/article31485873.ece
02 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Online interaction with VVS a welcome move: Lal||The Bengal cricket team coach Arun Lal has asked his players to remain hopeful of a normal start to the season and work towards it despite the limitations posed by the nationwide lockdown. For Lal, staying prepared is the best way to approach a new season. “We have to carry on doing our job thinking that the season will begin as normal and (sporting activity) can start anytime. There is little else to do now and preparations keep you busy,” he told The Hindu . Good initiative The coach said the online interaction of the Bengal cricketers with V.V.S. Laxman was a welcome exercise. “The online initiative is very good, we can see each other and stay in touch. VVS is a magnificent person who has superb work ethics and commitment in whatever he does. So the interaction helps.” According to him, the Bengal players are following a regimen of daily exercises, including running and core, prepared by trainer Sanjib Das. Arun Lal said Bengal should take heart from its runner-up finish in the previous Ranji Trophy season to perform better. “Now the main thing is how to carry forward the momentum. Bengal has the momentum. “It is a terrific side and it has to start believing in its ability. It has to realise that it is as good as any other side. We played at about 60% of our potential and can do better in the next season.”  We have to carry on doing our job thinking that the season will begin as normal and (sporting activity) can start anytime||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/online-interaction-with-vvs-a-welcome-move-lal/article31485872.ece
02 May 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Play2Help online tournament tomorrow||International chess player V. Raghav Srivathsav will organise the second Play2Help online tournament from 7 p.m. on May 3 to raise funds for the PM Cares initiative to fight COVID-19. This is part of a six-event series to be held on Sundays till May 31. The event carries a total prize money of Rs. 36,000. Call 81870 93036 for details.   Andhra Pradesh Football Association president Kosaraju Gopalakrishna and other officials expressed their condolences to the bereaved family members of football legend Chuni Goswami, who passed away in Kolkata on Thursday. “The football fraternity in the Port City remembers the greatness of Goswami. Many of the yesteryear players here were inspired by his achievements,” he said. P.N. Narayanaswami, former secretary, AU Sports Board, and Dr. S.V.R. Adhinarayana Rao, former president of VDFA also expressed their condolences.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/play2help-online-tournament-tomorrow/article31485972.ece
02 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Kashmir saffron gets GI tag||Kashmir saffron, which is cultivated and harvested in the Karewa (highlands) of Jammu and Kashmir, has been given the Geographical Indication (GI) tag by the Geographical Indications Registry. The spice is grown in some regions of Kashmir, including Pulwama, Budgam, Kishtwar and Srinagar. The application was filed by the Directorate of Agriculture, Government of Jammu and Kashmir, and facilitated by the Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agriculture Sciences and Technology, Kashmir, and Saffron Research Station, Dussu (Pampore). ‘Very precious’ Chinnaraja G. Naidu, Deputy Registrar of Geographical Indications, said, “Kashmir saffron is a very precious and costly product. Iran is the largest producer of saffron and India is a close competitor. With the GI tag, Kashmir saffron would gain more prominence in the export market,” he added. Kashmir saffron is renowned globally as a spice. It rejuvenates health and is used in cosmetics and for medicinal purposes. It has been associated with traditional Kashmiri cuisine and represents the rich cultural heritage of the region. The unique characteristics of Kashmir saffron are its longer and thicker stigmas, natural deep-red colour, high aroma, bitter flavour, chemical-free processing, and high quantity of crocin (colouring strength), safranal (flavour) and picrocrocin (bitterness). It is the only saffron in the world grown at an altitude of 1,600 m to 1,800 m AMSL (above mean sea level). The saffron available in Kashmir is of three types — ‘Lachha Saffron’, with stigmas just separated from the flowers and dried without further processing; ‘Mongra Saffron’, in which stigmas are detached from the flower, dried in the sun and processed traditionally; and ‘Guchhi Saffron’, which is the same as Lachha, except that the latter’s dried stigmas are packed loosely in air-tight containers while the former has stigmas joined together in a bundle tied with a cloth thread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/kashmir-saffron-gets-gi-tag/article31485701.ece
02 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||IIT-G designs bamboo hospital beds||The Department of Design in the Indian Institute of Technology-Guwahati (IIT-G) has completed a project in designing bamboo furniture to meet the requirements of the primary health centres in rural Assam during the COVID-19 pandemic. The bamboo range, members of the design faculty said, offered scope for improving basic infrastructure facilities during epidemics and pandemics such as COVID-19. “The current pandemic has brought to the fore the need for seeking self-reliance of sustainable solutions that are contextually appropriate for meeting the needs of the community,” said the department’s Ravi Mokashi Punekar. The project, he hoped, would lead to utilising bamboo effectively for community facilities. Such utilisation was limited despite bamboo craft being an important economic driver in the northeast. IIT-G has offered to share the designs with the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital. It said the “participatory design approach” could aid in the manufacture of about 200 bamboo hospital beds a day. “Given the current pandemic, if the situation arises, the bamboo furniture range will help in meeting the high demand required for those admitted for treatment,” Professor Punekar said. Two local entrepreneurs have agreed to undertake the manufacture of a simple version of the hospital bed, an IIT-G spokesperson said. Other bamboo hospital furniture items designed include a wheelchair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/iit-g-designs-bamboo-hospital-beds/article31485705.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 09:42 IST,||Sudoku - May 2, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-2-2020/article31486438.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Here and near||He was among the last chips off the old block. In many ways, he was a bit of an odd ball too; a man who never took to the steering wheel or the laptop, content as he was with being chauffeur driven in a good old Ambassador, or even travelling by a cycle-rickshaw. A man who loved his pan and his kababs , he was blessed with a rare command over English, the Queen’s language, as he would often say. It was this ease with the language that led to his rise in the world of letters — he had a long innings with The Statesman as a news editor, and a longer one as a columnist with The Hindu , and was a widely published author. Hailing from Agra, for years Ronald Vivian Smith lived in a hotel near the Jama Masjid. Long years in the hotel begot familiarity, and a family. Two of his sons were born in the hotel, much of his writing as a columnist derived inspiration from the lanes, the mohallas , the havelis , the kuchas , the sarais of Old Delhi. In an area where a god found abode under every Peepul tree, and a muezzin called out for prayer from a masjid every few metres, Smith was a practising Christian, a proud one too. A noted editor, for many years, his job was to bring out The Statesman to his readers on time every morning. Among the most punctilious and diligent of editors, Ronald Vivian Smith had a long innings with the paper, from where he retired back in January 1997. His innings as an editor ended more than 23 years ago, but his innings as a columnist and an author took wing. Even as the paper faded away after his retirement, Smith’s star burned bright, courtesy a weekly column, Quaint Corner, which he started with The Statesman a little under 40 years ago. Then a little over 20 years ago, he added a weekly trip Down Memory Lane with The Hindu Metro Plus . In his columns, the past never died. It merely hid in untapped zones of Old Delhi, the time when begums chewed paan , the Nawabs watched either a mushaira , or went down to regale themselves with the charms of nautch girls. It was a time too when a Muslim woman of ‘ill repute’ married an Englishman and left her past behind. She went on to build a mosque too, now called the Mubarak Begum Masjid near Hauz Qazi. It was a time when the Pandits of Charkhewalan walked across lanes of Dariba and on to Gauri Shankar Mandir to offer their prayers — the mandir stood in front of the majestic Lal Quila as a symbol of a shared past. The Sikh women of Lajpat Nagar undertook a longer tour to Sisganj Gurdwara in Chandni Chowk. The gurudwara itself stood adjacent to Sunehri Masjid, the mosque which was subjected to the worst horrors by Nadir Shah’s men on Eid in 1739. Then there were girls who sang carols and disappeared into the shadows. All these moments of a past long gone made their appearance with unfailing regularity in Smith’s columns which continued till he breathed his last on April 30, 2020. There was an easy familiarity to his writing, an inscrutable charm when he went down memory lane. The stories he came back with reached his readers via a typewriter he used until recently. For years, this correspondent received his typed columns with hand-written corrections. He would use every inch of space, every leaflet was put to use. Just as every anecdote of the years gone by was fished out for his reader. The way Smith wrote, it seemed he was a fly on the wall when the British ruled with an iron hand, or when the Mughals reigned over a declining empire. The present was so incidental in his columns that a wag once said, “Without history, Smith would not have a future, or present.” The half-in-jest statement summed up Smith’s writing. His books, Delhi: Unknown Tales of a City , Lingering Charm of Delhi , The Taj: The Myth and Reality , too derived from the world of emperors and queens, nobles and nautch girls. For him, there was no full stop to history. As a journalist, he was known to be fierce and steadfast, one who would push his subordinates really hard to get the edition out on time, and with minimum mistakes. A subeditor who made the slightest error was a recipient of a huge circle marked around the error on the news clipping, which was then put up on the notice board for everyone to see. For Smith, the work had to be flawless. After work, he was a different man: one who loved his life, who helped the needy, who wore success with ease, and kept relationships going despite distances.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/here-and-near/article31485908.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Once in a blue moon||I always thought the two words — Chandni Chowk — spelled magic, even though the marketplace never really looked like what the name suggested: a silvery, moon-lit centre. But I wonder what the once incredibly busy neighbourhood looks like now. The shops are mostly shut, and the roads will be empty. But in the little lanes, some of the eateries delivering food should be open, even though the crowds that gather there every morning for breakfast will be missing. The thought of having breakfast at Chandni Chowk had been haunting me for a while. When I am stopped from doing something, it troubles me no end. I don’t recall when I last went to Old Delhi for my morning fare, but I had been dreaming of it ever since the lockdown. As someone wise once said though, if you can’t go to the market, let the market come to you. It wasn’t exactly the market, but one of my favourite shops — Kanwarji’s — that came visiting one morning. Kanwarji is at the mouth of Parathey Waley Galli in Chandni Chowk. The shop, which was set up in 1850, is famous for its dal beeji — a delicious mix of bhujiya , cantaloupe seeds, musk melon seeds and brown masoor dal . The shop split into two quite a while ago. And then, some years ago, it opened a branch in East Delhi (G-1, Sagar Chamber, Saini Enclave, 011-22374913). I found out that the dal beeji (250g for Rs. 160) was on the menu of the East Delhi branch, and what gladdened my heart further was the information that it sold bedmi aloo on Sundays — which would be delivered by Swiggy. So, I was up with the lark on Sunday morning, and before anyone could say COVID-19, I had placed my order for four plates of bedmi aloo (Rs. 60 for each plate), and two plates of nagori halwa (Rs. 60 for a plate of five small flat puris ). Each plate of bedmi came with two stuffed puris , a good helping of a spicy potato sabzi , and a finger-licking mixed pickle. Nagori halwa , for those who came in late, is a traditional breakfast dish of little discs (like flattened golgappa ) served with halwa . You make a hole in the disc, fill it with halwa , and pop it into your mouth. So I promptly popped one (and then two, and finally three) into my mouth. It marked the end of what was a delicious meal. The bedmis were thick with pithee (the lentil paste that the dough is stuffed with) and I loved the aloo —which, while hot, wasn’t as hot as I remember it used to be. The pickle complemented the curry, and I finished the meal with some halwa — cooked in desi ghee, but with a light hand, and with just the right amount of sugar in it. Kanwarji is also famous for its aloo ka lachcha (Rs. 600 a kilo). I have spent many a happy afternoon in the original Chandni Chowk branch, eating their aloo samosas . In winter, they sell some innovative chikkis (those wonderful jaggery and nutty bars) flavoured with rose petals or even pista bits. It was a lovely Sunday, after a long, long time. I had bedmi for breakfast, and then bedmi again with my evening tea. There was no bedmi left for dinner, alas, but I had the spicy aloo sabzi with roti. The night wasn’t bathed in a silvery moon, but I somehow felt enveloped by the magic of the Old City. The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/once-in-a-blue-moon/article31485905.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A eulogy for Irrfan Khan||“Oh, He’s gone? Without saying goodbye, How could he? He might have waited”.  Waiting for Godot     Irfan=thankfulness, knowledge, wisdom.  Irrfan (as he insisted on spelling it), went away in the same unobtrusive and dignified manner as he had lived. Much before Maqbool was a germ of an idea in Vishal Bhardwaj’s head, one day on returning home I saw Ratna sitting in my drawing room with a very slight, very mild looking person who was rehearsing with her for a TV film they were to act in together. If not for those eyes I might have taken no notice of the man, never having seen him perform but something in his quiet assurance as he rose to greet me that day stayed with me — mildly respectful, not at all ingratiating, with a handshake that had a gentle firmness, all stemming from an unshakeable confidence in himself and a deep interest in others, the quality that was to define him for me always. It would be a while before Irrfan with his sharply etched, thoughtful, deeply felt performances would break like a gentle wave, sweeping everything before it onto the entire country’s consciousness and upon the world as a startlingly sensitive performer. His early stint which saw him making do with walk-on parts in movies or more prominent ones in forgotten TV serials — a path that didn’t seem to be leading anywhere — was for him, I believe, an apprenticeship to hone the craft on display in the work he was to subsequently astonish us all with. It was as if Nature recognised what he was capable of and was preparing him to do justice to it. But Nature is also strangely perverse; it makes you step on the teeth of a rake, then has the handle pop up and hit you on the head.  Unfolding talent  Until the film Haasil he was hardly noticed, but undeterred and with rock solid determination instead of the usual wounded ego he persevered with whatever came his way, learning as he went along what worked for him and what didn’t. This lean period paid off in spades later, and thanks to the acute perception he was blessed with, he was merrily on the way to becoming a living illustration of the adage, ‘opportunity comes to those who persevere’. Aware that readiness is all, Irrfan knew that the big question was not whether his chance would come, but whether he would be ready for it when it came. Consciously, I think, he prepared himself to grab it and wring it dry when it came, letting neither the rejections and disappointments of the extended struggle he endured nor his elation at finally getting what he deserved, come in the way of his desire to get his performances across in the subtlest yet most emphatic and empathetic way. I never detected an iota of self doubt in the man, either as an actor or as a person. His willingness to repose trust in people, not to mention the intelligence that shone through in everything he did, coupled with an almost feral magnetism, gave his persona a tenderness, a quiet menace, and a unique enigma that was the envy of many less hard-working actors who attribute success to God’s benevolence or inborn talent or good luck, none of which in my opinion made Irrfan what he was. The laid-back comfort in front of the camera for which he is acclaimed certainly didn’t come easily. Not only were there years of thought and practice behind it, but also an uncanny understanding of what communicates in performance, and how and to what degree. I feel absolutely no embarrassment in confessing that I greatly envied his acting chops. And after witnessing something he had done, I often wished I could turn back the clock, and go over some of my old performances with the benefit of the hindsight and the understanding of acting that was his gift to all us lesser actors. Watching him, I could not hold back an untrammelled admiration, that at his age he seemed to have fully grasped the technique of acting, yet stayed hungry to learn more. This admiration of course, would turn to wonder at the way he kept his work process so totally invisible, that it was impossible to understand exactly how he did, what he did.  Extraordinary life  For those of us approaching our own sunsets, another life lesson awaited us in the manner he handled his illness. Almost revelling in the thought that he was actually able to observe the grim reaper’s approach (“How many of us get this chance?” he’d say) surveying the onset of the inevitable with the same incisive observation he channelled into his work, I don’t think he ever once wondered “WHY??” Despite being determined to fight it out and win, his body clock had other plans. It was exhilarating just to ponder what magic he’d come up with next but we who’d anticipated the dizzying levels he could hit in a decade’s time were due for heartbreak. We’ll just have to content ourselves with the thought that for a while we breathed the same air as he did.  “Jaate huwe kehte ho ki qayamat pe milenge   Kya khoob, Qayamat ka hai goya koi din aur”. Ghalib||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-eulogy-for-irrfan-khan/article31485901.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Plan B for bridal wear||A few weeks before the lockdown, when Raj Kapoor’s grandson, Armaan Jain, got married, the occasion was fittingly grand. The mehndi was at the Jains’ South Mumbai penthouse, the sangeet graced by the who’s who of Bollywood, and a large reception in the ballroom of a five-star hotel. Guests mingled, sporting designer names such as Sabyasachi, Abu Jani Sandeep Khosla, Anita Dongre and Raw Mango. It was a celebration of the best of Indian couture. This is now going to become a rarity. One of the major benefactors of the country’s estimated $50 billion wedding industry is Indian fashion. But with Covid-19, “it is not possible [or is highly unlikely] that any large gatherings will be allowed past 20 or 40 people. Therefore, all the industries associated with weddings are in deep trouble,” says couturier Tarun Tahiliani. This includes fashion. “Weddings are a huge part of our business; couture is driven by it.”  Eye on value  With existing orders cancelled or tweaked to be appropriate for more intimate weddings, bridal wear is set for a complete makeover. Ritu Kumar, the doyenne of Indian fashion, says, “The ornate and the theatrical must take a back seat now and so things are going to get much simpler and more personal.” Naturally, this will result in less profit for designers, especially couturiers. “Couture in India is only made for weddings, unlike the West where they have galas or big black-tie fundraisers. Designers will now have to look at making more ready-to-wear separates,” says Tahiliani. The post-Covid bride could, in fact, be far more stylish than her pre-Covid counterpart, who was in need of a style correction. “We will go back to greater delicacy and elegance. I was amazed at how some brides wore clothes that they could not walk in or that could bruise them. It had become like The Emperor’s New Clothes ,” he observes. Most designers have stopped receiving enquires during lockdown. Manish Malhotra, one of India’s top designers, says that among the few brides-to-be who reached out, he’s seen a change in mindset. “They want value — be it the money or the outfit. They want something that is made responsibly and is repeat worthy,” he says, adding, “The aesthetics of my design won’t change, but it might just adapt.”  The nostalgia card  A simpler aesthetic, however, could benefit designers who work with handloom. “Anything handmade will become more relevant in times like this. People want to go back to their roots and old-world values,” says K Radharaman, founder-CEO at Bengaluru’s The House of Angadi. Stressing that because they use pure zari and silk yarn, there is no difference between a new sari and one made a 100 years ago, he adds that customers are looking at sustainability in a practical way. “As a design house working with handloom, we provide designs that will become cherished heirlooms.” Designers are also more open to working with pre-loved and heirloom textiles. “Couture is likely to see a revival of pre-owned classics, such as the Banarasi sari,” says Kumar. Repurposing — something Kareena Kapoor kicked off in 2012, when she had her mother-in-law’s gharara restored for her wedding — could become a bigger trend too. Kumar says she will be “happy to work on a mother’s lehenga that she’d bought from us”. In fact, Malhotra recently convinced a bride to go with an heirloom piece for her wedding rather than buy a new outfit. “Repurposing, recycling and upcycling are at the core of sustainability, and we must practise it in our business,” he says, explaining that he would be open to reworking heirloom pieces as separates.  Social distance shopping  Post lockdown, shopping remains a scary proposition. Wedding shows and exhibitions — a key revenue generator for small and mid-size fashion labels — aren’t scheduled, and standalone flagships are considered safer than malls or markets. “Those with large stores can work with brides-to-be, by practising social distancing and using temperature control and disinfectants. Even during sales, we will allocate slots; no more than seven clients in an 8,000 sq ft store,” says Tahiliani. Virtual consultancy is also picking up, as is concierge-driven shopping. “It actually makes the interaction more personal and more comfortable. We need to adapt and understand how to use the digital space,” says Malhotra. The silver lining? “When we have a vaccine, this whole conversation will become irrelevant,” says Tahiliani. Meanwhile, Malhotra expects things to go back to a “new normal” after two seasons. Perhaps our love of weddings could become the reason that the fashion industry recovers faster than expected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/plan-b-for-bridal-wear/article31485532.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||How to make a mask...||Set up the phone camera to capture this on video. Play gentle, soothing classical music as a background to your video. Wear all the make-up you’ve been deprived of, for the last month. Introduce this as the first of the 1,000 masks you are making for the needy. Cut out a square of cloth. Placate your spoilsport husband that his favourite T-shirt will now be put to better use. Furiously tell him to stitch his precious square of cloth back on to his precious faded T-shirt. Himself! Fat lot he cares for the needy! Ignore his sarcastic comments about your poor geometry because that isn’t a square. Use your teen’s bandana instead. It’s already square. Phew! Fold it neatly into accordion folds. The dratted thing won’t fold. It keeps slipping. It’s slippery with hair gel! Your teen is destroying his hair (with already balding family genes) by using hair gel? Threaten to disinherit your teen. Realise the video is running. Use the stupid kitchen napkin as the stupid square cloth. It smells of haldi when you cover your nose, but haldi is a disinfectant. Yay! Killing two birds with one stone, you say to the camera. Your daughter says that is the cruellest idiom ever. Mutter about how no one has a sense of humour but you. Now, pull rubber bands around the ends of the folded napkin. Tuck the ends in and staple them together. Realise you’ve stapled them to the tablecloth. Try removing the staples. Poke your finger. Curse under your breath. Your daughter reminds you to maintain your sense of humour. The classical music piece in the background ends and the wailing of alley cats begins next. Your teen says it is the latest hit. It certainly sounds like someone’s being hit. Hold the beautiful simple mask up to the camera. The folds unfold. Rapidly re-fold them, maintaining your glowing sense of humour. Snap the rubber bands around your ears. They nearly slice off your ears. Screech! Thankfully, your screeches blend into the cat-wailing music. Realise your kitchen napkin has recently mopped up chilli powder. Coughing fit, runny nose. Assure your viewers your mask will NOT give people coronavirus symptoms. Thank everyone for watching; the cat wailing reaches a climax, drowning out your words. Post the video. Receive instant requests from all sorts of needy people to supply them with the 1,000 masks you’re making. Delete video. Begin new video: Making Hand Sanitiser in Three Simple Steps. Step 1: Open the alcohol first. Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/how-to-make-a-mask/article31485552.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Six-yard factor||Will the smaller weddings of the immediate future see the six-yard drape take a back seat? Ahalya S, founder of Chennai-basedkanjeevaramsari boutique Kanakavalli, thinks not. “Whether the gathering is big or small, weddings will need to be Instagram-worthy. So the bride’s outfit will still carry a lot of importance,” she says. While she doesn’t anticipate a big change in spending patterns, she admits that at the moment, people are only ‘window shopping’. “I’ve seen a rise in the number of people browsing our website, but no purchases.” Meanwhile, large-format retailers — which are currently shut, and where social distancing norms may reduce footfalls — are rethinking their strategies. Purists may turn up their nose at buying akanjeevaramsari online, but Chennai heavyweights like RMKV and Nalli have upped their e-commerce game. (We reached out to the brands, but are yet to receive a response.) The former has a bridal capsule collection launched five months ago and the latter is inviting people to shop via Instagram. With options for international shipping and returns, orders are open but deliveries will begin depending on government directives.     “The demand for traditional jewellery might dip and brides may choose contemporary styles for receptions,” says Amarendran Vummidi, managing partner of Vummidi Bangaru Jewellers. Sooddiyanams(waist belts) andbajubandhs(arm bands) may not find many takers, while more elegant pieces will. It is a good time to repurpose larger gold pieces to create understated ones. “We do not anticipate problems in sourcing the raw material. But diamonds might be an issue, since they come from Surat," he adds. For those looking to pick from existing collections, go virtual. GRT has a live shopping section (on grtjewels.com), where you can log in at a scheduled time and have a staff member help you choose. You can either purchase immediately (and get it delivered) or place an order and pick it up. VBJ will also introduce this option soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/six-yard-factor/article31485537.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Journey of the luxury watch||Just when the luxury watch industry was nicely settling down after a reasonably good 2019, the Covid crisis hit hard. As a result, the two major watch fairs - Baselworld and SIHH Geneva (now rechristened as Watches & Wonders) - stood cancelled. While W&W has consolidated over the past few years, with more high-end premium brands opting for their luxurious setting and trade and media partners, it’s Baselworld which has been struggling, first with the Swatch Group (Breguet, Omega, Longines, Rado, Tissot, Swatch and more) moving out in 2018 and then the Breitling announcement last year, both deciding to focus on their independent exhibitions. Very recently, the big blow was delivered by Rolex, Patek Philippe, Chopard and Chanel walking out, followed by the LVMH Group (Bulgari, Hublot, Zenith, TAG Heuer). The future of this century-old exhibition hangs in the balance. Meanwhile, Watches & Wonders did a digital release of the novelties by all the brands last weekend, on April 25. The Swiss constant Where does the watch industry go from here? Are there any definitive trends in design, marketing and distribution coming up? I spoke to a few CEOs to gauge the mood of the industry and the likely way forward. Greubel Forsey, a regular participant of SIHH till 2019, had already announced their quitting W&W to focus on brand-exclusive events. The brand sells just about 100 timepieces a year with price tags going northwards of a crore of rupees, so meeting customers personally is a better strategy, no doubt. Taking me through the strategy, co-founder Stephen Forsey, indicates that supply has always been a bigger concern than demand for them. It’s a big year for them as they are launching the first sports-oriented watch – the GMT Sport or the pinnacle of craftsmanship – made using only hand-operated tools, one single timepiece requiring an extraordinary 6,000 hours work. Though most of the Swiss manufactures are shut, including the GF Atelier at La Chaux de-Fonds, skeleton staff have started returning. Most of the staff are restless and want to go back to work, Forsey says. IWC CEO Christoph Grainger-Herr accepts the choice of the Portugieser line as the key launch of 2020 was probably the best decision the brand had taken. Talking to us on a Zoom call, he admitted that it was sheer luck, as these things are planned well in advance. Portugieser will be the right kind of product in the post-Covid era where consumers will seek comfort from trusted brands. For now, the ability to appreciate completely new designs or vintage re-issues will be low. Meanwhile, Favre-Leuba, the second oldest Swiss watch brand, now owned by the Tatas, is taking 2020 as the year of transition. Echoing the sentiment of the industry, CEO Philippe Roten admits that increasing the otherwise low percentage of online sales of luxury watches is the need of the hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/journey-of-the-luxury-watch/article31485520.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||There’s room for drama||The bride is in a gold Amit Aggarwal dress made entirely by embroidering polymer strips on tulle, with a moulded bodice in sequin and bugle bead embroidery. This is on an episode of Amazon Prime Video’s April drop,Four More Shots Please!At a time when fashion editors and designers are having conversations about the need for minimalism, what with weddings being downsized by Covid-19, one wonders if there is room for Aggarwal’s exquisite brand of sartorial drama. The designer says ‘yes’. “The entire language of weddings is going to change with social distancing as the norm. But it won’t change how the bride and groom want to look and feel,” he insists. We are on a phone call where Aggarwal, 45, recalls his solo grand finale (his first) at Lakme Fashion Week in February. It featured the highly engineered occasion-wear he is known for, with recycled polymers and industrial waste as embellishments. The sculptural element was in tune with what was also seen at the Paris Fashion Week spring/summer 2020 shows. “We had the collection at the store in the first week of March. We were swamped with bookings and orders and client appointments,” says Aggarwal. A week before lockdown he made the decision to shut his store and factory, referring to the safety of his clients and his 300-strong workforce. Moving sculptures Since then he has put his retail expansion plans on hold, focussing instead on the sustainable aesthetic of his label. “The language is not going to significantly change. This situation gives us more reason to make it relevant,” says the designer whose 18 years in fashion includes an internship with couturier Tarun Tahiliani. The plan is to edit, not add. “We have always spoken about the coexistence of natural and manmade. We are going to control all our purchases, with no imported fabrics. The first step is to work with our existing resources.” Taking pointers from his lifestyle over the last month – he shares his preference for dal chawal and says washing utensils can be therapeutic! – he hopes to implement this simplicity at work post lockdown. Excess fabrics will go into creating “something new and fresh, an interesting story for clients”. Like his fellow designers, Aggarwal has been utilising this time to “look inwards”, through sketches and poems that are often showcased on the brand’s Instagram page. “They are drawings that don’t have a purpose. Otherwise 90% of my sketches are about a collection or facilitating a client’s request,” he says. Last month, he shared a sketch of “man fornicating with nature” with the digital magazine, Voice of Fashion. It was accompanied by verse. “After an apocalypse, there is a ray of hope. I don’t want to enter the dark side. This is a time when you can build a new fantastical world around you,” he says. Working with separates He refers to how thoughtful brands have been instilling hope, some of his favourites being the initiatives by luxury houses Valentino and Alexander McQueen, where poetry and creativity play a role. While we speak, he alerts me to a parrot that has just visited his balcony – a first for him in his South Delhi house. “This pause or lockdown has shown that multiple dimensions can exist together beautifully,” he says. As for his collections, from the new age saris with plisse details to the geometric blouses with wings, he says multiple wearability is key. “Our clothes are occasion wear and worn by brides. But if you are going for an opulent blouse, make your skirt simpler so you can wear it later with a jacket for a pared-down look.” It helps that the dresses do not come with an under layer and are thus light. “That is an important decision we made early on. It feels like couture but can be stored in a tiny box,” promises Aggarwal.  Saris start at Rs. 70,000 and the gowns start at around Rs. 1.5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/theres-room-for-drama/article31485512.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Beard with me||During the Great Black Plague of London in the 1700s, Isaac Newton, all of 23, quarantined himself in his farmhouse and advanced the principles of Calculus and analysed the light colour spectrum. Today we are proud of banana bread or some idiotic coffee. To be fair, Newton wasn’t plagued by a million inane live videos, support group webinars and mundane web calls to dampen his focus. Nothing scares us more than feeling useless and so usefulness is being sought out in the kinkiest of manners. Some bake, others brew, but all of us, no matter the gender, beard. Having been through the cycle, here are the stages of bearding that one will go through.  1.Lazy : In the beginning, it starts as a harmless two days of shaving/trimming, skipped.  2.Curiosity : Seeing more than a 5 pm shade on our faces, one wonders where it could lead to; not women, they panic. In my case, I was curious to see if I could push out hair on my face having clearly failed on my head for decades.  3.Vanity : Now we start imagining ourselves hipsters — aka “the stubble suits me” stage — as we remain confined within our homes, but more so by our illusions of grandeur.  4.Messy : Facial hair, left to grow for the first time unrestrained, explores all directions in defiance of gravity. This is how we got the term ‘scraggly’.  5.Feasibility : By this point, devoid of any other challenges, we peg our will to live to the length of this black wiry fungus.  6.Sagacity : By now, the beard has acquired a certain silhouette, even if not flow or form. It makes us feel that we look wiser. The only wisdom I can shortcut and impart to you here is that it doesn’t.  7.Itchy : The stage name says it all; resting your face on a cushion feels like you just lay down on a pillow made of thorns. It rustles you awake when you turn sides.  8.Acceptability : By now the beard is parasitic; it is feeding off your food. Aka the Soup Strainer, Debris Collector, and if one doesn’t snap out of it and nip it, it spirals downhill fast from here.  9.Incompatibility : Now the beard occupies more of the face than expressions. Your speech sounds muffled and every time you scratch your beard, an ASMR addict somewhere gets excited. Once here, the cycle repeats. The world, unwillingly, gets informed through an Insta update, or if you are feeling excessively useless, a ridiculous TikTok video. Outside of Captain Haddock and that bearded lady from PT Barnum’s motley crew, nobody has ever managed to own a beard as if they were born with it. So tell me how much of a beard you have right now and I will tell you what state of quarantine you are at.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/beard-with-me/article31485550.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Get smart about cinema||Through most of the lockdown, we have been spending a lot of time watching and re-watching our favourite movies and TV shows. One would hope this has led to increased respect for the people who make the magic happen — filmmakers. Here are some online resources for filmmaking students, and others, who want to learning more about the industry and how it works.     Cousins is one of the most followed historians of cinema — his 15-hour documentary series, The Story of Film (2011), is currently streaming on Hulu. He is also the author of several books on the subject, most notably The Story of Looking (2017), hailed by critics as one of the great visual studies texts of the modern era. Recently, he made the extraordinary gesture of putting together a nearly 140-minute lecture for filmmaking students and scholars, called ‘40 Days to Learn Film’, making it freely available on Vimeo. His encyclopedic knowledge of cinema is matched only by the clearly child-like pleasure (the lecture even begins with an image of him as a film-crazy four-year-old) he derives from this endeavour.     The world’s most famous animation studio offers a peek behind the curtain in this video series about the nuts and bolts of making one of their films. Yes, there are a lot of geeky, tech-heavy videos about animation techniques and the math behind them. But there are also simple, effective storytelling lessons, like the one from director Pete Docter ( Monsters Inc. , Inside Out ). He talks about the oft-cited advice — “Write what you know” — explaining how his own passage into fatherhood inspired the making of Monsters Inc . Available as a free online course via Khan Academy.     Over the years, MIT has made many of its courses freely available on their OpenCourseWare site, and this 23-lecture series by Professor David Thorburn of the Film and Media Studies programme is one of them. All supplemental materials, including short clips from the films discussed, are available — bundled into a playlist on YouTube. Thorburn is very effective at drawing meaningful connections between different strands of world cinema. For example, during a lecture on Akira Kurosawa’s Rashomon , he segues into the movie’s linkages with European cinema, which then becomes its own sub-topic.     This three-week online course, offered free of cost, is taught by Michael Lensfield, who teaches at the university’s Literature, Drama and Creative Writing programme as well as the School of Art, Media and American Studies. It is hosted on FutureLearn, and the course uses some super-popular films to illustrate theoretical points about plot trajectory, narrative structure, the dramatic effect and so on. It is very easy to miss the technical aspects of a big blockbuster’s storytelling. For example, there are any number of well-argued academic papers that highlight the link between Russian folklorist Vladimir Propp’s theories and how they apply perfectly to the narrative structure of theHarry Potterbooks/films. This course will help you spot these patterns and apply them to your own work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/get-smart-about-cinema/article31485548.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Click for rewards||For photographers looking for inspiration, Life Framer has two themes open for entry: Colours and Youthhood. Interpret them as literally or as playfully as you want, from portraits and travel adventures to landscapes and still life. On life-framer.com. The debut Eyewin Awards, curated by photographer Manoj Aryan, is now open for submissions. Prizes worth Rs. 3 lakh and above per category are to be won. Last date for entries is May 19. Details and registration on eyewinawards.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/click-for-rewards/article31485556.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A family matter||Earlier this week, playwright Richard Nelson brought back the Apple family in the context of the current Covid-19 situation in a new play, What Do We Need to Talk About?: Conversations on Zoom . The virtual stage reunited the original cast to play the four siblings who discuss relevant topics around the dinner table. Only this time, they were videoconferencing. While the live stream took place on April 29, an edited version is available for streaming on YouTube and publictheater.org till May 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/a-family-matter/article31485558.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Let’s talk literature||Jaipur Literature Festival’s online edition (@jlflitfest) features multiple sessions this weekend. Today, playwright Peter Morgan talks to filmmaker Ritesh Batra about Netflix’s The Crown at 7.30 pm, followed by Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw in conversation with Samanth Subramanian on healthcare and life sciences at 9 pm. Tomorrow, Roger Highfield will talk about the different dimensions of the pandemic at 7.30 pm. At 9 pm, TM Krishna will discuss his latest book, Sebastian & Sons , with Maya Mirchandani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lets-talk-literature/article31485560.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||We Are One: A Global Film Festival: The excitement is mounting for this 10-day virtual festival. It will bring this year's film festival submissions — from Berlin, Cannes, Sundance, Toronto and Tribeca, among others — straight to your home. While the lineup is yet to be revealed, features, shorts, documentaries, comedies and conversations will be included. From May 29 to June 7 on YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article31485562.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Music from quarantine||Mumbai-based singer-songwriter Maalavika Manoj aka Mali, has released a haunting music video for her new single, ‘Age of Limbo’. Crowdsourced footage of empty streets from 12 countries and 15 cities can be seen in the lyric video, which is now available on YouTube. Other tunes from the lockdown include UK rapper Lady Leshurr’s ‘Quarantine Speech’. In the video, she puts on a hazmat suit and wanders around her apartment venting all of her social distancing frustrations — filmed and edited on an iPhone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/music-from-quarantine/article31485564.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Shop for a cause||Labels Kresha Bajaj and Papa Don’t Preach have started a joint initiative called Care for Karigars, to support their craftspeople. While Bajaj has created a limited-edition cape, PDP’s is an embroidered belt bag — each priced at Rs. 5,000. All proceeds will be donated to the karigars . Chennai-based brand, Hastha, has designed a T-shirt with the Sanskrit slogan Lokah Samastah Sukhino Bhavantu — ‘May all beings be happy and free’ — available for pre-order at Rs. 500. Proceeds will go towards India Fellow’s Covid Relief.9940020264||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/shop-for-a-cause/article31485566.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Staying Zen in a pandemic||Susan Hopkinson teaches Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction in an eight-week online course. Classes will be held every Sunday, starting with an introductory session on May 3. At Rs. 8,000. WhatsApp 9717085369 to register. On a budget? Canadian author and meditation teacher, Jeff Warren, invites people to join in a free live session where you can meditate or simply stare into space. Aptly called the Do Nothing Project, it is available on YouTube at 5.30 am on Sundays and 9.30 pm on Wednesdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/staying-zen-in-a-pandemic/article31485568.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today at 6 pm, actor Taapsee Pannu shares her favourite women characters in pop culture. On @the_hindu. And @thehinduweekend, tune in to talk luxury retail 101 with Tina Tahiliani Parikh, of multi-brand boutique, Ensemble. Today at 4 pm. On Sunday, author Daniel Handler aka Lemony Snicket, of A Series of Unfortunate Events fame, and his illustrator wife, Lisa Brown, will join in from California to read from Goldfish Ghost and share a lesson on drawing their goldfish, (@the_hindu) at 7.30 pm. For children above nine and adults.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lockdownwithweekend/article31485570.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Costume parties: First, we had to wear pillows but make it fashionable. Then, people were recreating iconic Met Gala looks: including Katy Perry’s 2019 chandelier dress. Closer home, stylist Spardha Malik (@spardhamalik) is inviting everyone to a #CostumePartyWithS. Every Saturday, she picks a theme (Disco, Birds of Paradise, and Maharajas and Maharanis of India have been featured so far). All you have to do is dress up and show up on Instagram!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article31485554.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Plan B for bridal wear||A few weeks before the lockdown, when Raj Kapoor’s grandson, Armaan Jain, got married, the occasion was grand. Guests mingled, sporting designer names such as Sabyasachi, Abu Jani Sandeep Khosla, Anita Dongre, and Raw Mango. It was a celebration of Indian couture. This is now going to become a rarity. One of the major benefactors of the country’s estimated $50 billion wedding industry is Indian fashion. But with COVID-19, “it is not possible [or is highly unlikely] that any large gatherings will be allowed past 20 or 40 people. Therefore, all the industries associated with weddings are in deep trouble,” says couturier Tarun Tahiliani.  Eye on value  With existing orders cancelled or tweaked to be appropriate for more intimate weddings, bridal wear is set for a complete makeover. Ritu Kumar, the doyenne of Indian fashion, says, “The ornate and the theatrical must take a back seat now and so things are going to get much simpler and more personal.” Naturally, this will result in less profit for designers, especially couturiers. “Couture in India is only made for weddings, unlike the West where they have galas or big black-tie fundraisers. Designers will now have to look at making more ready-to-wear separates,” says Tahiliani. The post-COVID bride could, in fact, be far more stylish than her pre-COVID counterpart. “We will go back to greater delicacy and elegance,” he observes. Most designers have stopped receiving enquires during lockdown. Manish Malhotra, one of India’s top designers, says that among the few brides-to-be who reached out, he’s seen a change in mindset. “They want value — be it the money or the outfit. They want something that is made responsibly and is repeat worthy,” he says, adding, “The aesthetics of my design won’t change, but it might just adapt.”  The nostalgia card  A simpler aesthetic, however, could benefit designers who work with handloom. “Anything handmade will become more relevant in times like this. People want to go back to their roots and old-world values,” says K. Radharaman, founder-CEO at Bengaluru’s The House of Angadi. Stressing that because they use pure zari and silk yarn, there is no difference between a new sari and one made a 100 years ago, he adds that customers are looking at sustainability in a practical way. “As a design house working with handloom, we provide designs that will become cherished heirlooms.” Designers are also more open to working with pre-loved and heirloom textiles. “Couture is likely to see a revival of pre-owned classics, such as the Banarasi sari,” says Kumar. Repurposing — something Kareena Kapoor kicked off in 2012, when she had her mother-in-law’s gharara restored for her wedding — could become a bigger trend too. Kumar says she will be “happy to work on a mother’s lehenga that she’d bought from us”. In fact, Malhotra recently convinced a bride to go with an heirloom piece for her wedding rather than a new outfit.  Social distance shopping  Post lockdown, shopping remains a scary proposition. Wedding shows and exhibitions — a key revenue generator for small and mid-size fashion labels — aren’t scheduled, and standalone flagships are considered safer than malls or markets. “Those with large stores can work with brides-to-be, by practising physical distancing and using temperature control and disinfectants. Even during sales, we will allocate slots; no more than seven clients in an 8,000 sq ft store,” says Tahiliani. Virtual consultancy is also picking up, as is concierge-driven shopping. The silver lining? “When we have a vaccine, this whole conversation will become irrelevant,” says Tahiliani. Meanwhile, Malhotra expects things to go back to a “new normal” after two seasons. Perhaps our love of weddings could become the reason that the fashion industry recovers faster than expected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plan-b-for-bridal-wear/article31485888.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Beard with me||During the Great Black Plague of London in the 1700s, Isaac Newton, all of 23, quarantined himself in his farmhouse and advanced the principles of Calculus and analysed the light colour spectrum. Today we are proud of banana bread or some idiotic coffee. To be fair, Newton wasn’t plagued by a million inane live videos, support group webinars and mundane web calls to dampen his focus. Nothing scares us more than feeling useless and so usefulness is being sought out in the kinkiest of manners. Some bake, others brew, but all of us, no matter the gender, beard. Having been through the cycle, here are the stages of bearding that one will go through.  1.Lazy : In the beginning, it starts as a harmless two days of shaving/trimming, skipped.  2.Curiosity : Seeing more than a 5 p.m. shade on our faces, one wonders where it could lead to; not women, they panic. In my case, I was curious to see if I could push out hair on my face having clearly failed on my head for decades.  3.Vanity : Now we start imagining ourselves hipsters — aka “the stubble suits me” stage — as we remain confined within our homes, but more so by our illusions of grandeur.  4.Messy : Facial hair, left to grow for the first time unrestrained, explores all directions in defiance of gravity. This is how we got the term ‘scraggly’.  5.Feasibility : By this point, devoid of any other challenges, we peg our will to live to the length of this black wiry fungus.  6.Sagacity : By now, the beard has acquired a certain silhouette, even if not flow or form. It makes us feel that we look wiser. The only wisdom I can shortcut and impart to you here is that it doesn’t.  7.Itchy : The stage name says it all; resting your face on a cushion feels like you just lay down on a pillow made of thorns. It rustles you awake when you turn sides.  8.Acceptability : By now the beard is parasitic; it is feeding off your food. Aka the Soup Strainer, Debris Collector, and if one doesn’t snap out of it and nip it, it spirals downhill fast from here.  9.Incompatibility : Now the beard occupies more of the face than expressions. Your speech sounds muffled and every time you scratch your beard, an ASMR addict somewhere gets excited. Once here, the cycle repeats. The world, unwillingly, gets informed through an Insta update, or if you are feeling excessively useless, a ridiculous TikTok video. Outside of Captain Haddock and that bearded lady from PT Barnum’s motley crew, nobody has ever managed to own a beard as if they were born with it. So tell me how much of a beard you have right now and I will tell you what state of quarantine you are at.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/beard-with-me/article31485890.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Get smart about cinema||Through most of the lockdown, we have been spending a lot of time watching and re-watching our favourite movies and TV shows. One would hope this has led to increased respect for the people who make the magic happen — filmmakers. Here are some online resources for filmmaking students, and others, who want to learning more about the industry and how it works.     Cousins is one of the most followed historians of cinema — his 15-hour documentary series, The Story of Film (2011), is currently streaming on Hulu. He is also the author of several books on the subject, most notably The Story of Looking (2017), hailed by critics as one of the great visual studies texts of the modern era. Recently, he made the extraordinary gesture of putting together a nearly 140-minute lecture for filmmaking students and scholars, called ‘40 Days to Learn Film’, making it freely available on Vimeo. His encyclopedic knowledge of cinema is matched only by the clearly child-like pleasure (the lecture even begins with an image of him as a film-crazy four-year-old) he derives from this endeavour.     The world’s most famous animation studio offers a peek behind the curtain in this video series about the nuts and bolts of making one of their films. Yes, there are a lot of geeky, tech-heavy videos about animation techniques and the math behind them. But there are also simple, effective storytelling lessons, like the one from director Pete Docter ( Monsters Inc. , Inside Out ). He talks about the oft-cited advice — “Write what you know” — explaining how his own passage into fatherhood inspired the making of Monsters Inc . Available as a free online course via Khan Academy.     Over the years, MIT has made many of its courses freely available on their OpenCourseWare site, and this 23-lecture series by Professor David Thorburn of the Film and Media Studies programme is one of them. All supplemental materials, including short clips from the films discussed, are available — bundled into a playlist on YouTube. Thorburn is very effective at drawing meaningful connections between different strands of world cinema. For example, during a lecture on Akira Kurosawa’s Rashomon , he segues into the movie’s linkages with European cinema, which then becomes its own sub-topic.     This three-week online course, offered free of cost, is taught by Michael Lensfield, who teaches at the university’s Literature, Drama and Creative Writing programme as well as the School of Art, Media and American Studies. It is hosted on FutureLearn, and the course uses some super-popular films to illustrate theoretical points about plot trajectory, narrative structure, the dramatic effect and so on. It is very easy to miss the technical aspects of a big blockbuster’s storytelling. For example, there are any number of well-argued academic papers that highlight the link between Russian folklorist Vladimir Propp’s theories and how they apply perfectly to the narrative structure of theHarry Potterbooks/films. This course will help you spot these patterns and apply them to your own work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/get-smart-about-cinema/article31485889.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||Seal inter-State borders, orders Chief Secy.||Chief Secretary Vijay Dev on Friday ordered the sealing of all inter-State borders of the Capital and directed the police to be vigilant to prevent “tensions and conflict” that anti-social elements may attempt to trigger among those stranded in the Capital, especially migrant workers. The order comes after the national lockdown was extended to contain the community spread of the COVID-19. Intelligence inputs had been received that Ministry of Home Affairs directions to allow the movement of stranded individuals such as migrant workers, students and pilgrims among others to return to their respective hometowns may be cited to “incite and provoke” such individuals to “affect devastating consequences” to anti-COVID measures currently in place, he said. “Certain anti-social elements may try to incite and provoke the stranded persons, particularly migrant workers in the undesirable hope of creating some tensions and conflict besides attempting to violate the lockdown measures...make all out efforts...to prevent any such unlawful assembly and movement of persons...,” the order addressed to the Delhi Police Commissioner and officials in charge of government districts read. After the first lockdown A mass exodus of migrant workers had taken place across the country after the imposition of the first lockdown with scenes from east Delhi’s Anand Vihar ISBT presenting what Delhi government officials admit was among the most grave of visuals in this respect. Similar instances, in addition to clashes between workers and police in some cases, were reported from Gujarat; workers had also taken to the streets of Mumbai earlier this month. In addition to setting up pickets in areas populated significantly by migrant workers, the order directed that the police also needed to ensure that goods carriers were not engaging in their illegal transportation. “The inter-State borders must be completely sealed and a strict vigil should be maintained on inter-State goods carriers too...no movement of such stranded persons should be allowed at the inter-State borders without following protocol prescribed by the MHA...” the order stated. Mr. Dev also directed that the police act on intelligence inputs regarding movement of migrant labourers and impound vehicles illegally transporting them. In a related development, the Chief Secretary appointed each of the 10 District Magistrates as nodal officers in charge of reaching out to the Resident Commissioners of various States regarding the movement of their residents back home.  The inter-State borders must be completely sealed and a strict vigil should be maintained on inter-State goods carriers too... no movement of such stranded persons should also be allowed Vijay Dev Chief Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/seal-inter-state-borders-orders-chief-secy/article31485884.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||When a public toilet serves as ‘home’||Gautam Kumar is sitting on a plastic chair outside a cubicle that has the word ‘store’ written on it. Inside it, there is a stove and bedsheet. Some of his belongings are scattered around. What separates this setup from common scenarios of most migrant workers in the city, is that this is a public toilet. For Gautam, this toilet — next to Hazrat Nizamuddin police station and barely a few metres from the centre where members of the Tablighi Jamaat were evacuated — has been his ‘home’ since the first day of the lockdown. Gautam, who is from Bihar’s Jehanabad, had come to Delhi on March 20, leaving his wife and two minor sons back home, to work as a caretaker of the public convenience where he is staying now. However, for him, things changed when the lockdown was announced. ‘They closed the toilet’ “I was here when they took everyone from inside the [Nizamuddin] centre in a queue. I watched everything. They had closed the toilet that day. I stayed inside the toilet the whole day and have been stuck here since then,” he said. He added that the toilet is not open to the public but only to security personnel deployed here. A municipal corporation worker comes in the morning to clean. “No one else is allowed inside,” he said. The 30-year-old said his afternoon meal is managed with the help of CRPF officials, who share their lunch with him. For dinner, Gautam mostly cooks rice and pulses in the same space where officials relieve themselves. “Cooking here doesn’t feel right but what option do I have?” said Gautam. His contractor provides him ration. Inside the toilet, the ceiling fan has not been functional ever since Gautam came, he said. “There is electricity but the fan isn’t working. I never asked anyone to fix it, as I know no one will do,” he said. He said the reason he is staying inside the toilet is because he doesn’t have his immediate family here and doesn’t wish to visit his cousin in Nehru Place due to pandemic fear. “There is nothing better than staying alone, more so because I have been in Nizamuddin. Once I thought I will go but then I couldn’t have walked all the way,” he said. Gautam is now waiting for the lockdown to end so that he can go home. “If the toilet opens for the public, I will stay. Otherwise, I will just board a bus to Bihar,” he said.  If the toilet opens for the public [after the lockdown], I will stay. Otherwise, I will just board a bus to Bihar Gautam Kumar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/when-a-public-toilet-serves-as-home/article31485877.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Leverage technology to overcome academic losses, CM tells V-Cs||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in a meeting with Vice-Chancellors of the universities under the government on Friday asked them to proactively use technology to revive the academic losses due to lockdown. In the meeting, also attended by Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia, it was discussed how the universities are planning the admission process of the upcoming academic session, the action plan of the universities to conduct the pending examinations and about the start of the next academic session. It was decided that arrangements would be made to conduct online examinations so that students do not lose academic time, the government said. Mr. Kejriwal said: “The government will provide all possible help to the universities in this extraordinary time. In this situation, universities should use the technology more proactivelyto recover the academic losses due to the pandemic. Social distancing is the key to fight this pandemic, therefore, every university should plan the academic sessions and running of the universities keeping in mind the social distancing norms.” The V-Cs were told to ensure that those students who have got a placement but still have examinations pending be issued a provisional degree certificate so that they do not face any problem in joining their companies once the lockdown is lifted. Mr. Sisodia sought suggestions from the business faculty and department at the universities on what steps should be taken to revive Delhi’s economy in the post-COVID-19 lockdown phase. The meeting was attended by the V-Cs of GGSIPU, DTU, NSIT, Ambedkar University, IGDTUW, NLU, DIPSRU and Director of IIT-Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/leverage-technology-to-overcome-academic-losses-cm-tells-v-cs/article31485875.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||First chargesheet filed in Delhi riots case||The police on Friday filed the first chargesheet in connection with the riots that broke out in north-east Delhi in February this year. A senior police officer said the chargesheet was submitted in Karkardooma Court on an FIR lodged under IPC Sections of rioting, attempt to murder, obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions and Arms Act at the Jafrabad police station. The main accused, Shahrukh Pathan, had allegedly opened fire at head constable Deepak Dahiya and others during the riots on February 24. “Shahrukh was arrested on March 3. He was the first person to be arrested in the riot cases,” said the officer. During investigation, Kaleem Ahmad, a resident of Kairana in U.P. who had given shelter to Shahrukh, was also arrested. The chargesheet has been filed against Shahrukh, Kaleem, and Ishtiyak Mallik, a resident of Ghonda. “We had recovered the weapon of offence, a 7.65 mm pistol and two live rounds, from Shahrukh,” the officer said, adding that other cases are in the last phase of investigation and more chargesheets will be filed soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/first-chargesheet-filed-in-delhi-riots-case/article31485879.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘JNU lacking in taking decisions’||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union (JNUSU) on Friday said while the university administration was conducting an online seminar on the topic — Leadership Lessons from Ramayana — it felt that the administration’s leadership was lacking when taking decisions regarding JNU. It said the administration was taking decisions without involving all stakeholders of the university. “The JNU administration conducted an Academic Council meeting recently in the online mode and the agenda was the future of the lost academic period. Shamefully, no suggestions were taken from the elected JNUSU as the representatives of the stakeholders — the students who are going to be most affected,” the union said. “We definitely hope that wherever the JNU administration and the Vice-Chancellor are deriving their ‘leadership prowess’ from, it helps them to focus on the issues faced by the students and workers employed in JNU. Because up till now there has been a failure of leadership on issues of a serious nature,” it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-lacking-in-taking-decisions/article31485881.ece
02 May 2020||New Delhi,||CAIT appeals for opening of non-essential stores||The Confederation of All India Traders on Friday appealed for the re-opening of non-essential shops in the evening irrespective of their location. CAIT general-secretary Praveen Khandelwal said even though traders had expected the lockdown to be lifted, the decision is respected. However, millions of retailers “are facing severe financial issues and are on the verge of collapse. Even the existing inventory is unprotected and the quality is fast deteriorating. Cases of theft have also risen in unprotected and unguarded markets”, he said. The group appealed that shops selling non-essential goods be allowed to operate irrespective of their locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cait-appeals-for-opening-of-non-essential-stores/article31485880.ece
02 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NRAI launches scheme to help restaurants||To help restaurant tide over the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the National Restaurants Association of India has launched a scheme by which patrons can support restaurants by buying “virtual cash” that they can redeem when restaurants open. The effort is aimed at providing immediate relief to over seven million people employed in the food and beverage sector who have been impacted due to the lockdown. Customers can avail the scheme onhttps://r4r.nrai.org/.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nrai-launches-scheme-to-help-restaurants/article31485886.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Costume parties: First, we had to wear pillows but make it fashionable. Then, people were recreating iconic Met Gala looks: including Katy Perry’s 2019 chandelier dress. Closer home, stylist Spardha Malik (@spardhamalik) is inviting everyone to a #CostumePartyWithS. Every Saturday, she picks a theme (Disco, Birds of Paradise, and Maharajas and Maharanis of India have been featured so far). All you have to do is dress up and show up on Instagram!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article31485891.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Click for rewards||For photographers looking for inspiration, Life Framer has two themes open for entry: Colours and Youthhood. Interpret them as literally or as playfully as you want, from portraits and travel adventures to landscapes and still life. On life-framer.com. The debut Eyewin Awards, curated by photographer Manoj Aryan, is now open for submissions. Prizes worth Rs. 3 lakh and above per category are to be won. Last date for entries is May 19. Details and registration on eyewinawards.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/click-for-rewards/article31485892.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||A family matter||Earlier this week, playwright Richard Nelson brought back the Apple family in the context of the current Covid-19 situation in a new play, What Do We Need to Talk About?: Conversations on Zoom . The virtual stage reunited the original cast to play the four siblings who discuss relevant topics around the dinner table. Only this time, they were videoconferencing. While the live stream took place on April 29, an edited version is available for streaming on YouTube and publictheater.org till May 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-family-matter/article31485893.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Let’s talk literature||Jaipur Literature Festival’s online edition (@jlflitfest) features multiple sessions this weekend. Today, playwright Peter Morgan talks to filmmaker Ritesh Batra about Netflix’s The Crown at 7.30 pm, followed by Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw in conversation with Samanth Subramanian on healthcare and life sciences at 9 pm. Tomorrow, Roger Highfield will talk about the different dimensions of the pandemic at 7.30 pm. At 9 pm, TM Krishna will discuss his latest book, Sebastian & Sons , with Maya Mirchandani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lets-talk-literature/article31485894.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||We Are One: A Global Film Festival: The excitement is mounting for this 10-day virtual festival. It will bring this year's film festival submissions — from Berlin, Cannes, Sundance, Toronto and Tribeca, among others — straight to your home. While the lineup is yet to be revealed, features, shorts, documentaries, comedies and conversations will be included. From May 29 to June 7 on YouTube.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article31485895.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Music from quarantine||Mumbai-based singer-songwriter Maalavika Manoj aka Mali, has released a haunting music video for her new single, ‘Age of Limbo’. Crowdsourced footage of empty streets from 12 countries and 15 cities can be seen in the lyric video, which is now available on YouTube. Other tunes from the lockdown include UK rapper Lady Leshurr’s ‘Quarantine Speech’. In the video, she puts on a hazmat suit and wanders around her apartment venting all of her social distancing frustrations — filmed and edited on an iPhone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/music-from-quarantine/article31485896.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Shop for a cause||Labels Kresha Bajaj and Papa Don’t Preach have started a joint initiative called Care for Karigars, to support their craftspeople. While Bajaj has created a limited-edition cape, PDP’s is an embroidered belt bag — each priced at Rs. 5,000. All proceeds will be donated to the karigars . Chennai-based brand, Hastha, has designed a T-shirt with the Sanskrit slogan Lokah Samastah Sukhino Bhavantu — ‘May all beings be happy and free’ — available for pre-order at Rs. 500. Proceeds will go towards India Fellow’s Covid Relief.9940020264||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shop-for-a-cause/article31485897.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||Staying Zen in a pandemic||Susan Hopkinson teaches Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction in an eight-week online course. Classes will be held every Sunday, starting with an introductory session on May 3. At Rs. 8,000. WhatsApp 9717085369 to register. On a budget? Canadian author and meditation teacher, Jeff Warren, invites people to join in a free live session where you can meditate or simply stare into space. Aptly called the Do Nothing Project, it is available on YouTube at 5.30 am on Sundays and 9.30 pm on Wednesdays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/staying-zen-in-a-pandemic/article31485898.ece
02 May 2020||May 02 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Today at 6 pm, actor Taapsee Pannu shares her favourite women characters in pop culture. On @the_hindu. And @thehinduweekend, tune in to talk luxury retail 101 with Tina Tahiliani Parikh, of multi-brand boutique, Ensemble. Today at 4 pm. On Sunday, author Daniel Handler aka Lemony Snicket, of A Series of Unfortunate Events fame, and his illustrator wife, Lisa Brown, will join in from California to read from Goldfish Ghost and share a lesson on drawing their goldfish, (@the_hindu) at 7.30 pm. For children above nine and adults.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdownwithweekend/article31485899.ece
