03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||2,411 cases recorded in highest single-day spike; toll now 1,223||India, on Saturday, recorded the biggest single-day jump of 2,411 COVID-19 cases, taking the total number to 37,776, according to data released by the Union Health Ministry. This is the largest rise in cases since January, when the infection was first detected in India. With 71 more deaths, the death toll has gone up to 1,223. India currently has 26,535 active COVID-19 cases, and 10,017 patients have recovered. “In the last 24 hours, more than 1,061 patients were cured. This takes our total recovery rate to 26.65%,” added the Ministry. Data from the State Health Departments put the total number of cases at 39,435, of which 27,534 are active ones. The number of fatalities stood at 1,316. With 790 new cases, the number of cases in Maharashtra reached 12,296. Mumbai accounted for 547 of the cases. The death toll in the State rose to 521, with 27 deaths in Mumbai and nine in other parts of the State. Gujarat reported 26 deaths, the highest number of fatalities in a single day so far, taking the over all toll to 262. With 333 new cases, most of them in Ahmedabad, the tally in the State rose to 5,054, an official said. 419 labs India crossed the million-mark for conducting RT-PCR tests, with the Indian Council of Medical Research now having ramped up testing to more than 75,000 samples per day. “Currently, there are 419 labs testing for coronavirus in the country. There are currently 14 mentor institutions, including AIIMS, PGI Chandigarh, CMC Vellore, JIPMER Puducherry, and SGPIMS Lucknow, who are hand-holding several medical colleges/ labs/ hospitals in carrying out tests. There are 15 institutions spread in the country working as depots for supplying testing kits/ material to these labs,” a senior government source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/2411-cases-recorded-in-highest-single-day-spike-toll-now-1223/article31492737.ece
03 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||CM orders 1 lakh hospital beds to be readied||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered officials to make at least one lakh hospital beds ready to tackle a possible rise in COVID infections as people stranded in foreign countries and other States are heading home, subject to certain relaxations given by the Central government. He also wanted quarantine facilities to be provided in village secretariats for 10 to 15 persons and at least 500 RTC buses (equipped with freezers) to be arranged for transporting essential commodities. At a meeting on Saturday, Mr. Reddy said doctors, auxiliary nurse midwives and accredited social health activists should be posted within the reach of the people. He said guidelines and standard operating procedures laid down by the Centre should be clearly communicated so that social distancing and other norms would be followed scrupulously. Officials told the Chief Minister that the number of tests done per million population had reached 2,030 and the positivity rate stood at 1.41% against the national average of 3.82%. Assistance to farmers Mr. Reddy instructed officials to make Rythu Bharosa centres functional by May 30 and to work out the modalities for setting up agriculture advisory boards at the village, mandal and State level. Officials said arrangements had been done for paying financial assistance to fishermen under the Matsyakara Bharosa scheme on May 6. They said priority was attached to procurement of various crops. Ministers Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas and K. Kanna Babu, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP Gautam Sawang and Agriculture Mission vice-chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ap-to-ready-1-lakh-hospital-beds-to-tackle-a-rise-in-cases/article31492728.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||41 people in one building test positive for COVID-19||Forty-one people living in a building in Kapashera in south-west Delhi tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The building was declared a containment zone on April 19, a day after one COVID-19-positive case was detected there. “A total of 175 samples were collected on April 20 and 22 of all the residents in the building and sent to NIB (National Institute of Biologicals), Noida. Sixty-seven reports have come today (Saturday), out of which 41 are positive,” said a Delhi government official, adding that most inhabitants of the building are migrant workers. Delayed results “The tests were conducted 13 days ago but the results were delayed due to issues of blockade at the Delhi-Noida border and the backlog at NIB, Noida. As all the individuals are asymptomatic and results are 13 days old, the [South West] district administration is conducting retests on Sunday and Monday to assess the present status of all positive cases,” the official said. According to the guidelines, an area is declared a containment zone when there are at least three positive cases. The South West district administration took the proactive decision of sealing and containing the Kapashera building even when only one case was reported on April 18 as there were a lot of people living in it, said an official. “First, a woman tested positive on April 18. As it was a small building and people were sharing toilets, we decided to seal the building. Since then, all of them have been restricted to the building and because of this, the spread of the virus has been contained to the premises,” said Rahul Singh, District Magistrate (South West). Mr. Singh said medical teams are present at the spot round-the-clock and the condition of everyone in the building is stable. Last month, the private secretary of Mr. Singh had tested positive for COVID-19, prompting the District Magistrate to go into self-isolation. Mr. Singh himself has tested negative for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/41-people-in-one-building-test-positive-for-covid-19/article31492921.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||17 more test positive in TS||As Telangana completed two months since the reporting of the first COVID-19 case on Saturday, one more person died of the virus, taking the toll to 29. It was on March 2 that the first case was detected in State. The total number of cases touched 1,061 as 17 more cases were reported on Saturday; 34 were discharged. Of the 17 who tested positive, 15 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits, and two from neighbouring Rangareddy district. Of the 1,061 cases, 533 are active and 499 have been discharged so far. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said 16 districts haven’t reported any positive cases in the past 14 days. The maximum cases in the State are among youth and lowest among children. Around 67% cases — 705 out of 1,061 cases — were among males. The highest of 21% cases were detected among people in the 21-30 age bracket, followed by 19% in 31-40 age group. Only 2% was detected among people aged between 71 and 80 years. However, Dr Rao has appealed to senior citizens to stay indoors, and take regular medication for conditions such as diabetes and hypertension.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/17-more-test-positive-in-ts/article31492970.ece
03 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State in action mode for next stage of COVID fight||As the State prepares to battle the next stage of COVID-19 when the disease transmission pattern could change drastically with the homecoming of lakhs of Non-Resident Indians(NRIs), the focus of disease containment strategy should be on giving special care and attention to protecting the elderly and those with chronic diseases. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, briefing media here on Saturday, said to face the next stage of disease transmission, the health system would have to function in a decentralised manner and fully engage the capacity of the private health sector at the grassroots. He said it was society’s responsibility to ensure that senior citizens and those with chronic diseases were protected. The elderly and the sick should be made to understand their vulnerability and asked to stay at home. Mr. Vijayan said monitoring committees were being set up to ensure the welfare of this vulnerable group. They would keep an eye on the NRIs who would be put in home quarantine when they returned to ensure that norms were not violated. Mr. Vijayan said that telemedicine facilities and home visits with the help of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and mobile clinics could be organised through primary health centres in every locality. The district medical officer will be in charge of preparing the details of the plan. Two new COVID-19 case Wayanad district reported a lone case on Saturday after a gap of nearly a month, taking the State health administration totally by surprise. Kannur also reported a case, taking the State’s tally to 499. The case in Wayanad is that of a person who had travelled from Chennai, while the one in Kannur is that of a person who had contracted the disease through contact. Eight persons got on the recovery list, taking the number of recovery to 400. Only 96 persons are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals. The number of those under surveillance is 21,894, of whom, 410 are in isolation in hospitals and the rest, in home quarantine. The State has tested 31,183 samples so far, of which 30,358 have returned a negative result. Of the 2,093 samples which were collected from priority groups as part of sentinel surveillance studies, 1,234 gave a negative result.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-in-action-mode-for-next-stage-of-covid-fight/article31493030.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||Majority of curbs lifted in orange zones||A day after the nationwide lockdown was extended till May 17 and major relaxations were allowed, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) clarified on Saturday that taxis would be permitted with two passengers. Inter-district movement of vehicles are allowed only for permitted activities with a maximum of two passengers. Other than these, all activities are allowed without any restriction in the orange zones. Also, e-commerce could be used for the delivery of essential and non-essential products in districts designated as green and orange zones. In red zones, e-commerce can only be used for the delivery of essential items, an MHA official said. Salons, liquor shops In another significant addition, the official said barbers and salons could also open in orange and green zones. Liquor shops could open in all zones, except containment areas. In urban areas, liquor shops that are not in market complexes and malls could open everywhere. Regarding the entry of domestic helps, electricians, plumbers and others, the official said Residents Welfare Association (RWAs) in all zones, except containment areas, should take a call “by keeping health protocols in mind”. “In case of any mishappening, the responsibility lies with the person allowing the outsiders in their homes,” said the official. Public transport was still barred, except in green zones where buses have been allowed to ply with 50% capacity. MHA also issued a separate clarification for orange zones where it said that “inter-district and intra-district plying of buses remains prohibited.” According to the guidelines issued on Friday, buses were allowed only in green zones with a 50% cap. “However, States and Union territories based on their assessment and priorities, may choose to permit a lesser number of activities,” MHA said. Green zones are districts with either zero confirmed cases till date; or, no confirmed case in the last 21 days. Red zones are defined based on the total number of active cases, doubling rate of confirmed cases, extent of testing and surveillance feedback from the districts. The districts, which are neither defined as red nor green, shall be classified as orange zones. According to the Health Ministry’s classification, there are 130 red zone districts, 284 orange zone districts and 319 green zone districts in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/majority-of-curbs-lifted-in-orange-zones/article31492741.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. Cabinet eases lockdown norms in large parts of State||A day after the Central government extended the country-wide lockdown till May 17, the State Cabinet decided to follow suit. It, however, announced relaxations in non-containment zones of the State by permitting a re-commencement of key infrastructure activities and reopening of special economic zones and export-oriented units/export units with restrictions. These decisions, among others, were taken by the Cabinet, which met for two-and-a-half hours at the Secretariat. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam were among those present. As soon as the meeting began at about 11 a.m., Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and Health Secretary Beela Rajesh gave an elaborate account of the prevalence of COVID-19 in the State. Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) S. Krishnan, who submitted preliminary recommendations of his committee to the Chief Minister on Friday, was also present. Given the fact that the State had, till recently, one green zone (Krishnagiri), 24 orange zones and 12 red zones, the Cabinet did not have much scope for extending relaxations, pointed out a senior official. What it did was to peruse the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs, issued at different points of time in April and the latest one on May 1, before taking the decisions. There were only “marginal differences” between the conditions for red and orange zones. However, as the State government did not completely act on the MHA’s notifications of April 15 and 16 with regard to allowing a number of economic activities, it had now decided to give effect to most of the revised guidelines. Among the non-containment zones, the Cabinet distinguished between those falling under the jurisdiction of the Greater Chennai Police and those in the remaining areas of the State. Compared to the Chennai region where the number of cases was on the rise, it chose to give more relaxations for the rest of the State. For example, in respect of the IT/ITeS sector, the permitted quantum of staff strength is 10% for firms in and around Chennai, while it is 50% in other parts of the State. The Cabinet took a conscious decision of treating the textile sector cautiously as it received feedback from Ministers of the western belt that the scope was “limited” for adherence to norms of personal distancing at mills. With regard to infrastructure or road works, the Cabinet’s recommendation was that the services of locally available labour should be utilised. “We cannot go on with the present state for months together as the livelihood opportunities of a large number of the poor are at stake,” pointed out Mr. Shanmugam. Another official said that “to the extent possible”, the government had struck a balance between social and economic goals. Asked about the continued denial of permission for salons and beauty parlours, the official replied that given the nature of service to be rendered to customers, the chances were extremely limited for adhering to the norms on personal distancing. Besides, the Centre itself had included “barber shops, spas and salons” in the list of prohibited activities for red zones. Pointing out that more focus would be paid to containment zones, Mr. Shanmugam said that the government had also felt that there was no point in penalising the remaining parts of the State. As the period of “broader lockdown” was nearing its end, the government would hereafter have to go for “localised lockdowns” to ensure that the pandemic did not spread. About arrangements for getting e-passes for household helps, the Chief Secretary said that a provision would shortly be made on the system and the passes would be issued by the Corporation Commissioner in Chennai and Collectors in other districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-cabinet-eases-lockdown-norms-in-large-parts-of-state/article31492837.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Two more deaths in Karnataka||Two COVID-19 deaths were reported in Karnataka on Saturday, taking the total to 25, even as the number of positive cases crossed 600. Twelve new cases were reported in the State on Saturday, adding up to 601 in all so far. Both the patients who passed away had co-morbidities. A 63-year-old man, who was a resident of Bengaluru, had a history of diabetes, hypertension, hypothyroidism, renal failure, and multiple myeloma. An 82-year-old patient from Bidar, who died on April 28, was confirmed as COVID-19 positive on Saturday. Among the 12 new cases reported in the State, four were from Bengaluru Urban, two each from Tumakuru and Vijayapura. One case each has been reported from Bidar, Chickballapur, Belagavi, and Bagalkot. While one patient is found to have Severe Acute Respiratory Infection, all others were contacts of positive patients.  Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that the number of positive cases reported since 26 April stood at 101, while the number of discharged during the same duration is 113. “So, on an average, the number of those discharged is 16 per day while the number of new cases reported is 14 per day,” he said. According to a media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 45 per cent of the 601 patients tested positive in Karnataka have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-more-deaths-in-karnataka/article31492796.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||11 members of family contract COVID, 2 die||Authorities went on a high alert after learning that 11 members of a Saroornagar businessman’s family, who operates from Mahbubgunj contracted COVID-19. Two of them, the businessman’s father and a sibling, died of the virus three days ago. The remaining nine members of the family are currently undergoing treatment. The trader’s father was above 60 years and his deceased brother was reportedly obese, police sources said. Suspected source Though the persons through whom the businessman contracted the virus are yet to be identified, all his primary and secondary contacts were quarantined. It is suspected that the trader got the infection from workers in Mahbubgunj, where he runs grocery business. Unaware of having contracted the virus, the middle-aged businessman visited the Vanasthalipuram residence of his younger brother where his parents also stay . “His younger brother, sister-in-law, their two children and both parents contracted the virus,” a police officer monitoring the situation said. The trader first got tested at a local hospital after he developed fever. As the fever persisted, he went to another hospital before being referred to government hospital where he tested COVID-positive. Before being admitted to hospital, the trader had also visited his sister’s house in Sri Krishna Devaraya Nagar. She and her son too tested positive for the virus. Meanwhile, his father sustained injury when he fell in the house and was shifted to Gandhi Hospital. While undergoing treatment, he died. Swab tests conducted confirmed that he died of COVID-19, the police officer said. The trader’s younger brother, who was reportedly obese, too was shifted to hospital after he developed COVID-19 symptoms. He died while undergoing treatment a couple of days ago. Alerted by the two deaths in the family, authorities quarantined all primary and secondary contacts of the family. It is reported that closure of Mahbub Gunj was a consequence of the trader operating from there getting infected with the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/11-members-of-family-contract-covid-2-die/article31492971.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Liquor sale to start tomorrow in State||The cash-strapped State government, which relies heavily on Excise revenue, has permitted the opening of all standalone liquor shops across the State, except in COVID-19 containment zones, from Monday between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. However, clubs, bars and restaurants will remained closed till May 17. Shops located in supermarkets and malls too will remain closed till May 17. An order issued by the Excise Commissioner said that ‘CL-2’ and ‘CL-11 C’ category shops will be allowed to open all over the State, except in containment zones in urban areas. Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Limited (KSBCL) depots will be opened to supply alcohol to standalone outlets. The Union government’s guidelines issued on Friday permitted State governments to take decisions on the opening of liquor outlets from May 4. Buyers of alcohol have to maintain a social distance of six feet and only five persons will be allowed inside the shop at a time. Consumers have to mandatorily wear masks and shops should be fully sanitised. However, there will be no limit in the quantum of liquor to be bought. Excise Minister H. Nagesh said the police and Excise officials will keep tabs on the shops and impose fines for violations.  In tune with the Centre’s guidelines, the State government on Saturday instructed all Deputy Commissioners to grant permission to allow business and industrial activities in their districts, outside the containment zones of COVID-19, from Monday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa held a videoconference with DCs and discussed various issues related to the partial relaxation of lockdown norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/liquor-sale-to-start-tomorrow-in-state/article31492795.ece
03 May 2020||Bhopal,||Despair packs them into a concrete mixer truck||Desperate to return home, four drivers took turns crawling into the steel drum of a concrete mixer truck as they set out on a 1,380 km ride to Uttar Pradesh. They left Mumbai on International Workers’ Day on May 1, after battling hunger and with virtually no money after being denied wages for three months. “The heat inside was more bearable than the hunger,” said Manoj Yadav. On the way, they picked up 14 others trudging back home. While most of the others planned to get a ride to Gorakhpur district, Mr. Yadav hoped to disembark in Lucknow and walk to his home in Prayagraj, 200 km away. On the outskirts of Indore, Madhya Pradesh, a policeman caught sight of a head popping out from an opening on the side of the truck’s drum. “We have taken them to a quarantine centre, where they have been screened and given food,” said Sunil Yadav, in-charge of the Sanwer police station. The police booked the driver for disobeying the lockdown. The drivers had given up hope of the lockdown ever being lifted. “They said it would be lifted on April 14, but it has not ended. We couldn’t wait for something that was never going to end,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/despair-packs-them-into-a-concrete-mixer-truck/article31492739.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||States scrape the barrel as revenues dry up||The nationwide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19 has left the finances of the State governments in a precarious position. States have to depend on the Centre for devolution of funds under various heads. Revenues from own taxes account for just under half of the total revenues of the States, according to a Reserve Bank of India study; central transfers account for 47.5%. Of the own tax revenues, 90% comes from taxes on liquor, petroleum products, stamp duty and registration of vehicles. All of these are now under strain. There have been no new vehicle and property registrations since the lockdown began and also no sale of liquor. Petroleum sales have dropped by about half. Resultantly, own tax revenues of the States have plunged by 80-90%.. Meanwhile, they have been called upon to spend more to ease the burden on the poor with direct cash transfers to the needy and on beefing up health infrastructure, apart from the expenses on testing, quarantining and treating of patients. Entreaties to the Centre to hasten the transfer of GST compensation, increase fiscal deficit limits from 3% to 4.5-5% and for higher ways and means advances (WMA) limits have all fallen on deaf ears till now. The RBI did increase the WMA limit but that is not adequate. In this backdrop, we will be running a series of reports on the finances of the major States over the next few days. We begin with Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/states-scrape-the-barrel-as-revenues-dry-up/article31492748.ece
03 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State crosses the 1,500-mark||The State has reported 62 new COVID-19 positive cases in the past 24 hours taking the tally to 1,525. It has so far conducted 1,08,403 tests, putting the positivity rate at 1.40%, death rate at 2.16% and recovery rate at 29%. Thirty-eight patients recovered during the period and no new deaths were reported. Currently, the State has 1,051 active patients. While 33 patients died, 441 persons recovered so far. Most of the new cases were reported in Kurnool (25), followed by Krishna (12). Nellore reported six cases and Anantapur, Visakahapatnam and Kadapa reported four each. While East Godavari reported three cases, Guntur reported two cases and Prakasam and West Godavari one case each. As of Saturday, Kurnool reported 436 cases while Guntur reported 308 cases, Krishna reported 258 cases and Nellore 90. They are followed by Kadapa (83), Chittoor (80), Anantapur (71), Prakasam (61), West Godavari (59), East Godavari (45), Visakhapatnam (29) and Srikakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-crosses-the-1500-mark/article31492746.ece
03 May 2020||new delhi,||Delhi records 384 cases, biggest jump in one day||Three more deaths and 384 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Saturday, taking the toll of dead to 64 and the total cases to 4,122. This the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases in the city so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/delhi-records-384-cases-biggest-jump-in-one-day/article31492918.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Minorities panel chief charged with sedition||The Special Cell of Delhi Police on Saturday registered an FIR against Delhi Minorities Commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan on charges of sedition after he allegedly made a “provocative” Facebook post for which he later apologised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/minorities-panel-chief-charged-with-sedition/article31492919.ece
03 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Cong. to file case against 7 Manipur legislators||The Congress has decided to file a case against seven of its MLAs who have been supporting the BJP-led government in Manipur. After their election in 2017, the seven MLAs, along with former Minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar, helped the BJP form the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cong-to-file-case-against-7-manipur-legislators/article31492922.ece
03 May 2020||Chennai,||Containment zones in city being redrawn||Civic officials on Saturday started redrawing the boundaries of containment zones to reduce hardship of residents and to facilitate effective implementation of disinfection drive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/containment-zones-in-city-being-redrawn/article31492835.ece
03 May 2020||Erode,||Trucks denied entry into Erode||Following the decision taken by the administration not to allow lorries carrying essential commodities from other districts and other States to enter the district, trucks were denied entry at the inter-district check-posts here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/trucks-denied-entry-into-erode/article31492877.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Crowds throng Majestic to find a bus home||Majestic witnessed chaotic scenes on Saturday as hundreds of frustrated labourers gathered there desperate to catch a bus to their home towns. A large number of them were accompanied by their families and had children with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/crowds-throng-majestic-to-find-a-bus-home/article31492798.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Hubballi violence: HC grants bail to six women||The High Court has imposed a unique condition while granting bail to six women who are accused of pelting stones at the police in Hubballi, asking them not to step out of their houses till the government lifts the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hubballi-violence-hc-grants-bail-to-six-women/article31492800.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. orders audit of inventory in liquor shops||Amidst complaints of bootlegging, sale of liquor at premium, and a number of thefts, the State government has ordered the audit of inventory of nearly 10,000 liquor vending outlets in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-orders-audit-of-inventory-in-liquor-shops/article31492799.ece
03 May 2020||Chennai,||Koyambedu market emerges a hotspot||The Koyambedu market has turned into a COVID-19 hotspot in the State. Not just Chennai, but at least six more districts have witnessed a spillover of cases from the cluster. The city’s neighbouring districts have stepped up surveillance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/koyambedu-market-emerges-a-hotspot/article31492833.ece
03 May 2020||Chennai,||Hospitals prepare to shift asymptomatic patients||As cases of COVID-19 continue to surge in the city, government hospitals have begun making alternative arrangements to accommodate patients. The Government Stanley Medical College Hospital transferred some asymptomatic patients to a quarantine facility on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hospitals-ready-to-shift-asymptomatic-patients/article31492834.ece
03 May 2020||Chennai,||Special train riders to pay an additional Rs. 50||The Railways will charge Rs. 50 extra from passengers taking special trains operated between various States. It is applicable to all special trains to be operated in the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/special-train-riders-to-pay-an-additional-rs-50/article31493081.ece
03 May 2020||Chennai,||Pandemic jolts prudent T.N.’s calculations||For a State that gets around 60% of its funds from its own tax revenue, the lockdown has been harsh on Tamil Nadu. Going by a general yardstick, the State’s own tax revenue (SOTR) yields an average Rs. 10,000 crore a month. “Of this, we may realise a mere 10% or a maximum of 20% in April, the first full month after the imposition of the country-wide lockdown since March 25,” says an official of the State Finance Department. A ban on alcohol and the slump in the sale of petroleum products in particular have hit finances hard as the two components account for nearly 50% of the SOTR. No registrations The contribution through two other components — registration of vehicles and immoveable properties — has been virtually nil. The property registration was allowed to resume a few weeks ago but the response has been tepid. The woes have been compounded by the Centre’s announcement that the contributions to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund of States would not qualify to be treated under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) expenditure for COVID-19. Even as it is struggling to earn a modest share of its budgeted revenue, the Tamil Nadu government has gone ahead with the implementation of a relief package of Rs. 3,280 crore for people hit by the impact of the COVID-19. Besides, migrant workers and workers in the unorganised sector, including autorickshaw drivers, are being given monetary and material support. Simultaneously, the State has been investing in putting in place the required health infrastructure. All these have left the State government with only two options — borrowing and getting as much funds as possible from the Central government. “We have already borrowed Rs. 8,000 crore in the last one month,” said the official. For the current year, the government’s original plan, formulated during the pre COVID-19 period, was to borrow about Rs. 83,350 crore, keeping the net borrowing well within the permissible limit at around Rs. 59,209 crore. Plea to hike limits But post the outbreak, Tamil Nadu, whose general track record is one of sticking to stipulated fiscal indicators and not availing of the ways and means advances (WMA) from the RBI despite posting a revenue deficit, has been pressing the Centre to increase the fiscal deficit limit of 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product to 4.5% for 2020-21. It has urged the Centre to allow it this year to go for additional borrowing of 33% above the previous year’s level. Apart from demanding that the recently enhanced WMA limit be doubled, Tamil Nadu has suggested that this year’s advances be made interest-free. Besides, the State has also requested the Union government to immediately release 50% of grants recommended by the 15th Finance Commission for local bodies; a special grant of Rs. 1lakh crore for all States, including Rs. 9,000 crore for Tamil Nadu; Rs. 3,000 crore for the augmentation and strengthening of health infrastructure; Rs. 1,321 crore towards custom milled rice subsidy for paddy procurement and an ad-hoc grant of Rs. 1,000 crore from the National Disaster Response Fund (NDRF) to procure medical and protective material. Even though the State’s needs and expenditure are increasing, the nearly Rs. 6,420 crore released by New Delhi for a host of purposes has come as a breather. The amount includes the first instalment of the State’s share in Central pool of taxes (Rs. 1,928.56 crore) and that of revenue deficit grant (Rs. 402.5 crore); GST compensation for December 2019 -January 2020 of Rs. 1,369 crore, apart from Rs. 510 crore from the State Disaster Response Fund and Rs. 312 crore under the National Rural Health Mission. Veteran policy makers say that given the sweep and nature of the COVID-19, the Centre should declare it a “national disaster” and liberally assist the States through the NDRF also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pandemic-jolts-prudent-tns-calculations/article31492669.ece
03 May 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal govt. in data cover-up operation, says Governor||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Saturday asked Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to share data relating to COVID-19 “transparently”. He alleged that the government was engaged in a “COVID-19 data cover-up operation”. The Trinamool Congress leadership criticised the Governor for his remarks. The Governor took to Twitter to share images of a letter said to have been written by Principal Secretary, Health Department, Vivek Kumar to the Centre on April 30 that contained district-wise numbers of COVID-19 cases. In addition to all the cases mentioned in the letter, the number of total cases in the State stands at 931. The bulletin released on April 30 states that the number of “active cases” is 572. Mr. Dhankhar asked why the bulletin on May 1 was not released. “Give up ‘Covid-19 data cover up operation’ @MamataOfficial and share it transparently. Health bulletin 30/4 No of Active Covid cases 572. No health bulletin on May 1!! Information to central Government No of cases 931,” (on April 30), his tweet read. “Gap between 572 and 931 not reconcilable even if recovered/dead r [are] considered... For way forward @MamataOfficial withdraw ‘political parties r [are] vultures in wait of dead bodies’ and take all on board,” he stated. Hours later, a letter, without the signature of any State official, was made public by officials. It was a reply to the Governor’s letter to Ms. Banerjee on April 24. Saturday’s letter stated that the tone of the Governor to the Chief Minister was “unprecedented in the annals of Indian political history.” Trinamool MP Kalyan Banerjee said the only “agenda of the Governor is to target the Chief Minister.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bengal-govt-in-data-cover-up-operation-says-governor/article31492694.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||A salute from the sky and sea||As part of a flypast by the Indian Air Force (IAF) to thank the corona warriors on Sunday, the national capital will see both fighter and transport aircraft flying between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m., an Army spokesperson said on Saturday. The nation will witness the fly-pasts at multiple locations. “The aerial salute from the armed forces will be flown as low as 500 metres so that everyone is able to witness the same from the safety of their homes. Military bands all over the country will visit various civil hospitals treating corona patients to express their gratitude by playing patriotic tunes,” Army spokesperson Col. Aman Anand said, reading out a statement on behalf of the Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS) and outlining the various activities. The events start on Sunday morning with a wreath-laying at the Police Memorial on behalf of all three Service chiefs to show respect to the sacrifice by police and paramilitary forces. “Forces have always stood as a wall against all threats to the country and every time our citizens have come out in large numbers and showered their blessings and appreciation towards us”, Col. Anand said. “This time, it is our turn to applaud the sacrifice of our corona warriors.” This was also to assure the nation that inspite of the COVID-19 pandemic, the armed forces were fully prepared to address any type of threat, he stated. Petal shower Helicopters from the IAF and the Navy would fly over hospitals treating patients and shower petals as a tribute to the Corona warriors. Naval helicopters would shower petals on hospitals in Mumbai, Goa, Kochi and Visakhapatnam between 10 a.m. and 10.30 a.m. In the evening, naval ships at sea on the coasts of Mumbai, Porbandar, Karwar, Visakhapatnam, Chennai, Kochi and Port Blair would light up and fire flares in solidarity, Col. Aman said. In addition to the Navy, Coast Guard ships would be seen at 24 places, some of which are Porbandar, Okha, Ratnagiri, Dahanu, Murud, Goa, New Mangalore, Kavarati, Karaikal, Chennai, Krishnapatnam, Nizamapatanam, Puducherry, Kakinada, Paradip, Gopalpur, Sagar Island, Port Blair, Diglipur, Mayabundur, Hut bay and Campbel Bay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-salute-from-the-sky-and-sea/article31492710.ece
03 May 2020||Mumbai,||790 new cases reported in Maharashtra||Maharashtra recorded 790 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, pushing the tally to 12,296. It also recorded 36 deaths, the highest in a single day, pushing the number to 521. A new cluster emerged from Gurdwara Langar Sahib in Nanded, raising concerns about a possible spurt in the district. The new cases include 20 volunteers of the gurdwara and two drivers and a cleaner who had transported pilgrims to Punjab over the past two weeks. Nanded, a popular pilgrimage centre for the Sikh community, witnessed a large gathering for the Hola Mohalla festival on March 10. While most pilgrims left for their home States after the festival, nearly 3,500 stayed back. However, they got stuck because of the lockdown. After discussions among the two States, 325 pilgrims were sent to Punjab in 10 buses. When these buses returned to Maharashtra, the drivers and cleaners were tested. Two drivers and a cleaner tested positive on April 28. The Punjab government sent 78 buses on April 26 to take the remaining pilgrims back home. The drivers and cleaners of these buses spent a night in Nanded before leaving with the pilgrims on April 27. “Before coming to Maharashtra, these drivers had many halts. As they had come in contact with the gurdwara volunteers, we collected their swabs for testing. Twenty of them returned positive,” said Neelkanth Bhosikar, Nanded’s civic surgeon. Gurdwara Langar Sahib and Takht Sachkhand Shri Huzur Sahib Gurudwara were sealed on Saturday and the entire area was declared a containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/790-new-cases-reported-in-maharashtra/article31492685.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||USCIRF report may prompt concerns||The government has unequivocally dismissed the US Commission of International Religious Freedom’s latest report, which ranks India on the lowest grade of “Countries of Particular Concern”, citing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and the proposed National Register for Citizens, both of which were announced by the government in the past year. In its statement this week, the External Affairs Ministry hit back at the USCIRF directly, calling it an “Organisation of Particular Concern”, with no “locus standi” or official standing. The government’s stand is consistent with its policy on the USCIRF, which it has refused to cooperate with, and has disallowed its officials to visit India since 2009. The bigger worry this year is the fact that the USCIRF has recommended that India be put on the CPC list by the State Department, which is due to publish its annual report on religious freedom in a few weeks, most likely in May or June. Former Indian Ambassadors to the U.S. point out that though a CPC designation is unlikely to make any difference to the U.S.-India bilateral relationship on other issues, it would be premature to dismiss the USCIRF’s recommendation completely. “It’s wrong to focus just on the statements of the USCIRF on CAA and NRC and other such issues. The question is, who has supported India [in the U.S.] on these issues? No one. One can say that you don’t expect there will be reactions to such [domestic Indian] policies. Frankly, that is wishful, unrealistic thinking,” Ronen Sen, who was Ambassador in Washington in 2005 when India was removed from the State Departments’ CPC list, told The Hindu . “There is a reputational issue involved, for India, as the world’s largest democracy that draws strength from the protection of diversity,” said former Ambassador to Washington Nirupama Menon Rao, stating that the report could not be “ignored outright”. “To be clubbed with China and Burma, Pakistan and North Korea as a country of particular concern is unfortunate,” she said. More punitive steps The decision before U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo (who will act on behalf of President Donald Trump) on whether to designate India as a CPC is significant, as it could bring other punitive actions. According to the US IRF Act, the President is obligated to take one of 15 possible actions, ranging from a demarche to cancellation of bilateral exchanges, to travel sanctions against specified officials, within 3-6 months. It was under this determination that the U.S. had banned travel visas for PM Narendra Modi (then Gujarat Chief Minister) in 2005. Diplomats point out the State department hasn’t always followed the USCIRF’s recommendations. In December 2019, Mr. Pompeo designated nine countries including “Burma [Myanmar], China, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan” that were on the recommended list, and put others like “Comoros, Russia, Uzbekistan, Cuba, Nicaragua, Nigeria, and Sudan to its ‘Special Watch list’, but left out Syria, Vietnam and Central African Republic, which were also on the USCIRF’s list. The Office of International Religious Freedom (IRF) in the State Department and the USCIRF were created by the American “International Religious Freedom Act of 1998”, but are separate entities and the USCIRF’s recommendations are non-binding on the State Department. However, according to the State Department website, the U.S. Secretary of State, who makes the final recommendation on whether to designate a country as a CPC, “takes into account” the recommendation made by the USCIRF.  (With inputs from   Kallol Bhattacherjee)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uscirf-report-may-prompt-concerns/article31492664.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM must lay out exit strategy: Cong.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi must address the country on what his government aims to achieve with a further two-week extension of the lockdown and ‘enlighten’ citizens on the road map to economic recovery, the Congress said on Saturday. Addressing an online press conference, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said the Prime Minister must lay out the exit strategy and spell out the goalpost in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic and economy. Many questions “What is the aim of lockdown 3.0? What is the purpose, objective and the strategy? Will there be lockdown 4.0 and lockdown 5.0 in the future? Will we see another lockdown? When will the lockdown finally end? The Prime Minister must come forward and address 130 crore Indians and enlighten them on the way ahead,” Mr. Surjewala said. The Congress asked the government to specify what it is doing to ensure minimum support price to farmers; the availability of fertilizers, seeds and pesticides for the next kharif crops; livelihood and ration for the over 40 crore urban and rural poor; and relief for 4.25-crore micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and the 11 crore people employed in it.  “How do you propose to ensure ‘jobs and pay protection’ for the middle class and salaried people? What is the strategy for revival and restarting the tourism and hotel industry, textile industry, construction industry, automobile and IT industry, transport and aviation Industry?” said Mr. Surjewala. Suggestions to govt. Senior party leader and former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram said in a tweet: “It was intriguing that the Prime Minister stayed away from the announcement on national TV and left it to a notification issued by the Home Secretary.” “We think the government is obliged to spell out the objectives and the course of action after May 17,” he said.  The Congress once again reiterated the suggestions made by its leaders such as offering 10 kg of food grains to every person, transferring Rs 7,500 into every Jan Dhan account and other beneficiaries such as pensioners under the category of widow and physically handicapped persons, a revival package for the MSMEs, among others. ‘Ferry migrant workers’ Accusing the government of not handling the issue of migrant labourers in a humane or compassionate manner, Mr. Surjewala urged the Centre to ferry migrant labourers free of cost in sanitised trains and provide them food. “Post Partition in 1947, for the first time in the history of the country, we witnessed pregnant women, old people, children walking barefoot without any food or water or medical help ... We urge upon the Government of India to not shirk its responsibility,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-must-lay-out-exit-strategy-cong/article31492677.ece
03 May 2020||Patna,||‘Shramik Special’ train from Jaipur arrives at Danapur||The first Bihar-bound ‘Shramik Special’ train from Jaipur with 1,174 migrants on board reached the Danapur railway station, some 20 km from Patna, on Saturday. A sense of relief was writ large on the weary faces of the migrants who reached their home State after 40 days of the lockdown. They hail from 28 districts but most of them are from Rohtas district. They included labourers, students and pilgrims. They were taken to a local school near the station for lunch and to fill a form after thermal screening. Most of the migrant labourers told presspersons that they would prefer to work in their State itself, if provided opportunities. “For the last 40 days, we went through great difficulties as there was no work, food or money... No relief was given by the government there, but we got food from the Railways during our journey,” said some migrants from the Purnea district who were working as cooks in Rajashthan. A large number of officials, including the Patna district Magistrate and the SP, along with Railway staff were present at the station to welcome the migrants. Later, they will be taken to their respective districts in buses which are parked at the Jagjivan railway stadium near the station. All the buses were sanitised earlier. The Danapur railway station, too, was sprinkled with disinfectants. “We must ensure that the quarantine centres have good food, shelter, sanitation and medical facilities. The isolation centres must be in place at the block and panchayat levels. If needed, we shall set up more centres as the number of people returning could be huge,” Chief Minister Nitish Kumar said after a marathon six-hour meeting with officials on Friday. Ready to leave The district authorities said no specials were slated to reach Bihar on Saturday but “some trains are ready to leave from other States in the coming days”. From May 4 to 6, the specials will also leave from Jaipur with migrants and students. Over 12,000 students from Bihar were said to be stuck in Kota in Rajasthan, where they had gone to take coaching classes for engineering and medical tests. The State government has alerted all district administrations to make arrangements to quarantine the migrants for 21 days. “They will be asked to either quarantine themselves at the schools at the block level or at their homes,” said an official at the Danapur station. Earlier, the State government had told the Centre that it would not be able to bring back over 27 lakh people by buses. It later asked for non-stop special trains. Opposition party leaders had slammed the State government for not being able to make adequate arrangements for the migrants. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader and Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav had even offered 2,000 buses to the State government to bring them back. Number of cases Bihar has so far reported 478 COVID-19 positive cases with four deaths and 98 recoveries. The highest number of cases have been reported from Munger (95) followed by Rohtas (52), Buxar (51), Patna (44), Nalanda (36), Siwan (30) and Kaimur (24).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shramik-special-train-from-jaipur-arrives-at-danapur/article31492683.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||UAE sends aid for health workers||The United Arab Emirates on Saturday sent seven tonnes of medical supplies for Indian health workers dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. The aid from the leading Gulf nation is part of the Indian engagement with the region that is likely to lead to Delhi carrying out a massive evacuation of its nationals from the Gulf in the coming months. The Embassy of UAE in a statement said the consignment underscores the ‘brotherly’ ties. “Combating COVID-19 has become a primary global concern, and we act out of our conviction that strengthening the efforts of other countries to contain the virus is a pressing necessity,” said Dr. Ahmed Abdul Rahman AlBanna, Ambassdor of UAE to India. The Indian mission has also arranged to send a team of 88 specialists, doctors and nurses to the UAE to deal with the pandemic. The gesture from the Gulf monarchy coincides with India’s ongoing preparation to evacuate a large number of nationals from the Gulf which is likely to pose a big logistical challenge. Commentators here have pointed out that the number of evacuees is likely to be between two to five lakhs, making it the largest evacuation campaign undertaken by India. New Delhi had undertaken a mass evacuation from Kuwait in October 1990 which led to repatriation of nearly 1,76,000 citizens. That operation is part of the Guinness Book of Records. That apart, a big evacuation was from Libya when the civil war hit that country in 2011 leading to the return of around 18,000 Indians. Evacuation challenge A veteran diplomat said the large number now is partly necessitated as a bulk of the blue collar workers are without employment. Anil Trigunayat, former Indian Ambassador to Libya who oversaw the evacuation in Tripoli during 2012 to 2014, recollected that India had to open a bank account in a third country, Malta, for meeting local expenses in Libya. But this time around, its missions in the Gulf will have to shoulder the burden. “Missions usually have a large amount of money for community welfare and they can utilise it to meet the local logistical and other expenses,” said Mr. Trigunayat. According to the former envoy, the number of Indians willing to be evacuated may reach even the half-a-million mark in view of the widespread job cuts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/uae-sends-aid-for-health-workers/article31492705.ece
03 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Virus tally in Gujarat crosses 5,000 with 333 fresh cases||The number of COVID-19 cases crossed the 5,000 mark in Gujarat on Saturday when 333 fresh cases and 26 deaths were recorded. The total number of cases now stands at 5,054 and the number of deaths at 262. Gujrat is the second State after Maharashtra to cross the 5,000 mark. Recovered cases On Saturday, 126 patients were discharged after recovery. So far, 896 patients have been discharged. There were 3,860 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals and they were said to be in a stable condition. Thirty-six others were in a serious condition and put on ventilator. The State has so far tested 74,116 samples. Main cluster Ahmedabad remains the main cluster. On Saturday, the city reported 250 fresh cases and 20 deaths, its highest single-day tally. The total number of cases is 3,543 and the number of deaths is 185, while 462 people have recovered. The rate of death in the State and in Ahmedabad remains above 5%, higher than the national average and the worst-affected Maharashtra. Besides Ahmedabad, 3 deaths occurred in Vadodara, 2 in Surat and 1 in Anand. Fresh cases were also registered in Vadodara and Surat, 17 each, and Gandhinagar, 18. Surat’s death toll has reached 28 and Vadodara’s 24. The infection has spread in 30 of the 33 districts, but more than 85% of the cases have been reported from Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/virus-tally-in-gujarat-crosses-5000-with-333-fresh-cases/article31492686.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry wants Aarogya Setu app made disabled-friendly||The government’s Aarogya Setu app to track COVID-19 cases is not accessible to persons with disabilities (PwD), particularly those with hearing and visual challenges, the Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry has informed the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) and the app developer, the National Informatics Centre (NIC). Downloading the app has been made mandatory for all government staff by the Department of Personnel and Training through an order on April 29 and for all employees in the public and private sectors through a Union Home Ministry order on Friday. The Social Justice Ministry’s Department of Empowerment of PwD (DEPwD) wrote to the MeitY and NIC on April 27 listing the shortcomings of the app. “The Aarogya Setu app needs to have a separate section with specific information for persons with hearing impairment with sign language interpretation/close captioning. So far as persons with visual impairment are concerned, provision for audio guide for navigation, audio description of colour used, proper colour contrast etc. need to be incorporated,” the DEPwD wrote, asking the NIC and MeitY to address the concerns. Disability rights activist and founder of Smarthyam Anjlee Agarwal said on Saturday that the app had been tested by 11 persons with visual challenges and who were associated with the NGO. The app was found to be inaccessible, which was a violation of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, she said. She added that a report of the findings of the testing had been sent to the DEPwD on Saturday. Navigation issues The Smarthyam report said that according to users, the screen reader in the app did not announce the purpose of all controls or the type of control, whether a link or button. The report added users could not identify the number of slides in a carousel, so after receiving the information in the first slide they could miss out on information in other slides. On the “Your status”, “COVID updates” and “E-Pass” tabs of the app, the screen reader was not announcing the control type, so users did not know these were interactive tabs, the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministry-wants-aarogya-setu-app-made-disabled-friendly/article31492699.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Activists say over 300 deaths related to lockdown troubles||Activists tracking the reported deaths during the lockdown to control COVID-19 said on Saturday that over 300 people had lost their lives owing to starvation, exhaustion, suicide, accidents and other non-virus related reasons. Tracking news reports in English and Hindi primarily, as well as in regional languages such as Kannada, Telugu and Tamil, the group found that 310 deaths had occurred from March 19 — when an auto-rickshaw driver in Bengaluru died by suicide owing to financial distress — till Saturday. “News reports tracked during the ongoing lockdown suggest that more than 300 people died because of the lockdown: as a result of hunger, financial distress and exhaustion, due to police atrocities for lockdown violations, and inability to get timely medical attention. There have been a staggering number of suicides as well, caused by fear of infection, loneliness, lack of freedom of movement, and alcohol withdrawal during the lockdown,” the group of activists and academics said in a release. Among the deaths connected to the pandemic but non-virus related, 34 were due to starvation and financial distress, including the inability to sell farm produce; 20 were caused by exhaustion, including while walking long distances to reach their homes or standing in lines for ration; and 73 were from suicides due to fear of testing positive for the novel coronavirus and fear of loneliness. Aman, an assistant professor of legal practice at Jindal Global School of Law, who is part of the project, along with researcher and Ph.D scholar Kanika, said the aim of the tracker was to keep these deaths in public memory. “These deaths should be counted while assessing the success or failure of the lockdown,” he said. Thejesh G.N., a Bengaluru-based engineer on whose website thejeshgn.com the tracker can be found, said the real numbers would be higher as the tracker could not capture all the news reports of such deaths in the country, and news organisations would not be able to report on every such incident. “Our goal is to put a spotlight on these deaths. While we are focusing on the COVID-19-related deaths, we are neglecting the other deaths,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activists-say-over-300-deaths-related-to-lockdown-troubles/article31492701.ece
03 May 2020||Jaipur,||Workers’ rights group seeks employment guarantee||With the migrant labourers returning home from different parts of the country, a demand has been raised in Rajasthan for giving employment guarantee to every adult for a number of days in view of the workers having been deprived of their livelihood during the COVID-19 lockdown. The Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS), which made a “virtual celebration” of the May Day and its 30th foundation day through online platforms on Friday, said the majority of migrant labourers, who worked in the unorganised sector, were fighting poverty and hunger without any social security. The workers had not received wages even for the days when they worked. The huge fair marking the May Day, held every year at the Patiya square in Bhim town of Rajsamand district, was not organised for the first time in 30 years. Strong campaign The MKSS members recollected the memories of previous fairs when the people were apprised of their rights and the labour movement gained strength. MKSS founder Aruna Roy said a provision should be added to the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) for engaging the labourers on work for a number of days as per their demand. “Every adult in the rural areas needs employment during the present crisis,” she said. Norti Bai, former Sarpanch of Harmada in Ajmer who has been in the forefront of the right to information campaign, said the pandemic had afforded an opportunity to the workers to unite against discrimination. Ms. Norti Bai is also the president of the Rajasthan Asangathit Mazdoor Union.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/workers-rights-group-seeks-employment-guarantee/article31492703.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Despair packs them into a concrete mixer truck||On May 1, with the truck’s fuel tank filled to the brim, one of the drivers stealthily drove it out to the highway in Mumbai, where his three co-workers at the concrete-mixing firm waited. “We planned to hand over the truck to the police in Lucknow,” said Mr. Yadav. “We just somehow wanted to get back home,” added the sole breadwinner of his family of seven. For the last 12 days, they had survived on biscuits. Sometimes, the local panchayat would give them lunch. “I had spent the last penny a month ago,” Mr. Yadav added. His family owns sparse patches of agricultural land, enough to sustain them. “We just want our salary,” said Mr. Yadav. His wife was to be operated upon for appendicitis, for which he needed at least twice as much as his monthly salary of Rs. 22,000. “I do not know why our salary was withheld. Having left Mumbai at 5 p.m., they had made good time to Indore as they had not been stopped at any check posts. “There was enough space for everyone inside the mixer to sleep,” said Mr. Yadav. “There was no problem breathing,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/despair-packs-them-into-a-concrete-mixer-truck/article31492671.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||2,411 cases in highest single-day spike||A senior ICMR official said on Saturday that India is following the United States’ decision to permit the emergency use of Ebola drug Remdesivir for treating patients with COVID-19. “It is a development which is being followed across the world and India is no exception,” he said. The Union Health Ministry, meanwhile, has cautioned against the abuse of antibiotics to treat the coronavirus infection, stating that these do not work against viruses. “They only work on bacterial infections. COVID-19 is caused by a virus, so antibiotics do not work. Antibiotics should not be used as a means of prevention or treatment of COVID-19. They should only be used as directed by a physician to treat a bacterial infection,” the Ministry said. Use of PPEs Additional guidelines on rationed use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) have also been issued by the Health Ministry, adding that prescribed standard precautions are to be followed at all times by health care professionals. “PPEs are not alternative to basic preventive public health measures such as hand hygiene, respiratory etiquettes which must be followed at all times. Also healthcare professional are to always follow the laid down protocol for disposing off PPEs as detailed in infection prevention and control guideline,” noted the release. It added that patients and their attendants are encouraged to put on face cover at all times. The Health Ministry has reiterated that India has many people with COVID-19 who are experiencing only mild symptoms and this is particularly true at the early stages of the disease. “It is, therefore, possible to catch COVID-19 from someone who has, for example, just a mild cough and does not feel ill. The main way the disease spreads is through respiratory droplets expelled by someone who is coughing. The risk of catching COVID-19 from someone with no symptoms at all are low but the possibility cannot be ruled out.” It added that the currently the most common known symptoms of COVID-19 are fever, tiredness, and dry cough. “Some patients may have aches and pains, nasal congestion, runny nose, sore throat or diarrhoea. These symptoms are usually mild and begin gradually. Some people become infected but don’t develop any symptoms and don't feel unwell,’’ noted the Ministry. It has said that in India most people (about 80%) recover from the disease without needing special treatment. Around 1 out of every 6 people who gets COVID-19 becomes seriously ill and develops difficulty breathing. Older people, and those with underlying medical problems like high blood pressure, heart problems or diabetes, are more likely to develop serious illness. People with fever, cough and difficulty breathing should seek medical attention.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/2411-cases-in-highest-single-day-spike/article31492670.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||135 CRPF jawans of Delhi unit test positive||Days after a 55-year-old sub-inspector of the CRPF died of COVID-19, as many as 135 personnel from the same unit have tested positive to the virus. In all, 480 personnel were tested, of whom 323 tested negative and the results of 22 are awaited. The entire unit at Mayur Vihar in east Delhi has been quarantined at a Delhi government facility in Mandoli and an inquiry has been ordered to study the lapses that led to the infection spreading among such a large number of the force. On April 28, sub-inspector Mohammad Ikram Hussain died at the Safdarjung Hospital. This was the first such death reported in the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF), comprising the CRPF, the Border Security Force, the CISF, the ITBP, the SSB and the Assam Rifles. The deceased SI, a diabetic, was a resident of Barpeta in Assam. Many personnel, including the deceased, were put in quarantine after a 43-year-old constable posted as a nursing assistant tested COVID-19 positive on April 21. ‘Source not clear’ The constable, posted in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara, was on leave and living in Noida. Due to the lockdown, he joined the medical unit of the CRPF in Mayur Vihar close to his local base on April 6 after his leave ended. He developed symptoms on April 17 and a test confirmed the infection on April 21, an official said. It was not clear how he contracted the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/135-crpf-jawans-of-delhi-unit-test-positive/article31492681.ece
03 May 2020||Bhopal,||Madhya Pradesh reports 73 new cases, six deaths||Madhya Pradesh on Saturday recorded 73 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 2,788, the Directorate of Health Services said. Six persons were reported dead across the State. While two died in Indore, one each died in Hoshangabad and Mandsaur. Two persons died in Ujjain, where the fatality rate touched 18% on the day. So far, 147 persons have been infected in the city and 27 have died. Meanwhile, 100 persons were discharged from hospitals on recovery. With this, 624, or 22.4%, of all the patients have been discharged in the State. Till May 2, at least 16.7 tests were conducted before a person infected with the novel coronavirus was identified. So far, 6% of those testing for the illness had tested positive, according to an analysis of the data released through the media bulletin. Until now, 41,460 of the samples have tested negative, while 2,330 have been rejected. The tests per million in the State stand at 558.6. At a meeting, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said there had been a remarkable improvement in the situation. “For the first time, the count of active cases has gone down. Besides, no new cases were detected in Bhopal on the day.” In Indore, the hardest-hit city, 32 persons tested positive, while the number of deaths touched 74 on Friday night, said Pravin Jadia, Chief Medical and Health Officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/madhya-pradesh-reports-73-new-cases-six-deaths/article31492689.ece
03 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||PMO work teams reshuffled||After the exit of two senior bureaucrats — Tarun Bajaj and A.K. Sharma — from the Prime Minister’s Office in the latest reshuffle, six joint secretaries in the office have been assigned to six verticals from A to P. The two IFS and four IAS officers will report to senior officials including Principal Secretary in the PMO P.K. Mishra, NSA Ajit Doval, Principal Adviser P.K. Sinha and Advisers Bhaskar Khulbe and Amarjeet Sinha. Dr. Mishra looks after the crucial functions in vertical E, which includes personnel, vigilance, law and justice, anti-corruption unit (CBI), Cabinet Secretariat, Appointments Committee of the Cabinet (ACC) and ACC files and monitoring. Joint Secretary V. Sheshadri will report to him for these matters but will also report to advisor Bhaskar Khulbe for matters related to Home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pmo-work-teams-reshuffled/article31492675.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||CPI(M) offers suggestions for revival||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Saturday released a detailed note offering suggestions to the Union government on revival of the economy. “...difficulties being faced by crores of Indians, especially migrant workers, daily labourers and the poor, unable to survive will deepen. This is what needs the Centre’s attention,” tweeted CPI(M) general Sitaram Yechury, while releasing the note. Separately, CPI general secretary D. Raja told The Hindu, “The coronavirus pandemic has not changed the neo-liberal economic trajectory of the BJP government at the Centre. And this has worsened the economic inequality.” In the note, the CPI(M) said: “How long this distress will continue is not known ... the central government must make available to every non income tax paying household Rs. 7,500 per month for three months, and to every individual 10 kg. of free grains per month for six months.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpim-offers-suggestions-for-revival/article31492680.ece
03 May 2020||Bhopal,||All Bhopal gas leak survivors to be screened||The Bhopal district administration is going to survey all 1984 gas leak survivors for illnesses and identify high-risk patients in view of their greater vulnerability to COVID-19. “For the identification of the gas-affected people, their survey and the identification of high-risk persons after that and the collection of their samples and subsequent treatment, a team has been constituted to take necessary action,” said an order passed by Bhopal District Collector Tarun Kumar Pithode on Saturday. Besides, the Pulmonary Medicine Centre, one of the six State-run hospitals for the survivors, has been designated as a care centre for the observation of asymptomatic virus patients among the survivors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/all-bhopal-gas-leak-survivors-to-be-screened/article31492688.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Flights stay suspended till May 17: DGCA||A day after the government announced the extension of the lockdown till May 17, the DGCA on Saturday said all commercial flights will remain suspended till the midnight of May 17. “It is reiterated that foreign and domestic airlines shall be suitably informed about the opening of their operations whether international to/from India or domestic, respectively, in due course,” a circular of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation stated. India has been under lockdown since March 25 to curb the spread of coronavirus. All commercial passenger flights have been suspended for this period. Cargo flights, medical evacuation flights and special flights are allowed to operate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/flights-stay-suspended-till-may-17-dgca/article31492695.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID claims life of Lokpal member||Lokpal member Justice A.K. Tripathi (retd) died of COVID-19 infection at the Jai Prakash Narayan Apex Trauma Centre of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), here at 8:30 pm on Saturday, a hospital source has confirmed. He was admitted to the AIIMS after he tested positive on April 2. Tripathi, 62, former Chief Justice of the Chhattisgarh High Court, was in the intensive care unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/covid-claims-life-of-lokpal-member/article31492697.ece
03 May 2020||JAIPUR,||20-day-old in Jaipur dies of COVID-19||A 20-day-old infant, who died of complications relating to COVID-19 here on Friday, could be the world’s youngest victim of the disease. The boy was treated for septicaemia at the J.K. Lon Children’s Hospital, where the paediatricians ruled out intrauterine infection. The infant was admitted to the hospital early on Friday with complaints of diarrhoea and vomiting. No member of his family was earlier detected as positive and nor did the family have a travel history. After brief treatment, the child died during the day. As his family resided in the Chandpole area of the Walled City where a large number of COVID-19 positive cases have been found, the hospital authorities sent his samples for viral test, which turned out to be positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/20-day-old-in-jaipur-dies-of-covid-19/article31492702.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rahul, Prasad spar over Aarogya Setu||The Congress and the government were engaged in a war of words on Saturday over the Aarogya Setu app, with former Congress president Rahul Gandhi calling it a “sophisticated surveillance system”. Union Information Technology Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad called the charge a “lie”. “The Aarogya Setu app, is a sophisticated surveillance system, outsourced to a pvt operator, with no institutional oversight — raising serious data security & privacy concerns. Technology can help keep us safe; but fear must not be leveraged to track citizens without their consent,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. “Daily a new lie. Aarogya Setu is a powerful companion which protects people. It has a robust data security architecture. Those who indulged in surveillance all their lives, won’t know how tech can be leveraged for good!” Mr. Prasad wrote on Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rahul-prasad-spar-over-aarogya-setu/article31492706.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||When duty calls||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/when-duty-calls/article31492708.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||15 BSF personnel infected in Delhi||Fifteen Border Security Force (BSF) personnel in Delhi, including two cancer patients, have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past week. They were deployed in the Jama Masjid and Chandni Mahal area, said a BSF officer.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/15-bsf-personnel-infected-in-delhi/article31492678.ece
03 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Two labourers killed in bus accident in Odisha||Two men were killed when a bus transporting migrant labourers from Gujarat’s Surat to Odisha’s Ganjam district overturned at Kalinga Ghat near the Kandhamal-Ganjam border on Saturday night. The bus was carrying over 60 passengers, including four women and two children. The deceased were identified as Chittaranjan Sethi and Tapan Sethi of Buguda block in Ganjam district. The others in the bus received minor injuries. The bus driver was from Gujarat and reportedly unfamiliar with the route.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-labourers-killed-in-bus-accident-in-odisha/article31492923.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED files fresh charge sheet in illegal cash deposit case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) filed a supplementary charge sheet against Rajan S. Shah, proprietor of V.S. Healthcare, and 11 others for illegal cash deposit during demonetisation. A request has been made for confiscation of assets worth Rs. 8.12 crore. The accused, Moti Lal, director of MTI Cotton Mills, allegedly made deposits worth Rs. 44.79 crore in various accounts, in connivance with some Bank of India officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ed-files-fresh-charge-sheet-in-illegal-cash-deposit-case/article31492672.ece
03 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam allows liquor outlets to open in green zones||The Assam government has allowed liquor wholesalers and retailers to resume business two days ahead of the date recommended by the Centre. An official notification issued on Saturday said, “wholesale vends of foreign liquor and country spirit across the State” and retail outlets in districts under green zones have been allowed to open with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/assam-allows-liquor-outlets-to-open-in-green-zones/article31492673.ece
03 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Cong. to file case against 7 of its Manipur MLAs||The Congress has decided to file a case against seven of its MLAs who have been supporting the BJP-led government in Manipur. After their election on Congress ticket in 2017, the seven MLAs, along with former Forest Minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar, helped the BJP form the government. The Supreme Court’s January 21 judgment asked the Assembly Speaker to act within the stipulated time. “We will go to court again if the Speaker fails to take a decision...” said Congress MLA Keisham Meghachandra on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-to-file-case-against-7-of-its-manipur-mlas/article31492674.ece
03 May 2020||Kolkata,||15 COVID-19 deaths in past 48 hours in Bengal||West Bengal recorded 15 deaths from COVID-19 in 48 hours, taking the toll to 120 in the State, the State Health Department said on Saturday. In the past two days, 127 infections were recorded and 60 persons discharged from hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/15-covid-19-deaths-in-past-48-hours-in-bengal/article31492687.ece
03 May 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi nears the 500 mark||Dharavi recorded 89 new cases on Saturday, the highest in a single day, taking the tally to 496. The slum pocket, which falls under Mumbai’s G North ward, has recorded 18 COVID-19 deaths so far. The new cases included a 17-year-old boy, the youngest in the lot, as well as a 71-year-old man who was the oldest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharavi-nears-the-500-mark/article31492690.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu market emerges a hotspot||The Koyambedu market has turned into a COVID-19 hotspot in the State. Other than Chennai, at least six districts are witnessing a spillover of cases from the wholesale hub. The districts of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu are stepping up surveillance after the Koyambedu cluster started bringing in new cases. According to officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation, 52 persons have tested positive for COVID-19, so far in Koyambedu. Results of 250 more persons are awaited. Loaders from the Koyambedu wholesale market continue to leave the city, according to wholesale traders. As only the wholesale vegetable market is allowed to function now, there are about 2,000 loaders in the market. At least 30-40 of them are leaving the market to their native places, as they are unable to find proper food and water. They return in trucks that bring produce from other parts of the State, said traders. The market, on Saturday, received nearly 15,000 visitors, which is less in number than usual. “We insist on masks and gloves as much as possible for visitors and for our labourers. While those attached to the wholesale shops remain in the market, some common loadmen are leaving the city,” said a wholesale vegetable merchant. The results of the cluster have started to show in a number of districts. “There are more cases from the Koyambedu cluster. In Kancheepuram, we made a list of vegetable vendors in five blocks and screened them. We lifted samples from 17 vendors, of which seven have tested positive in Uthiramerur,” an official said. Affected districts Nineteen workers — 18 in Ariyalur and one in Perambalur — who returned from Chennai on April 30, tested positive. All 19 were working at the Koyambedu market and returned to their hometown after it was closed for retail vendors. Seven persons who tested positive in Cuddalore were also from Koyambedu. In Tiruvallur district, a vegetable vendor in the Municipality limits tested positive two days ago. She initially told officials that she only visited the local market to procure produce. But during contact tracing, officials found that she had visited the Koyambedu market. Of her seven family members who were tested for COVID-19, her daughter and son-in-law have tested positive, said officials. Chengalpattu district, which has been reporting new cases continuously in the last few days, is facing a similar issue. Among the new cases, the Koyambedu cluster has been identified as one of the main links. Officials are planning to stop movement from the district to Koyambedu and operate local markets with produce from local cultivation.  While those attached to the wholesale shops remain in the market, some common loadmen are leaving the city Wholesale vegetable merchant Koyambedu market||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/koyambedu-market-emerges-a-hotspot/article31492872.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown relaxations to give city residents a breather||Residents of Chennai can breath easy from May 4 with relaxations being extended to shops and other establishments, despite the city witnessing new COVID-19 cases every day, with more than 100 cases being reported over four consecutive days. Chennai alone has registered a total of 1,257 cases till Saturday of which 223 persons have been discharged. The city is among the 12 red zone regions in the State and has a large number of containment zones where no activity will be allowed. In Chennai, the administration has extended the timings for shops selling essential items from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. Standalone shops will be allowed to function from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., while hotels will be allowed to provide takeaway service from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. The government has allowed opening of stores selling hardware, cement and construction materials, electrical items, mobile phones, computers, household products and spectacles from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Plumbers, electricians, home appliance mechanics, carpenters, household help, home care service providers will be allowed to work after getting permission from either the Chennai Corporation Commissioner or District Collectors. E-commerce companies will be allowed to operate as per the timings announced earlier. Salons, beauty parlours, gyms, beaches, zoos, places of worship and autorickshaws will not be allowed to operate till the lockdown restrictions are reviewed. Meanwhile, police officials told The Hindu that the arterial Anna Salai will be opened for traffic and all barricades on roads will be removed. However, police will conduct checks at designated points and motorists will be checked if they are going out for valid reasons. Action will be initiated against violators, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-relaxations-to-give-city-residents-a-breather/article31492840.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai continues to account for bulk of new cases||Chennai reported 174 of the 231 fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. This is the highest ever single-day spike the State has reported till now, taking its tally to 2,757*. Of the 231 new patients, 158 were men, 72 women and one was a 48-year-old transperson in Chennai. The youngest among the new COVID-19 patients was a 14-day-old baby in Kancheepuram. A 76-year-old woman from Chennai died due to COVID-19 at 5.30 p.m. on May 1 at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. With this, the State has reported 29 deaths due to COVID-19.  Sample testing The State’s single-day sample count crossed the 10,000-mark. A total of 10,127 samples were tested. This took the total number of samples tested so far to 1,39,490. With another 29 persons discharged from hospitals across the State, the total number of persons discharged increased to 1,341. In Chennai alone, a total of 223 persons have been discharged till now, followed by 127 in Coimbatore and 108 in Tiruppur. The total number of active cases in the State was 1,384, according to a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. With Chennai adding 174 more cases to its tally, the total number of cases in the city stand at at 1,257. Along with Chennai, 13 more districts have reported fresh cases — 18 in Ariyalur, 13 in Kancheepuram, seven in Tiruvallur, five in Chengalpattu, two each in Cuddalore, Perambalur, Ramanathapuram, Tiruppur and Villupuram, and one each in Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem and Theni. Another nine children in the 0-12 age group have tested positive, taking the total number of affected children in the age group to 159. As on date, a total of 2,318 persons in the 13-60 age group and 280 persons aged above 60 have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. One more private testing facility has been approved — the Metropolis Healthcare, Chennai. As of now, the State has 34 testing facilities in the government and 13 facilities in the private sector. A total of 1,30,132 persons, including 10,049 today, have been tested so far. A total of 35,418 persons are under home quarantine and 40 in government quarantine facilities. Another 2,099 individuals with suspected symptoms of COVID-19 have been admitted to isolation wards in various hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-continues-to-account-for-bulk-of-new-cases/article31492874.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Enhance subsidy on wages under Central scheme: hotel owners||The Tamil Nadu Hotels Association (TNHA) has urged the Centre to subsidise wages of employees through the Atal Beemit Vyakthi Kalyan Yojana Scheme of the Employees State Insurance Act. In a letter to the Centre and State governments, association president M. Venkadasubbu said that since it would take at least a year for the travel and tourism industry to get back on its feet, this was pertinent. “The scheme has a provision to subsidise 25% of wages. We are asking that it be enhanced so that both employees and employers do not suffer,” he said. There were around 50,000 restaurants and hotels in the State employing over one lakh people and indirect employment to four lakh people. Association secretary R. Srinivasan said that bank liabilities, including repayment of EMI and interest, should be deferred by 12 months with the extended period to be added to the overall tenure of the loans.  GST on cooking gas “We are also asking that GST on cooking gas refills supplied to stand alone restaurants be charged at 5%. They should not be treated on a par with large hotels,” he said. The association has sought waiver of licence fees for all government licenses for one year; GST holiday for standalone restaurants: rentals to all government buildings, including municipal buildings, property taxes and licences such as exercise fees be suspended for one year and utility charges such as electricity tariff be charged on actuals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/enhance-subsidy-on-wages-under-central-scheme-hotel-owners/article31492851.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||To make room, asymptomatic patients to move out||As cases of COVID-19 continue to surge in the city, government hospitals have begun making alternative arrangements to accommodate patients. While the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital transferred some asymptomatic patients to a quarantine facility, the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital discharged a few patients who had suspected symptoms of COVID-19 and were in a stable condition, and took in around 10 new patients on Saturday. A health official said that quarantine facilities in 11 places in the city were being readied. Officials said that the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation was arranging around 1,500 beds for the facilities. Besides, it had supplied 1,561 additional cots and mattresses to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, KMC and the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, to augment bed capacity, a fortnight ago. At the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, an official said that patients who were asymptomatic, with no co-morbid conditions and less than 55 years of age, were transferred to a quarantine facility established at a private college. “As of now, we have 200 patients in the hospital. We have 200 beds — all single-room facilities as per norms — and are getting 100 more ready,” he said. Officials said that hospitals were making internal arrangements to create more space to accommodate new patients every day. “At KMC, 298 patients have been admitted. Of them, 218 have tested positive for COVID-19. The remaining patients are individuals suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19. The hospital has discharged some of these patients, who are stable, and will keep track of their health. After making such arrangements, around 50 beds were vacant at the hospital,” an official said. Hospital authorities said that they were also taking measures to shift asymptomatic patients to three quarantine centres. The hospital had requested the COVID-19 room to refer new patients to other government hospitals, in accordance with bed availability. “We are trying to increase bed capacity to 400,” an official said. A senior doctor suggested that the government could utilise peripheral hospitals to treat patients requiring intensive care. “These hospitals have all [necessary] facilities, while the required manpower could be moved [there] from government hospitals in the city,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/to-make-room-asymptomatic-patients-to-move-out/article31492867.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Civic officials start redrawing containment zone boundaries||Civic officials on Saturday started redrawing the boundaries of containment zones to reduce hardship of residents and to facilitate effective implementation of disinfection drive. The Greater Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J. Radhakrishnan started inspection of containment zones and hotspot clusters on Saturday and instructed officials to make changes in containment zones to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Residents and volunteers at the containment zones reported issues faced by themto the team led by Mr. Radhakrishnan. After assessing the civic condition in the containment zones, he ordered officials to make suitable changes to help residents. “Toilets were outside containment blocks in some areas. We had to relocate the barricades,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. The team led by him also visited hotspot clusters such as Triplicane where many cases were reported. “Quite a lot of people in containment zones are not ensuring that their houses are disinfected. Workers have distributed bleaching powder. All residents have been advised to wear masks. Kabasura kudineer distribution has started in all such areas,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. The team visited areas such as Patalam, Triplicane and Choolai. ‘Set up cameras’ At a meeting in Amma Maaligai on Saturday, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani directed officials to set up cameras in containment zones to monitor civic conditions. “Officials should ensure that all residents in containment zones get adequate supply of essential commodities at an affordable price. Redressal of complaints from residents should be done without any delay,” Mr. Velumani said. “All civic workers will get personal protective equipment. The Corporation should have a stock of chemicals for disinfection of the city for two months,” he said. “Residents in various neighbourhoods are getting vegetables at an affordable cost through mobile units. Chennai gets its supply from 4,949 pushcarts and 1,100 vehicles,” the Minister said. “Residents have been requested to support Corporation workers in proper disposal of waste in containment zones. Conservancy workers should wash hands using soap. Amma canteens will continue to supply food free of cost three times a day,” Mr. Velumani added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-officials-start-redrawing-containment-zone-boundaries/article31492842.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Firms welcome easing of curbs, but say more steps needed||The State government’s decision to lift certain restrictions, except in containment zones, has evoked a mixed reaction from industries. While some players have welcomed the move, others say the government should go further. “We welcome the move to allow factories outside the city to operate with 50% of their workers. To begin with, we will operate one shift, and slowly ramp up [operations],” said B.C. Datta, vice-president, Hyundai Motor India. “Most of our suggestions have been factored into the relaxations, especially [the one on] allowing the operation of export-oriented units. Allowing construction work would also help kickstart economic activity,” said Hari K. Thiagarajan, chairman, CII Tamil Nadu State Council. S. Vasudevan, joint secretary, Tamilnadu Small and Tiny Industries’ Association, welcomed the announcement and said that clear standard operating procedures need to be issued. However, he added that employees’ movement should have been allowed on the basis of self-declaration by the employer, with address proof and ID proof, as getting permission from the administration would pose practical difficulties.  Strict adherence “It is important that industries behave responsibly and strictly follow the newly-defined standard operating processes, as they shoulder an equal, if not bigger, responsibility to make the lockdown exit seamless, sustainable and scalable,” said Ramkumar Ramamoorthy of the Madras Chamber of Commerce and Industry. “We will resume construction activities by May 6, after seeking further instructions from the government. The allowing of construction activities will help reduce the anxiety of migrant workers, who are waiting to return to their home States,” said S. Sridharan, chairman of CREDAI Tamil Nadu. He pointed out that real-estate firms wanted their back offices to function with minimal staff. This had not been allowed, and the association would make a representation to the government in this regard, he said. “Jewellery outlets have not been allowed [to function], which is disappointing. We would make a representation to the government,” said N. Anantha Padmanaban, chairman of the All India Gem and Jewellery Domestic Council. Panaruna Aqeel, chairman, Council for Leather Exports, welcomed the relaxations and said this would help the industry get orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/firms-welcome-easing-of-curbs-but-say-more-steps-needed/article31492869.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special train travellers will have to pay extra||Even as the Ministry of Home Affairs has directed the Indian Railways to operate Shramik special trains to move migrant workers, pilgrims and students, stranded in various States during the lockdown, the Railway Board has announced extra charges, in addition to the normal sleeper class fare, to be collected from the passengers. The extra charges will came into force from May 1. Although the Railways has said that special trains would be operated only based on requests from the State governments, it has announced that an additional charge of Rs. 50 per passenger would be collected, along with the sleeper class fare, in the special trains to be operated between various States. While the Tamil Nadu government is yet to make a request for bringing in migrant labourers and students, Railways officials said that the extra charges would be applicable across all special trains to be operated in the country. The Railway Board has issued a circular directing various railway regions, including the Southern Railway, to charge Rs. 50 per passenger, in addition to the cost of the sleeper class fare. Superfast charges The circular states that the extra charges would comprise superfast charges of Rs. 30 and an additional charge of Rs. 20. For a short trip between two States, from Chennai to Bengaluru, the sleeper class fare is around Rs. 260, with the price increasing based on the number of kilometres. Similar to the special train operated by the South Central Railway, the Southern Railway is operating a special train from Kochi to Bhubaneswar, the Railways official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-train-travellers-will-have-to-pay-extra/article31492876.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan takes video-conference route to reach out to cadre||In the light of the COVID-19 lockdown, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan has been interacting with newly-appointed office-bearers via video-conference. Mr. Haasan had been planning to meet the party’s office-bearers in various regions in person prior to the lockdown. Party sources said the MNM leader had already reached out to over 600 office-bearers, holding positions at various levels, to discuss how the party could be strengthened in rural areas. “We had been looking forward to such an interaction since the party’s launch. So, it was good to speak to him about the local impact of COVID-19, infection rates and the State government machinery’s response,” said Priyadarshini Udayabhanu, district secretary, Chennai (North West). Ms. Udayabhanu added that sometimes, the conversations go on for over an hour if the topics brought up by the office-bearers warrant a detailed discussion. MNM office-bearers said Mr. Haasan had instructed them to reach out to people in need and help them with food, groceries and other essentials during the lockdown. On Saturday, Mr. Haasan and actor Vijay Sethupathi had a long conversation about the former’s experience in films and politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kamal-haasan-takes-video-conference-route-to-reach-out-to-cadre/article31492860.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 5,000 for unorganised workers sought||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday demanded payment of Rs. 5,000 for all workers in the unorganised sector and people on the fringes of society in the wake of thelockdown extension by the Centrefor another two weeks. He also wanted the government to give special pay for medical staff, police personnel and all other government employees who were in the forefront of combating COVID-19. In a statement, Mr Stalin said the extension of the lockdown till May 14 was clear proof that the virus has been spreading uncontrollably in the last 40 days. Stressing that the financial assistance offered by the government to daily wagers, workers in the unorganised sector, autorickshaw drivers, agriculture labourers, small traders and weavers was not adequate, he said Rs. 5,000 should be given to them. “I came across a news item stating that that daily wage earners in Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s constituency were subsisting on just porridge,” Mr Stalin said. Expressing concern over the spike in the cases in Chennai, he said people had the responsibility to prevent it from becoming a “community spread” disease. “If we want to put an end to the catastrophe, people should respect the restrictions and avoid coming out of their home unnecessarily,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the DMK had been extending help to the poor and supplying them with food and medicine. “We have launched kitchens in 25 towns and offer food to 1 lakh people through volunteers. I spoke to the beneficiaries and they expect the government to fulfil their requirements,” he said. Mr Stalin also made a strong case for waiving of electricity tariff for all ration card holders who were eligible for rice as they were at home without incomes. “The government should also control the prices of vegetables and essential commodities,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-demands-rs-5000-for-unorganised-workers/article31492849.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Don't open liquor shops in green zones’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday said that liquor shops should not be opened in green zones as announced by Centre on Friday as it could further complicate the fight against COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu. He said that people have begun supporting alcohol-free Tamil Nadu for the last 40 days. “In this context, it would only be appropriate to implement State-wide prohibition of alcohol. Instead, if liquor shops are opened in green zones, then it would affect the COVID-19 containment measures in other regions as well,” he said. The State government should provide Rs. 2,000 and essential groceries, he demanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-open-liquor-shops-in-green-zones/article31492862.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown violations touch 3.66 lakh||The total number of violations across the State during the lockdown, starting March 24, has touched 3,66,430, said the police. According to the police, 3,86,509 violators were arrested and released on bail immediately. Over 3,25,851 vehicles were seized and Rs. 3.76 crore collected as fines from the violators. Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy has appealed to the people not to venture out unnecessarily and has urged them to follow the prohibitory orders promulgated by the government to prevent the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-violations-touch-366-lakh/article31492863.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Migrant labourers seek nod to return home||Over 400 migrant labourers from Bihar and Jharkhand staying in Velacherry and Guindy protested on roads and demanded authorities to permit them to travel back to their homes. On Saturday, around 150 labourers staying in rental accommodation at Nehru Nagar, Velachery, trooped towards Velachery Main Road. They demanded special trains to return to their homes in Bihar and Jharkhand. Another group, numbering over 300, protested near the Olympia Tech Park in Guindy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-labourers-seek-nod-to-return-home/article31492845.ece
03 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former delivery executive held for selling ganja||Mylapore police on Saturday arrested Gunasekaran, 25, a former delivery executive for a food aggregator, for carrying and selling ganja during the lockdown. He flew under the police’s radar using his former work uniform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/former-delivery-executive-held-for-selling-ganja/article31492843.ece
03 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Industries in Coimbatore district welcome relaxations||With the State government announcing several relaxations that will come into force from May 6, the industries in the district have welcomed the announcements. The district administrations of Coimbatore and Tiruppur are expected to issue details and clarifications on implementing the relaxations shortly, especially on operation of industries and opening of retail outlets in urban areas. According to the relaxations announced on Saturday, in the rest of Tamil Nadu (except composite Chennai and containment areas), industries across sectors, including textiles, in rural and town panchayats can operate with 50 % workforce. Textile industries located within industrial estates in cities cannot function. Exporting units in cities can operate with the respective Collector’s permission. Those in special economic zones, export oriented units, industrial townships, and industrial estates can operate with 50 % strength. Hardware manufacturers, integrated spinning mills in rural areas can function with 50 % workers. Garment exporters who need to prepare design samples can operate with the permission of the District Collectors and with 30 % workers. Construction works can be taken up if the workers are staying on the site or can be transported to the site once. Plumbers, carpenters, electricians, AC mechanics and caretakers of the elderly can take special permission from the Collector. Hardware shops will be open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Some of the other retail outlets will be permitted to remain open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. In rural areas, shops can be open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hotels can sell parcels from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. Industries that need to transport workers from cities can do so with their own vehicles, but should have only 50 % occupancy. MSMEs need not take permission to operate. Chairman of Southern India Mills’ Association, Ashwin Chandran, said the SIMA welcomes the announcements of the State government as it has addressed the needs of the textile industry. The respective district administrations should not impose new restrictions. According to T. Rajkumar, chairman of Confederation of Indian Textile Industry, the industry should scale up production gradually. Coimbatore District Small Industries Association president R. Ramamurthy said there needs a clarification from the government and the district administration whether MSMEs in the city need permission to operate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-in-coimbatore-district-welcome-relaxations/article31492883.ece
03 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown restriction to continue in Coimbatore||The existing lockdown restriction as far as personal distancing norm and public movement alone would continue and vigilance in the district’s borders has been strengthened, said a release quoting Collector K. Rajamani. The release followed all-department meeting the Collector held earlier on Saturday. Shops selling essential goods would be allowed to function from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. The district administration had intensified vehicle checks on district borders to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Just as the administration had imposed severe restrictions at the 14 places that were entry points to the district from Kerala, the administration had imposed such restrictions on 11 district borders. All persons entering the district would have their wrists stamped and their movements tracked. Health Department personnel would be posted alongside police personnel at the 11 district entry points. All persons entering the district would have to remain in home quarantine for 14 days and those showing fever symptoms would be allowed to enter only after they underwent test for COVID-19 and showed negative. Those, who violated the order and entered the district without approval, would be booked under various provisions, warned the release quoting Mr. Rajamani.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-restriction-to-continue-in-coimbatore/article31492878.ece
03 May 2020||coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers disappointed||Migrant workers, who visited Coimbatore Railway Station on Saturday on hopes of catching the Shramik special trains to reach their hometowns, left disappointed upon learning that the trains will not stop at Coimbatore Junction. A railway official with Salem Division said that around 10 migrant workers came to the railway station since Saturday morning. However, police personnel stopped them at the entrance, and explained that the trains will not stop in the city and that the State government has not taken a decision in sending the migrant workers back home, the official said. On Saturday, Indian Railways announced the operation of five ‘Shramik’ special trains from Kerala to Jharkhand and Bihar for the stranded migrant workers. “These trains will cross through Podanur [Junction] and will not stop anywhere till it reaches the destination,” the official said. Meanwhile, more than 50 migrant workers visited the Tiruppur District Collectorate on Saturday demanding passes to return to their respective home towns. Tiruppur South police explained to the workers that the decision regarding sending migrant workers back to their home towns has not been announced by the State government yet. Following the talks, the migrant workers dispersed from the Collectorate, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-disappointed/article31492899.ece
03 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Cargo airlifted to Sharjah||Vegetables and flowers, weighing 16 tonnes, were air lifted from Coimbatore International Airport to Sharjah on Saturday. The special Spice Jet flight came to Coimbatore from Bengaluru and lifted the cargo. Though passenger flights are not operating in the domestic and international segments, cargo flights are operating. This is the first cargo flight from Coimbatore to an international destination during lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cargo-airlifted-to-sharjah/article31492884.ece
03 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Passport services to resume from May 19||The Regional Passport Office (RPO) in Coimbatore said in a communique on Saturday that appointments for the submission of passport applications at the Passport Seva Kendra in Coimbatore and Post Office Passport Kendras at Coonoor, Erode, Salem and Rasipuram would resume from May 19. Those who took appointments on earlier days were advised to re-schedule their appointments on or after May 19. Applicants, who received any show cause notice from RPO in Coimbatore for any clarification, were advised to visit the office on or after May 19. All latest updates regarding passport services would be available onwww.passportindia.gov.in. Applicants can also use the WhatsApp helpline number 94879-92991 and emailrpo.cbe@mea.gov.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passport-services-to-resume-from-may-19/article31492891.ece
03 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man trampled to death by elephant||A 50-year-old man was trampled to death by a wild elephant near Coimbatore on Saturday morning. The deceased has been identified as S. Ayyasamy, a resident of Veerapandi Pudur near Thadagam, around 20 km away from Coimbatore city. The incident took place in the land belonged to the deceased where he was doing farming works. His farm is located around 250 metre away from a reserve forest area coming under Thadagam central beat of Coimbatore Forest Range. A.M.N. Siva, forest range officer, Coimbatore range, said that Ayyasamy had a fatal encounter with a female elephant that had strayed into his farm around 7 a.m. on Saturday. The elephant trampled the farmer and he died on the spot. His body was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem after the elephant went back to the forest. The Forest Department handed over Rs. 50,000 to the family of the deceased as immediate relief out of the Rs. 4 lakh given by the government as solatium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-trampled-to-death-by-elephant/article31492890.ece
03 May 2020||Cuddalore,TAMIL NADU||Seven test positive in Cuddalore||The number of COVID-19 cases in Cuddalore district touched 37 with seven more persons testing positive on Saturday. Official sources said that they had returned from the Koyambedu wholesale market in Chennai in the last few days. They have been shifted to the isolation ward at the Rajah Muthiah Medical College and Hospital (RMMCH) in Chidambaram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-test-positive-in-cuddalore/article31492853.ece
03 May 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Minister bereaved||Kannathal, 67, wife of TN Forests Minister Dindigul C. Srinivasan passed away on Saturday. Family members said that she was admitted to a private hospital on Friday night due to age-related ailments. She leaves behind three sons and three daughters. Members including DMK MLA I Periasami and others paid their last respects to the departed soul.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minister-bereaved/article31493142.ece
03 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Trucks from other districts denied entry into Erode||Following the district administrations decision not to allow lorries carrying essential commodities from other districts and other States to enter the district, trucks were denied entry at the inter-district check posts here on Saturday. Collector C. Kathiravan chaired a consultative meeting with members of the lorry associations on April 30 after which members of Tamil Nadu Lorry Owners’ Federation held a meeting in Salem. Its secretary C. Dhanaraj said that lorries carrying essential commodities would not be operated to Erode district as the administration has laid stringent norms which is practically difficulty to follow. He said that as per the Collector’s order, lorries would be stopped at the inter-district borders and the goods should be loaded to another lorry that should be operated by a local driver. “The driver should not get down from the vehicle”, he said. Ramasamy, president, Perundurai Taluk Lorry Owners’ Association, said that they would not operate lorries until the order is withdrawn. Hence, lorries carrying essential commodities were not operated to the district. On Saturday, lorries from other districts and States that want to enter the district were stopped at the inter-district check posts with Namakkal, Salem and Karur. Lorries continue to be parked along the road till evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trucks-from-other-districts-denied-entry-into-erode/article31492894.ece
03 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Absence of sanitisers in ATMs poses risk to users||People, who come to withdraw cash from Automated Teller Machines (ATMs), lament that sanitisers are not kept in the kiosks despite instructions from the district administration. There are around 600 ATMs of nationalised banks, private banks and small finance banks in the district that serve the needs of people in disbursing cash. After the outbreak of COVID-19, banks were instructed to provide hand sanitisers and also spray disinfectants in the ATM centres. However, most of the centres in the city and in rural areas do not have sanitisers forcing people to return without using the ATM. S. Marudhu from Sampath Nagar, who came to withdraw money from the ATM of a private bank on Surampatti Four Road, left without using it as there was no sanitiser. “We need cash for purchasing vegetables and grocery at shops in our area. But many ATMs do not have hand sanitisers and we fear using it,” he added. As most of them are not wearing gloves, they fear using the ATMs. “We have to borrow from others or seek credit from the grocery shops,” said Dinesh of Moolapalayam. The Corporation officials said that they were spraying disinfectants in all the ATM centres in the city while the local bodies in each area were vested with the responsibility to carryout disinfectant measures for ATMs located in their area. A bank official said that though sanitisers were kept at the ATM centres, they were fully used while a few sanitiser bottles went missing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/absence-of-sanitisers-in-atms-poses-risk-to-users/article31492880.ece
03 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Three held for attempting to hunt rabbit||After a man was injured in a leopard attack at Jerahalli Forest Range at Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), Forest Department officials arrested three persons who accompanied him to hunt rabbit in the forest area. On April 30, four persons from Arulvadi village in Talavadi block, U. Hanumandraju (40), P. Sivanna (60), P. Umanduran (54) and K. Puttu Maadhan (48) entered the forest area located on the Tamil Nadu – Karntaka border. They also took a dog with them to help them in hunting. When they were searching for rabbit, a leopard chased away the dog and attacked Hanumandraju. The other three took the injured to the Government Upgraded Primary Health Centre at Talavadi. Later, he was shifted to the Government Hospital at Chamrajanagar in Karnataka. A case under Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 was registered against the four and three of them were arrested. Based on the directions from V. Naganathan, Chief Conservator of Forest and Field Director, STR, and Hasanur Divisional Forest Officer and Deputy Director, STR, K.V. Appala Naidu, four surveillance cameras and a cage were installed at the spot located on the border to trap the leopard. Also, patrolling was intensified during night hours. The officials warned people against entering the forest areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-attempting-to-hunt-rabbit/article31492881.ece
03 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||14-day quarantine must for people entering Erode||The district administration has made it mandatory that all persons entering the district would be quarantined for 14-days at 20 centres. Since there were no active positive cases in the district, it was moved from red zone to orange zone on April 30. Following this, many people from other districts attempted to enter the district, but were prevented at the inter-district check posts. Only vehicle pass holders were allowed after verification and medical check-up. Two engineering colleges in Perundurai block and one school in the city was initially used to accommodate the persons for quarantining as officials said that one centre in each of the 14 blocks would be ready by Sunday. Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan told The Hindu that currently 200 people are quarantined at six centres and samples were lifted from them. “They would in quarantine for 14 days and test would be taken and if they test negative twice, they would be sent home”, he added. He said that people entering the district with vehicle pass would also be tested and they would be monitored until they leave the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-day-quarantine-must-for-people-entering-erode/article31492895.ece
03 May 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Family forced to vacate rented house||A family of four were forced to vacate their rented house after being pressurised by its landlord for paying advance on Saturday. However, the family returned to the house after landlord relented at the intervention of the police. According to sources, Nagarajan, a construction worker, had rented a house at Periyar Nagar in Mookanankurichi near here about three months ago. It was agreed that he would pay Rs. 4,000 as advance and Rs. 2,500 as rent per month. It is said that though the tenant had managed to pay the rent for the last three months in spite of losing the job due to the lockdown, he could not pay the advance amount to the landlord as agreed. The landlord, who was also facing a financial strain due to the lockdown, was said to have pressurised Nagarajan to pay the advance immediately. Upset over this, Nagarajan, along with his wife and two children, vacated the house by removing their belongings. They then began cooking under the shadow of a roadside tree. Acting on information, the Vellianai police rushed to the spot and held negotiations with the landlord and tenant. V. Aarthi, Sub-Inspector, Vellianai, said landlord had agreed not to insist on payment of advance until the withdrawal of lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/family-forced-to-vacate-rented-house/article31493122.ece
03 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri man tests positive, being treated in Salem||A 67-year-old Krishnagiri man tested positive for COVID-19. The man has been admitted to Salem Government Medical College Hospital for treatment as an ‘imported case’. The man from Nallur with a travel history to Puttaparthi in Andhra Pradesh is reported to have been infected on arrival. While the district administration initially stated that the man was from Nallur village in Vepanapalli and was in home quarantine, the health authorities at Salem had claimed the man was picked up from a check-post in Salem. However, four others who were in contact with the man in Krishnagiri have also been quarantined after they were found to have travelled with him to Puttaparthi. Containment zone has been set up in Nallur, Vepanapalli, Krishnagiri town and in Kaveripattinam. The four others, including the driver, along with their respective families have been placed in home quarantine. Krishnagiri continued to be shown as a green district despite the case, with the government claiming that the man was picked up in Salem and not in Krishnagiri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/krishnagiri-man-tests-positive-being-treated-in-salem/article31492896.ece
03 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Social distancing goes for a toss as people throng Mattuthavani||Mattuthavani market on Friday night saw at least 50,000 people, said a senior official from the Collector’s office. The market was bifurcated into two on Wednesday- the Mattuthavani Bus Stand and the truck parking area. Both these areas saw massive crowd and a complete disregard for physical distancing rules. Several hundred two-wheelers, pushcarts, cycle rickshaws and four-wheel goods carriers were parked opposite the bus stand. The police were seen clearing the crowd that had gathered even before the market opened at 10 p.m. M. Rethinavel Pandian, a resident of K. K. Nagar, who used to go to Mattuthavani vegetable market to purchase vegetables at less price, said that when the market was shifted to the bus stand, he did not think that many people would gather in the bus stand. “But as prices of vegetables are cheaper here than at retail shops many residents have started coming here. Over the last few days, prices of basic commodities like onions and tomatoes are on the rise so that there is more crowd at Mattuthavani”, he said. K. Hakkim, a social activist, who visited the market on Friday night, said the crowd was more as fish and vegetables were being sold in the same area. “Fish vendors cannot buy fish on Saturday night since the district administration has disallowed sale on Sunday. Many people often store fish for two days and sell. This could be one of the reasons for the massive crowd,” he said. Collector T. G. Vinay said that despite meetings with members of various associations at Mattuthavani, they were yet to give an assurance and an effective solution to the problem. In a press statement, he said retailers selling produce at Mattuthavani market and those who do not practice physical distancing would be penalised. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said that they were making arrangements to further establish another wholesale market at Amma Thidal. “We have given vendor associations the option of further establishing markets at Mannar Thirumalai Nayak College and Agricultural College in Melur,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-as-people-throng-mattuthavani/article31493107.ece
03 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Civic body begins issuing colour-coded passes||With Madurai city registering over 50 COVID-19 positive cases so far, the Madurai Corporation has started distributing passes in three colours – yellow, pink and blue – to the residents of the city, aiming at preventing crowding at markets. A senior Corporation official said that the distribution of passes to around 2.7 lakh households will be completed within three days and the system will become operational after a formal announcement from the civic body. Passes will not be distributed to residents within the containment zones, where volunteers are deployed by the civic body to help in distribution of essential commodities to the residents. Different colour passes will be distributed within each ward of the Corporation. Those holding yellow passes can come out on Monday and Thursday, pink passes on Tuesday and Friday, and blue passes on Wednesday and Saturday. None of the residents will be allowed to come outdoors on Sunday. But there will be no restriction in movement in case of any medical emergency. The pass holders can come out between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. Only one member of a family can have the pass and will be allowed to come outdoors. Only those aged between 18 and 60 will be permitted to use the pass. The pass holders must wear face masks and follow personal distancing while they go out to markets and grocery shops, said the official. “Despite repeated announcement from the civic body and the police personnel, a large number of residents throng the vegetable markets and grocery shops, where personal distancing is almost absent. By restricting the number of residents who come outdoors, we are aiming to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic in the city,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/civic-body-begins-issuing-colour-coded-passes/article31493093.ece
03 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Four fresh cases reported||The massive efforts of the health department teams and prompt intervention of the Collectors and civic heads to contain the COVID-19 pandemic in many of the southern districts reflected in the declining number of fresh cases, officials said here on Saturday. Even as the State government announced an extension of the lockdown for the next fortnight, with little relaxation, the number of positive cases reported in southern district stood at four on Saturday. In Ramanathapuram district two persons tested positive, while there was one positive case in Theni and another in Madurai, officials said. Theni Collector M. Pallavi Baldev said that the district, which had last reported a positive case on April 16, had since set the tone to conduct random sampling. Beginning with Bodi Municipality, the mobile health team screened 415 persons. A 50-year-old woman selling idlis next to the Bodi GH tested positive on May 2. Immediately, the area was declared as containment zone. Blood samples of the patient's relatives have been taken. In Ramanathapuram, two fire fighters had tested positive. According to the officials, they belonged to RS Mangalam. The area has been cordoned off and the two have been shifted to Sivaganga Government Medical College Hospital. In Madurai, the lone case was reported from Sellur, a containment zone. Good news came in from Sivaganga, as Collector J. Jayakanthan said that the district had discharged all the 12 patients. Thoothukudi district, which had 27 patients admitted to the isolation ward heaved a sigh of relief as all the 26 patients were discharged. Only one patient succumbed to the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-fresh-cases-reported/article31493097.ece
03 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tale of a horse owner and his three horses||Prior to the lockdown, P. Gandhi, 77, and his three horses - Ramu, Lakshmi and Deepa - had a busy schedule. For three days a week - Monday, Wednesday and Friday - it was common to see him and his horses at two special schools in the city. As part of their curriculum, the special children used to have horse riding sessions with his horses. “The special children get excited when they see the horses and some children would even cuddle them. Through these horse-riding sessions, I used to earn Rs. 5,000 every month. Sometimes, I rented out my horses for weddings and would earn a decent income” he said. But, with the imposition of lockdown to contain the coronavirus pandemic, Mr. Gandhi has lost his only means of livelihood. Along with his 60-year-old wife, he resides at Kattabomman Nagar in Sellur, which currently falls within the containment zone. With a dent in income, Mr. Gandhi said that they were unable to feed the horses- his lifeline. Fortunately, the district administration came to his rescue and supplied fodder for the horses. “The officials also said that they would supply fodder for the animals regularly till the end of the lockdown period. This has provided some respite as it was disheartening to see our horses starve due to the lockdown,” he said. However, with the extension of lockdown period, it would be difficult to run the family, he added. “We are currently feeding ourselves with the rice supplied by district administration and through ration shops. But, it would be difficult to sustain for a longer period without any source of income. Also, the interest rates for the money we had borrowed has increased, further worsening the crisis," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tale-of-a-horse-owner-and-his-three-horses/article31493100.ece
03 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court dismisses bail pleas of six men||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed the bail pleas of six men from Thoothukudi district who had restrained health officials from discharging their duties. The accused had restrained the officials from securing a man, suspected of COVID-19, for quarantine. Justice P. Velmurugan dismissed the bail pleas of Anis, Mydeen, Asik, Mohamed Yusuf, Navaskhan and Jalal from Kayathar who were booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act. They are remanded in judicial custody. The petitioners refuted the allegations levelled against them and claimed that they had only gone out to buy essentials, where they were picked up following a quarrel with the policemen and a case was foisted against them. However, prosecution said that the men had obstructed and prevented the officials from discharging their duties by restraining them from securing a man, suspected of COVID-19, for quarantine. The judge observed that considering the pandemic and the serious nature of the offence committed by the men, the court was not inclined to grant bail to the petitioners. The court dismissed the bail petitions of the six men.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-dismisses-bail-pleas-of-six-men/article31493094.ece
03 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Safely supplying milk from a containment zone||Unlike other containment zones in Madurai district, the one formed at Dhoddappanaiyakanur in Usilampatti block has its own needs and throws up new challenges for the district administration. After a 24-year-old pregnant woman from the area tested positive for COVID-19, the area was cordoned off on April 26. Around 50 households within the zone own a total of 103 cows and calves, including 35 lactating cows. Everyday these residents supply around 310 litres of milk to the cooperative societies. “We wanted to ensure that these families are not deprived of their only means of livelihood. But, at the same time we also wanted to ensure that safety precautions are adopted while milking the cows and during transport of milk,” said Usilampatti Revenue Divisional Officer K. V. Rajkumar. To ensure that these animals were not left to starve due to the lockdown, the district administration provided around 425 kg of dry fodder to the cattle owners on Wednesday. Each bundle of straw was sold at Rs. 210. “The district administration gave away fodder free of cost for 10 households who couldn't afford to buy,” said the RDO. Around 18 kg of concentrate feed was also supplied to them at subsidised rates, he added. “Currently, two persons have been appointed to milk all the lactating cows. Before milking the cows, each person disinfects his hands and the udder of each of the cows,” said Regional Joint Director of Animal Husbandry D. Suresh Chrisptopher. “Usually, the teats remain open for 20 minutes after milking has been done leading to chances of micro-organisms entering the body. Hence we have provided a spray, which when used after milking the cow, will immediately seal the teats. This reduces the risk of any virus entering the animal,” he added. A total of four 40-litre milk cans have been provided for carrying the milk out of the zone. They are also regularly disinfected, said the RDO. “Till now there is no clear scientific evidence that shows transmission of coronavirus through animals. But, we are taking all safety precautions,” said Mr. Christopher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/safely-supplying-milk-from-a-containment-zone/article31493108.ece
03 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC grants bail with screening condition||While granting bail to an accused in a murder case, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has observed that the petitioner can be released after he goes through a test for COVID-19 and certified that he was not infected. Hearing the bail plea of Sudhan from Nagercoil in Kanniyakumari district, Justice P. Velmurugan issued directions to the Kanniyakumari police to this effect. If he was affected by COVID-19, he should be kept under quarantine as per the directions of the Health Department. After the release, the petitioner must appear before the police concerned as and when required and should not tamper the evidence. Based on a complaint filed by a Village Administrative Officer after an unidentified body was found at Kottar in Nagercoil, the petitioner was arrested and booked under Section 302 (Murder) of the Indian Penal Code. The court granted bail to the petitioner taking into account the accused was in judicial custody for over 100 days. The investigation was completed and charge sheet filed by the police concerned before the Judicial Magistrate. The petitioner was directed to abide by the conditions of the court and if there were any breach, the trial court was entitled to take appropriate action against the petitioner in accordance with law, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-grants-bail-with-screening-condition/article31493098.ece
03 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Night disinfection||Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inspected the disinfection activities being carried out in the city at night here on Saturday. According to a press release, all the wards within the city, barring containment zones, will be disinfected at night. This is in addition to disinfection activities being carried out in the day. A total of 60 vehicles have been deployed to carry out the work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/night-disinfection/article31493102.ece
03 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Reopen industries’||Members of Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) petitioned District Collector T. G. Vinay regarding the reopening of industries outside the containment zones in the district. Convenor of the association, K. R. Gnanansambandham, said that thousands of people are dependent on small-scale industries for their livelihood. “Any more extension of the lockdown will not just affect employers but also employees,” he said. The Convenor sought the opening of areas outside the corporation limit - particularly the Industrial Estates in Kappalur, Uranganpatti, Nagari and K. Pudur. Members are experiencing difficulties in movement of goods as well, the petition stated. “We request the Collector to issue passes for goods vehicles. It would also be useful if the Police Department is instructed not to stop goods vehicles,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/reopen-industries/article31493101.ece
03 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Man from Sellur tests positive||Madurai recorded only one positive case on Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases to 88. The patient was a 35-year-old man from Sellur. Collector T. G. Vinay said that the patient was from the containment zone. The patient did not have any travel history, he said and added that detailed contact tracing is being done. Sources from the Government Rajaji Hospital, said that a 25 year-old pregnant woman from Melur who tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday, gave birth to a child on Saturday morning. “Details regarding whether the child has COVID-19 or not will be declared after 24 hours,” he said. The woman would regularly visit Thaniyamangalam Primary Health Centre (PHC) for check up. She tested positive after her sample was taken on April 29. Sources at the hospital also confirmed that a three-day-old baby who tested positive for COVID-19 was discharged. The girl child tested negative for the disease on Saturday. The 27-year-old mother from Anuppanadi is still undergoing treatment at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-from-sellur-tests-positive/article31493104.ece
03 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officer inspects control room||C. Kamaraj, Special Monitoring Officer, inspected the control room at Arignar Anna Maaligai here on Saturday, which is being used by Madurai Corporation officials to monitor the movement of residents within the containment zones. According to a press release, Mr. Kamaraj also inspected the distribution of kabasura kudineer and vitamin tablets to workers of the Corporation. He distributed 200 handsprayers to conservancy workers to undertake disinfection activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/monitoring-officer-inspects-control-room/article31493103.ece
03 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Only one positve case’||Madurai recorded only one positive case on Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases to 88. The patient was a 35-year-old man from Sellur. Collector T. G. Vinay said that the patient was from containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-one-positve-case/article31493143.ece
03 May 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Contests to boost morale of families during lockdown||Officials of Vaitheeshwaran Koil town panchayat in Mayiladuthurai are conducting various contests to boost the morale of families and to encourage healthy home cooking during the lockdown. The objective is simple - prepare a dish using the ingredients chosen by the Executive Officer of the town and win the prize for the day and more importantly stay at home. Over 2,000 households and 8,000 people took part in these competitions which were held throughout the month of April. Each day, a few ingredients would be announced and the participants would have to prepare and upload a photo of the dish made using those ingredients to the ‘Vaitheeshwaran Koil Town Panchayat’ Facebook page, managed by K. Kuhan, Executive Officer of the civic body. “We included ingredients like pepper, turmeric and green leafy vegetables to ensure healthy, nutritious food was prepared,” he said. On Sundays, women were given a break and men were asked to prepare vegetarian dishes. The prizes for the cooking competition came from Mr. Kuhan’s own pocket. “I contemplated donating one month’s salary to the PM CARES fund, but then realised that using it directly would be a better option,” he said. ForMay, Mr. Kuhan is organising competitions for children. “Although these times are confusing for us all, kids, who are stuck indoors, affected the most. They are unable to express the fear they feel,” he said. To make them feel at ease, drawing and painting competitions are being held. “Some underlying messages and morals such as handwashing and healthy eating are stressed,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contests-to-boost-morale-of-families-during-lockdown/article31493123.ece
03 May 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Strict checking at check-posts in Namakkal||Namakkal District Collector K. Megraj said that strict checking would be enforced at 14 check posts and swab samples of the truck drivers would be taken. Mr .Megraj said, “there are 14 check-points in the district and teams would be posted in three shifts to check incoming trucks. The teams would include persons from police, health, revenue, local bodies and transport departments. Swab samples would be collected from the driver, cleaners and others in the truck by the team at the check post itself or at quarantine facility nearby.” He said that the persons would have to stay at the quarantine facility until the results arrive, maximum of two days. Mr. Megraj said that they have held discussions with lorry owners’ associations and they have offered full cooperation. The Collector said that since the district is in red zone, only relaxations permitted by government would be allowed. He said that of the 61 COVID-19 patients reported in the district, 50 have recovered and discharged from the hospital and 11 are undergoing treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/strict-checking-at-check-posts-in-namakkal/article31492902.ece
03 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||50 vegetable shops to be shifted||The Salem Corporation will shift 50 vegetable shops operating currently from the temporary bus stand premises in Bose Maidan to the grounds of a Corporation school here. According to a release, the shops will be shifted to the grounds of Indira Gandhi Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School near Ammapet. At present, 100 shops are operating in the temporary bus stand area. The remaining 50 shops will operate from the bus stand itself ensuring physical distancing among the public. The Corporation officials advised the public to ensure they were masks when they ventured out of their houses and came to markets. The Sooramangalam uzhavar sandhai that was temporarily shifted to Chennys grounds here started functioning from Saturday. The authorities said 115 farmers had erected shops. However, the farmers requested the authorities to arrange sheds for them as their produce would dry up under the hot sun. K.R.Matheshwaran, a farmer, said they would be severely affected if there was no shed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/50-vegetable-shops-to-be-shifted/article31492888.ece
03 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘ATMs should not function without guards’||The Salem Corporation has advised all nationalised and private banks here to ensure guards at all their ATMs and to take disinfection measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh said in a release that all banks should appoint guards for their ATMs or shut down ATMs without guards immediately. Mr.Sadheesh said the Corporation had been carrying out disinfection measures at ATMs in its limits from March 24. He advised the banks to appoint guards at all the ATMs and disinfect the machine once an hour. Hand sanitisers should be provided to the public before using the ATM. He said that special teams had been formed to inspect the ATMs and legal action would be taken against the banks whose ATMs were found operating without guards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atms-should-not-function-without-guards/article31492887.ece
03 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Contribution||The management and staff of Vinayaka Mission’s Research Foundation have contributed Rs. 25 lakh to Prime Minister’s PM-Cares fund to fight COVID-19, a release from the organisation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/contribution/article31492886.ece
03 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||137 cases registered in Salem||The police on Friday registered 137 cases for violating prohibitory orders and seized 113 vehicles. Salem district police registered 191 cases against 240 persons and detained 140 vehicles. Meanwhile, the Salem Corporation on Saturday sealed four shops, including a fish outlet, for violating prohibitory orders. According to officials, a fish outlet near Kondalampatti was sealed for violating personal distancing norms and officials seized 70 kg. of stale fish meat. Officials also sealed a non-essential store and two other stores for violating physical distancing norms at Shevapet bazaar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/137-cases-registered-in-salem/article31492904.ece
03 May 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Fake stickers used for ferrying passengers; 11 detained, van seized||A taxi operator used fake stickers of Tamil Nadu State Government emblem on a van and stealthily ferried 11 passengers from Chennai to Virudhunagar district. The passengers were detained and the van was seized at a checkpost near here on Saturday. The stickers stated that the van was carrying a troupe involved in creating awareness on behalf of Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority. The driver, R. Babu, 38, of Srivilliputtur, managed to sneak in through at least a dozen police checkposts on district borders to reach Alagapuri checkpost on Madurai-Srivilliputtur highway. However, a team of police involved in vehicle checking enquired the passengers and found that it was a fraud played by the driver and vehicle owner J. Alwin of Mogappair in Chennai. Sub-Inspector Rajesh, who led the team, detained the passengers and seized the vehicle. “Some passengers were IT professionals from various parts of Chennai and came to their native places in Sattur, Srivilliputtur and Rajapalayam,” Collector R. Kannan said. The passengers were subjected to swab test and put in a quarantine facility. “The police suspect that the driver should have ferried people in this fashion for two or three times in the last few days. Investigation is under way,” he added. He said the district borders had been sealed in the last few days after several COVID-19 positive cases reported in the district were found to be of those who had come to the district from other parts of the State. The officials have found incidents in which persons from other districts had sneaked into the district using e-passes fetched on fake medical grounds. The police have registered a case against the driver and owner of the vehicle and 11 passengers, including three women, under sections of Indian Penal Code for forgery, counterfeiting seal, disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant and for negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fake-stickers-used-for-ferrying-passengers-11-detained-van-seized/article31493086.ece
03 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps initiated for cash flow in villages’||Two major steps have been taken up to ensure cash flow in the hands of rural people in the core delta districts, according to the Zonal Officer and Commissioner, State Archaeology Department, M.S.Shanmugam. The first measure was to eliminate the problem of shortage of farmhands in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts being experienced by farmers who were preparing lands for the summer cultivation. To achieve this, it has been decided to promote the village panchayats as the facilitators of agriculture workforce. Farmhands willing to get deployed in agriculture operations the next day should get their names registered with the Panchayat secretary before 4 p.m. and the landlords who need the assistance should indicate the number of agriculture labourers he would like to engage in the subsequent day with the Panchayat secretary before the deadline of 4 p.m. every day, Mr.Shanmugam said. In case if the farmhands need to be moved to nearby village panchayat areas, after fulfilling the local requirements, transportation would be arranged by the district administrations provided the distance between the villages were not short enough for the agriculture labourers to pedal their way on their bicycles to the workplace and return home. The expenses to be incurred for the transportation of the workforce would be borne by the district administrations, he added. Apart from ensuring the cash flow in the hands of the rural workforce by helping them to get employed without fail, extending loans to women self-help groups through a special credit scheme has been launched. For this purpose, around 9,000 women SHGs in Thanjavur district have been identified and the process of loan disbursement according to the grading of the SHGs have commenced. In about a week, the members of beneficiary groups would get the amount and continue their economic activity, the Zonal Officer added. These two measures, Mr. Shanmugam said, would save the rural masses from getting bogged down by financial stress anticipated to crop up due to the COVID-19 pandemic and carry on with their life without any stress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/steps-initiated-for-cash-flow-in-villages/article31493120.ece
03 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Total lockdown tomorrow||Total lockdown will be enforced in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts on Sunday. Disclosing this in press releases, the Collectors of Thanjavur and Tiruvarur, M.Govinda Rao and T.Anand, respectively, asked the people to remain indoors as all shops and establishments, except health services, milk vendors and pharmacies, would remain closed. Any violation of the total lockdown imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 virus would be dealt with severely, they added. The Thanjavur Collector said that the total lockdown in the district on Sundays would continue till the end of the current lockdown period till May 17.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/total-lockdown-tomorrow/article31493117.ece
03 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Expectant mothers exempted from restriction of movement from one place to another||Expectant mothers are exempted from the restriction of movement from one place to another being implemented in the State to prevent the spread of COVID-19 disease. According to official sources, the pregnant women hitherto free from COVID-19 infection and wish to deliver their babies under the care of their parents or at their relatives’ houses in view of their family circumstances would not be prevented from moving from their husband’s place to their parent’s or relative’s house in a different district. However, they should comply with the directions issued by the concerned district health department officials aimed to check the spreading of the coronavirus, sources said. Two such women were allowed to enter Thanjavur district on Saturday through the Neelathanallur COVID-19 check-post as the women expressed their desire to reach their parents’ home at Kumbakonam for delivering the babies. While the woman from Virudhachalam travelled on a two-wheeler along with her husband and a child was not able to produce documents other than her pregnancy related health records, another woman from Bengaluru travelling in a car driven by her husband, produced all the necessary documents to reach her parent’s home. However, the woman from Virudhachalam had been directed to get in touch with the health department officials immediately on reaching her destination. Both of them and their family members travelled with them have been directed to remain under house quarantine for the next 14 days and cooperate with the health department staff in combating the coronavirus menace, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expectant-mothers-exempted-from-restriction-of-movement-from-one-place-to-another/article31493119.ece
03 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Hold meeting, say traders||Traders have called upon the district administration to convene a meeting to hear their grievances in view of the nationwide lockdown. In a memorandum forwarded through e-mail and social messaging platforms to the district administration, the Confederation of All Traders’ Associations of Kumbakonam said traders and businessman were badly hit by the lockdown and wanted the district administration to help them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hold-meeting-say-traders/article31493121.ece
03 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Quarantine facilities created||Besides creating checkposts with quarantine facilities at Mela Karanthai near Ettaiyapuram, Kovilpatti and Vembar, all on Thoothukudi district’s northern border, to quarantine people returning to their native places from other districts and States, the district administration has kept ready 200 beds, to isolate them, at Government Polytechnic College and Anna University’s VOC Engineering College. Collector Sandeep Nanduri told media persons here on Saturday that the inflow of people from other districts, especially from Chennai, and States to their native places in Thoothukudi district had increased over the past two weeks. Following a sharp increase in the number of positive patients, isolation facilities had been created to quarantine them for two weeks. The Collector, who inspected the checkpost and quarantine facility at Mela Karanthai, said vigil on the borders had been stepped up as over 500 persons had come to their native places from other districts and States on May 1 alone. Those having COVID -19 symptoms would be isolated in the three facilities. Of these 500 returnees, 55 produced fake passes. Vehicles carrying the returnees without proper permit would be confiscated. Of the 3,731 persons screened in the district, 27 tested positive for COVID-19 and 26 of them had returned home while only an aged woman succumbed to the viral infection. The district, with 10 containment zones, had crossed 28 days after the first case of COVID-19 was reported and all patients had been discharged from Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Restrictions imposed in the containment zones at Seythunganallur, Kayalpattinam and Kembalabath had been relaxed in a phased manner since May 1. The 8,700 migrant labourers in Thoothukudi district had been screened and were being served food in their dwellings. Details of those wishing to return to their native places were being collected. Monitoring committees had been formed in all the 403 village panchayats to alert the district administration about entry of newcomers. Outsiders who got stranded in Thoothukudi district could get assistance from the control rooms in the Collectorate for their return journey. The e-passes that were issued through the app ‘muthu mavattam’ would be hereafter issued throughhttps://tnepass.tnega.org/#/user/pass. “Those who wish to apply for inter-district or intra-district travel should apply through this portal,” said Mr. Sandeep.  On alert mode 500 persons have returned from other districts and States on Friday alone  8,700 migrant labourers have been screened and they are served food  Monitoring committees formed in village panchayats to alert entry of newcomers||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quarantine-facilities-created/article31493083.ece
03 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||20 persons test positive in Ariyalur, Perambalur districts||Twenty persons, including 19 workers who returned from Chennai on April 30 and a four-year-old boy, tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Saturday. No positive cases were reported from any of the other districts in the region. All 19 men had been working at Koyambedu market in Chennai and returned to their hometown on goods lorries. Among the workers, 18 hailed from Ariyalur district, while one belonged to Sillakudi, a border town between Perambalur and Ariyalur. The four-year-old boy was identified as the son of a man, who returned from Chennai on April 27 and tested positive in Perambalur on Thursday. The addition of new cases reported on Saturday increased the total number of positive cases in Ariyalur to 26 and in Perambalur to 11. Samples for all 20 patients were collected at Ariyalur Government Headquarters Hospital and at Kulumur Primary Healthcare Centre on Thursday. The results came out from K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College in Tiruchi on Saturday morning. Ariyalur Collector D. Rathna said that seven patients, including the four-year-old boy, a man aged over 50 years and five others with pre-existing ailments such as blood pressure and diabetes, were sent to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi, while the remaining 13 persons, who were asymptomatic, were admitted to Ariyalur Government Hospital. “Besides, we have collected samples from those who returned to the district on Saturday and their families. They have been quarantined at one of our facilities until the results arrive,” she said. A total of 222 samples — 55 lifted at Ariyalur Government Hospital and 167 at various primary health centres in the district — had been sent to Tiruchi for testing. A total of 71 patients were put in quarantine facilities on Saturday. The government hospital had a 300-bed isolation ward ready to admit patients, while five school and college campuses had been converted into quarantine centres. “The district can hold up to 17,000 people in the quarantine facilities," Ms. Rathna said. The Collector also announced enforcement of total lockdown in the district on Sunday. All shops, including vegetable markets, would remain closed. “Only hospitals, medical stores and shops selling milk will be open,” official sources said. In Perambalur, health officials lifted throat swab samples from 50 people, including 48 employees of a local State Bank of India branch, after an employee complained of cold and fever symptoms. “We received information that the patient, a woman, was suffering from fever and throat pain and resting at home. We have lifted samples from the woman, her two family members and 48 bank staff,” R. Geetha Rani, Deputy Director of Health Services, Perambalur, said. The bank branch, which was sanitised and sealed, would be opened depending upon the test results for all employees, she added.  Status report  19 worked in Koyambedu market in Chennai; returned to native districts on April 30  Four-year-old boy is son of man who returned from Chennai on April 27  Seven sent to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi  13 patients admitted to Ariyalur Government Hospital  Total number of positive cases: Ariyalur-26; Perambalur-11||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/20-persons-test-positive-in-ariyalur-perambalur-districts/article31493134.ece
03 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||It’s no more a bed of roses for floriculture farmers||Consider this: Sakthivel, 42, is a tenant farmer who raises flowers on about two acres and sells them at the famous flower market on Sathara Veedhi in Srirangam for nearly 20 years now. On Friday, he sold a kg of jasmine for Rs. 20. “It does not even meet the wages paid to labourers for plucking the flowers,” Mr. Sakthivel rues. In normal days, the flower commands a minimum price of Rs. 80-Rs. 100 a kg. The floriculture farmer is not alone in his desperation. Due to extended lockdown, the flower market has closed down for more than a month. And floriculture farmers and traders, including commission agents and retailers, have found their livelihood severely compromised. Any wonder that they are anxious to see resumption of regular business at the earliest. “I have been facing tremendous hardships over the past month,” says Mr. Sakthivel. “I am forced to leave the flowers unplucked for several days. Unless the market opens soon, our situation will turn from bad to worse.” Result: the jasmine and sambangi farmer, who has four school-going children, has been selling the flowers directly in the city at throw away prices. So, floriculture farmers and commission agents at the flower market want officials to take steps to open the market in view of the tremendous losses suffered by them. “We tried in vain to meet local revenue officials to discuss the issue. Opening the market will help fetch a fixed price for farmers,” says V.Varadharajan, president, Srirangam Flower Dealers Association. At stake is the livelihood of about 1,500 to 2,000 farmers and nearly 400 retailers. Villages in and around Srirangam such as Ettarai, Koppu, Nachalur, Kallanai and Pachur bring their produce to the flower market every day. Retailers from neighbouring Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Perambalur, Ariyalur and other towns purchase flowers from the market. Many farmers also take interest-free advances from around 30 commission agents, who organise the trade at fixed prices depending on arrivals, demand and season. Mr. Varadharajan also points out that unlike other crops, flowers bring revenue to farmers almost right through the year. “I get a steady income through jasmine and other flowers for at least nine to 10 months a year,” echoes Mr. Sakthivel. Traders argue that even if temples remain closed and marriages and festivals have been suspended, farmers will get relief if retail business is allowed without restrictions in transport and sale. “We anxiously look forward to resumption of trade. We have lost business, but farmers are suffering heavily without income. Even if there is not much demand, we can do at least 40% of our regular business if the market is opened,” says S.V. Baskar, secretary, Srirangam Flower Dealers Association.  Even if there is not much demand, we can do at least 40% of our regular business if the market is opened S.V. Baskar Secretary Srirangam Flower Dealers Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/its-no-more-a-bed-of-roses-for-floriculture-farmers/article31493137.ece
03 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat chief opens idli shop to help poor||Moved by the plight of the poor during the lockdown, a village panchayat president in Tiruchi district has opened an idli shop in his village and sells idlis at Rs. 1 apiece. The shop has proved a hit straightaway, selling about 675 idlis on the opening day on Friday and 625 on Saturday. M.Palanisamy (48), president of the Venkatachalapuram village panchayat in Pullampadi union in the district, the man behind the venture, says he now intends to fund the initiative for his lifetime. “Our village does not have a hotel. It has only a tea shop. I realised the difficulty of elders, destitutes and persons with disabilities during this lockdown and felt it would be of much help to them if they at least get a good breakfast at an affordable price. Some old age pensioners in my village are not even able to cook for themselves due to frail health,” he said, explaining the motivation behind his venture. Landless poor and agricultural labourers constitute a majority of the population in the village, with a sizeable population of Dalits. A common panchayat owned building, Kamaraj ar Mandram , used as a reading room and hang out by the villagers, has been given a make over to set up the Kamarajar Unavagam . “I have appointed a cook [at a salary of Rs. 9,000], who would prepare the idli batter the previous evening and start making the idlis right from 5.30 a.m. the next day. Idlis will be available till 9 a.m.,” says Mr.Palanisamy. Benches have been provided around for people to sit and eat. Though parcels are not allowed, customers can take home idlis strictly for their family members, provided they bring containers to carry them. “The shop has come as big help. I have no income and live on the support of my parents. We could feed our kids at just Rs. 5 now. The breakfast is good and filling,” said V.Saraswati (31), a widow who lives in the village taking care of her aged in-laws. A businessman with varied interests, Mr.Palanisamy had started his career early as an artist painting advertisements on walls. Today he has a team of artists working under him across the State. He also owns a flex board printing unit and a tinkering unit in Tiruchi, besides a car accessories shop in Karur. Mr.Palanisamy intends to run the shop on the lines of the Amma Unavagams, which cater to the urban poor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panchayat-chief-opens-idli-shop-to-help-poor/article31493125.ece
03 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Life on pavements turns worse||Roadside dwellers, who take up odd jobs to make ends meet, are now struggling to put food on the table. For instance, the 20 families of basket weavers living behind Flower Bazaar in Thiruvanaikoil. The pavement has been their home for nearly 20 years. Twisting and turning strands of bamboo into baskets of all sizes for a living, they are now unable to afford even a single meal today. Among them is a couple, Santhi and Santhosh, and their three children, all under the age of five. “Before the lockdown, I would go around and beg, or assist my husband in his weaving. Now, we are unable to go anywhere,” says 25-year-old Santhi. The weavers earn up to Rs. 500 a day when times are good. Besides large baskets usually used in markets, they also make small baskets for flowers offered to deities at temple. Post-lockdown, with all sources of income drying up, the families consume whatever food comes their way. It was difficult in the beginning. But thanks to good samaritans, who distribute food or foodgrains, they manage to have at least one meal a day. Tiruchi Corporation too pitched in, but the foodgrains have run out. For 20 years, says Santhi’s mother-in-law, authorities have failed to pay any heed to them. “We have submitted petitions to the Collector to help us find shelter, but nobody seems to care,” she says. When it rains, the families take shelter at the nearby EB office. Like them, at least 500 other homeless, or those who are unable to travel to their homes, gather at places such as Amma Mandapam and Cauvery Bridge every day to receive a hot meal from NGOs and other donors. Among them are migrant labourers, construction workers, truck drivers and the jobless. “I have been sleeping here for the past 10 days. These men are my friends now,” K. Sundaresan, a construction worker near Amma Mandapam says. “We have asked authorities to open up a community hall or a shed, but they are refusing.” Corporation officials say community halls and such shared-spaces can cause spread of the virus. “We can open some halls but they will all have to share the same toilet and stay in close quarters, which is risky,” a senior official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/life-on-pavements-turns-worse/article31493128.ece
03 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pedal-operated spray sanitiser at police station||A pedal-operated system to spray hand sanitiser has been installed at the Andimadam police station in Ariyalur district for use by police personnel. The unit has been designed and supplied by a private firm. The entire unit has been made of UPVC (Unplasticized Polyvinyl Chloride) material which is not easily unbreakable. The UPVC pipe at the bottom is connected to the nozzle of the hand sanitiser bottle. Once the pipe is pressed by foot, the nozzle comes down due to the pressure and the sanitiser gets released. Once the foot is released, the nozzle goes up and blocking the release of the sanitiser. The system completely avoids hand touch of the sanitiser bottle which is kept on top of the low cost unit, says a representative of the firm. Once the bottle gets exhausted, it could be replaced with another one. The station has over five litres of sanitiser stocked for daily use. The police station already has a wash basin kept a few feet away from the building for police personnel and complainants to wash their hands. It is one of facility provided to police personnel to protect themselves from keeping their hands clean and prevent contracting the virus. In addition, police personnel at the station have been provided with face guards, safety googles, masks and gloves. They have also been given zinc and vitamin tablets besides kabasura kudineer .  The officer said personal distancing of complainants approaching the station was being ensured. Chairs had been provided to the complainants to sit in front of the station building by ensuring safe distance between them and the police personnel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pedal-operated-spray-sanitiser-at-police-station/article31493130.ece
03 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Temporary markets to continue||Temporary vegetable markets will continue to function up to May 17. Speaking toThe Hinduon Saturday, Collector S. Sivarasu said there was no change in the existing system of functioning of temporary markets in the district. As per the State government order, all essential shops, including vegetable markets, could function from 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. As far as temporary markets were concerned, the existing system would continue. The decision on reopening of Gandhi Market and the farmer’s markets would be taken depending on the situation in the third week of May. He said no trader or buyer would be allowed to transact business without wearing mask. Personal distancing norms would not be compromised. Tough action would be taken against those violating the rules and regulations. The Collector said it had been identified that 112 persons came to Tiruchi district from different parts of the country in the last two days. While some of them came from Gujarat and Maharashtra, at least 10 arrived from Chennai. All of them had been put in home quarantine for 14 days. Stickers were pasted in front of their houses. They should not go out under any circumstances. Blood and swab samples would be lifted from all of them. Similarly their contacts would also be monitored. All revenue, rural development, health and town panchayat officials had been asked to collect details of latest entrants to the district immediately. Self quarantine would be imposed on them. Mr. Sivarasu said construction activities would be allowed with workers staying at the sites. Promoters should avoid bringing workers from outside. Restaurants would be allowed to operate between 6 a.m. and 9 p.m. But they could undertake only parcel service. As a step to contain the spread of infection, it had been decided to close all meat shops in the district on Sunday. Tough action would be taken against those violating the order. Mr. Sivarasu said that on an average 200 to 250 persons were subjected to COVID-19 test. Random tests would be conducted at temporary vegetable markets, grocery stores and other locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/temporary-markets-to-continue/article31493132.ece
03 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Online ‘aradhana’ held||Members of a facebook group, Tiruchi Carnatic Musicians, recently conducted online aradhana to Saint Thyagaraja on the occasion of his 253rd birth anniversary through Zoom app from their homes. The two-hour concert was held from 8.30 a.m. on Thursday with an opening flute recital of the composition Chethulara by M. Subramania Siva from Germany, followed by vocal presentation of Shri Ganapathini by V. Akarshini and V. Aadarshini from Tiruvanaikovil and Guruleka Etuvanti by Ganesh Raman. The programme schedule then shifted to rendition of Pancharatna Kritis of Thyagaraja, with Jagadananda Karaka sung by K. Ramesh and R. Kashyap Mahesh; Duduku Gala by S. Jayamathangi and S. Jayabargavi; Sadhinchane by Srikrishna and Rukmini Srikrishna; Kanakana Ruchira by S. Padmashree and Endaro Mahanubhavulu by A.K. Shruthi Ranjani and A.K. Smruthi Ranjni. “Senior musicians and AIR artistes such as violinists T.V. Ramanujacharlu and N.C. Madhav and veena exponent B. Sivakumar logged in and encouraged the young performers. At the end, Mangala Aarati was shown to the saint’s portrait as it would have been done in his birthplace Thiruvaiyaru,” said a statement from the group. The concert, hosted by Adithya Srinivasan, attracted around a 100 views on facebook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-aradhana-held/article31493131.ece
03 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Application for e-passes||Applicants seeking e-passes for travel for emergencies or marriages can apply for the same at the e-service centres being run by the Tamil Nadu Cable TV Corporation Ltd in the district from Monday onwards Applicants can apply for the passes for travel for purposes of medical emergency, funerals or marriages. They should produce copies of their Aadhaar cards and relevant proof of purpose. In case of medical treatment, doctor’s certificate should be produced and for marriages, invitations. For funerals, certificates from a medical officer or village administrative officer stating that the death has taken place should be produced, Collector S.Sivarasu said in a press release. Individuals can also apply online at https://tnepass.tnega.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/application-for-e-passes/article31493138.ece
03 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||No total lockdown in Tirunelveli today||The total lockdown planned for the Corporation area for Sunday (May 3) has been withdrawn and hence the shops will remain open between 6 a.m. and 1 p.m. as per the general lockdown norms. Since the district, which once had 67 COVID-19 positive patients in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, has only 30 cases with no fresh infection reported in the past one week, the total lockdown plan was aborted. However, the Tenkasi district administration has declared total lockdown in all the five municipalities - Tenkasi, Shencottai, Kadayanallur, Puliyangudi and Sankarankoil - and all the 17 town panchayats on Sunday. However meat shops would be allowed to function between 6 a.m. and 10 a.m. In a statement, Tenkasi Collector G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan said intensive anti-COVID-19 measures were being implemented in all parts of the district to check the spread of viral infection. To ensure social distancing, arrangements had been made to sell vegetables at the doorstep of people through mobile units while meat shops and Amma Unavagams were being monitored by the officials for orderliness. To regulate people venturing out for buying essential commodities, the three-colour cards had been distributed to residents of all the municiplaities and town panchayats in Tenkasi district, Mr. Thayalan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-total-lockdown-in-tirunelveli-today/article31493090.ece
03 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Inform us about outsiders’||The Corporation, which has planned to deploy two volunteers each in all 55 wards to monitor the entry of people from other districts and States, has appealed to the public to inform the officials if they came across people who returned to their native places. In a statement, Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan said that if public contacted the officials on 1800 425 4656 and passed the information, they will rush to the spot, screen them for COVID-19. Banks and commercial establishments, including grocery shops, should ensure physical distancing of their customers. If a customer comes without mask, the business establishment should give a mask to the customer and collect the cost along with the products sold, Mr. Kannan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inform-us-about-outsiders/article31493092.ece
03 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Three more Tenkasi patients discharged||Three COVID-19 positive patients, all from Puliyangudi in Tenkasi district, were discharged from Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on Saturday evening. With the doctors and nurses wishing them, the man and two women left the COVID-19 ward after they tested negative for the viral infection in three successive tests. Now the hospital has 30 COVID -19 positive patients - five from Tirunelveli district and 25 from Tenkasi district. Hospital sources said four of the five patients from Tirunelveli were likely to get discharged on Sunday (May 3) as they have fully recovered from the infection. Since special trains are likely to be operated to bring back Tirunelveli residents stranded in other States, particularly in Mumbai, public health officials are worried about a sudden spurt in COVID -19 positive cases in the district. “A good number of those returnees might have contracted the viral infection in the State they are in. Since over 10,000 people from Tirunelveli are living in Maharashtra, particularly in COVID-19 ravaged Dharavi in Mumbai, we are worried that they may bring fresh viral infection into the district,” a senior health official said. They should be taken straight to the isolation wards for monitoring and appropriate line of treatment. “If a person running high fever takes a tablet just 30 minutes before getting down from the train, thermal scanning will not show the actual result. Hence, all of them should be taken to the isolation ward for monitoring for at least 48 hours. While those who have symptoms should be retained for further investigations, others should be sent out with the condition that they should be in home quarantine for the next 15 days. Any violation, which should be monitored by the local committee, should be viewed very seriously,” said the official.  If a person running fever takes a tablet just 30 minutes before getting down from the train, thermal scanning will not show the actual result Health official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-more-tenkasi-patients-discharged/article31493084.ece
03 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Two positive cases in Tiruppur||After five days of no new COVID-19 positive cases, Tiruppur district saw the confirmation of two positive cases on Saturday. The patients, both of whom are men aged 20 and 50 and working in a watermelon shop, were from the outskirts of Tiruppur city, sources in the Health Department said. The duo returned to Tiruppur on April 30 after 10-day stay in Chennai, where they visited the Koyambedu wholesale vegetables and fruits market. They returned to Tiruppur in a truck carrying the watermelons. Upon detection of high body temperature, they were isolated and swab samples were taken, following which the results on Saturday confirmed that they were suffering from COVID-19, sources said. The patients are currently undergoing treatment at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore. With this, the total number of positive cases in Tiruppur district touched 114, out of which five cases are active. One more patient was discharged on Saturday from ESI Hospital, taking the total number of patients recovered to 109. New case On Saturday, a 44-year-old man from Coimbatore tested positive. With this, the number of people from Coimbatore who tested positive increased to 142. Saturday’s positive case was reported after a gap of eight days. The patient reportedly contracted the disease when he recently went to Chennai for a treatment. The patient is undergoing treatment in Chennai according to the Health Department. Though the man is undergoing treatment in Chennai, the patient’s count was included to that of Coimbatore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-positive-cases-in-tiruppur/article31492901.ece
03 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Raising awareness on menstrual hygiene||Apart from distributing groceries and masks to the public, Tiruppur-based Ini Oru Vidhi Seivom Trust attempts to create awareness on menstrual hygiene by distributing sanitary napkins to women from economically weaker sections. On Saturday, Kavitha Jenarthanan, founder of the Trust, along with other volunteers, distributed 200 sanitary napkin packs to women residents of Pethi Chetti Puram at Rayapuram. “We will be distributing sanitary napkins along with our [groceries] kit bag in the future,” Ms. Jenarthanan said. Amid the lockdown, lack of ready availability of sanitary napkins might force women from economically weaker sections to seek alternatives such as old cloths, which were highly unhygienic and could result in complications, she explained. Ini Oru Vidhi Seivom Trust had ordered 500 packs initially and would be ordering more soon, she said. The Trust members had discussed with officials from Magalir Thittam to spread awareness on menstrual hygiene and distribute more napkins, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raising-awareness-on-menstrual-hygiene/article31492885.ece
03 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||26 check-posts set up across Tiruppur district||A total of 26 check-posts are set up across Tiruppur district to monitor vehicles coming into the district, said District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Saturday. He inspected the check-posts at Karadivavi and Karanampettai in Palladam Block on Saturday. The 26 check-posts are distributed among seven blocks: Avinashi, Uthukuli, Palladam, Udumalpet, Madathukulam, Dharapuram and Kangeyam. Officials from the police, Health Department and local bodies work round the clock on a shift basis to monitor those coming into the district from outside and to check for COVID-19 symptoms, according to a press release. On Saturday, the field support team recently appointed by the State government for Tiruppur Corporation met with Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan to discuss the COVID-19 preventive measures. L. Nirmalraj, Joint Managing Director, the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board, Chennai; D. Suresh, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Social Justice and Human Rights, Tiruppur; V. Latha, DRO (Land Acquisition), Chennai-Kanniyakumari Industrial Corridor Project, Salem and G. Dhanalakshmi, Joint Director (Administration), Commissionerate of Municipal Administration, Chennai, were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/26-check-posts-set-up-across-tiruppur-district/article31492898.ece
03 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for distributing porridge||Mangalam police on Saturday booked a 38-year-old man, who allegedly distributed porridge for the month of Ramadan. The case was filed based on a resident’s complaint under sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 271 (Disobedience to quarantine rule) of the Indian Penal Code, police said. No arrest was made in this case, according to Mangalam police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-booked-for-distributing-porridge/article31492900.ece
03 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||4,700 liquor bottles seized||As many as 4,700 bottles of liquor were seized from a lodge here on Saturday. A car from Srivilliputtur, proceeding towards Virudhunagar, was intercepted by a police team in the small hours of Saturday. Assistant Superintendent of Police R. Shiva Prasad said, “When our men questioned the occupants as to why they were travelling in the odd hours, they spilled the beans that they were going to buy liquor bottles from a lodge in Virudhunagar.” The police raided the lodge which had a FL-3 bar and found that they illegally stocked the bottles in a storeroom. “Immediately after bars were asked to close down in accordance with the lockdown norms, they should have handed over the stock to the TASMAC godown. But, instead, those running the bar had been illegally selling them,” the ASP said. Virudhunagar East police have booked bar manager B. Kandasamy, 51, lodge owner Rajaguruvan, B. Selvaganesan, 32, and TASMAC salesman J. Ramasubramanian, 44. While three of them were arrested, the police are searching for Rajaguruvan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/4700-liquor-bottles-seized-from-lodge/article31493088.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Judiciously managing brain tumour patients||Brain tumours affect people of all ages and can be benign or malignant and require well-coordinated multi-specialist care. Brain tumours in children are especially associated with very high chance of cure and treatments have to be administered to ensure tumour control as well as minimal late toxicity, to maintain quality of life. Like other cancer patients, brain tumour patients can be at an increased risk of COVID-19 infection due to their immunocompromised state caused by the tumour and treatments given to them. Our team recently published a collaborative effort with modified recommendations as per available evidence for managing brain tumour patients optimally during the COVID-19 pandemic (http://www.crstonline.com /temp/CancerResStatTreat3549-2058932_054309.pdf). Health care professional involved in management of brain tumour patients must take into cognisance the ongoing situation with limited resources and optimise treatment strategies along with prioritising patients based on disease severity. Here are some suggestions: Virtual clinics Adequate screening needs to be done in clinics to take care of brain tumour patients with suspected COVID-19 symptoms. Adequate usage of PPE and distancing should be encouraged. Visits of asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients and patients with benign tumours can be rescheduled to later date. Virtual consultations on various digital platforms must be put in place to take care of brain tumour patients. Patients should be called for follow-up consultations only when they are symptomatic (moderate-tosevere headache, hemiplegia, incessant vomiting, and seizures).     Proper prioritisation  For patients requiring definitive treatment, their management can be discussed in virtual multi-disciplinary tumour boards (MDT) with only key decision making members. Surgical management should be planned judiciously during this time and should be done only for urgent cases, such as patients who have increased pressure (e.g., hydrocephalus) and require measures such as emergency shunt placement. Minimisation of hospitalisation and critical care stay should be encouraged to reduce burden on in-patient resources. Procedures where aerosol risk is high should be avoided and alternative approaches adopted. For brain tumour patient requiring radiation therapy, identifying and stratifying patients according to the priority of treatment can be done as follows: Malignant brain tumour patients can be considered for radiotherapy on high-priority basis.  Radiotherapy in benign tumour and low-grade gliomas can be put on moderate to low priority.  Radiation dosage using fewer sittings should be employed wherever applicable. All staff administering treatment should use appropriate PPE.  Similarly, brain tumour patients requiring chemotherapy should get priority based on their diagnosis (type and grade of brain tumour). Emergency care In case of intractable seizures that may be life threatening, the patient must be given intravenous anti-epileptics with due COVID-19 precaution. In case of seizures in COVID-19 patients, neurological symptoms due to COVID 19 should be considered as a rare possibility of acute necrotizing encephalopathy also needs to be kept in mind. Compassionate Care   Health care professionals should be in touch with their brain tumour patients more frequently during this time of the pandemic. ( The author is Medical Director, Apollo Proton Cancer Centre )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/judiciously-managing-brain-tumour-patients/article31492856.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Outsiders’ kept in quarantine||In order to prevent spreading of COVID-19 infection, Virudhunagar district administration has started quarantining those coming from other districts. Collector R. Kannan said here on Saturday that 27 persons, who had travelled to Virudhunagar with or without travel pass, had been detained. The detainees included a family which arrived in a lorry. They have been kept in hospital quarantine and samples collected from them for COVID-19 test. “Only if they test negative, they will be sent home and would be monitored to check whether they strictly followed home quarantine rules,” Mr. Kannan said. An official said that more than 250 cars from various districts passed through Virudhunagar district to other southern districts. Some had valid e-passes and others had influential people travelling in them. However, the Collector said he checked several vehicles at checkpost. “We advised the travellers not to roam around at their native place, but quarantine themselves at home. We are also notifying details of these vehicles to the officials of other districts so that they can be monitored,” he said. Meanwhile, the district continued to maintain no-positive case for the eighth successive day on Saturday. The district has so far reported 32 positive cases and only 13 are under treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/outsiders-kept-in-quarantine/article31493091.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. Cabinet eases lockdown norms in large parts of State||Among the non-containment zones, the Cabinet distinguished between those falling under the jurisdiction of the Greater Chennai Police and those in the remaining areas of the State. Compared to the Chennai region where the number of cases was on the rise, it chose to give more relaxations for the rest of the State. For example, in respect of the IT/ITeS sector, the permitted quantum of staff strength is 10% for firms in and around Chennai, while it is 50% in other parts of the State. The Cabinet took a conscious decision of treating the textile sector cautiously as it received feedback from Ministers of the western belt that the scope was "limited" for adherence to norms of personal distancing at mills. With regard to infrastructure or road works, the Cabinet’s recommendation was that the services of locally available labour should be utilised. “We cannot go on with the present state for months together as the livelihood opportunities of a large number of the poor are at stake," pointed out Mr. Shanmugam. Another official said that "to the extent possible”, the government had struck a balance between social and economic goals. Asked about the continued denial of permission for salons and beauty parlours, the official replied that given the nature of service to be rendered to customers, the chances were extremely limited for adhering to the norms on personal distancing. Besides, the Centre itself had included "barber shops, spas and salons" in the list of prohibited activities for red zones. Pointing out that more focus would be paid to containment zones, Mr. Shanmugam said that the government had also felt that there was no point in penalising the remaining parts of the State. As the period of "broader lockdown" was nearing its end, the government would hereafter have to go for "localised lockdowns" to ensure that the pandemic did not spread. About arrangements for getting e-passes for household helps, the Chief Secretary said that a provision would shortly be made on the system and the passes would be issued by the Corporation Commissioner in Chennai and Collectors in other districts.  We cannot go on with the present state for months as the livelihood opportunities of a large number of the poor are at stake K. Shanmugam Chief Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-cabinet-eases-lockdown-norms-in-large-parts-of-state/article31492865.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man claims he was wrongly put under quarantine||A 30-year-old man from Avinashi in Tiruppur district, who was placed under house quarantine on Friday, released a video claiming that he was wrongfully quarantined, despite having no COVID-19 symptoms. In a video message, the man, who says he is a documentary filmmaker, claims to have returned from Thiruvananathapuram, Kerala to his residence in Nambiyampalayam in Avinashi on February 26 and had not left his village since March 22. On Friday, a few officials visited his residence and asked him to be under house quarantine. “I was asked to take a temperature test at Avinashi Government Hospital and my body temperature was found to be normal,” he claimed. Nevertheless, the officials pasted the house quarantine sticker and asked his family and him to stay indoors till May 28. He told The Hindu that he shared a few posts on his Facebook page critical of the Central and State governments since the lockdown came into force. “I received many abusive phone calls and personal messages,” he claimed. Nambiyampalayam Village Administrative Officer L. Thangaraj said that the man was quarantined based on information that he returned from Chennai recently and this was a routine procedure of house quarantining as a precautionary measure. M. Senthilkumar, Health Inspector at Nambiyampalayam Primary Health Centre, claimed that he had checked the man’s travel history to Chennai. “House quarantining is for his safety,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-claims-he-was-wrongly-put-under-quarantine/article31492897.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Team carries out inspection||The State government-constituted Field Inspection Team led by IAS officers E. Saravanavelraj, Director, Geology and Mining, and R. Gajalakshmi, Managing Director, SIDCO, on Saturday visited various places in the city to take stock of the measures put in place during the lockdown period. A release from the Coimbatore Corporation said the Team visited the budget canteen (Amma Unavagam) in Ramanathapuram. It conducted a similar inspection at the make-shift vegetable market at the Gandhipuram Town Bus Stand. The release said the Team then visited the containment zones in R.S. Puram and on Syrian Church Road to check the arrangement in place to restrict the movement of people. It checked if the Coimbatore City Police had placed barricades. The team also visited the Corporation’s medical camp for its workers at the P.N. Pudur and visited Puliakulam where the civic body in association with Nallaram Trust cooked food to be served to the needy, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/team-carries-out-inspection/article31492905.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||The article titled ‘Induct Home Guards into police force’ that appeared on May 2, was incorrectly attributed to PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss. It was a statement made by PMK youth wing leader and Rajya Sabha MP Anbumani Ramadoss. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article31492857.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Groceries distributed||Tenkasi MP Dhanush M. Kumar and Rajapalayam MLA S. Thangapandian distributed rice, groceries and vegetables to 106 families on Saturday. Mr. Thangapandian said that the benefits were given to those who had called the DMK helpline, Ondrinaivom Vaa, and the MLA himself. Assistance had been given to 3,212 families in his constituency so far, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/groceries-distributed/article31493087.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Season’s flavour||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seasons-flavour/article31493141.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||5 held for distilling arrack||The Prohibition Enforcement Wing of Coimbatore rural police arrested five persons for illegal brewing of arrack and seized 3.5 litre of arrack and 70 litres of fermented wash from them. The arrests were made during raids at various places on Friday and Saturday. The arrested were K. Prakash and S. Balaji, both residents of Annur, D. Kulanthaivelu of Chinna Thadagam M. Ranjithkumar of Karupparayan Kovil Street near 24 Veerapandi and K. Avinashilingam of Vellanapatti near Kovilpalayam. All the arrested were remanded in judicial custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/5-held-for-distilling-arrack/article31492889.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore||As on May 2     No. of persons in hospitals: 212 (Male -59, Male child – 3, Female – 149, Female child - 1) Govt. hospitals – 138 Private hospitals – 74 No. of persons tested +ve: 142 (One case on Saturday) No. of active cases: 8 No. of persons recovered: 134    House quarantine cases: 941 Samples lifted: 3,709 Declared: 3,535 Positive: 114 (Two fresh cases on May 2) Negative: 3,421 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 109 Results awaited: 174||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore/article31492906.ece
03 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Industries to open in all zones except containment areas||Industries and other related economic activities will be opened in all green and orange zone districts and in areas other than containment zones in red zones once the lockdown ends on May 4, Jagadish Shettar, Minister for Heavy and Medium Industries, said here on Saturday. At a meeting with industrialists in the Institute of Indian Foundrymen in Udyambag, the Minister said the government was committed to restarting economic activity and would allow different trade and industry activities. He said there was no need for passes for workers who would move from their homes to the factories. However, the industries would be asked to follow some rules as per the COVID protocol. The Minister said the Union government was considering a proposal to provide a revival package to small industries and hoped that the Prime Minister would announce it in a few days. Rajya Sabha member Prabhakar Kore urged the government to allow some sectors like sugar factories to work round the clock. Shridhar Uppin, president of the Chamber of Commerce and Industries, urged the government to allow factories to work for four more hours per day. He also sought loans at 3% interest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/industries-to-open-in-all-zones-except-containment-areas/article31492957.ece
03 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Survey attributes peace in villages to absence of alcohol||A study by two NGOs has claimed that reduced consumption of alcohol in the month-long lockdown has had positive effects on village life, reducing quarrels in families and increasing peace and harmony in the village. Around 9,400 service representatives took part in the survey conducted by Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project (SKDRDP) and NGO Jana Jagruti Vedike (JJV). These representatives are volunteers in rural areas and are mostly women. They assist the SKDRDP in implementing various projects at the grassroots level. As many as 60% of the respondents said it has had a positive effect on society in general. Around 67% said there were no other problems in the village, thanks to the lack of alcohol consumption. Around 41% said there was “an increase in happiness in the community” because of the absence of alcohol. However, the survey also reports withdrawal symptoms among 43% of the addicts and that around 20% of the alcoholics showed signs of depression. Consumption of illicit liquor had been seen in around 12% of the drunkards. Manjunath L.H., executive director, SKDRDP, in a video message, appealed for continuing the prohibition even after the lockdown. “The lockdown has shown that alcohol is not an essential commodity. We have seen that drunkards have adjusted to the situation and stayed home quietly. The SKDRDP and JJV are spreading awareness about prohibition. I appeal to the community that we should all send a message to the State government to continue the prohibition beyond the lockdown,” he said.  ‘All propaganda’ “We are hearing a lot of reports that the prohibition enforced by the lockdown has resulted in several persons committing suicide or beating up their wives and children. But that is all propaganda. This field level survey provides a very different perspective. It has clearly shown that liquor destroys lives and damages domestic harmony. Even if the temperance is forced and probably temporary, it has had positive effects,” said Sharada Gopal, convenor, Jagruta Mahila Vedike, an NGO working for the rights of rural women. “It is one of the unintended positive developments of the lockdown,” said Prakash Bhat, director, Jnanavikasa Training Institute, SKDRDP, in Dharwad. “The lockdown may in fact have some kind of a weaning effect on the addiction. We estimate that several may drop the habit while some may go back to it aggressively,” Dr. Bhat said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/survey-attributes-peace-in-villages-to-absence-of-alcohol/article31492823.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP bats for zoning at ward, not district, level||With Bengaluru (Urban) being categorised as a red zone district by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), relaxation in restrictions, coming into force from Monday, will be limited to a minimum in the city when compared to other districts which have been categorised as orange and green zones. However, given the track record of the city in controlling the spread of COVID-19, the city’s administration thinks more relaxations are called for. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) will now write to the MHA on the matter. “Bengaluru has performed better than most cities and the spread of the virus is contained to small geographic areas when compared to other cities,” said civic commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar. The city has recorded the lowest number of COVID-19 cases among all the major metro cities, and even lower than several Tier 2 cities in the country. “We suggested to the Chief Secretary that zoning of areas into red, orange and green zones be done not at the district level, but at the ward level. He has asked us to write to the Union government,” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu . “We are working at the ward level and can identify particular wards as red, orange, and green zones.” If the BBMP has its way, while 22 wards with containment zones will be red zones, the remaining 176 will fall under orange or green zones. While cab services are permitted in orange zones, buses can begin to ply at 50% occupancy rate in green zones. “If the categorisation is at the ward level instead of the district level, we can restart some public transport and hasten our way back to normalcy,” Mr. Kumar said. Restrictions remain However, for all practical purposes, the MHA guidelines categorising the entire district as a red zone remain for now. All public transport, including autorickshaws and cabs, will continue to be off the road across the city. While the process of returning seized vehicles has begun, new passes will also be issued, said City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao. Only two occupants, apart from thedriver, are allowed in a car. No pillion rider will be allowed on a bike. However, areas with no contaminant zones will see some relaxation of norms. Private firms, industry units and large in-situ construction projects can restart operations, albeit following the social distancing norms. This is expected to slowly begin the process of kick-starting the economy. All private offices can now begin functioning with 33% staff strength. Special Economic Zones, export-oriented units, industrial estates, and all essential industries can begin work with staggered shifts. Some of these relaxations were already announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa a week ago. They are now part of the MHA guidelines as well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bbmp-bats-for-zoning-at-ward-not-district-level/article31492805.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State government orders audit of inventory in liquor shops||Amidst complaints of bootlegging, sale of liquor at premium, and a number of thefts reported by wine store owners during the lockdown, the State government has ordered the audit of inventory of nearly 10,000 liquor vending outlets in the State. This move has been opposed by the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association, Karnataka, on the grounds that it will create more confusion. Since the total ban on liquor came into force from the fourth week of March, as many as 91 cases of thefts in liquor vending outlets have been reported across 24 districts in the State with about 16,000 litres of IML and 5,200 litres of beer allegedly stolen. On charges of violating the lockdown guidelines, 86 liquor licenses have been kept under suspension in 17 districts. “Complaints have been received about license holders transporting liquor despite the premises being sealed and also illegally selling the liquor,” the Excise Commissioner’s order on inventory audit said. It further said that it is now imperative to check the current inventory against the stock that existed before the liquor sale ban came into force to ensure that the license holder has not illegally sold his stock. The Excise Department has asked its units to ensure that the seal on the outlets is intact, and take an inventory of IML, beer and wine stock in the outlets, and investigate if there are any discrepancy in the stock. “Officials have been asked to file a special report within May 5,” sources said. Meanwhile, the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association, Karnataka, has said that the audit of inventory will “create confusion” among license holders. In an appeal to the Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the federation has said that the license holders have already suffered for more than 40 days and this would create anxieties. “Most liquor outlets closed abruptly and book of accounts had not been updated. Many license holders may not even know exact stocks available,” a senior office-bearer of the federation said.    Most liquor outlets closed abruptly and accounts had not been updated. Many licence holders may not even know exact stocks available. office-bearer, Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-government-orders-audit-of-inventory-in-liquor-shops/article31492821.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cooked food supply to construction workers to stop from Tuesday||Supply of cooked food to construction workers and migrant labourers will be stopped from Tuesday, nearly a month after the system was started. The decision to stop supply to nearly 1.5 lakh people comes in the light of exemptions from lockdown given to several sectors, especially construction sector. The last food supply will be the dinner on Monday, a communique from Labour Secretary to BBMP Commissioner and Bengaluru Deputy Commissioner on Saturday said, and asked them to make alternative arrangements. Sources said the decision was taken as a large number of migrant labourers have either left or are likely to leave the city. Trade unions estimate that about 30% of the migrant labour force in the construction sector that is now dependent on government’s food dole could return home. More than 30 lakh food packets have been distributed since April 5 when the distribution began. The department estimates that about 15,000 workers, who do not have kitchens, would still need the prepared food facility. The Karnataka Construction Workers’ Welfare Board has decided to scale up distribution of dry ration kits in the meanwhile. “Discussions are underway as to how to ensure dry rations to the affected families before the prepared food distribution is scaled down. The callers on hunger helpline are asking for dry ration,” said sources aware of the development. A trade union leader acknowledged that the move to provide dry ration kits is the only long-term solution. “We have already seen decline in the demand for prepared food since limited economic activity started,” he said. Incidentally, Labour Department’s earlier plan to distribute one lakh dry ration hampers with about 13 items was mired in controversy after political intervention led to BBMP taking over amidst allegation of haphazard distribution. Very few construction workers received the ration kits though the money came from the Construction Workers’ Welfare Board. The department issued an order asking for a list of construction workers who will require dry ration kits. It even specified who is a construction worker - someone who has worked at least for one year in 51 trades identified in the construction industry. If an elected representative wants to add beneficiaries, he would have to draw up a list and submit it. The distribution process is to have either an official, trade union representative or a corona warrior. “Officials will have to face disciplinary action if any beneficiary calls the hunger helpline and complains,” said a source.  Move to provide dry ration kits is the only long-term solution. We have already seen decline in the demand for prepared food since limited economic activity started.Trade union leader||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cooked-food-supply-to-construction-workers-to-stop-from-tuesday/article31492811.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State govt. to issue one-time inter-district passes for people||The government has decided to allow one-day, one-time inter-district passes to facilitate people stranded in other cities to return home or for work. This will ensure availability of employees/workers in industries for carrying out manufacturing/production activities. This was announced following Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s videoconference meeting with Deputy Commissioners to discuss various issues. In tune with the Centre’s guidelines, the State government instructed all DCs to grant permission to allow business and industrial activities in their districts, outside of the containment zones, from Monday.  The Department of Health and Family Welfare further said that those arriving using the one-time passes would be screened with a thermal scanner. In case the person has a temperature above 37.5°C or is found to be suffering from cold, cough and breathlessness, he/she will be taken to a COVID-19 care centre for isolation and further medical examination. In case they have symptoms of COVID-19, a swab test will be drawn and the patient kept under quarantine till the results are out. If the test comes back positive, he/she will be shifted to a COVID-19 hospital, and if it is negative, the person will be asked to remain in home quarantine for 14 days. Clarity on zones With the Union and State governments differing on the classification of red zone districts, Karnataka has decided to write to the Centre. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that some districts such as Bengaluru Rural were on the Centre’s list of red zones, but the situation had improved there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-time-one-day-inter-district-passes/article31492806.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC told to charge single fare tariff||After coming under attack for charging exorbitant fares to ferry stranded migrant workers to their respective districts, the State government announced that they will charge single fare. KSRTC officials maintained that high fare had been charged to discourage workers from leaving the city as well as compensate high operational costs as buses are returning to the city empty.  In a statement, the KSRTC said that both Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi discussed the issue on Saturday. In the meeting, a decision was taken to permit the KSRTC to collect single fare tariff from workers by following social distance. The State government has directed the Labour Department to bear other side fare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-told-to-charge-single-fare-tariff/article31492814.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Despite initiative, not many takers for telemedicine||The lockdown, during which patients have been told to visit hospitals and clinics only in cases of emergency, has prompted several hospitals to start telemedicine consultations. However, the demand for telemedicine is still low and many patients are instead deferring consultations to the post-lockdown period. R. Ravindra, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association, Karnataka, said there was a need for the medical fraternity to promote telemedicine more aggressively. “Patients want to meet the doctor in person and want the doctor to physically examine them. But most lifestyle diseases and chronic ailments do not always require physical examination and can be treated via online consultation,” he said. He also urged patients not to put off getting advice from a doctor beyond a point. “We are seeing that many are delaying visits and are coming to hospitals in serious condition. Sometimes, simple interventions such as prescribing a drug will go a long way in ensuring that the patient’s health improves,” he said. Vikram Sreeram, MD, Mallige Hospital, said they started video consultations around three weeks ago. “We have seen only a small number of patients signing up for this. Our assessment is that patients are more comfortable with a face-to-face interaction with doctors.” ‘Not a replacement’ S. Murali, chief of Clinical Services and consultant neurologist at Manipal Hospitals, said that around a third of their regular patients are opting for telemedicine, but the trend is promising. “Telemedicine cannot be a replacement for personal consultation and is only complementary to it,” he said. “It is also ideal for the elderly, who are vulnerable and have been told to avoid stepping out.” Patients are not yet completely convinced about telemedicine. Shruthi Rao, a software professional, said she opted for an online consultation after she sprained her leg. Not very happy with her experience, she said, “Instead of opting for another telemedicine session, I will go personally and meet a doctor.” She admitted, however, that there were some benefits to telemedicine, including saving waiting time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/despite-initiative-not-many-takers-for-telemedicine/article31492808.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fine for not using mask||The civic body began enforcing the wearing of masks in the city from Saturday. Civic authorities booked 86 cases and collected Rs. 51,700 in penalty. Marshals levying penalty, in many cases, collected fines less than the Rs. 1,000 stipulated by the civic commissioner. Putting this down to lack of awareness, a senior civic official said the civic body would enforce a fine of Rs. 1,000 for the first offence and Rs. 2,000 for every subsequent offence from Sunday. The BBMP has clarified that any cloth can be used to cover the mouth and nose and it need not be a mask.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fine-for-not-using-mask/article31492809.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hubballi violence: HC grants bail to six women||The High Court of Karnataka has imposed a unique condition while granting bail to six women, asking them not to step out of their houses till the government lifts the lockdown. These women were accused of violating lockdown norms and pelting stones at the police in Hubballi. Viewing seriously the incident of lockdown violations, the court declined to grant bail to Khaza and sixteen other men, who were also arraigned as main accused along with the six women. Observing that it is granting bail taking a lenient view as the accused women have young children to take care of, the court also directed Shabana M. Ron and five other accused to regularly adhere to the instructions issued by the government for the control of COVID-19. The bail granted will automatically get cancelled if they violate any conditions, the court said while also directing them to furnish a bond of Rs. 50,000 and a surety for a like sum. Justice Sreenivas Harish Kumar passed the order while disposing of petitions filed by Shabana and 22 others, all residents of Mantur Road, Aralikatti colony, Hubballi. They were arrested on the allegation of forming an unlawful assembly in violation of COVID-19 lockdown norms and pelting stones and bricks at the police. It was argued that they had stepped outside only to offer prayers and the police had registered a false case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hubballi-violence-hc-grants-bail-to-six-women/article31492820.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Shun alcohol voluntarily’||Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project (SKDRDP), its patron Dharmadhikari D. Veerendra Heggade and Akhila Karnataka Jana Jagruthi Vedike on Saturday exhorted people to voluntarily boycott sale of liquor that would begin once more from Monday in the State. Mr. Heggade has urged people to permanently shun alcohol while urging a nation-wide ban on liquor. Vedike president Ramaswamy has said that liquor ban should continue as a people’s movement henceforth. A majority of members of women self help groups, promoted by SKDRDP, want ban on liquor, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shun-alcohol-voluntarily/article31492822.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private bus operators to refund passengers||Online ticket platforms facilitating bookings of inter-State and intra-State bus services have announced that those who had booked tickets for journey from May 4 onwards will be refunded. Some private operators have been charging exorbitant fares for major destinations, as high as two to three times the regular fare. The Transport Department has threatened to take severe action against those operators who take advantage of the situation and fleece people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-bus-operators-to-refund-passengers/article31492819.ece
03 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Dharwad administration makes arrangements for inter-State travel||With conditional permission given for inter-State travel , the Dharwad district administration has made necessary arrangements for people travelling to other States and those coming to the district from outside. Chairing a meeting of officials here on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad M. Deepa said that the third phase of the lockdown which would come into force from May 5 for a period of two weeks would have several relaxations and accordingly specific spaces had been earmarked for arrival and departure of passengers in Hubballi and Dharwad. There would be special ticket counters, health check-up centres, and other basic facilities at these spaces round the clock. Passengers travelling to places which are around 1,000 km from the twin cities would be sent in NWKRTC buses and social distancing guidelines would be strictly followed. But those travelling to far-off places would be provided train facility, she said. For those coming from other States in the district, University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Dharwad, will be arrival point while the departure points would be new bus station and railway station in Hubballi. At all these points, there will be health centres. The Deputy Commissioner said that people arriving from other States would be screened at UAS, Dharwad, and compulsorily stamped as home quarantined. Hubballi-Dharwad Police Commissioner R. Dileep said that the registration numbers of vehicles arriving and departing from the district should be provided to the police department so as to send requisite messages to the check-posts. Chief Executive Officer of Dharwad Zilla Panchayat B.C. Sateesh suggested writing to the State governments that have become COVID-19 hotspots appealing them not to allow travel of people to other States. However, those wanting to go to such States could be permitted, he said. Online permission ‘Seva Sindhu’ app has been launched to help inter-State travel. People who are interested have to register their name, residential address and mobile number on sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in. Those who are seeking one-time entry into the district from other States for emergency cases or for delivery of medicines, can seek permission by contacting 9449847646/ 9449847641 or visit website www.supportdharwad.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dharwad-administration-makes-arrangements-for-inter-state-travel/article31492955.ece
03 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Two children discharged from KIMS after recovery||Two children who had tested positive for COVID-19 have been discharged from Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) here after they tested negative following treatment. According to Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Deepa M., the three-and-a-half-year-old boy (P-234) and seven-year-old girl (P-235) tested negative twice in a span of 24 hours. “Further tests were held to confirm that the children did not have any respiratory problems. Subsequently, they were discharged on Friday,” Ms. Deepa said in a release. The children’s mother, who had tested negative but was permitted to stay in the hospital to take care of them, was also discharged after she tested negative again. With these two kids getting discharged, the number of COVID-19 patients who have been cured and discharged from hospital has gone up to four. Six more patients are undergoing treatment at the isolation ward in KIMS. Five discharged Belagavi Special Correspondent reports: Five persons were discharged in Belagavi on Saturday, taking the total number of persons discharged to 15. They include four women and a man, all from Hire Bagewadi village. They will have to observe a 14-day quarantine at home, doctors said. Now there are only 57 active cases in the hospital. None of them is symptomatic, according to officers. The total number of patients in the district rose to 73 on Saturday after one more person from Belagavi person tested positive. He is a a contact of P-128. District in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar and Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi flagged off three mobile preliminary and throat swab collection centres in Belagavi on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-children-discharged-from-kims-after-recovery/article31492961.ece
03 May 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||It’s not a rosy picture in arid Kalyana Karnataka||After being stranded in cities such as Bengaluru for over a month with no work, thousands of migrant workers are now heading to their native places in Kalyana Karnataka region. However, what the impoverished districts can offer them by way of alternative livelihood is a question that haunts all of them. Seasonal migration is typical of the region where agricultural labourers and poor farmers migrate to find work mainly in the construction industry. They return twice a year for a month or two — in May–June to engage in sowing activities and then in October–November for harvesting. This year, COVID-19 lockdown has advanced their return by almost a month. Many of them, particularly those with small landholding, may engage themselves in farm activities with the onset of monsoon after a month. The real problem will be after sowing. Industrially backward Seasonal migration is on account of lack of job opportunities in the industrially-backward region. Barring a few irrigated areas, the arid region cannot offer work for them throughout the year and flourishing construction industry in megacities that mainly requires unskilled labourers attracts them. “The Kalyana Karnataka region has too few industries to accommodate workers who are returning home and slowdown has already hit them hard. Moreover, there is no sign of revival of the construction industry in the region. If the construction industry in megacities does not resume, the region will be hit by joblessness,” said Amarnath Patil, president of the Hyderabad Karnataka Chamber of Commerce. Many of the existing industries, particularly dal mills in Kalaburagi and rice mills in Raichur, have employed labourers from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. These mills too are already in crisis and are unlikely to generate more jobs to accommodate the migrant labourers. As on Saturday, about 600 workers have returned to Raichur and Yadgir out of thousands who have migrated. A majority of them do not have job cards and they have been now asked to register with the panchayats so that they can avail themselves of MGNREGA work. Workers’ anxieties Workers The Hindu spoke to were not sure if they would be returning to Bengaluru at a later date. They are concerned as much about their health as they are about when they will be able to find work in the cities. “I want to relax for a while. I may not even go back,” said Mahadevappa, a native of Deodurg taluk who worked as construction labourer in Bengaluru. But people such as Devaraj, a native of Chiratnal village in Sindhanur taluk of Raichur district, want to return even though he is apprehensive. “We will possibly go back after a few months. But a few will go first to check the situation and then others will follow,” he said. Meanwhile, officials in this region now have the responsibility of ensuring jobs under MGNREGA for those who have returned home.  (With inputs from Ravikumar Naraboli in Yadgir)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/its-not-a-rosy-picture-in-arid-kalyana-karnataka/article31492813.ece
03 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||200 volunteers roped in to spread awareness||The Kalaburagi City Corporation has roped in 200 youths to create awareness among the public about precautionary measures to be taken to contain spread of coronavirus. The youths who came forward voluntarily to be a part of the campaign were trained to visit door to door to inform people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/200-volunteers-roped-in-to-spread-awareness/article31492953.ece
03 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||DK has nearly 5,000 migrant labourers from outside State||Having sent around 6,600 migrant labourers to their native places within the State since a week, the Dakshina Kannada district administration may have to handle another nearly 5,000 migrant workers from outside the State if they wish to go back home. Following the State government’s order to arrange buses for migrant workers from within the State desirous of returning to their native places, the administration had arranged 230 KSRTC buses for their journey back home during the week. Dakshina Kannada Labour Officer Wilma Tauro said 3,600 migrant workers of the State in Mangaluru City Corporation limits had expressed their desire to go back to their native. A majority of them have now been sent to their places, mostly in North Karnataka. Tahsildars of respective taluks outside MCC limits have arranged transport to another 3,500 migrant workers of the State who wanted to go their places, she said. KSRTC Mangaluru Division’s traffic officer Kamal Kumar said the division operated 142 buses to ferry migrant workers of Karnataka. Corporation’s Puttur Division had arranged 92 buses, said Puttur DTO Muralidhar. Outside the State Similarly, the district has about 5,000 migrant workers from outside the State, according to rough estimates by officials concerned. A majority of them had been working in construction industry, sand extraction and other non-skilled works. The government held a high-level meeting in Bengaluru on Friday to devise a standard operating procedure to send desirous migrant workers from outside Karnataka to their respective States. Once the SOP was in place, arrangements would have to be made for their journey. Deputy Chief Minister in-charge of Transport Department Laxman Savadi on Friday held a video conference with senior officials and Divisional Controllers of State transport corporations to chalk out modalities of transporting migrant workers from outside States to their native places. Once the government decides the modality, RTCs would be tasked to ferry them, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dk-has-nearly-5000-migrant-labourers-from-outside-state/article31492960.ece
03 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||People in green zone must continue to remain cautious, says Sriramulu||B. Sriramulu, Minister for Health and Family Welfare, has urged the residents of the districts that fall under green zone, where no positive cases of COVID-19 has been reported, to continue to remain cautious. “It is a far-fetched and long-term battle against COVID-19 and the bureaucrats and people cannot afford to become complacent. The negligence towards precautionary measures, including social distancing, may result in the outbreak of the disease,” he said at a meeting held here on Saturday to review the measures taken in the district to prevent the outbreak of COVID-19. Referring to the reports on shortage of blood at blood banks following the enforcement of lockdown, he directed the officials of the department to organise blood donation camps to address the problem. He said that Rs. 80 crore has been released to clear the salary dues of medical and non-medical staff serving with the department on contract basis. K.B. Sivakumar, Deputy Commissioner, told the meeting that accommodation and food has been arranged for 842 migrant workers who are stranded in the district. KFD vaccine Araga Jnanendra, Tirthahalli MLA, and H. Halappa, Sagar MLA, requested the Minister to take measures to enhance the efficacy of the vaccine administered against Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), also known as monkey fever. They also urged him to establish the KFD Study and Research Centre in Shivamogga district at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/people-in-green-zone-must-continue-to-remain-cautious-says-sriramulu/article31492962.ece
03 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Lockdown relaxation extended by two hours||The lockdown relaxation would be extended by two hours in Udupi district from Monday. Sadashiva Prabhu, Additional Deputy Commissioner, told The Hindu here on Saturday that the relaxation would be extended from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m. Hitherto, it was being given from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. This decision had been taken at a meeting of elected representatives of the district who participated in a videoconference with Home Minister and Udupi district in charge Minister Basavaraj Bommai, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-relaxation-extended-by-two-hours/article31492958.ece
03 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Flowers showered on health workers||Appreciating the selfless work by medical staff, officers, and ASHA workers, Sharanabhupal Reddy, president of BJP’s district unit, honoured them by showering flowers on the district hospital premises here on Saturday. “The health workers have done a good job in helping fight the virus. They have been working continuously for 37 days,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/flowers-showered-on-health-workers/article31492964.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Time to rest||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/time-to-rest/article31492825.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Non-containment zones: what is allowed now||Private vehicles: Movement of individuals and private vehicles only for permitted activities. Only vehicles with police passes will be permitted. Two passengers apart from the driver in a car, and only a rider allowed on a bike.  Offices: All private offices can operate on up to 33% staff strength. Essential government offices shall function as per directions — in full force in case of essential services and 33% in other departments.  Construction: In-situ construction where labourers are available on site and construction of renewable energy projects allowed  Shops: Standalone and neighbourhood shops, shops in residential areas allowed without any distinction of essential and non-essential goods. Malls and market complexes will remain closed.  E-commerce: only for essential goods.  Liquor: Sale allowed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/non-containment-zones-what-is-allowed-now/article31492810.ece
03 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Railways to operate trains to Bihar, Odisha||Railways will operate two trains from the district to Bihar and Odisha to facilitate the return of stranded migrants, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. He was speaking to reporters after a review meeting at the Collectorate here on Saturday. “The train to Bihar will leave on May 4. The train to Odisha will commence the journey on May 6,” Mr. Sudhakaran said. The district administration has started collecting details of migrant labourers in the district who wish to return to their native places. The labourers will have to bear the travel expenses. “The list will be submitted to the district administration on Sunday. The District Medical Office will issue medical certificates to the travellers. They will also be given food kits,” said an official. There are around 19,000 migrant workers in the district. A control room has been opened for them. The contact number is 0477 2239040.  Inflow of people The meeting discussed measures to deal with the inflow of people from foreign countries and those from other States to Alappuzha. The district administration is expecting 26,341 people. They include 18,908 from foreign countries and 7,433 from other States. “If needed, they will will be kept in isolation. We have identified 7,650 isolation beds. Besides, halls and buildings may also be converted into COVID-19 centres, if needed. They together can house 20,684 people,” he said. The district has so far logged five COVID-19 cases and all have recovered. No case has been reported since April 8. Officials say five people are under observation at Taluk Hospital, Kayamkulam, with disease symptoms. Also, 1,299 people are in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-to-operate-trains-to-bihar-odisha/article31493076.ece
03 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||First bishop of Idukki passes away||The first bishop of Idukki diocese Mar Mathew Anikuzhikattil, 78, died at the Kolencherry medical mission hospital early on Friday. He was suffering from heart and kidney ailments. The bishop was instrumental in forming the High Range Samrakshna Samithy (HSS), an umbrella organisation for protecting farmers’ rights. The public will be allowed to pay homage to the bishop’s mortal remains only as per the lockdown specifications. The bishop will be laid to rest at the cemetery of St. George’s Cathedral, Vazhathoppe, on Tuesday. He was born at Kadaplamattom, near Pala, and did his ecclesiastical duty at various churches prior to becoming the first bishop of the Idukki diocese.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-bishop-of-idukki-passes-away/article31493050.ece
03 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||KVASU told to conduct research on KFD||A meeting of senior officials of various departments chaired by Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran has directed the Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU) to conduct research programmes on Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), a viral disease endemic to the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kvasu-told-to-conduct-research-on-kfd/article31493052.ece
03 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Education dept. says ‘no’ to fee hike||The State Education Department is against fee increase across board in the new academic year in view of the impact on family income following the COVID-19 outbreak. “The general concept is that a fee increase should not be there in the new academic year in view of the pandemic crisis. It is a fact that family income has been hit after the lockdown came into force,” C. Ravindranath, Minister for Education, told The Hindu on Friday. The Minister’s response comes a day after the Kerala CBSE School Managements Association backtracked on its decision not to increase the tuition fee in the new academic year. T.P.M. Ibrahim Khan, president of the association, reversed the earlier position on Thursday by stating that schools could fix the fee in tune with the facilities provided after several member-institutions opposed the policy proposed by the association leadership. Mr. Ravindranath made it clear that the Education Department had no plans to increase the fee in schools under it in the new academic year. “We are also against the increase in fee across streams,” he said. On whether the government will issue an order against fee increase as done by a few other States, the Minister said a final decision could be taken only after further deliberations. CBSE circular A circular issued by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on April 17 had said that fee shall be charged under the heads prescribed by the Department of Education of State/Union Territories. Admission fee and fee charged under any other head were to be charged only as per the regulations of the appropriate government. The affiliation by-laws of the board also empowered the State Education Department of the State/Union Territories concerned to decide the manner in which fee could be collected, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/education-dept-says-no-to-fee-hike/article31493053.ece
03 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. revokes approval for waste-to-energy plant||The Local Self Government Department (LSGD) has, by a Government Order (GO) issued on Thursday, cancelled the approval to set up a waste-to-energy plant at Brahmapuram here. The Kochi Corporation will now take steps to terminate the concession agreement with G.J. Eco Power Pvt. Ltd. to set up the plant at a cost of Rs. 295 crore. Further, the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC), the nodal agency for the implementation of the Urban Solid Waste Management Initiative, will invite fresh proposals to select another company. According to the GO issued by LSGD Principal Secretary Sarada Muraleedharan, the company had delayed achieving financial closure and commencing construction work. It had signed an agreement with the corporation in February 2016. The company was required to furnish its financing plan and financing documents 180 days after signing the agreement, but it failed to do so. A GO issued in January required the company to achieve financial closure within 30 days — another deadline that it failed to meet. In September 2019, environment clearance had been granted for the project. Though the State Level Advisory Committee on Waste Management had asked the company for its financial capability in March, it had failed to produce satisfactory evidence. “The Chief Minister had laid the foundation stone in 2018, but work has not progressed. Instead, the company demanded that its concession agreement be converted into a lease agreement for around 20 acres. Though the corporation council was against a lease agreement, the government granted permission for it earlier this year,” said Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar. Opposition Leader K.J. Antony called for an urgent council meeting along with district administration officials to discuss the matter. Ernakulam District Residents Association Apex Council (EDRAAC) president P. Rangadasa Prabhu said the body had sent a memorandum to the Chief Minister on the matter. “It is not right to cancel the agreement since the government has not given any subsidies to the company,” he added. In a statement, GJ Eco Power said, “The project is well on, and all speculations about an uncertainty in its completion are not factual.” The concession agreement had not been cancelled. The delay in project permit clearances had discouraged committed international investors from supporting it, and many had backed out, the company said, adding that over Rs. 35 crore had already been spent by the company on the project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-revokes-approval-for-waste-to-energy-plant/article31493032.ece
03 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Most of them unsure of return||Of the 1,111 workers who boarded the train to Odisha from Aluva, some are convinced they will not return while others, like Gangadhar S., a construction worker, are unsure. He had moved here only a few months ago, he said, while standing in line to get his ID card verified and temperature checked before he gets his ticket issued. Santosh who worked as a painting help near the Ernakulam Junction railway station is convinced that he will look for work on farmlands close to home, in a village near Behrampur, Odisha, rather than return to Ernakulam. Padmanabh, who is returning to his family in Behrampur, lugs a sack and a backpack into which all his belongings - utensils, clothes and a bucket - have managed to fit. He was carrying them back, unsure of whether he would return at all, said he. Rajendra Naik from Odisha said workers who could afford the ticket fare had been able to return. In most cases, contractors had not helped out, he said. The workers’ refrain, however, while waving to police and district administration officials on the platform, was thank you.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/most-of-them-unsure-of-return/article31493033.ece
03 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kannur students bag top prize in hackathon||Two students of Government College of Engineering, Kannur, won the first prize in a global competition on developing a virtual classroom amid the corona-time lockdown, bagging an impressive USD 10,000 (Rs. 7.5 lakh approximately). Abinand C. and Shilpa Rajeev, both doing second-year B Tech (computer science), emerged toppers in the #CODE19 (against COVID-19) Hackathon for their ‘iClassroom’. The international #CODE19 was organised by charitable organisation Motwani Jadeja Family Foundation and software solutions firm Hackerearth. The event was held last month in Kannur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-students-bag-top-prize-in-hackathon/article31493038.ece
03 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||3 booked on charge of attacking woman priest||The Puthencruz police on Saturday registered a case against three persons for allegedly attacking a 28-year-old woman priest at the Kalari Sree Durga Devi temple at Pancode near Kolencherry. A case was also registered against the woman and her husband on a complaint filed by the three persons that the couple had attacked them. In her complaint, the woman alleged that the accused were against the performance of rituals by a woman from the Dalit community. She had joined the temple three years ago. The woman alleged that the three persons barged into the temple on Saturday evening and attacked her. The police said the three had alleged that the the couple were practising certain ritualistic sacrifices. The incident would be probed, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/3-booked-on-charge-of-attacking-woman-priest/article31493044.ece
03 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Navy to do flypast||Senior officers of the Southern Naval Command will visit the General Hospital on Sunday to thank the medical fraternity, District Collector, police, paramedics, and healthcare workers for their effort in maintaining Ernakulam as a ‘green zone’ for COVID-19. Chetak helicopter will shower flowers on the hospital at 10.15 a.m. and aircraft such as Dornier, Sea King, and Advanced Light Helicopter will carry out a flypast soon after.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/navy-to-do-flypast/article31493037.ece
03 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Post-production film work permitted from tomorrow||The State government has permitted post-production work of movies from May 4 onwards. A.K. Balan, Minister for Culture and Cinema, said works that needed manpower of maximum five persons could resume from May 4. The decision was taken after holding talks with the Chief Minister on Saturday, he said. Mr. Balan said certain works in the film and television industry were permitted in view of the limited relaxations extended to offices in Green zones in the State. Dubbing, music, sound mixing works could start from Monday, he said. Studios should be disinfected before May 4. People working in the facilities should wear masks and abide by the safety protocol prescribed by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/post-production-film-work-permitted-from-tomorrow/article31493069.ece
03 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Google sheet for data collection in Chathannur||As part of the efforts to prevent COVID-19 transmission through contact and identify new cases, the Health Department will use Google sheet for data collection in Chathannur. Since health workers of the Chathannur Community Health Centre are in quarantine, a parallel squad that includes two health inspectors, five junior health inspectors, five junior public health nurses and 20 Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Kariakram (RBSK) nurses will coordinate the activities. Based on the data they will select symptomatic persons for sample collection. The details of 8,000 residents in Chathannur grama panchayat will be collected in the first phase. The Kollam COVID-10 special monitoring cell will supervise the activities and the technical department will guide the online survey. After health workers from Chathannur were tested positive, the district administration had opened a 24-hour control room at the PWD rest house in Chathannur. Those who visited the CHC between April 5 and 10 have been instructed to get in touch with the control room. Health officials have traced the contact list of positive cases and if needed the provision for sample collection will be arranged. Currently the department is completing the sample collection of high risk and low risk contacts. Strict quarantine Those in the high risk category will be placed in strict 28-day quarantine while low risk persons will have to undergo 14-day quarantine. Six persons from Kollam, including two health workers, were tested positive last Wednesday. The Chathannur CHC, which was closed following the development, will be reopened shortly after completing hospital containment procedures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/google-sheet-for-data-collection-in-chathannur/article31493077.ece
03 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Lockdown no bar for temple’s music festival||For arts enthusiasts in Kerala, summer is an eventful time with the annual temple festivals offering a wide range of live performances. But the COVID-19 crisis has forced postponement or even cancellation of most of these events this year. Unfazed, a temple in Kottayam has found a way to go ahead with its annual music festival. The Thrikkayil Subramanya Swami temple at Nendoor, near Ettumanur, hosted its famed six-day Medashashti Sangeethotsavam by live-streaming performances and posting videos on social media. As many as 85 musicians and percussionists including the likes of T.H. Subramaniam, Mathangi Sathyamoorthy, Shengottai Harihara Subrahmanyam, Udupi Sreedhar, Salem Venugopal, and Nenmara Brothers performed from their homes for the event. A decision to organise the event followed requests by artistes and music aficionados, according to the temple authority. “The event, with its unique line-up of musicians, has become a huge draw for music lovers. Going ahead with the programme this year was deemed impossible. Then several of our regular performers came up with a request to perform online,” said Ashok Rajan, convener of the event. Though there were some connectivity issues at times, these performances, lasting from a few minutes to an hour, have garnered an overwhelming response from artistes. “Though scheduled as a six-day event from April 24 to 29, the event is still running with more artists volunteering to perform as an offering to the main deity here,” Mr. Rajan added. Shengottai Harihara Subrahmanyam was one of the first to commit to the online performance. “I performed live from my living room without my usual percussion. The one-hour performance was designed as a tribute to the deity as well as to the music fans here,” he said. The temple authority now intends to organise a week-long classical dance event on similar lines. The list and schedule of performers are being finalised, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/lockdown-no-bar-for-temples-music-festival/article31493064.ece
03 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Migrant workers’ survey begins in Kottayam||Kottayam district witnessed no fresh cases of COVID-19 for the fifth consecutive day on Saturday. Health officials identified 81 primary and secondary contacts of infected persons and directed them to remain in home quarantine. Of 123 sample results received during the day, all tested negative. The officials collected 110 samples for exam and are now awaiting the results of 216 samples. The district administration began a survey of migrant workers who are keen on returning home. A meeting convened by District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu on Saturday assigned tahsildars to work with teams comprising officials from panchayats, Revenue and Labour departments to collect the information. Alongside, health authorities have started medical examination of these workers for issuing certificates. While only those who are willing to bear the travel costs are permitted to return for the time being, the details of those who are unable to bear the travel expenses too are being collected. The Collector has promised that arrangements will be made for all those who want to return to their native places. He has directed the workers not leave their residence before official announcements are made. Numbering 27,000 “There are about 27,000 such workers in Kottayam district. Among them, about 18,000 are from West Bengal,” he said. Migrant workers in Kottayam could call on mobile number 9497713705 to know about the details.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrant-workers-survey-begins-in-kottayam/article31493078.ece
03 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||A helping hand for kidney patients||The Kozhikode unit of the Kerala Municipal and Corporation Staff Association has extended a helping hand to 10 kidney patients within the city limits. “Most patients need dialysis at least thrice a week, and it costs around Rs. ,3000 every time,” said T. Subaida, member of the association who is attached to the corporation’s health wing. The association deposited the money required for dialysis during the lockdown in the bank accounts of each of the selected patients. “We could not afford to support more than 10 persons. We chose them after much scrutiny,” Ms. Subaida said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-helping-hand-for-kidney-patients/article31493031.ece
03 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Mother, two children found dead||A 24-year-old woman and her two children were found dead inside their house at Kuzhalmannam on Saturday. Krishnakumari and her children, Agnesh, 5, and five-month-old Agneya, were reportedly found dead when her husband Mahesh reached home at midday. The woman is suspected to have hanged herself after poisoning the children. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available at the State’s health helpline 104, Maithri suicide prevention helpline 0484 2540530, Thanal helpline 0495-2760000, and Direct Intervention System For Health Awareness 1056.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mother-two-children-found-dead/article31493043.ece
03 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Toddy sale racket busted||Excise officers busted a toddy sale racket based at coconut plantations in Chittur on Saturday. In an early morning operation, the team seized 150 litres of toddy kept for illicit sale. The raid was conducted following information about toddy sale in violation of the lockdown restrictions. The Intelligence Bureau and the Chittur range officers of the Excise took part in the raid at plantations of Moolathara Sarkarpathi and Nagaratna Gaunder. A case was registered against Rajappan of Idukki and plantation owner for breach of conditions in licence for tapping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/toddy-sale-racket-busted/article31493042.ece
03 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No new case in Pathanamthitta||The first train to carry migrant workers in Pathanamthitta to their home States will set off from the Thiruvalla railway station on May 10, District Collector P.B. Noohu has said. Mr Noohu was holding a videoconference with volunteers posted at call centres for migrant workers in various taluks on Saturday. The first train for transporting the workers would be to Bihar. A train would leave for the workers in Idukki district to Jharkhand on May 10. Pathanamthitta has 16,066 migrant workers, and only a small portion of them wanted to return to their home villages. A medical bulletin released here said no new COVID-19 case was reported from any part of the district for the 20th day on Saturday. As of now, seven persons, including one COVID-19 patient, were quarantined in isolation wards attached to the three government hospitals in the district, according to District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja. Three persons each were admitted to the isolation wards at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital and the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, besides one person at the General Hospital in Adoor. Throat swabs The nasal and throat swabs of 117 quarantined persons here tested negative for SARS-CoV2on Saturday. The Health Department was awaiting clinical examination results of 194 throat swab samples.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-new-case-in-pathanamthitta/article31493071.ece
03 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Curbs tightened in 8 panchayats||The district administration has tightened the restrictions in eight panchayats that were declared hotspots a day ago. These included Amboori, Kunnathukal, Parassala, Vellarada, Kulathoor and Karode, all of which shared border with Kanyakumari, and Athiyannoor and Balaramapuram, both of which were adjacent to Neyyattinkara municipality that was designated hotspot a few days ago. The restrictions that were in place in Ambalathara and Kalippankulam in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation have been lifted. As many as 231 people were placed in isolation on Saturday, increasing the number of those quarantined in the district to 2,526. Eleven people were admitted to various hospitals with symptoms of the infection. In addition, 81 samples were collected by health authorities in the district to be sent for examination. The Thiruvananthapuram City police booked 68 people for violating lockdown norms and seized 52 vehicles. Forty-four motorists were penalised for flouting the odd-even scheme for vehicles. Nineteen people were booked for failing to wear masks outdoors. Tension prevailed in Pulluvila, near Kanjiramkulam, when a group of shore seine (‘kambavala’) fishermen protested against the police for denying permission to operate their fishing boats in accordance with the government guidelines. The police later withdrew from the area after they obtained clarity regarding the recent government order that permitted fishing activities. Three people were taken into custody in Vembayam late Friday after they were found transporting rotten fish in a container lorry. Migrants leave for home Meanwhile, 1,124 migrant labourers left for their native places in Jharkhand aboard a special train on Saturday. Their 36-hour long journey to the Hatia railway station in Ranchi commenced from Thiruvananthapuram Central around 3.45 p.m.As many as 510 of those who boarded the train resided in labour camps in Vizhinjam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/curbs-tightened-in-8-panchayats/article31493073.ece
03 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Variations in the intensity of lockdown for districts||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said the public should brace themselves for variations in the intensity of regulations in the third phase of the COVID-19 lockdown, which would end on May 17. For instance, the epidemic picture in Wayanad, which the Centre had deemed a Green zone, changed on Saturday with the detection of a new COVID-19 case after a 21-day hiatus. The government has downgraded the district to Orange status.  Upgraded In contrast, the State has upgraded Alappuzha and Thrissur from Orange to the Green zone. The Centre has mandated that a district would qualify for Green zone classification only if it has no new cases for 21 consecutive days. Kasaragod, Idukki, Kozhikode, Kollam, and Palakkad fell in the Orange category. The Centre had given States a measure of latitude in categorising epidemic zones. However, they could not upgrade a zone defined as Red or Orange by the Centre. But, States could downgrade the status of a district from Green to Orange or from Orange to Red. The government had curbed normal life and economic activity to prevent the spread of the disease. However, the threat of community spread loomed. The impending arrival of non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) from abroad and other States in the country had raised the spectre of a resurgence of the disease. Hence, the State could not afford to drop its guard. The curbs on mobility, social interaction, and business would be severe in hotspots and Red zones. If a locality met the parameters for being categorised as a hotspot, the entire municipal or Corporation ward or panchayat, as the case may be, would be locked down. Exit and entry would be allowed only through a single point handled by the police. Government offices could function with 50% employees in Group A and B categories and 33% attendance in Group C and D category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/variations-in-the-intensity-of-lockdown-for-districts/article31493068.ece
03 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala allows big fishing craft to operate||Big fishing craft will be allowed to operate from May 4 off the Kerala shores on the condition that the crew adhere to the social distancing norms to contain COVID-19 and the boats are taken out to sea under an odd-even scheme based on their registration numbers. The government issued orders on Thursday allowing fishing activities, which ground to a halt during the lockdown, to resume in two stages on May 1 and May 4. Boat seine ( Thattumadi ) and shore seine ( Karamadi ) fishing operations have been allowed from May 1. Distance of 1 metre A maximum of five men will be allowed in each of the two 32-foot boats used for boat seine fishing. In the case of shore seine fishing, up to 12 people would be allowed on either end of the net. The fishermen have been instructed to maintain a distance of one metre from one another. Boats having an overall length between 32 metres and and 45 metres with Kerala registration could engage in single-day fishing activity with a maximum of seven fishermen. From May 4, mechanised boats with an overall length above 45 metres and up to 65 metres will be allowed to operate with a maximum of 10 fishermen on alternate days. For this, the Fisheries Department has introduced an odd-even scheme. Boats with registration numbers ending in odd numbers could operate on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Boats having even numbers could operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. All traditional fishing vessels, including ring seiners and inboard engine-crafts, could operate on alternate days following a similar odd-even scheme. All boat operators are required to inform the Fisheries Department office 24 hours in advance before venturing out to sea. Details of the crew, including their cell phone numbers, also needed to be submitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-allows-big-fishing-craft-to-operate/article31493047.ece
03 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NoRKs’ registration crosses 5 lakh||The number of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) from abroad and within Indian States who have registered online to return to Kerala has crossed five lakh. Since the online registration began on last Sunday, 3.98 lakh NoRKs from 203 countries have registered till May 2 on the official website of the Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs. The number of NoRKs in various Indian States who have registered on the website has touched 1.38 lakh in three days. The registration began on April 29 evening. According to NoRKA, the combined registration has reached 5.34 lakh. UAE and Saudi While NoRKs from the UAE (1,75, 423) and Saudi Arabia (54,305) top the list in the registration, those stranded in the States of Karnataka (44,871) Tamil Nadu (41,425) and Maharashtra (19,029) constitute the top three within the country. The list of NoRKs will be forwarded to the Ministry of External Affairs and the embassies of the respective countries, NoRKA said here on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norks-registration-crosses-5-lakh/article31493054.ece
03 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mandatory holiday on Sunday||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the State will shutdown on Sundays across the Red, Orange and Green zones. Ideally, people should remain indoors. The holiday is mandatory except for essential services. The police would not allow travel. However, they would enable journey in the event of an emergency. Necessary travel On other days, the police would allow necessary travel in private vehicles in the Orange and Green zones. However, they would permit only three passengers, including the driver. The government has prohibited riding pillion on two-wheelers. However, persons could travel on the rear seat of two-wheelers with their siblings, close relatives or spouses. Hotspots would remain under strict lockdown. The Centre has not allowed stage carriage services. However, taxis and cabs could resume operations. The ban on autorickshaws would endure. Entertainment industry The State would take a call on allowing the entertainment industry, including filming of television serials and reality shows, to resume before May 17.  The government has allowed morning walkers after 7 a.m. They would have no access to parks, beaches, stadiums, gymnasiums, malls, swimming pools, and clubs. Malls, cinemas and multistoreyed textile showrooms would remain closed. However, single-storey cloth shops employing not more than five persons could open for business between 7 a.m. and 7.30 p.m. Salons would remain closed in Green and Orange zones but barbers could do home visits with precautions. The government has banned dining-in facility. However restaurants and hotels can sell food as takeaways. The police will not allow any vehicle or pedestrian out on the road after 7.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/mandatory-holiday-on-sunday/article31493056.ece
03 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ban on liquor sale to continue for now||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday that the ban on the sale of liquor would continue for now. When pressed on the subject, Mr. Vijayan said: “Do not be perturbed. The government would decide soon”. Kerala has one of the highest per capita consumption of alcohol in the country. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac had said bootleggers and illicit supply networks had stepped into the void created by the clampdown on liquor sale. ‘Social disaster’ He said a “social disaster” was in the offing if the ban continued and that people were buying alcohol of dubious provenance at an exaggerated rate. Hence, officials said the government might take a call on allowing the sale of liquor solely through State-run outlets before the third phase of the COVID-19 lockdown ended on May 17. The Centre had banned the sale of home delivery of liquor as per the lockdown guidelines issued on April 15. However, as per the revised guidelines issued on Friday for the third phase, the Centre had allowed the sale of liquor in urban localities. However, the ban on the on-premise sale of liquor in bars continued. Officials said the scope for resuming the legal sale of alcohol had increased in the third phase and the government had the liberty to decide the timetable for opening Bevco outlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ban-on-liquor-sale-to-continue-for-now/article31493057.ece
03 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IAF to honour COVID warriors||The Indian Air Force and Coast Guard are conducting various activities here on Sunday as part of a nationwide campaign to honour front line workers in the fight against COVID-19. An IAF helicopter will shower flower petals over the Government Medical College Hospital and General Hospital at 10 a.m. to honour doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and other front line workers who are leading the battle against the pandemic. All the hospital staff will assemble at the statue of mother and child in front of SAT Hospital here and the helicopter will shower the petals from the statue towards the main entrance of the medical college. Later, the helicopter will move to the General Hospital and shower petals on the staff assembled at the exit gate. The Coast Guard will illuminate its ships in the Shanghumugham area from 6.15 p.m. to 8.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/iaf-to-honour-covid-warriors/article31493075.ece
03 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railways to go ahead with doubling work||Railways have decided to take up the doubling of the 68.88-km Ernakulam-Alappuzha-Ambalappuzha line. They project was kept in abeyance over Railways’ demand that 50% of the cost be shared by the State. Now Railways have decided to fund the project fully. With this, the Chief Administrative Officer, Construction, Ernakulam, can initiate steps for doubling of the 7.7-km Ernakulam-Kumbalam section sanctioned in 2010-11, the 15.59-km Kumbalam-Turavur patch doubling approved in 2011-12 and the 45.9-km Turavur-Ambalappuzha line sanctioned in 2015-16. “The doubling will be taken up as three separate projects. The land cost and civil works will come to Rs. 1,500 crore. Railways will soon give the land acquisition proposal to the State,” railway sources told The Hindu . The estimate for the Ernakulam-Kumbalam stretch has touched Rs. 189.24 crore as per the current rates of the construction materials, Rs. 253 crore for Kumbalam-Turavur and Rs. 625.50 crore for the Turavur-Ambalappuzha corridor. The doubling of the coastal line is vital for the development of the State’s railway network and to bring more long-distance mail and express trains to the State capital. A coastal line with two tracks will also come in handy once the railway line from Ernakulam to Kayamkulam via Kottayam gets disrupted, sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-to-go-ahead-with-doubling-work/article31493045.ece
03 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||50,000 works uploaded on SchoolWiki portal||The General Education Department’s Akshara Vriksham programme to encourage creative and intellectual abilities of students during the lockdown continues to receive an overwhelming response. The content by students, published on KITE’s (Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education) SchoolWiki portal, has exceeded 50,000. These include stories, poems, and articles from students of Class 1 to 12. All uploaded content can be seen on www.schoolwiki.in . Of these, poems are the highest in number (over 22,000), followed by articles (19,000) and stories (9,000). In addition to these, KITE has drawn up a new programme titled ‘Muthodu Muthu’ to telecast select videos on the KITE VICTERS channel. For this, photos and videos may be sent to WhatsApp No. 8921886628 .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/50000-works-uploaded-on-schoolwiki-portal/article31493116.ece
03 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTDC hotels to start home delivery||The Kerala Tourism Development Corporation (KTDC) has commenced home delivery by entering into an agreement with Swiggy to distribute food from its hotels. The service from Hotel Mascot, the flagship hotel, has commenced and service is available for breakfast, lunch, dinner and snacks. The service will be extended soon to Hotel Chaithram, Flotilla at Veli, Tamarind Easy Hotel in Kollam and Thrissur, and Ripple Land, Alappuzha, a release here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktdc-hotels-to-start-home-delivery/article31493055.ece
03 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corproation||The city Corporation will provide financial aid to patients from poor families needing dialysis treatment during COVID-19 period, a pressnote here said. The decision to fund treatment of people from financially backward families depending on private hospitals for dialysis was taken as government hospitals are unable to provide timely dialysis for all patients in the current situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/corproation/article31493074.ece
03 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CMP demands risk allowance for COVID-19 warriors||Communist Marxist Party (CMP) general secretary C.P. John has urged the government to introduce risk allowance for health workers, police personnel, and employees of local bodies who are in the forefront of the fight against COVID-19. He also called for a special insurance scheme for policemen in the line of duty. Mr. John accused the LDF government of using calamities to exploit employees .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cmp-demands-risk-allowance-for-covid-19-warriors/article31493048.ece
03 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Results declared||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has declared the third semester MTech regular and supplementary examinations of Thrissur cluster, conducted in December last. The deadline for applying for copies of answer books will be announced later. Further details can be obtained fromwww.ktu.edu.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/results-declared/article31493059.ece
03 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Holiday for ration shops||Ration shops in the State will remain closed on May 3 and 4, an official press note quoting the Director, Civil Supplies, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/holiday-for-ration-shops/article31493062.ece
03 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||War room to give information about inter state travel||The COVID war room at the Secretariat here can be contacted for enquiries related to inter-State travel of migrant workers, entry of Keralites returning from other States and pandemic containment measures. Ph: 0471-2781100, 2781101. WhatsApp number: 8281312912.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/war-room-to-give-information-about-inter-state-travel/article31493061.ece
03 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kerala Police turn to ShareChat||The State police have turned to the social media platform ShareChat to create awareness on COVID-19 among people and for prevention activities. The police are using ShareChat to hear complaints too. Video bytes from celebrities, animated videos for awareness creation, trolls, posters with helpline numbers are all shared using the #Keralapolice on ShareChat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-police-turn-to-sharechat/article31493065.ece
03 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Tiny tots show the way, contribute to CMDRF||They may not be aware of the actual impact of COVID-19 on the world. But they must surely have realised that even their tiny contribution meant a lot to society. In a novel gesture, children of the anganwadi in Ward No. 26 of the Guruvayur Municipality donated their small savings to the Chief Minster’s Distress Relief fund (CMDRF). Sreya Sandeep, students’ leader at the anganwadi, handed over Rs. 3,150 to Guruvayur Municipal vice chairman Abhilash V. Chandran on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tiny-tots-show-the-way-contribute-to-cmdrf/article31493041.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Thousands of migrant workers leave for home||The first of the two ‘Shramik’ special trains from Ernakulam on Saturday evening left for Khurda Road in Odisha from Aluva, carrying 1,111 migrant workers. They were ferried to the Aluva railway station in batches on KSRTC buses from towns in Ernakulam suburbs. Another train carrying 1,140 workers from various places in the city left for Danapur in Bihar from Ernakulam Town railway station late in the night. A few workers who showed symptoms of fever and other ailments had to return to their place of stay. The workers on board the trains were given chapathi, dal and drinking water in a kit, while the trains will replenish food stock from IRCTC base camps en route. Train to Dhanbad A special train from Kozhikode railway station left for Dhanbad in Jharkhand on Saturday carrying the first batch of migrant labourers in the district. The service came to the benefit of 1,140 people who were selected from various labour camps. Officials with the Disaster Management Cell said the service was offered only to labourers from Kozhikode and Koyilandy taluks. Only those who were found healthy during the medical screening were allowed to leave the district, they said. The first batch of migrant workers from different parts of Malappuram district returned home on Saturday by a special train arranged from Tirur to Danapur in Bihar. As many as 1,140 people were ferried on the train. The district administration arranged buses to carry them from different parts of the district to Tirur Railway Station. None was allowed to come directly to the railway station. Police had a tough time neutralising the confusion created by a fake WhatsApp message which had exhorted the migrants to reach Tirur station by afternoon with Rs. 1,200 to get a ticket for the train. District Collector Jafar Malik had warned the workers in Hindi and Malayalam on the social media that they would not be considered for the train if they reached the station directly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thousands-of-migrant-workers-leave-for-home/article31493036.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kannur, Wayanad record one case each||One more person tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur district on Saturday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said the 25-year-old Mooriyad resident was found with symptoms, and his samples were collected for testing at the COVID-19 Treatment Centre at Anjarakandy on May 1. With this, the number of people who have tested positive in the district has reached 117. Ten more who were under treatment have been discharged. A total of 81 people have recovered from COVID-19 in the district. There are 2,543 people under observation, including 51 at the Government Medical College Hospital, four at the District Hospital, one at Thalassery General Hospital and 30 at the Anjarakandy COVID-19 centre. As many as 2,457 are in home quarantine. In Wayanad After an interval of 32 days, Wayanad district registered a COVID-19 case, with a truck driver who returned from Chennai testing positive for Sars-CoV-2 on Saturday. He hails from Kurukkan Moola near Mananthavady. The district administration in association with the Health Department had conducted random checking among truck drivers in the district recently. The patient had travelled to Chennai on April 18 and returned on April 26, District Collector Adeela Abdulla said. He was home-quarantined immediately after the trip, and his sample was sent for tests on April 29, she added. The patient has been shifted to the COVID -19 hospital at Mananthavady. Though his co-passenger’s sample was also tested, the result was negative, the Collector said. In Kozhikode Kozhikode district is now included in the orange zone in view of the low incidence of COVID-19 cases being reported in the past few days. No SARS-CoV-2 positive case was reported from the district on Saturday as well. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said in a release that 1,321 people were under surveillance, with 12 more completing their observation cycle on Saturday. Thirty-four of them are at hospital. Thirteen were discharged on Saturday. Right now, four persons are undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, and they include two from Kozhikode and one each from Kannur and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kannur-wayanad-record-one-case-each/article31493040.ece
03 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jewellery shops lose their glitter in Anantapur||A long stretch of road housing rows upon rows of jewellery shops in the Old Town area of Anantapur has gone silent, devoid of its usual bustle. The street used to be jam-packed with customers, flitting in and out of jewellery shops. Goldsmiths’ workshops, where customers would get their gold and silver ornaments polished, have also downed shutters. The lockdown has dealt a body blow to the city’s retail gold ornament business, which has a large labour component. There are 800 shops in the city, either selling new jewellery, or engaged in repairing and polishing ornaments. More than 2,000 workers, both skilled and semi-skilled, are employed here, who subject the yellow metal to five stages of treatment before it is sold to the customer. Workers here get their wages in the form of gold and only a miniscule part as cash. Except for those coming for some repair or polishing works, none pays the goldsmith in cash. For example, if a person gets a 50 gram ornament made, four to five persons complete it in three to four days. During the process, they accumulate gold filings or pieces as residue and that becomes their payment, a goldsmith named Kadiyala Ramanjaneyulu told The Hindu . Retailers give the workers 5% to 7% excess gold in weight and while subjecting the yellow metal to moulding, cutting, designing, fitting, and polishing to create the desired ornament, some amount of gold gets accumulated with a particular worker performing a process and he gets 600 milligrams, which translates into Rs. 600 for an ornament or Rs. 300 a day. All this income has dried up for the past one month. Gold prices have skyrocketed in recent days, with 10 grams selling for Rs. 45,000 a week ago and then settling above Rs. 40,000, despite the COVID-19 lockdown forcing jewellers to close their shops and buyers not seen anywhere as most of the marriages have been put off, said Mr. Ramanjaneyulu. The Goldsmiths’ Welfare Association has pooled some money and provided 10 kg rice, 1 kg of pulses, oil and wheat to 100 workers. A second round of donations is being readied and only 10% of these workers have got a cash advance from their work providers. Some of them have got up to Rs. 4,000, but are worried about paying their children’s school fees and house rent by the first week of May. “Unless another month of hand-holding by philanthropists or government agencies is done, most of these workers might settle in some odd jobs of selling fruits, vegetables or driving an auto-rickshaw,” Mr. Ramanjaeyulu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jewellery-shops-lose-their-glitter-in-anantapur/article31493153.ece
03 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cop tests positive for COVID in Anantapur||A police constable of Tadipatri Rural Police Station tested positive for coronavirus along with three others in the city on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 71. Out of the 71 cases, while five persons have died, 24 were discharged. The remaining 42 are being treated at COVID-19 Hospitals in RDT Bathalapalli and KIMS Saveera in Anantapur. Hindupur leads Among the new positive cases is a 38-year-old male and son-in-law of Patient 24 from Settur, a 32-year-old police constable of Tadipatri, and an 18-year-old girl from Gooty, who had voluntarily got herself tested as she had hypothyroidism. In Anantapur district, out of the 70 positive cases detected till Friday evening, 33 were from Hindupur Town, 17 from Anantapur City, five from Hindupur rural areas, two each from Settur and Anantapur Rural, one each from eight mandals and three from Kalyandurg Rural areas. There were 683 persons in the quarantine centres at 41 places in the district. In all, 14 mandals and Urban Local Bodies reported positive cases, but only Anantapur Municipal limits and Hindupur Municipal Limits were in the Red Zone. There were 12 containment zones in the district with 17,896 households being constantly monitored, said Collector Gandham Chandrudu. The district has five testing facilities — four Truenat centres and one RT-PCR facility at VDRL Laboratory, and they cumulatively tested 5,781 samples and of them 3,094 were done in the VDRL Microbiology Lab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cop-tests-positive-for-covid-in-anantapur/article31492751.ece
03 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy dies in fire accident||A six-year-old boy died and a 58-year-old woman was grievously injured when their house went up in flames in Rayadurg town of Anantapur district on Friday night. According to the police, the house went up in flames after the boy Chandra entered it. According to Rayadurg police, the exact reason for the fire was not known. O. Nagamma, 58, and her daughter Ulagamma, 38, used to reside in the house there. While Ulagamma immediately rushed out of the house, police personnel rescued Chandra and Nagamma a little later and took them to the local government hospital and from there shifted to Ballari for better treatment late in the night. The boy died while undergoing treatment, while Nagamma was still battling for her life, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boy-dies-in-fire-accident/article31492752.ece
03 May 2020||ANNAVARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kalyanotsavam’ to be a low-key affair at Annavaram temple||Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swamy Vari Devasthanam at Annavaram in the district has put in place restrictions on the number of devotees attending the annual week-long celestial wedding of the presiding deity, Sri Veera Venkata Satyanarayana Swamy, as part of the COVID-19 lockdown guidelines. In an official release, devasthanam Executive Officer V. Trinada Rao said the rituals preceding the wedding kick-started on Saturday evening. “All the rituals, including processions, will be performed on the temple premises. The total number of persons, including priests, to be allowed is 30,” Mr. Rao made it clear. The devasthanam made arrangements to telecast live the ‘kalyanotsavam’ from 8 p.m. on Sunday through its official website – http://annavaramdevasthanam. nic.in/A.htm. The Endowments Department imposed a ban on the entry of devotees since the lockdown came into force. Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy directed authorities to adhere to lockdown norms during the celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kalyanotsavam-to-be-a-low-key-affair-at-annavaram-temple/article31493158.ece
03 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hundreds wait for buses in Bengaluru||Majestic witnessed chaotic scenes on Saturday as hundreds of frustrated labourers gathered there desperate to catch a bus to their home towns. A large number of them were accompanied by their families and had children with them. In the absence of transportation facility, people carrying their belongings walked for miles to reach the bus stand. Some walked from as far as Sarajpur, BTM Layout, Hejjala, and other areas. Many paid thousands of rupees to hitch rides on autorickshaws. At Majestic, they had to wait for hours before they could board a bus as the KSRTC is allowing only 30 passengers per bus. The corporation is providing passage on routes where there are enough passengers to fill a bus, and people were seen holding placards with names of their destination so that they could find others on the same route. “I walked almost for 8 km with my family. Somehow we managed to find 30 people who wanted to go to Kalaburagi. We paid for our tickets, but it took two hours for the KSRTC to provide us with a bus,” said Mahesh, a migrant worker.People staying in paying guest accommodation and hostels had also gathered at Majestic assuming that they would be able to get a bus back home. Hanumantha, a migrant labourer who was at Majestic with his wife and children, said, “The lockdown has been extended and without any job we cannot earn anything. I have not got a bus; we may have to spend the night here. No one is helping us.” KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, after interacting with stranded migrant workers, lambasted the State government for mismanagement. “It is pathetic that the State government cannot arrange transportation facilities. Women and children are being forced to spend the night here without any food. No Minister has come to their aid.” A senior KSRTC official said, “We have managed to operate 120 buses to various destinations. Bus services will be resumed on Sunday morning.” In all, 3,600 people travelled on Saturday from Majestic to various destinations. On Sunday, KSRTC buses will also be operated from the BMTC bus stand from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. to ensure social distancing. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar admitted there were some “lacunae” in the process. “However, everyone was screened before they boarded the bus. From now on, we have decided to segregate people and ensure they go to different bus or railway stations so that there is no crowding,” he said. Many families were hunkering down at Majestic for the night with the hope that they can board a bus on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hundreds-wait-for-buses-in-bengaluru/article31492730.ece
03 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sending stranded workers to their destinations top priority’||The State government is according top priority to send migrant workers within the State and outside back to their respective places by roping in the Railways and APSRTC, Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy has said. Addressing the media in Tirupati on Saturday after convening a meeting with the COVID-19 Task Force, Mr. Reddy said the government had taken the initiative to arrange transportation to the stranded workers. “We have appealed to other States to extend a similar gesture to the stranded workers from Andhra Pradesh,” he said. Referring to the plight of the tomato farmers in Chittoor district, Mr. Reddy said steps would be initiated to create marketing facilities for them at the mandal level.  District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta said that Srikalahasti was declared a containment zone due to spike in the COVID-19 cases. The situation in other mandals was under control. He said that 11 patients were discharged from hospital after they tested negative for the virus on Saturday. Two more persons would be discharged on Sunday, he added. The number of patients undergoing treatment would them be 38. “By May 14, the district is expected to be bracketed under the orange zone,” the Collector said. Nurse, doctor posts To augment the medical services, 89 posts of nurse and 90 posts of doctor would be filled on a war-footing in coordination with the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Mr. Gupata said. He said steps were being taken to provide transportation facility to the students of the TTD-run Veda Patasala in Tirumala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sending-stranded-workers-to-their-destinations-top-priority/article31492759.ece
03 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ID liquor seized, 25 held in Punganur||The Punganur urban police on Saturday morning conducted a cordon and search operation at Nallagutlapalle Thanda hamlet at the outskirts of the town and seized 400 litres of ID liquor, 600 kg of black jaggery, 5,000 litres of fermented jaggery wash, and 13 two-wheelers, and arrested 25 persons suspected to be involved in making ID liquor and lifting of two-wheelers. Raids In another incident, the Excise and Prohibition officials led by Deputy Commissioner T. Naga Lakshmi raided Thane Vaddipalle hamlet in Piler circle and seized 30 litres of ID liquor, and seized three two-wheelers. All the accused in the two cases were produced before the designated courts at Punganur and Piler and remanded in custody.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/id-liquor-seized-25-held-in-punganur/article31492757.ece
03 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kodela remembered on birth anniversary||Rich tributes were paid to former Speaker and senior TDP leader Kodela Siva Prasada Rao on his 74th birth anniversary. TDP national president Nara Chandrababu Naidu led the tributes. On Twitter, he recalled how Dr. Siva Prasada Rao, a towering leader, had entered politics after quitting his profession as a doctor after heeding TDP founder N.T. Rama Rao’s call. Dr. Siva Prasada Rao ended his life in September 2019 at his home in Hyderabad, an incident which sent shockwaves through the political fraternity. Beginning his career as a surgeon in Narsaraopet, Dr. Siva Prasada Rao joined the TDP in 1983 and emerged as a senior leader within a short period of time. He served as Minister for Panchayat Raj, Home and Health in various State Governments headed by NTR, and later under Mr. Naidu, and was also the first Speaker of Andhra Pradesh after bifurcation. Stating that Kodela was forced to end his life, unable to bear the harassment meted out to him by the YSRCP government, Mr. Naidu said that 19 cases were filed against the former Speaker and his family. Meanwhile, Kodela’s son Sivaram said that he was ready to hand over the hospital and the home of his father to be used as a quarantine centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kodela-remembered-on-birth-anniversary/article31492760.ece
03 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Journalist kidnapped by police: Naidu||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) president Nara Chandrababu Naidu has hit out at the YSR Congress Party government alleging that the government was trying to muzzle the freedom of press by resorting to blackmailing of journalists. Mr. Naidu alleged that senior journalist Venkata Krishna, a student Savitha Varenya and their relatives had been kidnapped by police for airing negative news about the government. Legal battle Stating that the TDP was gearing up for a legal battle and would approach the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Mr. Naidu demanded that they should be released immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/journalist-kidnapped-by-police-naidu/article31492761.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unicode nod for proposal to add Tamil characters to Telugu||The Unicode Consortium, a corporation which specifies the representation of text in software products, has accepted the proposal to add Tamil two characters to the Telugu characters for transcribing religious Tamil texts. The Unicode Standard assigns code to characters from different languages in the world so that they can be understood and displayed across software platforms. The proposal was submitted by Vinodh Rajan, a computer science researcher at the University of Hamburg. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Rajan said the idea is to ‘borrow’ the characters (LLLA) and (RRA) so that Tamil texts can be transcribed into Telugu without worrying about equivalents. Citing the example of texts of Aazhvaar’s Tiruppavai hymn, Mr Rajan said, “We want to preserve these Tamil texts written in Telugu (for Telugu people) as they were printed.” Mr Rajan’s proposal states that though there is a Telugu equivalent in the Unicode Standard of both these, it is unknown to a vast number of people while the other has not been used for many years. Touching upon the transcribing of Tamil in Telugu script, an excerpt from the 14-page proposal reads, “Both these problems were resolved by the wholesale importation of these two Tamil consonants and simply treating them as if they were Telugu consonants. Using this hybrid orthography, the original Tamil phonetic realisation of the source text was appropriately preserved in the Telugu script without any loss.” However, the proposal has ruffled feathers among both the Telugu and Tamil-speaking people. Several twitter handles opposed the move, stating that these characters must not be ‘imposed’ on Telugu-speaking people. In Hyderabad, Prof Vasudev Varma from International Institute of Information Technology – Hyderabad, whose research areas include semantic search, and has been working on Telugu in cyberspace, said, “a controversial proposal. Wish such proposals discussed widely involving all stake holders. Speakers of both languages seem unhappy.” Veeven, a Telugu technology enthusiast, who has developed Telugu digital tools, opined that on several occasions in the past Telugu characters have been encoded. The proposal mentions this, he added. Mr Rajan, however, pointed out that the proposal to add the two characters was to only preserve religious texts digitally. He maintained that the Telugu equivalents of these characters were either not well known or were out of use for centuries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/unicode-nod-for-proposal-to-add-tamil-characters-to-telugu/article31492732.ece
03 May 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown crushes hopes of tomato farmers in Chittoor||Tomato farmers in Madanapalle division of Chittoor district say they have completely surrendered to fate in the wake of lockdown following COVID-19 outbreak, while standing crop in hundreds of acres is being left unharvested. The peak season for the farmers to make some money is between March and July, when thousands of tonnes of tomato make its way to metros and other cities in the country. Now, there are absolutely no takers for this perishable commodity. Madanapalle revenue division, which harvests high quality crops round the year, is the largest tomato growing belt in Asia, with the acreage spread over 50,000 hectares. Close to 20,000 farmers depend on the agriculture market at Madanapalle. In mid-summer, over 1,500 tonnes of tomatoes reach the market daily, commanding a minimum price of Rs. 20 to Rs. 25 a kg. Arrivals plummet The lockdown has crushed their fortunes, while the arrival of stocks plummeting to half, and the price ranging between Rs. 3 and Rs. 5 per kg. “The hotel industry is closed temporarily, including bars, dhabas and roadside restaurants. Even a pani-puri outlet is not functioning. Who will buy the produce now?,” said Maqbool Basha, a trader who regularly sends stocks to Bengaluru. Basha, another trader at Madanapalle market, said: “The virus resulted in indefinite postponement of marriages. In the absence of public gatherings, catering services are totally missing. Except for household consumption, not a single tomato is moving out.” A tomato farmer of Goodupalle of Mulakalacheruvu mandal, A.V. Eeshwar Reddy, said that hundreds of farmers had abandoned their crops unharvested. “Though we have appealed to the government and the local politicians to take the crops free and distribute them to the public during the lockdown period, there is no response,” Mr. Reddy said. Tomato growers unanimously say that there is no logic in expecting any luck in the year 2020, as they feel the COVID-19 would have its devastating impact on the hotel industry for at least six months, and large gatherings would be a taboo for any function. Cost input To raise the crop in one acre, it would cost Rs. 1.25 lakh, in addition to the labour component from land to market. The farmers unanimously maintain that unless tomato sells at Rs. 10 a kg, it would only lead to wreckage of their entire efforts. Tomato being a highly perishable goods, with a maximum shelf-life of a week, none dares to take a risk in the market.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-crushes-hopes-of-tomato-farmers-in-chittoor/article31493150.ece
03 May 2020||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist case: NIA may question more people||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely to question more persons suspected of maintaining close contacts with Allan Suhaib, 20, and Thaha Fazal, 24, arrested earlier under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) on charge of being associated with the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist). The NIA office confirms that Vijith Vijayan and Abhilash Padachery, who were detained in Kozhikode on Friday following raids on their houses and later taken to Ernakulam, are suspected of inducting Allan and Thaha to the banned organisation. Interrogation of Vijith and Abhilash is going on to elicit details of others from north Kerala who had cooperated with the CPI(Maoist), sources said. The NIA squad has reportedly gathered details of a few persons with the support of local police stations and intelligence units. To prevent the suspects from fleeing the State, the local police are keeping vigil with secret surveillance measures. Materials seized The objects seized from Vijith and Abhilash, including eight mobile phones, two memory cards, one laptop, seven pen drives, books and documents supporting left-wing extremism and CPI (Maoist), will be examined in detail with the help of cyber forensic experts. Probe is also on to check whether the arrested or their friends had maintained communication with suspected Maoist functionary C.P. Usman who is still at large. Allan and Thaha were arrested on November 1, 2019 when they were allegedly at a party meeting with Usman, who managed to escape. The NIA took over the case on December 18. The agency filed a chargesheet in the Ernakulam special court against the two on April 27 this year. In the chargesheet, the NIA had asserted that the accused were active members of the proscribed terrorist organisation and had held secret meetings and committed unlawful activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/maoist-case-nia-may-question-more-people/article31492720.ece
03 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool reports 25 new cases||The Kurnool district administration has turned extra cautious with the number of COVID-19 positive cases reaching 436, with 25 new cases reported on Saturday and 360 of them still being treated in hospitals. There were 10 deaths and 66 persons have been discharged so far. District Collector G. Veerapandian too chose to hold a review meeting with the officers involved in the COVID19 either over videoconference or teleconference. Meanwhile, outgoing Municipal Commissioner Raveendra Babu is still admitted in the Government General Hospital, though he has been transferred to Kakinada and D.K. Balaji was appointed in his place. Officially there is no word on what his ailment was and if he was being tested for COVID also. Of the 25 new cases, 18 came from Kurnool city and five from Nandyal and one each from Adoni and Atmakur municipalities. Kurnool city and Nandyal registered the highest number of positive cases in the district with 265 and 90 cases respectively and of them 237 and 70 patients were still in hospitals. Fruit packets distributed While four of the seven ULBs with positive cases are in the red zone, only five of the 23 mandals are in the red zone in Kurnool district. Meanwhile, the IPS Officers’ Wives’ Association on Saturday distributed fruit packets to the police personnel deployed in red zones and other places on COVID duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kurnool-sees-spike-in-positive-cases/article31492754.ece
03 May 2020||KURNOOL / ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drones to keep tab on lockdown violators||Physically keeping a tab on the lockdown violators in the narrow lanes and bylanes of old city of Kurnool and some other colonies has turned out to be a major challenge. The Kurnool police have mounted a public address system on the drones and are flying them in the areas that are inaccessible. Additional Superintendent of Police (Administration) Gowthami Sali on Saturday launched the operation in the city to allow the police to keep a watch on the movement of people through the camera mounted on it. Initially, the drones were tested at the Kondareddy Buruju in the city and surrounding areas with e-Cops and Police Communications wing personnel assisting her in the whole process. Coming out of the houses without any genuine need or purpose, would be punishable and those going out on two-wheelers / four-wheelers without authorisation would be penalised, she added. The Kurnool district police on Saturday filed 276 cases for the violations under Sections 188, 269, 270 and 271 of IPC on 674 persons. In addition to these 1,237 cases under Motor Vehicle Act were also filed and challans to the tune of Rs. 6.25 lakh were imposed, confiscating 573 vehicles. Meanwhile, in Anantapur district shops violating the lockdown norms were penalised and 3,407 cases were filed against 6,998 persons. The police also filed 1,450 cases under Sections 188, 269, 270, 271 of IPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/drones-to-keep-tab-on-lockdown-violators/article31492756.ece
03 May 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman escapes from quarantine centre||A woman, who was kept in quarantine at Chilakalapudi in the town, has gone missing and the police have launched a search for her. Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said the woman had no COVID symptoms and there was no cause for worry. However, police were trying to trace her, he said. “Based on the information given by the ANMs making door-to-door visits, police shifted the woman to the quarantine centre. She came from Tenali in Guntur district on April 28. She was missing since May 1,” the SP said. A special team had been constituted to trace her under the supervision of Chilakalapudi CI Venkata Narayana, and the information had been passed to Tenali. “The woman tested negative but was kept in quarantine as she was a non-local,” the SP said.  The Krishna district police registered 67 cases and arrested 103 persons for manufacturing Illicitly Distilled (ID) liquor in the last 15 days. Police teams conducted raids in Gudur, Pedana, A. Konduru, Chatrai, Reddigudem, Gampalagudem, Kruthivennu, Bantumilli, Vissannapet and Penuganchiprolu mandals and seized 18,580 litres of jaggery wash, 70 kg of jaggery and 437 litres of arrack. Police personnel conducted awareness programmes in Chinnagollapalem, Polatatippa, Pedda Thanda, Pothanapalli and Chinna Thanda hamlets and about 150 families were counselled against brewing arrack. Police registered 31 cases for smuggling of sand and seized 46 vehicles. Vigil had been stepped up on State borders to prevent sand smuggling, Mr. Ravindranath Babu added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-escapes-from-quarantine-centre/article31493154.ece
03 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA defends officials||YSRCP MLA from Kovur N. Prasanna Kumar Reddy on Saturday asked the police to arrest him and seven of his followers as the controversy over violation of the social distancing norm refused to die down. Cases were registered against Mr. Reddy and seven YSRCP activists after an alleged violation of social distancing norms during distribution of essential commodities. Now the MLA was upset with the district administration for serving notices to some officials in Kovur asking why disciplinary action should not be taken against them. He wanted the district administration to spare the officials who had assisted him in distributing vegetables, rice, pulses and edible oil. “If the Collector and the SP felt that I and YSRCP activists have violated social distancing guideline they can very well take action against us. But officials who have facilitated distribution of essential commodities should be spared,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mla-defends-officials/article31493161.ece
03 May 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven new cases emerge in Nellore, Prakasam districts||Seven more — six in Nellore district and one in Prakasam district — tested positive in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of confirmed cases rose to 90 in the red zone district of SPSR Nellore and 61 in Prakasam district. An armed reserve police constable from Kovur, who was on duty in a red zone area, tested positive. Playing of cards in violation of social distancing norm proved costly for five persons from Moolapeta area in Nellore city. Two of the family members of a 40-year-old man, who had tested positive for the disease on April 29, were the latest to get infected as also three of his friends. Meanwhile, nine persons were discharged from Narayana Medical College hospital on Saturday taking the total number of cured persons to 53 in the district. The discharged persons, included three from Nellore and one each from Vakadu, Naidupeta and Ongole. Lockdown 3.0 unveiled The civic staff sanitised Moolpeta following a surge in new positive cases. A curfew-like situation prevailed in the area as all roads leading to the area were blocked by the police. Panic-stricken people confined themselves to their homes. Police personnel made it clear that those who came out of their homes in a casual manner would be sent to quarantine centre. Meanwhile, Prakasam District Collector P. Bhaskar unveiled the lockdown 3.0 containment surveillance action plan in Ongole which reported one fresh case. As many as 19 persons got cured in the last 24 hours taking the total number of recovered persons in the orange zone district to 42. Meanwhile, health staff began testing of samples of patients from the newly set up Viral Research and Diagnostic laboratory at the Government General Hospital. Once getting clearance from the State-level officials the results would be declared, GGP Superintendent D. Sriramulu said. Patients under treatment were responding well to treatment. More number of persons would be discharged next week, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/seven-new-cases-emerge-in-nellore-prakasam-districts/article31492763.ece
03 May 2020||RAMPACHODAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||People of 6 villages in E.G. to be rehabilitated by May-end||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Saturday directed the officials concerned to ensure the safety of the residents of six villages that faced submergence problem during the floods last year, by shifting them to the rehabilitation colonies by May end. In a high-level meeting attending by ITDA Chintoor and Rampachodavaram Project Officers, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said that the construction of houses in the rehabilitation colonies should be completed before the May-end deadline to facilitate shifting and avoid any untoward incidents during the likely floods in the Godavari in the ensuing monsoon. The six villages that were submerged last year are Devipatnam, Toyyeru, Chinaramanayyapeta, Pudipalli, Dandangi, Agraharam and Gubbalampalem. Compensation In the case of two rehabilitation projects under the ITDA Chintoor limits, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy directed Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana to allocate land to compensate for the land that was gathered for the Polavaram irrigation project. It should be close to the rehabilitation colony, he said. Officials of irrigation and other departments were told to prepare a flood and submergence mitigation plan based on the cofferdam location of the Polavaram irrigation project besides setting up a flood monitoring cell. ITDA-Rampachodavaram Project Officer Nishant Kumar and Sub-Collector Praveen Adithya were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-of-6-villages-in-eg-to-be-rehabilitated-by-may-end/article31493160.ece
03 May 2020||Special Correspondent,ANDHRA PRADESH||City records four cases in one day||Just when things appeared to be settling down and the city had not seen many positive cases since April 6, six cases were detected in the last two days, including four on Friday that contained a minor and a staff nurse. The latest victims who contracted the coronavirus and were confirmed positives through tests on Friday, were the son of a 60-year-old positive woman and her nine-year-old granddaughter from Dandu Bazaar in Maharanipeta area, a 62-year-old man from Chengalraopeta who died on Friday and a staff nurse from Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS). All the four cases were confirmed through the State government’s health bulletin on Saturday. But as far as the death of the 62-year-old is concerned, it is yet to be confirmed whether it was COVID-19 related or not. “It is confirmed that the man was COVID-19 positive. But whether he died due to that, is to be confirmed by a nine-member committee that is headed by the DME. The man was suffering from acute kidney related disease and was brought to KGH in a very critical stage on Thursday night and he died in the early hours of Friday,” said Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. The staff nurse, who works in the COVID ward in VIMS, was tested along with five others and she tested positive, while the others tested negative, on Friday night. She is the first case from the frontline health workers and it is learnt that efforts are on to trace her contact list and the area where she stays has been cordoned off and declared as containment zone. Her family members have been put in quarantine, said an official from the Health Department. It is learnt that she is from KGH and was on deputation to VIMS and hails from Gopalapatnam area of the city. About 20 nurses who were relieved from duty at VIMS on April 30 were sent for tests. Apart from this nurse none of the others tested positive but they were put under home quarantine as per protocol. As per the preliminary investigation, sources in the Health Department said that the 62-year-old who died might have contracted it from some of his family members. “We have quarantined all family members and have sent the swab samples for test. We are also mapping the area and working on the contact list of the family members,” said District Collector V. Vinay Chand. Meanwhile, the nine-year-old granddaughter of the 60-year-old positive woman, who was admitted to hospital on Thursday, and her son also tested positive and the daughter-in-law is under surveillance. This is the first case involving a minor in the district and as per our preliminary investigation, her father who works as water purifier mechanic visited about 150 houses during the lockdown, including one foreign returnee. We are verifying all the 150 contacts, including the foreign returnee. The entire area has been cordoned off and declared as red zone, said Dr. Sudhakar. Sudden spike There appears to be sudden spurt after a brief lull. After the last positive cases recorded were on April 6, which included two from Narsipatnam and three from Thatichetlapalem, there was a lull till April 19.  With the new admissions, the total cases from Visakhapatnam increase to 29, with 20 being discharged and nine active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/city-records-four-cases-in-one-day/article31493189.ece
03 May 2020||Special CorrespondentVisakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mobile rythu bazaars catering to needs of people, says JC||To help apartment residents get vegetables without much hardship during the lockdown, 58 mobile rythu bazaars supplied 1037.3 quintals to them so far, according to Joint Collector and Chairman of committee on the prices of essential commodities L. Shiva Shankar. On Saturday, 112.5 quintals was supplied. The 158 rythu bazaars in the district, including additional, mobile and municipal markets, sold 3,344 quintals of vegetables on Saturday. Supply of vegetables through delivery platforms Zomato and Swiggy began on April 27. Vegetables cost 16% more than that of rythu bazaar prices on these platforms. Of the 816.18 tonnes of bananas received from Kadapa district, 651.34 tonnes were sold till Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mobile-rythu-bazaars-catering-to-needs-of-people-says-jc/article31493185.ece
03 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Enhance salaries for volunteers’||TDP senior leader S.V.Ramana Madiga urged the government to enhance salaries for all village volunteers for their relentless work and contribution to the society in the time of crisis. In a press note, he urged the government to extend health insurance scheme for the volunteers too, as they were also equally vulnerable to COVID-19 as the medical staff. He also demanded that financial support be extended to all the labourers who had returned to Srikakulam district in the last few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/enhance-salaries-for-volunteers/article31493176.ece
03 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM / VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special buses ferry 2,500 stranded persons home||After putting up with untold miseries arising out of the nation-wide lockdown at Veraval in Gujarat, 2,500 stranded fishermen from the districts of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram reached their respective places by the special buses arranged by the State government in the early hours of Saturday. Officials of the Revenue and Fisheries departments, people’s representatives and family members greeted them and enquired about their health condition. The fishermen had moved to Gujarat to eke out a living there as opportunities locally were scarce. With the clamping of lockdown, they were caught unawares. With no proper shelter and food at Veraval, they had to undergo severe hardship. Responding to their pleas, the government took up the issue at the highest level to ensure their safe return. “All the returnees have been sent to the 31 quarantine centres arranged for them. After preliminary medical examination, rapid tests have been conducted on them to check their COVID-19 status,” Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas said. Advice to kin He urged family members of the returnees not to meet them at the quarantine centres as the government was taking utmost care of their health and other needs. Mandal Revenue Officer Dileep Chakravarti said that the vacant tribal welfare hostel was converted into a quarantine centre. Meanwhile, Srikakulam Fishermen Community Welfare Association leader Duda Sudhakar urged the government to announce a special package for the migrant fishermen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/special-buses-ferry-2500-stranded-persons-home/article31493162.ece
03 May 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19: district has been declared as orange zone||The Visakhapatnam district is one among the seven districts in the State that has been declared as orange zone, a grade lower than the red zone. But still confusion prevails, if the entire district is orange or there are some parts that can be categorised as green zone, which as per COVID-19 protocol, makes the area as normal zone. Red zones are the districts where there is a high number of active cases and the rate of prevalence is also on the higher side and green zones will be districts with either zero confirmed cases till date or, no confirmed case in the last 21 days. Those districts, which are neither red nor green, shall be classified as orange zones and Visakhapatnam is one among them, said District Collector V. Vinay Chand. Speaking to The Hindu here on Saturday, he added that there is a confusion on the demarcation. “Ours is a district where there is a huge area outside the municipal or corporation limit, which we call as rural limits and hence we have two areas for classification. If the area outside the boundary of the MC has reported no case for the last 21 days, it will be allowed to be classified as one stage lower than the overall classification of the district, in which case it becomes green in our case. But if there is a case then it becomes orange on par with our MC limits,” he said. In Visakhapatnam district, a positive case was reported from Kasimkota area on April 29. And earlier there were two cases from Narsipatnam on April 5. If there is no new case from Narsipatnam in the next few days, then it can be scaled down. But Kasimkota case is a more recent one and for one case, will the entire rural area be declared as orange is the question. “We are seeking clarity on that aspect. For one case will the entire rural Visakhapatnam or outside MC limit be declared as orange or only Kasimkota mandal can be declared as orange and rest be termed as green, is what we need to know. We have represented it to Principal Secretary (Health) Jawahar Reddy, and hope to get clarity soon,” he said. Containment zones The total containment zones in the district as of now are 11, with three new ones such as Maharanipeta, Chengalraopeta and Gopalapatnam. The containment zones in rural areas include Padmanabham, Kasimkota and Narsipatnam. Life in the containment zones will be status quo, that is apart from movement for essential commodities, everything will be under lockdown. Even if there is a factory, which is declared open under lockdown 3.0, will remain closed if it falls under red zone, said Mr. Vinay Chand. “The status is subject to weekly review and if there is a spurt in cases, as we are seeing now, the status can turn to red,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-district-has-been-declared-as-orange-zone/article31493191.ece
03 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala has cautious exit plan; 3 die in Karnataka, Telangana||Two COVID-19 deaths and 12 new cases were reported in Karnataka on Saturday. In Telangana, one more person died of the disease, taking the toll to 29. The total number of cases touched 1,061 as 17 more cases were reported on Saturday. In Andhra Pradesh, there were 62 fresh positive cases, taking the tally to 1,525. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Saturday that the State would shut down on Sundays across the Red, Orange and Green zones. The Chief Minister’s measures for the lockdown exit plan came just as Wayanad district reported a lone case of COVID-19 on Saturday. Kannur also reported one case, taking Kerala’s total case tally to 499. Mr. Vijayan said, ideally, people should remain indoors. The holiday was mandatory except for essential services. The police would not allow travel. However, they would enable journey for an emergency. A.P. focus on Kurnool Andhra Pradesh had conducted 1,08,403 tests so far putting the positivity rate at 1.40%, death rate at 2.16% and recovery rate at 29%. The number of those recovered on Saturday was 38 and no new deaths were reported. Currently the State had 1,051 active patients and 33 patients died. So far, 441 persons recovered. Most fresh cases were in Kurnool (25), followed by Krishna (12). Nellore reported six fresh cases and Anantapur, Visakhapatnam and Kadapa four fresh cases each while East Godavari reported three cases. Guntur reported two new cases, Prakasam and West Godavari, one fresh case each. As of Saturday, Kurnool had 436 cases and Guntur, 308 cases, Krishna reported 258 cases and Nellore reported 90 cases. Karnataka’s 600 cases The number of positive cases in Karnataka crossed 600. Twelve new cases were reported on Saturday, adding up to 601 in all. Of the two COVID-19 deaths, which took the total to 25, one was a 63-year-old man from Bengaluru with a history of diabetes, hypertension, hypothyroidism, renal failure and multiple myeloma. Another was a 82-year-old patient from Bidar, who died on April 28, and was confirmed COVID-19 positive on Saturday. Of 12 new cases, four were from Bengaluru Urban, two each from Tumakuru and Vijayapura, one case each from Bidar, Chikkaballapur, Belagavi and Bagalkote. One patient had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection, and others were contacts of positive patients. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said the number of positive cases since 26 April was 101, while 113 were discharged. Also, 45% of 601 patients tested positive recovered. Chennai reported 174 of the 231 fresh COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu on Saturday. This is the highest ever single-day spike the State has reported till now, taking its total tally to 2,754. Of the 231 new patients, 158 were men, 72 women and one was a 48-year-old transperson in Chennai. The youngest among the new COVID-19 patients was a 14-day-old baby in Kancheepuram. Woman dies in Chennai A 76-year-old woman from Chennai died due to COVID-19 at 5.30 p.m. on May 1 at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. With this, the State has reported 29 deaths due to COVID-19. The State’s single-day sample count crossed the 10,000-mark. A total of 10,127 samples were tested. This took the total number of samples tested so far to 1,39,490. With another 29 persons discharged from hospitals across the State, the total number of persons discharged increased to 1,341. In Chennai alone, a total of 223 persons have been discharged till now, followed by 127 in Coimbatore and 108 in Tiruppur. The total number of active cases in the State was 1,384, according to a bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. With Chennai adding 174 more cases to its tally, the total number of cases in the city stand at at 1,257. Along with Chennai, 13 more districts have reported fresh cases — 18 in Ariyalur, 13 in Kancheepuram, seven in Tiruvallur, five in Chengalpattu, two each in Cuddalore, Perambalur, Ramanathapuram, Tiruppur and Villupuram, and one each in Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem and Theni. Another nine children in the 0-12 age group have tested positive, taking the total number of affected children in the age group to 159. As on date, a total of 2,318 persons in the 13-60 age group and 280 persons aged above 60 have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, Chennai and Hyderabad Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kerala-has-cautious-exit-plan-3-die-in-karnataka-telangana/article31492735.ece
03 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railways operate five ‘Shramik Specials’||Railways operated five Shramik special trains from Kerala to Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar on Saturday for migrant workers stranded by the COVID-19-induced- lockdown. The special trains, with 24 sleeper class coaches and two SLRs (seating-cum-luggage rake), commenced journey from the Thiruvanthapuram Central, Ernakulam Town, Aluva, Tirur, and Kozhikode railway stations. Of the five, two are to Jharkhand and two to Bihar and one to Odisha. Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran was present to see off 1,124 migrants who boarded the train from Thiruvananthapuram Central to Hatia in Jharkhand. The second special train was from Aluva to Khurda Road in Odisha and the third, from Ernakulam Town to Danapur in Bihar. Two trains were operated for migrants held up in north Kerala. The special trains were from Kozhikode to Dhanbad in Jharkhand and from Tirur in Malappuram district to Danapur in Bihar. Health screening The District Collectors and District Police Chiefs of Thiuvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Malappuram and Kozhikode, supported by labour officers, brought the migrants from their camps and houses. All were subjected to health screening before entering the railway stations. As in the case of the first Shramik special operated from Aluva to Odisha on Friday, Railways handed over the tickets to the District Collectors, who will have to collect the money from the passengers and pay Railways. The Shramik special will accommodate 1,142 travellers on 24 coaches as social distancing norms have to be followed. Meals and drinking water will be provided to the passengers by the States at the originating station. Railways will provide food during the journey with the assistance of the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation. The Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police will provide security for the travellers. Divisional Railway Manager, Thiruvananthapuram, Shirish Kumar Sinha said the Railway Board had made it clear that the rakes of the Shramik specials will return empty to the orginating railway station.  CM’s clarification Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that nobody could compel migrant workers to go home. Only those who wanted to meet their family need to board the special trains operated by the Centre. Mr. Vijayan said he had informed his counterpart in Odisha, Naveen Patnaik, that the migrant worker who left for their home States had gone on their own volition and were welcome back anytime. Many had chosen to go because of their desire to be with their relatives during the COVID-19 crisis. Kerala has not compelled any migrant worker to leave the State. Kerala has ensured their welfare and provided them with food, shelter and medicines. The government has also ensured food and water for migrants travelling home by special trains. He said Mr. Patnaik had thanked Kerala for taking care of its guest workers. A large section of the estimated 3.5 lakh workers were from Odisha, Bihar and West Bengal. State Police Chief Loknath Behera said the police would prosecute those who force migrant workers to leave Kerala. He said only those who wished to go home need report at railway stations to board special trains to north India.  The train will accommodate 1,142 travellers on 24 coaches as social distancing norms have to be followed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/railways-operate-five-shramik-specials/article31492725.ece
03 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lessons from COVID: teaching to go online||The coronavirus pandemic has disrupted academic plans of students who wanted to go abroad for their higher studies. To cater to their needs, the government has asked universities in the State to introduce new and exciting courses and also to increase the number of seats to accommodate them. Leveraging technology for a gradual drift towards the online mode of education is another area of focus. “We plan to frame the curriculum in a way that allows 20-25% of the teaching in the online mode,” Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh, told The Hindu on Saturday. Pointing to the fact that the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown had pushed the world on to the digital space, the Minister said now that the teachers and students were slowly getting used to online teaching and learning, the government was keen on taking it to the next level. To give traction to the proposal, it was also contemplating establishment of a ‘Digital and Online Education’ wing in the Department of Higher Education. But to take up a mammoth project of imparting online education on nearly 10 million students (including high school, Intermediate, degree, UG and PG) is a big challenge. Challenges galore Almost 70% to 80 % of the primary and upper primary students in government schools come from mandals and villages that have connectivity issue. “We need to first build adequate infrastructure,” admits Mr. Suresh, adding that it would increase the student enrolment ratio and also pupil attendance “as students will attend classes sitting at home.” Seen as the best suited in the present circumstances, the department was already implementing programmes such as Vidyamrutham under which classroom lessons to senior students through television channel and Vidya Kalasam , classes broadcast by radio. A teacher-training programme called Abhyasa was also in progress. “There are 20 to 24 online platforms available and we have asked the Vice Chancellors of universities to make use of them to complete the syllabus,” said the Minister. 10th class exams Conducting 10th class exams is an immediate challenge. “Students are losing focus and the delay is adding to the confusion of the students and their worried parents. We are eager to release the schedule at the earliest,” said Mr. Suresh. For Intermediate exams, which are over, he said the spot evaluation, which was postponed due to the pandemic, would be completed by small groups maintaining physical distancing. UGC guidelines According to the UGC guidelines, the new academic calendar for second and third year students of graduation will start from August 1, while for the first year students, it will start on September 1. The Minister said the State would more or less follow the same guidelines. All educational institutions had been asked to complete the syllabus and also conduct exams by July and the Common Entrance Tests (CETs) would be held immediately after the lockdown was lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lessons-from-covid-teaching-to-go-online/article31493165.ece
03 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three sworn in as HC judges||Chief Justice of the Andhra Pradesh High Court J.K. Maheswari administered the oath of office to Boppudi Krishna Mohan, Kanchireddy Suresh Reddy and Kanneganti Lalitha Kumari as judges on Saturday. The names of Justices Krishna Mohan, Suresh Reddy and Lalitha Kumari were recommended by the Supreme Court Collegium at its meeting on April 20. The notification of their appointment as judges of the High Court was issued by the Ministry of Law and Justice on Friday. The number of Andhra Pradesh High Court judges, including the Chief Justice, has since gone up to 21 against the sanctioned strength of 37.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-sworn-in-as-hc-judges/article31493169.ece
03 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC comes to the rescue of farmers||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC), which has been providing emergency services during the lockdown period, has come to the rescue of farmers. The corporation is operating buses to shift farm produce to different places in the absence of regular transport like tractors, lorries and other goods vehicles. According to agriculture officials, farmers raised paddy, maize, Bengal gram and red chilli besides horticulture crops during the rabi season. The government has instructed the Agriculture and Civil Supplies departments and MARKFED to procure the produce from the farm gates and avoid losses to farmers. Accordingly, officials have made arrangements to shift the material to warehouses. APSRTC Executive Director (ED-Operations) K.S. Brahmananda Reddy told The Hindu that RTC employees were extending services during the health emergency and cooperating with the government. DSO to be contacted “The corporation is running services to shift farm produce from villages, particularly those in the Agency, to urban areas. Farmers’ clusters can contact District Supply Officers (DSOs) who will inform the transport requirement to the Collectors who will then instruct the RTC Regional Managers and the Depot Managers, Mr. Brahmananda Reddy said. RTC Executive Director (ED-Administration) A. Koteswara Rao said about 300 buses were being operated every day. “We are transporting paddy, pulses, milk, vegetables, tamarind, mangoes, papaya, bananas, flowers and other essential commodities,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apsrtc-comes-to-the-rescue-of-farmers/article31493156.ece
03 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan seeks smooth passage for Telugu workers from abroad||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy wrote to Union Minister of External Affairs S. Jaishankar requesting him to direct officials at Indian embassies in various countries to smoothen the process of registration of migrants returning to the country and to share the data so that the States could send them to quarantine, thereby preventing the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Jagan also sought necessary steps for safely bringing back visitors and students who were stranded abroad for the last six weeks. The Chief Minister stated that the Kuwait government has announced an amnesty scheme for repatriating the overstaying migrants to their respective countries by providing travel costs and waiving immigration fines. The same process is likely to be adopted by other member countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council. Job losses in the Gulf would exacerbate the influx of returnees to India upon the resumption of international flights, Mr. Jagan observed. Mr. Jagan said that thousands of migrants from Andhra Pradesh are likely to return from the Gulf once the Government of India resumes international travel.  The CM said that there was a massive turnout of migrant workers at the Indian embassy in Kuwait on April 29 for registering before the deadline (April 30) expired. In view of these events, the MEA should facilitate smooth entry of returnees, Mr. Jagan said in his letter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-seeks-smooth-passage-for-telugu-workers-from-abroad/article31493166.ece
03 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man undergoes delicate bypass surgery||A team of doctors headed by cardiothoracic surgeon Gunturu Varun gave a new lease of life to a 32-year-old man who lost a kidney and was on the verge of losing his other one because of an aneurysm in his abdominal aorta. The medical team saved the man’s life by performing a rare bypass surgery. The team of doctors belonging to Capital Hospitals diagnosed the patient, who complained of severe abdominal pain and numbness in both limbs, as suffering from a case of Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm (AAA) that was on the verge of rupture and turning into an infected Mycotic Aneurysm. The abdominal aorta cut off a little above the level of the right renal artery causing severe vascular compromise (shortage of blood) to the abdominal organs and lower limbs causing pain in the stomach and numbness to the limbs. The patient had only one partially functioning kidney. Salvaging it was a huge surgical challenge, Dr Varun told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-undergoes-delicate-bypass-surgery/article31492764.ece
03 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No meat shops today||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation(VMC) in a release stated that there would be no sale of meat and sea food in the city on Sunday to avoid gatherings at the shops. VMC chief V. Prasanna Venkatesh warned traders of strict action if they defied the rules and opened their shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-meat-shops-today/article31492749.ece
03 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appointed city unit head||Jagdeesh Kumar Purohit has been appointed as the president of the city unit (Andhra Pradesh State Youth Division) of the Pradhan Mantri Jan Kalyankari Yojana Prachar Prasar Abhiyan (PMJKYPPA) on Saturday. After his appointment, Mr. Purohit said that his focus would be on ensuring that students, especially from the economically backward sections. reap the benefits of the many welfare schemes that are being implemented by the Modi government at the Centre. He said he would also work for the betterment of small traders,||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/appointed-city-unit-head/article31493163.ece
03 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP booked for defying lockdown||The Two Town Police on Saturday registered a case against Member of Parliament Kesineni Srinivas (Nani) and 13 other TDP leaders on the charge of violating lockdown norms. Mr. Srinivas, along with the party workers, distributed essential items at Gujjari Yellarao Vegetable Market, under the 47th division in the city on May Day, allegedly ignoring the the COVID-19 protocol. Former A.P. Police Housing Corporation chairman Nagul Meera and party activists N. Rama Rao, K. Malleswara Rao, P. Lokesh, G. Konda, D. Saidulu, K. Sambaiah, V. Ramana, Ch. Lakshmana Rao, and M. Bhaskar were among those booked, the police said. Cases were registered under the National Disaster Management and the Epidemic Diseases Act, the police added .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-booked-for-defying-lockdown/article31493172.ece
03 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM, Naveen discuss ways to help out labourers||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, his Odisha counterpart Naveen Patnaik and Union Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Steel Dharmendra Pradhan had a video-conference on Saturday. They discussed the problems being faced by migrant workers and ways of sending them to their home towns in the respective States. Mr. Patnaik thanked Mr. Jagan for taking care of the workers from Odisha who were stuck in different parts of A.P.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-naveen-discuss-ways-to-help-out-labourers/article31493167.ece
03 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Freight and parcel trains to continue||Freight and parcel trains will continue to be operated for some more time by East Coast Railway (E Co R) in view of the extension of the lockdown till May 17. Train No. 00530 Visakhapatnam-Sambalpur parcel express, will leave from Visakhapatnam on May 5, 7, 9, 11, 13 and 15 at 9 a.m. and will reach Sambalpur at 5.30 p.m. the same day. In the return direction, 00529 Sambalpur – Visakhapatnam will leave Sambalpur on May 6, 8,10,12,14 and 16 at 9 a.m. and will reach Visakhapatnam at 6 p.m. on the same day. These trains have stoppages at Vizianagaram, Bobbili, Paravatipuram, Rayagada, Muniguda, Kesinga, Titlagarh, Balangir and Bargarh Road between Visakhapatnam and Sambalpur. The train No. 00532 Visakhapatnam- Cuttack Parcel Express will leave Visakhapatnam from May 4 to 15 at 10 a.m. and will reach Cuttack at 6.30 p.m. on the same day and in the return direction train No. 00531 Cuttack-Visakhapatnam parcel express will leave Cuttack from May 5 to 16 at 9 a.m. and will reach Visakhapatnam at 5.30 p.m. the same day. These trains will have stoppages at Vizianagaram, Srikakulam Road, Palasa, Ichchapuram, Brahmapur, Chatrapur, Balugaon, Khurda Road and Bhubaneswar between Visakhapatnam and Cuttack . Train No. 00851 Vizianagaram-Adarsh Nagar (Delhi) parcel special train will leave Vizianagaram on May 4 and 6 at 7.30 a.m. and will reach Adarsh Nagar on the next day at 2 p.m. In the return direction, 00852 Adarsh Nagar-Vizianagaram parcel special train will leave Adarsh Nagar on May 6 and 8 at 1 a.m. (midnight of May 5 and 7), which will reach Vizianagaram at 8.30 a.m. on the next day. These trains have stoppages at Bobbili, Parvatipuram, Rayagada, Titlagarh, Raipur Jn, Uslapur, Katni murwara, Damoh, Saugor, Jhansi jn, Gwalior Jn., Agra cantt, New Delhi between Vizianagaram and Adarsh Nagar. Train No.00637 Vasco da Gama – Howrah parcel Express special will leave from Vasco da Gama  at 10 a.m. on Saturday and will reach Visakhapatnam on the next day at 4.25 p.m. and departs at 4.45 p.m. to reach Howrah at 10 a.m. on May 4. Merchants and interested supplier parties may also contact Parcel Offices at the Stations and Station Managers to carry their essential goods, according to G. Suneel Kumar, Senior Divisional Commercial Manager of Waltair.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/freight-trains-to-continue/article31493152.ece
03 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector inspects red zones||District Collector V. Vinay Chand inspected the red zones, where the new cases were reported, in the city on Saturday. He inspected the sanitary works, ongoing survey, medical services, implementation of the lockdown and arrangement of barricades in Dandu Bazaar, Madhavadhara areas. He appealed to the residents of containment zones to strictly remain in the houses and not to come out until it is an emergency. He also instructed police to make sure outsiders do not enter the area and the residents do not go out without any valid reason. The Collector also asked the officials to deploy vegetable vendors as per need. Later he checked how the ANMs, ASHA workers, ward volunteers have been conducting survey. Suggesting them a few tips, he instructed the teams to finish the survey in two days. Mr. Vinay Chand also spoke with sanitary staff at Jagadamba Junction and asked if they had any issues in work. Sub Collector, Paderu, S Venkateswar, District Medical & Health Officer (DMHO) S Tirupathi Rao, and a few others were present.  Strict lockdown Joint Collector L Shiva Shankar said that following back to back cases in the district, the entire Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) region will be treated as a containment zone and lockdown will strictly enforced. He was speaking to members of isolation committee during a review meet here on Saturday. Mr. Shiva Shankar also asked the officials to conduct Truenat tests for the medical teams treating the COVID-19 positive patients at all the hospitals and also the sanitary staff working there. The Joint Collector also insisted the officials to make sure the patients in the State and the district COVID-19 hospitals get nutritious food and all amenities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/collector-inspects-red-zones/article31493181.ece
03 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, GVMC app to assess risk||The GVMC and the Greater Visakhapatnam Smart City Corporation Limited have added a feature on COVID-19 risk assessment on the Smart Vizag app of the GVMC. Based on the guidelines from the WHO and the Union Ministry of Health and Family Affairs, the app has been designed by software solutions company Fluentgrid Limited. Residents of Visakhapatnam may register themselves and update their health condition or symptoms, if any, on the app, says an official release. The emergency team of the City Operations Centre frequently monitors the updates given by the citizens. If any citizen confirms symptoms similar to COVID-19, an alert will be raised and the Standard Operating Procedure ‘COVID-19 mild symptoms case’ will be followed and the Rapid Response Team (RRT) concerned is informed for further protocol. The nearest RRT visits, examines the citizen and shifts the person to the designated hospital for further diagnosis. The mobile app ‘Smart Vizag by GVMC’ is available on the Play Store. Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana appealed to citizens to download the app and help the district administration in the fight against the virus.  SOS feature The app also has SOS features for suspicious case option. Emergency teams may be alerted about symptomatic person in the family or neighbourhood. RRTs will be informed about the suspicious case for examination, the release says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/now-gvmc-app-to-assess-risk/article31493183.ece
03 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||End of a long ordeal for fishermen from Vizag||Fishermen from Visakhapatnam district who were stranded at Veraval in Gujarat reached the city by special buses on Saturday. They seemed very relieved after the three-day journey that sapped their energies. They alighted the buses and walked with their baggage into the Srinivasa Kalyana Mandapam near the railway station. District Collector V. Vinay Chand visited the kalyana mandapam in the evening and interacted with the 76 fishermen accommodated there. Cooperate, says Collector Mr. Vinay Chand assured the fishermen that all those who test negative for COVID-19 would be sent home and that those who test positive for isolation and treatment. He appealed to them to cooperate with the officials till then. He also directed the officials to ensure comfort of the fishermen. The Collector said the government had sanctioned Rs. 4 crore to the stranded fishermen coming from various States to Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts. “At Lankelapalem (on the outskirts of the city), we were given biscuits and water bottles. We have reached here half-an-hour ago and are having lunch now,” said Manmadh (32), a resident of Bheemunipatnam, at around 5 p.m. “There are around 75 persons in each bus. We just had our lunch. We have been told that we would be sent home tomorrow (Sunday),” said Raju (19) of the Fishing Harbour area in the city. Fishermen stranded at Veraval Port in Gujarat, who were brought to Visakhapatnam in separate buses, would be allowed to undergo home quarantine after subjecting them to the COVID-19 tests. Joint Director of Fisheries K. Phaniprakash said that around 400 fishermen who arrived in the city had been kept at the kalyana mandapam, Ambedkar Bhavan and other places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/end-of-a-long-ordeal-for-fishermen-from-vizag/article31493171.ece
03 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waste segregation: responsibility to be handed over to secretaries||Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana on Saturday said to improve segregation of dry and wet waste at the doorstep of residents the responsibility of pushcarts and sanitation vehicles should be handed over to the amenities secretaries in the respective wards. Attendance marking She pointed out lagging behind in online waste management and said any problems should be brought to the notice of higher officials concerned. In a videoconference with the officials concerned and sanitary workers, she said the marking of attendance by facial recognition system should be improved by 90% in a week. Chief Medical Officer (Health) K.S.L.G. Sastry and other officials participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/waste-segregation-responsibility-to-be-handed-over-to-secretaries/article31493182.ece
03 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Implement prohibition during lockdown: TDP||If the YSR Congress Party is really committed to prohibition it should use the opportunity during the lockdown and instead of implementing it in phases should do it at one go, former MLA and State Telugu Mahila president V. Anitha said. She took exception to any move to open liquor shops amid the hardships faced by the poor in the lockdown The State government was also accountable to the funds released by the Union government, she said at a press conference here. The YSR Congress Partythat came to power promising waiver of DWCRA loans should give relief by releasing the first instalment now, she said. Ms. Anitha said though three weeks elapsed since the announcement it's not known where protective masks were being distributed by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/implement-prohibition-during-lockdown-tdp/article31493186.ece
03 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal persists||The low-pressure area over Anadaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal persists and the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 4.5 km above the mean sea level also persists. It is likely to become more marked and over the same region during the next 24 hours and concentrate into a depression over Andaman Sea and adjoin southeast Bay of Bengal during the subsequent 48 hours and intensify further thereafter. It is expected to move north north-westwards gradually till May 6. The trough/wind discontinuity from southeast Madhya Pradesh to south Tamil Nadu now runs from northeast Marathwada to south Tamil Nadu, across interior Karnataka, and extends up to 0.9 km above mean sea level, according to the IMD. Thunderstorm and lightning accompanied with gusty winds (30- 40kmph) likely to occur at isolated places over north and south coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam on May 3 and 4. Thunderstorm and lightning is likely to continue at isolated places over all the three regions in A.P. and in Yanam on May 5 and 6. There is no warning for the fishermen of Andhra coast during the next 24 hours, ending at 6 p.m. on Sunday. The Cyclone Warning Centre, Visakhapatnam, however, warned that the sea area other than AP coast would be rough with squally winds over southeast Bay of Bengal and south Andaman Sea during the next 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/low-pressure-area-over-bay-of-bengal-persists/article31493179.ece
03 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AUTD||Association for Urban and Tribal Development (AUTD), with the help of NGO Samata, on Saturday gave away 227 packets of essential commodities to 110 families at Muslim Colony, 65 at R.H. Colony and 52 at Rajaka Colony, according to secretary Pragada Srinivasu. Each packet costs Rs. 1,600. He thanked Samata for the gesture.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/autd/article31493184.ece
03 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Move to reopen liquor outlets draws flak||The government’s move to reopen liquor outlets in the State has drawn criticism from several women’s organisations. Naa Vooru-Vizianagaram founder Gummuluru Vishala said that the lockdown had weaned many addicts off consuming alcohol, but now she feared the relaxation would ruin their health. An advocate, Hanumanthu Kavya, urged the government to utilise the lockdown as an opportunity to make the State alcohol-free. “The government has already put restriction on sale of alcohol and closed many bars and outlets. Now, it should not reopen the shops,” she added. Vizianagaram MR Ladies Recreation Club general secretary Pakalapati Ramanamma said that family members would be the victims if liquor shops were allowed to function in green zone areas. Meanwhille, Vizianagaram Excise department is reportedly preparing an action plan for reopening of shops. Anticipating huge demand for liquor, it has planned to put more stocks in those outlets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/move-to-reopen-liquor-outlets-draws-flak/article31493151.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Duty-bound||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/duty-bound/article31493178.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||The king heads north||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/the-king-heads-north/article31492768.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Staring down violators||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/staring-down-violators/article31493194.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Saluting the warriors||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/saluting-the-warriors/article31493174.ece
03 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Stranded workers plead for Shramik Special train||The migrant workers stranded in Adilabad are making a fervent appeal for Shramik special train to be run between Adilabad and New Delhi to take them home without charging for the ticket. “We have no money with us and the government should provide us this facility,” pleaded the distraught workers who are put up in shelters at various places in the district. The guidelines of the Union government on inter-State movement of migrant workers issued on April 29 have no provision for free travel by road. “Where are we going to get the money for it,” wondered Irfan Malik, a marble worker from Agra, when he was told to fund for his own ticket. “The government can run a special train for us because hundreds can be transported at one go and most of the workers in shelters have their home close to the main railway line connecting the south and north. We have been staying here for over a month now,” appealed Keerath Singh of Jhansi and five others in his group who had to face the lockdown just a day after they arrived in Hyderabad to work in a factory. Adilabad Revenue Divisional Officer S. Satyanarayana, who is the nodal officer for the travel of migrant workers, expressed helplessness when it came to organising free transport. “The guidelines clearly state that either the workers or their State governments have to fund their travel and we only facilitate by issuing passes,” he affirmed. “Some 3,000 workers of the total of 9,000 who paid for the travel have already left for their home in hired vehicles,” he pointed out. Adilabad Deputy Transport Commissioner Puppala Srinivas disclosed that passes were issued for 33 vehicles until the previous day, which includes four wheelers and buses.  Meanwhile, there was no demand for passes from the TS Transport department from other districts which comprised former united Adilabad district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stranded-workers-plead-for-shramik-special-train/article31493010.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sewage may be potential COVID source||Sewage flow is one aspect completely ignored as a causative factor in spread of COVID-19. Yet, it could become a potential threat if enough precautions are not taken. So far, all measures to contain the spread are focussed on contact tracing and containment, with the knowledge that the disease spreads only through droplets. However, a few studies have said, and the World Health Organisation (WHO) too, has in principle admitted that coronavirus may be present in stool samples of COVID patients. Though there is no evidence as of now for its transmission from sewage flow, precautions are being spelled out about such possibility. A document by the Indian Society of Heating, Refrigerating & Air Conditioning Engineers has asked toilet users to be wary of the airborne droplet residue while flushing. WHO has confirmed that airborne transmission may be possible in specific circumstances and settings. If any outbreak is to happen through sewage flow, Hyderabad with its poorly managed system has high potential for disease flare up. The Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB) has already advised healthcare facilities and agencies operating the Sewage Treatment Plants to disinfect the treated waste water to deactivate coronavirus. Unfortunately, it is a fact that the installed capacity of STPs is only about 50 per cent of the city’s sewage, that is 700 million litres per day (MLD), while the total sewage generated is about 1500 MLD. The untreated sewage goes directly into Musi River, which could endanger the lives of hundreds of slum dwellers living along the river banks. Though as per norms, the treated water should be disinfected prior to letting into water bodies, with the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) outsourcing the maintenance of STPs to private agencies, adherence to the disinfection norms could be dicey. Though officials confirm that the treated water is mixed either with Chlorine or Sodium hypochlorite before release, sources say that the disinfection should be continuous procedure, and how adherent the agencies are during night cannot be confirmed. Besides, poor maintenance plagues the 27 I&D (Interception & Diversion) units across the city, installed to divert sewage from nalas into mains, sources say. Quite a few need pumping as against gravity for flow, and effectiveness of the pumps is uncertain, they say. Several and frequent leakages in the aged pipelines too could prove dangerous. The major COVID-19 healthcare facility Gandhi Hospital does not have its own STP, and all the outflows from the hospital are treated at Amberpet STP. Any leakages on the way should be monitored strictly and repaired, say experts. “Maintenance and sample collection of treated water at STPs should be monitored stringently, and proper functioning of the I&D units should be ensured. Coronavirus is known to stay in faecal flows for 48 hours. Hence adequate precautions should be taken,” said chairman of the Institution of Engineers and former director (Operations) HMWS&SB G. Rameshwar Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sewage-may-be-potential-covid-source/article31492984.ece
03 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Double whammy for mango farmers||Friday’s thunderstorm in the surrounding areas of Hyderabad dealt a further blow to the mango crop. “The storm damaged 30%-40% of the ready mangoes in my farm,” said Bharat Singareddy, who has a mango orchard near Manneguda near Vikarabad. The result of the storm and low crop can be seen on the road between Chevella and Vikarabad which has become silent except for birdcalls and an occasional vehicle zipping away. At the half a dozen police checkpoints, they mean business demanding to know the purpose of the visit. Missing from the old roadway to Karnataka are the seasonal stalls selling mangoes. Not one can be spotted. “The crop has failed this year. I used to sell ripe mangoes by this time. But now I have these raw mangoes meant for pickles and chutneys,” says Ramalu, a farmer from Manneguda who has set up a stall selling vegetables. Annually, April and May see the road turn into an exotic mango market with stunning varieties and the freshest produce that is not ripened by artificial ripeners. But this year, there is no sign of India’s favourite fruit. The area is acres of mango orchards but with very few trees laden with crop. “We have been saved by patches of vegetable gardens. The mango crop is about 25% of the annual yield. I have not smelled a ripe mango even though May has already begun,” says Anjaneyulu who has a four-acre plot in Pudur village. Many farmers are blaming depleting ground water levels for the dip in mango yield. On the Nagarjunsagar Highway, the situation is no different. “There was no flowering on our Mallika trees. There was some on old trees. And we had a spell of rain, hail and wind. I am not sure what’s remaining on the trees,” says Madhu Reddy who has a mango orchard in Ranga Reddy district. “The produce this year is low. We are also facing problem of workers for plucking the mangoes as their movement is curtailed due to lockdown. Even our exports have been hit as there are no flights. We are exploring the option of a chartered flight to Gulf to transport 60-70 tonnes after a few days,” says Ismail, a mango farmer and trader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/double-whammy-for-mango-farmers/article31492991.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State’s own revenue declines by 95 % to Rs. 500 crore in April||Telangana government, which has done well in delaying the doubling period for COVID-19 positive cases way above the national average to contain the spread of the disease, is now exploring how to tide over the severe financial crisis due to steep fall in revenue. The State went into lockdown mode from March 22 in view of the pandemic. With all educational institutions, industries, institutions and commercial establishments shutdown to enforce social distancing and economic activity almost coming to a standstill barring essential goods and services, the State revenues were hugely impacted. The State’s own tax revenue which used to be around Rs. 400 crore a day dwindled to less than Rs. 10 crore and by the end of April, the State just earned a revenue of Rs. 500 crore — a 95 % fall in its tax revenue. There was zero revenue from excise and liquor (against Rs. 1,400 crore) stamps and registration (Rs. 880 crore) and the motor vehicle tax (Rs. 400 crore) while the VAT on petroleum resources was only about Rs. 50 crore as against normal revenue of Rs. 1,500 crore. The State GST was only about Rs. 350 crore to Rs. 400 crore against Rs. 3,000 crore. The State borrowed Rs. 4,000 crore from the market in April as against Rs. 2,500 crore it would borrow in a month in line with the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) norms. The lockdown was announced soon after the State presented its budget outlay of Rs. 1.82 lakh crore for 2020-21, with an increase of 28.7 % over the revised estimate of 2019-20. None expected the pandemic would play havoc with the State revenues. Against the income of Rs. 500 crore, State government had to spend close to Rs. 10,000 crore in April including Rs. 1,800 crore towards salaries and pensions at 50 % and75 % deferment, Rs. 2,400 crore towards debt servicing, Rs. 870 crore towards Aasara pensions, Rs. 830 crore towards power subsidies, Rs. 2,400 crore towards COVID relief assistance of Rs. 1,500 to every white ration cardholder and 12 kg of rice, releases to medical and health department. The 20 % cut in State share in the Central devolutions saw State receiving only Rs. 982 crore as against Rs. 1,200 crore in April. “We pulled through with some savings apart from borrowings and what trickled from Centre under Centrally Sponsored Schemes and about Rs. 200 crore donations to the CMRF,” sources said. Chief Minister had already written to the Centre requesting that the FRBM limit be increased from the present 3 % to 5 % to help it borrow more, declare moratorium on repayment of loans and interest for six months, special assistance under ‘quantitative easing’ from the RBI to help various sectors of economy specially MSME hit by the COVID crisis. “However there is no response so far to our request. The situation in May will be even difficult without help from the Centre,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/states-own-revenue-declines-by-95-to-rs-500-crore-in-april/article31493004.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Talk on post-COVID farm operations||Agricultural scientists have suggested green manure crops before taking up paddy transplantation for farmers, for the upcoming Vaanakalam season. Scientists from ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University (PJTSAU), functionaries of the Telangana chapter of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), agri-entrepreneurs and progressive farmers participated in a virtual session on ‘Restarting Agriculture Post-COVID and Gearing Up for Vaanakalam’ on Saturday. The session focused on the impact of lockdown on agriculture and allied sectors and measures to minimise its effect on the country’s food security. Vice-Chancellor of PJTSAU V. Praveen Rao said that Telangana was prepared for Vaanakalam farm season and advised farmers to go for green manure crops like green gram before paddy and other crops on a large scale to improve soil fertility. Director of ICAR-NAARM Ch. Srinivasa Rao said that Telangana is a farmer-friendly State as it had been supporting them in different ways to improve farm income. Vice-chairman of CII Telangana chapter, also the MD of Coromandel International Ltd, Sameer Goel highlighted the issues in agriculture and input industries, particularly in the wake of lockdown restrictions for more than a month now. The virtual session also discussed all aspects of agriculture from seed supplies to other inputs and supply chain to mechanisation and farming that was technology driven and less labour intensive. The session also suggested crop diversification, increase in productivity and use of fertilizers, including phosphorous and potassium, only in required quantities. Former chairman of CII Southern Region Anil Kumar V. Epur, executive director (Food and Agriculture) of KPMG India Gopinath Koneti, and convenor CII Telangana G.V. Subba Reddy also spoke. About 600 farmers and entrepreneurs participated in the session.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/talk-on-post-covid-farm-operations/article31492976.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MSME’s low-cost ventilator prototype||A city-based MSME has developed a prototype of a low-cost ventilator within just one week. The company has started developing an engineering model on the basis of the prototype model that can withstand all necessary specifications and standards of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “We have started working on the prototype in consultation with 13 biomedical experts in different countries and developed the model within one week,” Srinivas Chamarthy, an entrepreneur who heads CYME Automation Systems Private Ltd, said, giving details about their ventilator model. The basic functional ventilator model has controllable parameters regarding respiration rate, tidal volume and positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP) of air and oxygen mix. Mr. Srinivas told The Hindu that they had managed with a solenoid instead of motorised linear valve at the output by controlling the closing and opening rate through current control. The engineering model being developed by them would overcome all the shortcomings in the prototype, which also lacked the linear pump to maintain PEEP pressure at the exhalation valve and display of waveforms for doctors, Mr. Srinivas said. Apart from fine-tuning the control and calibration of the measurement in the equipment, testing on biological specimens would also be taken up with the engineering model. “Being an MSME company, even the development of prototype life support equipment model was possible with the support of a well-known city-based electro-physiologist and cardiologist C. Narsimhan and encouragement of DRDO chairman G. Satheesh Reddy,” Mr. Srinivas said, adding that the model would be costing between Rs. 35,000 and Rs. 45,000 a unit.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/msmes-low-cost-ventilator-prototype/article31492986.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||On-duty excise personnel bereft of protective gear||The Telangana Prohibition and Excise department constables and officials involved in raids against illegal sale of liquor and gudumba said that they are not provided protective gear such as masks and sanitisers. “We know our constables are not provided the protective gear. We can’t help but only appreciate them for their work. But, how are we supposed to encourage them if we cannot give them the basic resources?,” asked a senior excise official. However, Excise Minister V. Srinivas Goud said that enough sanitisers and masks were provided to the department. “It is our department that is posted in distilleries where hand sanitisers are manufactured. They are the ones who distribute it to government hospitals and others departments. We will provide if anybody wants them,” he said. “We keep watch on narcotics activities and belt shops. There were incidents of cheap (low standard) liquor being filled in foreign liquor bottles and sold. Gudumba too was mixed with liquor and sold at belt shops. Sometimes, we have to enter houses to seize products used to manufacture gudumba. There is possible confrontation in such situations,” an excise constable involved in raids said. “We dig into our pockets to buy masks, gloves and sanitisers for our own safety. The irony is though distilleries currently manufacturing sanitisers come under our purview, there are no official orders to provide these to us,” a senior official said, adding that they get these only when someone donates. Another excise constable said that though their seniors were ensuring protective gear reach them, it was not allotted by the department. “We too have been working from day one of lockdown and our salaries are deducted. We might get it later but some of us are facing problems now. Fresh recruits are getting only Rs. 12,000 per month and paying rent has become a task, but we will continue to work. However, we will be motivated if we get the same incentives and gear given to the police department,” said a head constable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/on-duty-excise-personnel-bereft-of-protective-gear/article31492978.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stress on halting virus spread||In anticipation of relaxations in certain pockets of the State in the next few days, Health Minister Eatala Rajender held a meeting with senior health officials on Saturday, on precautions and preparations to be taken at the grass-roots level. Mr. Rajender instructed Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao to focus on identifying symptoms and conducting tests at the ground level to stop the spread. Director of Drugs Control Administration Preeti Meena was directed to ensure there was no shortage of blood at blood banks. Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Yogita Rana was asked to make pregnant women aware of precautions to be taken to avoid contracting the virus. Health officials have prepared a list of retired doctors who would be requested to join medical services if there was a demand. Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy was told to table proposals for recruitment of doctors. The Health Minister would hold a video conference with DMHOs and superintendents to discuss steps to be taken for further containment in villages and hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stress-on-halting-virus-spread/article31492981.ece
03 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sanitary pads distributed to migrant workers||Women migrant labourers have more help coming their way now, thanks to Hyderabad police’s initiative of distributing sanitary pads among them. On Saturday, Additional Commissioner of Police (Crimes and SIT) Shikha Goel distributed over 2,000 packets of sanitary napkins to over 200 women who are taking shelter at Classic Gardens in Secunderabad owing to nationwide lockdown. “I realised that the women migrant labourers must be facing hygiene issues and not taking care of this basic need. So, soon I got in touch with an NGO and distributed the napkins,” she said. Ms. Goel said that they had decided to expand the distribution to all areas where migrant workers were camping. “We will also be distributing the napkins in other areas in the city in the next few days. We want to cover a maximum number of women migrant workers,” Ms. Goel, who is also the in-charge of Hyderabad SHE Teams, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sanitary-pads-distributed-to-migrant-workers/article31492996.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Book mangoes online||In a bid to help mango farmers, particularly women self-help groups, engaged in procuring mangoes under the guidance of Horticulture department, overcome the problems of marketing the fruit during the lockdown, the State government has introduced online booking of orders for naturally ripened mangoes. Officials said they had announced booking of mangoes over phone initially for supplying them with the association of Postal Department from May 1 to residents of twin cities. However, huge response to the booking system on the two given phone numbers denied the opportunity of booking to many customers on the first two days. To overcome the problem, the department made arrangements for online booking on Saturday. The online booking facility would be available to people from 8 am on Sunday and they could order mangoes by entering the web linkhttps://tfresh.org/and the orders could be booked between 8 am and 6 pm. The booking facility over phone was overwhelmed with callers on the first day on Friday. A total of 254 consumers booked 2,085 kg mangoes on day one but the department has received a large number of complaints about not getting connected to the given numbers (7997724925 and 7997724941). The officials stated that the department was making arrangements to supply about 10,000 kg of mangoes every day to about 1,000 customers. The delivery of orders would be in the order of booking. Booking over phone would be discontinued form Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/book-mangoes-online/article31492987.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RTC to send back MP students||As many as 21 students hailing from Madhya Pradesh are likely to be back in their home-town of Dewas in a bus of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation. According to TSRTC officials, an interstate-bus will soon be used to transport these students who currently study in the Navodaya Vidyalaya in Gachibowli. “The students have been staying at the school since the lockdown was imposed. After a requisition was made, we have arranged a bus to transort them and they will be sent back to Madhya Pradesh. The transport corporation will ensure that all social distancing measures are followed properly,” a senior Telangana State Road Transport Corporation official said. Unexpected turn However, while the students were to leave on Saturday, in an unexpected development, a decision has to be made in connection with whether an air-conditioned (AC) bus or a non-air-conditioned (non-AC) bus should be pressed into service to transport the students. “We have to take a decision whether an air-conditioned bus should be given or if a non-air-conditioned bus should be given. It is likely that a fresh requisition will be made. I think it will take two to three days for the bus to leave,” the source said.  Migrants ferried On Friday, 56 Telangana State Road Transport Corporation buses carried 1,225 migrant workers to the Lingampally station after which they left for their home-state of Jharkhand. Sources said that while the State government stood steadfast with migrant workers and students from other states, special buses being arranged for transporting them is likely to remain a quiet affair. The State government, the source explained, wanted to avoid panic or a rush-like situation. “The Sate government is serious about observing the lockdown and taking all measures to stop spread of the dreaded coronavirus. This is why it wants to avoid any rush from migrants,” an official in the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rtc-to-send-back-mp-students/article31492999.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Construction activity in urban areas assured support||The real estate project developers can take steps to secure requisite material and engage with their workers as the Ministry of Home Affairs has given permission for the in-situ construction in urban areas, said Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar. Mr.Somesh Kumar held a tele conference with representatives of CREDAI, TREDA along with DGP, Principal Secretary Municipal Administration and Urban Development and Principal Secretary Industries and commissioners of police of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda at BRKR Bhavan here on Saturday on the issues being faced by the construction industry. He said the MHA issued an order on May 1 allowing in-situ construction activity in urban areas. Chief Secretary assured the project developers of all necessary support to construction activity by the State administration. In the light of recent developments, he urged the builders to instil confidence among the workers particularly migrant workers through counselling and extending incentives, facilities and medical care, among others. All efforts should be made to make the labourers feel comfortable. On request of the builders participating in the teleconference, the Chief Secretary assured that the government would take steps to ensure smooth supply of steel, cement, sand and bricks, among others. DGP Mahender Reddy reiterated that smooth movement of construction goods vehicles would be ensured by the police of the three commissionerates. MA &UD Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar, Industries Principal Secretary Jayesh Ranjan, commissioners of police Anjani Kumar, Mahesh Bhagwat, V. C. Sajjanar, Secretary Finance Ronald Rose, Director CCLA Rajat Kumar Saini, Director Prohibition and Excise Sarfaraz Ahmed and others participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/construction-activity-in-urban-areas-assured-support/article31493005.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR asks officials to expedite road works||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao has directed officials concerned to speed up the ongoing road works in the city, as the working season could come to an end in June owing to monsoon. Reviewing the progress of ongoing works taken up by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and Hyderabad Road Development Corporation Limited on Saturday, the Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister asked officials to expedite land acquisition wherever link road works were taken up under packages. At the same time, he said, officials should assume humane attitude towards poor people and labourers being evacuated from the location by providing rehabilitation to them. Indicating updating of Hyderabad city master plan soon, the Minister directed that road width of 120 feet be maintained for link roads, as there was scope for multi-fold development. The Minister stressed that future needs of the city traffic should be kept in mind while taking up works. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar and other senior officials participated in the review meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ktr-asks-officials-to-expedite-road-works/article31492992.ece
03 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Police pacify restive labour at work site||There was unrest among several migrant labourers who were working at a construction site in Tellapur under RC Puram police station of Cyberabad Commissionerate on Saturday. The labourers were upset about the lack of hygiene and other proper measures for their stay. They protested against having to remain in the State, and police reached the spot to pacify them. Primarily, the labourers were agitating against having been left in the lurch by their employers, as none of them were being paid. Since the labourers were from other States, they tried to persuade the police to let them leave the State, but were finally convinced to stay back by the police who explained to them about the ongoing interventions by Central and State authorities for sending back all stranded migrants. On Saturday, hundreds of people approached various police stations across the State for passes to leave the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-pacify-restive-labour-at-work-site/article31493001.ece
03 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Reaching out to the hungry with a smile, food packet||As the migration of workers from southern India to the north continued, it was the citizens of the State who stepped in to help them. As the thousands of workers walked on the National Highway 44 through the day and night, people from Kompally, Medchal and Toopran began distributing food, water and fruits to the weary walkers. “We reached this place late and could distribute only 250 food packets today. We still have about 80 food packets left. Yesterday, we distributed about 350 food packets by noon,” said Eranti Santosh, a real-estate businessman from Medchal. He and his two sons waited under the Outer Ring Road underpass passing on the food packets to families and individuals walking from Hyderabad to various places in the north. Mr. Santosh said they have been distributing food for the past four days in the same area. While some workers sat down to eat under the shade of the bridge, others picked the food packet and kept on walking. “We got food here. It was very difficult there (in Chennai). Some days we got food, other days we didn’t. If we reached the main roads we were thrashed that’s why we are going home to Sultanpur in Uttar Pradesh,” said Tribhuvan, a painter, who started his journey from Roypettah in Chennai on Saturday. “If we go home we will at least be guaranteed of food. Here it became a problem as we ran out of our rations,” said Shivraj, a marble layer, who was walking with his friends Vikas and Kairi Singh towards Morena in Madhya Pradesh, a distance of 1,300 km. On a blustery hot day, the walkers had backpacks filled with clothes, bedsheets, a bottle of water and a cellphone. Some stopped to relax for a few minutes before beginning their walk again. “We know the situation is bad. So we pooled money and are supplying food and water on the road. We distributed food right up to Dabilpur and Dandupally,” said J.D. Chinna, a mechanic from Kompally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/reaching-out-to-the-hungry-with-a-smile-food-packet/article31493023.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Guidelines issued for construction sites||The department of Municipal Administration and Urban Development has issued standard operating procedure for carrying out construction activity at the sites where the labour is available at in-situ labour camps. As per the guidelines, morning briefing sessions and safety meeting should be arranged every day, to review site protocols ensuring social distancing norms. Workers should be briefed about safety guidelines and important updates. Mandatory thermal scanning of everyone entering and exiting a construction site should be done, and provisions for water, soap or hand wash or sanitisers should be made at all entry and exit points and common areas, and every worker and engineering staff should wash or sanitise hands while entering and exiting the premises. Face masks are mandatory, and hand gloves should be ued by the workers handling material coming from outside. Reusable equipment should be thoroughly cleaned and should not be shared. Strict ban should be imposed on gutka, tobacco, and paan on the site, and spitting in common areas should be strictly prohibited. Food should be consumed at designated areas following social distancing. Entire construction site should be disinfected on daily basis and housekeeping teams should be equipped accordingly. Ban should be imposed on non-essential visitors at sites, even if it is from the same company. Authorised hospitals and clinics to treat COVID-19 patients should be identified and the list should be displayed at the site. A doctor should visit periodically for any medical assistance. Appropriate signage should be displayed in local language or Hindi, the guidelines say. On day zero, before resuming the work, mandatory medical check-up should be arranged for all workers. In case of any person with symptoms such as fever or cough, an ambulance should be arranged immediately through 108 or 104, and the person should be shifted to hospital. Identity cards should be issued to workers and their family members, and proper record of all the workers should be maintained. All the essential items should be made available on site. No outside worker should be allowed to stay in the premises. Staggered timings should be implemented to avoid congestion at the entry gates, and number of workers at a particular time or place should be reduced by making arrangements for different shifts or areas. Non-touch garbage bins with biodegradable garbage bag should be installed for waste collection, and proper disposal of garbage bags should be ensured. All protocol including emergency response must be laid out as per guidelines issued by government, guidelines said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/guidelines-issued-for-construction-sites/article31493006.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police to issue e-Pass to stranded people||In a major relief to migrant workers, students and others stranded in the State, Telangana police has decided to issue them e-Pass to reach their destination. Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy on Saturday said that people who got stranded in Telangana due to the lockdown and want to leave for their homes in other States can apply for e-Pass by submitting required information at https://tsp.koopid.ai/epass. After due verification, the pass e-Pass will be sent to the applicant who can then move ahead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-to-issue-e-pass-to-stranded-people/article31493013.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Vijaysen Reddy sworn in HC judge||Lawyer B. Vijaysen Reddy was on Saturday sworn in Judge of the High Court at a ceremony, with limited number of persons, held in the First Court hall. The swearing-in ceremony was telecast live. Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauahan administered the oath of office to the new judge who is son of former CJ of Madras and Kerala High Courts late B. Subhashan Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vijaysen-reddy-sworn-in-hc-judge/article31492988.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IAF to offer gratitude to COVID ‘warriors’||The Indian Air Force (IAF) will offer its gratitude to frontliners of Gandhi Hospital by showering flowers on them at 10.30 a.m. on Sunday. An IAF helicopter will hover over the hospital and shower flowers to thank doctors, nurses, para-medical, class IV employees, and all sanitation, security and contractual staff involved in COVID-19 duty. This is part of the nationwide felicitation of COVID ‘warriors’ by the Air Force. Superintendent of the hospital M. Raja Rao has asked doctors, para-medical and other staff to assemble for the felicitation. Meanwhile, sanitation staff of Gandhi Hospital, who were ostracised by residents at Chengicherla a month ago, hoped that their neighbours would accept them and allow them in, at least now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/iaf-to-offer-gratitude-to-covid-warriors/article31492979.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ESIC Hospital starts tele recruitment||Anticipating heavy rush of non-COVID patients post lockdown, ESIC Medical College and Hospital at Sanathnagar has started recruiting specialists and super specialists through online interviews. Earlier, online mode was used for accepting applications and short-listing applicants. Dean of ESIC Hospital M. Srinivas said that since it is difficult to conduct assessment and interviews in person in the current circumstances, tele recruitment has been initiated. Subject experts from government medical colleges from across the country are conducting the interviews through video call.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/esic-hospital-starts-tele-recruitment/article31492977.ece
03 May 2020||HYdERABAD,TELANGANA||1,873 bottles of liquor seized||Medchal police on Friday arrested a man for transporting 1,873 bottles of liquor worth Rs. 7 lakh. Acting on a tip-off, the police intercepted Naresh near Railapur village in the Medchal police station limits, while he was transporting the liquor in a mini-van.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/1873-bottles-of-liquor-seized/article31492994.ece
03 May 2020||MULUGU (SIDDIPET DISTRICT),TELANGANA||Oustees pour out their woes to Judge||Land oustees of Bahilampur poured their hearts out to IV Additional District Judge Saritha, who visited their village in Mulugu mandal on Saturday to examine the demolished houses and record their statements. The judge had been directed to visit Bahilampur and Mamidyala and record statements of affected families after the High Court took serious note of the forceful eviction by district authorities in the two villages that were submerged under Kondapochamma reservoir on Thursday night. The petitioner families had approached the court seeking compensation under Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act- 2013. Statements of B. Shyam Sunder Reddy, B. Malla Reddy, K. Satyanarayana Reddy and M. Ilaiah were recorded in a room in which the judge, a typist and petitioner were present. “The deadline to vacate the village was fast approaching. On April 28, we met our counsel and the next day, we received a call from officials about vacating my house. I said it would not be possible until we are allotted double-bedroom houses. On April 30, officials again put pressure to vacate the house failing which they would take stern action. My wife and I got scared and decided to vacate. We shifted most of our belongings to the newly allotted temporary accommodation at Mulugu. I could not shift my AC, fridge and TV, and so, urged the officials to give me time till Friday morning. But around midnight, my house was dismantled and those electronic equipment were damaged,” Mr Shyam Sunder Reddy told The Hindu on Saturday. He said he has informed the judge about the pressure and problems they have faced from the administration during the past few days as well as the damage caused. Media personnel were not allowed into the villages. The oustees of Mamidyala village said that the Judge would record their statements on Sunday at Tunkibollarum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oustees-pour-out-their-woes-to-judge/article31493016.ece
03 May 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Poor facilities at paddy procurement centres: Uttam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee president and Member of Parliament from Nalgonda N. Uttam Kumar Reddy on Saturday alleged that there were no facilities for farmers at the paddy procurement centres in the State. He said basic facilities like gunny bags and tarpaulin covers were not available in sufficient numbers, particularly when farmers are worried about unseasonal rains. The farmers also suffered losses of their harvest kept at centres, Mr. Reddy said after interacting with farmers at a few IKP centres in Nalgonda. He demanded that the government pay immediate compensation to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/poor-facilities-at-paddy-procurement-centres-uttam/article31493008.ece
03 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Water released into left and right canals of Ranganaiksagar||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that from now on farmers under the command area of Ranganaiksagar can cultivate crops without having to wait for rains. Mr. Harish Rao along with Lok Sabha member K. Prabhakar Reddy, MLA Rasamayi Balakishan and others released water to right main canal and left main canal of Ranganaiksagar on Saturday. Before that, he has offered prayers to the Godavari water in the canal. Earlier in the day, Engineer-in-Chief, Irrigation, Hariram released the water into Mallannasagar tunnel “Releasing water to left and right canals of Ranganaiksagar is a memorable day in my life. Farmers are waiting for this day since decades. Farmers need not wait for rains or for power from now on. Drought will be a thing of the past. This is the time to dig sub-canals and see that assured irrigation reaches every acre of land,” said Mr. Harish Rao adding that all the tanks and kuntas would be filled with Godavari water. He released canal water by opening the pipe on the outskirts of Mittapally village.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/water-released-into-left-and-right-canals-of-ranganaiksagar/article31493018.ece
03 May 2020||Staff Reporter,TELANGANA||Putrefied bodies of couple found hanging||The bodies of a 28-year-old mason and his woman friend, who went missing nearly a month ago, were found hanging from a tree in a forest near Ananthagiri Hills in Vikarabad district on Saturday. “The putrefied bodies were hanging from the same tree in Godamguda forest area. We also found her bike, a knife, biscuit packets and other articles a few metres away from the spot,” Vikarabad SP M Narayana said. The victims were identified as Mahendar, a mason from Haridaspally and his friend Shivaleela (23), a resident of Indur village in the district. According to Mr. Narayana, the duo went missing on March 5 and the woman’s family lodged a missing complaint with Kothapally police and expressed their doubts about involvement of Mahendar. Both of them were married to different persons. “Two years ago Mahendar met Shivaleela went at Indur when he went for construction work. Since then they were in a relationship, which was opposed by their families,” the officer said. Police suspect that the duo resorted to the extreme step on the day they went missing as the upper portion of bodies was putrefied, while the lower parts were mauled by wild animals,” Mr. Narayana said. He said two shepherds, Venkataiah and Shankaraiah, noticed the bodies while grazing the sheep. “They were scared and did not inform anyone in the village. However, today morning I got a call and a team was rushed to the spot,” the officer said.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/putrefied-bodies-of-couple-found-hanging/article31492997.ece
03 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||Stranded and restless, migrants yearn to go home||Notwithstanding the State government’s assurance on their safety and security, thousands of migrant labourers stranded across the six districts of erstwhile Warangal are desperate to go back to their native places. Workers from Chhattisgarh come here in large numbers during the harvest season to work in the agricultural fields while hundreds from Odisha arrive here to find work in brick making units in Mahabubabad area. Several from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh come to work in tailoring shops as well as in painting and construction activities. Warangal RDO K. Venka Reddy said over 300 migrant workers housed in three shelter zones — Karimabad, Elkaturthy and Kazipet — are all waiting to go back to their native places. “As soon as we get instructions from the Chief Secretary, we will make necessary arrangements to send them back,” he said. In Jangaon, there are 2,445 workers in 83 shelter zones. In Warangal rural district, there are 1,050 migrant workers at Muttojipet village shelter zone in Narasampet mandal. About 900 from Nizamabad district who had come for harvest work were sent back in three buses on Wednesday. The rest would be sent soon, said Warangal Rural Collector M. Haritha. In Mahabubabad, there are 7,718 migrant workers mostly from Odisha working in brick-making units. The administration has arranged 490 shelter zones and supplied rice and cash to them, said Collector V.P. Gautham. In Mulugu, there are nearly 10,000 migrant labourers but now only 80 are present in a shelter zone at Incherla.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/stranded-and-restless-migrants-yearn-to-go-home/article31493002.ece
03 May 2020||new delhi,||Largest single-day jump in cases||Three more deaths and 384 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Saturday, taking the toll to 64 and total number of cases to 4,122. This is the largest single-day jump in cases in the the city since the outbreak began.  Earlier in the day, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the whole city would remain in “red zone” till May 17, when phase 3 of the lockdown ends. The Delhi government has also appointed CEO of Delhi Jal Board, Nikhil Kumar, as the nodal welfare officer to help to officials of the Delhi government, autonomous bodies, corporations and local bodies who have tested positive for the virus. Mr. Kumar has been asked to identify and earmark two dedicated hospitals and one testing laboratory for officials and their family members on a “cashless basis”, according to an order issued by Chief Secretary Vijay Dev. Meanwhile, employees at a control room of CATS ambulance service on the fourth floor of a Delhi government Health Department office in Laxmi Nagar said that at least 15 staffers have contracted the virus till now. “The ambulance drivers come to the fourth floor to collect Personal Protective Equipment kits from us and the employees contracted the virus from them. We did not wear PPE or gloves as we were working inside a room. There are about 90 of us working in four shifts and more people will test positive now,” said an employee at the control room, who did not wish to be named. The staffer added that they had informed higher officials about the issue but no action has been taken yet. The Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the development. Earlier in the day, an official informed that another postgraduate student of the north civic body’s Kasturba Hospital has tested positive for virus. She was under quarantine and had no symptoms. The student came in contact with 20 people between April 28 and April 30. The institute reported its first case on Wednesday after a postgraduate student had tested positive. Doctor tests positive A doctor of the corporation’s Hindu Rao Hospital has also tested positive for COVID-19. Two nurses of the hospital have tested positive in the last one week. After the first nurse tested positive last Saturday, samples of 78 other staffers, including the doctor, were sent for testing. Reports of 11 staffers are awaited, they said. Meanwhile, the four primary contacts of a COVID-positive ward helper of the corporation’s Rajan Babu TB Hospital in GTB Nagar have tested negative for the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/largest-single-day-jump-in-cases/article31492936.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||Two policemen recover; one constable infected||Two police officers from Jahangirpuri, an assistant sub-inspector and a constable, who had tested positive for COVID-19 have recovered and were discharged from a hospital on Saturday. They were given a warm welcome at their police station.  Meanwhile, another constable tested positive for the virus on Saturday. He was also posted at the Jahangirpuri police station. “The constable used to live in a barrack at the police station. His reports came on Friday. He has been admitted to a hospital here,” a senior officer said. Ten personnel from this police station have so far been infected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/two-policemen-recover-one-constable-infected/article31492942.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||JNU sets up task force to monitor pandemic||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Saturday said it has set up a COVID-19 task force to monitor the pandemic. It will submit recommendations pertaining to handling of post COVID-19 scenarios. JNU Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar said, “The task force will upload useful information on the website and recommend measures for maintaining health security in the university.” In a statement, the university administration also said that wider consultations are on regarding online exams and classes, and that recommendations of the departments have been sent to the Academic Council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/jnu-sets-up-task-force-to-monitor-pandemic/article31492941.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||Functioning of city courts restricted till May 17||The Delhi High Court on Saturday decided to restrict its and the district courts’ functioning to urgent matters only till May 17, in view of the extended lockdown announced by the Centre in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Administrative and General Supervision Committee of the High Court, headed by Chief Justice D.N. Patel, decided that the restriction would be in place till May 17 and only urgent matters would continue to be heard via videoconferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/functioning-of-city-courts-restricted-till-may-17/article31492952.ece
03 May 2020||Noida,||Four more test positive in Gautam Buddha Nagar||Four people, including three women, tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar on Saturday, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases in the district to 159, officials said. Four patients, including a toddler, have been discharged from hospital following recovery, leaving 65 active cases in the district, they said. “In total, 176 reports were received in the last 24 hours. Four of them tested positive for COVID-19 and 172 negative. The cumulative positive cases in Gautam Buddh Nagar is now 159,” District Surveillance Officer Sunil Dohare said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/four-more-test-positive-in-gautam-buddha-nagar/article31492951.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||In times of lockdown||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/in-times-of-lockdown/article31492940.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||5||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/5/article31492938.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||3||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3/article31492944.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||6||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/6/article31492946.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||2||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/2/article31492948.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||4||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/4/article31492950.ece
03 May 2020||Bhopal,||Special train with stranded labourers reaches Bhopal||A special train carrying over 340 stranded labourers from Nashik in Maharashtra reached here on Saturday morning. A district official said the non-stop special train reached Misrod railway station at the outskirts of Bhopal. “The train brought 347 passengers from Nashik. Of these, 13 were from Bhopal and remaining from other districts. After the screening, these passengers were sent to their respective towns in around 15 buses,” Joint Collector Rajesh Gupta said.  Screening done “During the coronavirus screening, none of theses passengers was found symptomatic. After breakfast, they were sent to their home districts where another screening will take place,” Mr. Gupta said. These labourers are from Dewas, Indore, Jhabua, Khargone, Morena, Sheopur, Vidisha, Jabalpur, Seoni, Rewa, Sidhi, Singrauli, Satna, Shahdol, Damoh, Tikamgarh, Panna, Gwalior, Guna, Ashok Nagar, Bhind, Rajgarh, Datia, Khandwa, Barwani and Betul, he said. Bhopal Divisional Railway Manager Uday Borwankar had said on Friday that the special train left Nashik at 9 p.m. Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had on Friday announced that one lakh labourers from the State stuck in various parts of the country will be brought back by special trains. He added that the State government had brought back 40,000 workers from other States by buses so far. “Now the State government will bring back about one lakh workers to Madhya Pradesh from different parts of the country by trains. A discussion has already been held with the Railway Minister,” he had said. He also directed Additional Chief Secretary I.C.P. Keshari to provide necessary information to the Ministry of Railways about the number of labourers from the State who are stranded in different parts of the country. Mr. Keshari said over one lakh labourers from Madhya Pradesh are stranded in other States: 50,000 in Maharashtra, 30,000 in Gujarat, 8,000 in Tamil Nadu, 5,000 in Karnataka, 10,000 in Andhra Pradesh and 3,000 in Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/special-train-with-stranded-labourers-reaches-bhopal/article31492929.ece
03 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Eight new positive cases reported from Odisha||Eight more COVID-19 cases, including two women, were reported from Odisha’s Jajpur district taking the State’s total of 157 on Saturday. While five of them had returned from West Bengal, the two women were contacts of the returnees. Contact tracing and containment measures were ramped up in the villages from where new cases were detected, the State Health & Family Welfare Department said. ‘Observe rule strictly’ Meanwhile, State Health Secretary Nikunja Bihari Dhal urged the people returning from outside the State to observe social distancing and quarantine rules strictly. It was due to violation of quarantine rules that the Katikata gram panchayat in Jajpur district has emerged as a hotspot with 21 cases so far, he said. Stating that five persons had returned to Katikata from West Bengal recently, Mr. Dhal said remaining persons had contracted the disease from the returnees who violated quarantine and social distancing rules. A total of 623 samples have been collected and possibility of more cases cannot be ruled out, he said. Meanwhile, Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik held videoconference with Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y. S. Jaganmohan Reddy and Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa for facilitating return of Odia people stranded in their State The first train with 1,150 Odia people, which left Kerala on Friday night, was scheduled to arrive in Odisha on Sunday morning. Another train was scheduled to leave Gujarat for Odisha Saturday night, officials said. Fifteen of the 30 districts of Odisha have reported COVID-19 cases so far with five districts reporting maximum number of cases. Thse are Jajpur with 48 cases, Bhubaneswar with 47 cases, Balasore 20, Bhadrak 19 and Sundargarh 10. Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy said the government will soon issue orders with graded restrictions for different zones by considering local conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/eight-new-positive-cases-reported-from-odisha/article31492927.ece
03 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Pandemic narrows trust deficit||The novel coronavirus outbreak and the fight mounted to contain it has changed many socio-political equations. One of them is the relationship between Aligarh Muslim University students and the Uttar Pradesh police. Many students who were up against the police during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests are now contributing to the relief work with the support of the local police. There are at least three student groups contributing to the relief work. “If the image has not completely changed, the hostility has definitely come down,” said Ansab Aamir, one of the prominent voices on campus during the anti-CAA protests. He, along with two dozen students, is providing ration to rickshaw-pullers and daily wagers in the city. When the group decided to help after the ‘janata curfew’ was announced, the district administration welcomed the move. “They liked our meticulous approach. From Bhujpura on one end to Manjoorgadhi on another, we need to travel at least 40 km for our work,” said Mr. Aamir. Dipped into savings They approached the city magistrate and he guided them to the police. “We had an impression that police would take their ‘cut’ or would pose friction but they helped us in distributing the ration while maintaining social distancing,” said. Mr. Aamir. The group members initially contributed from their savings ranging from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000 and then collected donations. Javed Akhtar said there were localities that need to be worked upon through the year. “Islam Nagar, which houses the locks industry and slaughterhouse workers, is one such area. We make packets that could fulfil the requirement of a family of four for 15 days,” said Mr. Akhtar, a student of sociology. Senior SP Muniraj P. said he provided full support to students.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pandemic-narrows-trust-deficit/article31492931.ece
03 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Cong. to file case against 7 MLAs||The Congress has decided to file a case against seven of its MLAs who have been supporting the BJP-led government in Manipur. After their election on Congress ticket in 2017, the seven MLAs, along with former Forest Minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar, helped the BJP form the government. While Mr. Shyamkumar “joined” the BJP, the others remained with the Congress. Assembly Speaker Yumnam Khemchand on March 28 disqualified Mr. Shyamkumar as an MLA for defection. This followed the Supreme Court’s January 21 judgment that asked the Speaker to act within the stipulated time. ‘Will go to SC again’ “The limit of three months that the SC had set has expired. We will go to court again if the Speaker fails to take a decision,” Congress MLA Keisham Meghachandra said on Saturday. Mr. Meghachandra was the petitioner in the case for the disqualification of the Congress MLAs who supported the BJP. “The time has come for the Speaker to protect our Constitution by honouring its 10th Schedule...,” Congress spokesperson Ningombam Bupenda Meitei said. The Speaker’s tribunal last month summoned the seven MLAs to appear before it on May 8 for the final hearing. The Congress and the BJP will be locked in a straight fight in the election for the lone seat in the Rajya Sabha. The votes of the seven MLAs will be crucial. The BJP is fielding Manipur’s titular king Leishemba Sanajaoba. If the seven MLAs are to be disqualified before the Rajya Sabha election, the government’s strength will dwindle to 32. ( With inputs from Iboyaima Laithangbam in Imphal )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-to-file-case-against-7-mlas/article31492925.ece
03 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||FT members asked to explain communal rider on donation||The Assam government has asked 14 members posted or attached to six Foreigners’ Tribunals (FT) to explain why disciplinary action should not be taken against them for putting a communal rider to their donation for the State’s COVID-19 relief fund. A show-cause notice was issued on April 30 to these FT members with May 8 as the deadline for replying. The State’s Political (B) Department had issued the notice. B is the section of the Department that deals with the appointment of the FT members. Kamalesh Kumar Gupta, an FT member of western Assam’s Baksa district, had in an April 7 letter to Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma listed the donations by 13 members, including his own, to the Assam Arogya Nidhi for combating the pandemic. The letter carried a specific request: the money donated should not be used for those who were infected at the event in Delhi’s Nizamudddin in March. The show-cause by the Department’s Deputy Secretary N.D. Patowary cited an FIR by the All Assam Minority Students’ Union on April 11 against Mr. Gupta’s “communal” letter. “Objection has been raised to a line in the said letter. Such an act is unbecoming of a responsible FT mMember, since it may lead to communal harmony,” the notice said. MP Abdul Khaleque had written to the Chief Minister seeking the termination of Mr. Gupta as his “reprehensible” mindset “disqualifies him as the guardian of our Constitution”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/ft-members-asked-to-explain-communal-rider-on-donation/article31492924.ece
03 May 2020||Lucknow,||Worker cycling to his home in Bihar dies in U.P.||A migrant worker who was cycling back to his native place in Bihar from Delhi died on the way in Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur, an official said on Saturday. Identified as Dharamvir, he was going along with six people. Shahjahanpur medical college principal said Dharamvir was brought dead. His sample was collected and it tested negative for COVID-19, said the circle officer. Mohammad Faisal, who conducted the autopsy, said he had a lung disease and died due to “an aggression” of it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/worker-cycling-to-his-home-in-bihar-dies-in-up/article31492926.ece
03 May 2020||WASHINGTON,||U.S. officials take a hard line on China||Some top Trump administration officials are moving to take a more aggressive stand against China on economic, diplomatic and scientific issues at the heart of the relationship between the world’s two superpowers, further fraying ties that have reached their lowest point in decades. White House aides this week have prodded President Donald Trump to issue an executive order that would block a government pension fund from investing in Chinese companies, officials said — a move that could upend capital flows across the Pacific. Mr. Trump announced on Friday that he was restricting the use of electrical equipment in the domestic grid system with links to “a foreign adversary” — a reference to China. The administration is cutting off grants that would help support virology laboratories in Wuhan, China, the city where the coronavirus outbreak began, and is looking into scientific collaborations undertaken there by the University of Texas. Senior aides, led by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, have asked intelligence agencies to continue looking for any evidence to support an unsubstantiated theory that the pandemic might be the result of an accidental lab leak, even though agency analysts have said they most likely will not find proof. The open rivalry between the two nations has taken on a harder and much darker shading in the months since the virus spread from Wuhan across the globe, speeding up efforts by hard-liners in both Washington and Beijing to execute a decoupling of important elements of the relationship.  Information war The bitter information war over the virus has become a core part of the competition, but the administration’s efforts to counter China have sharpened across the board. That is partly in response to what administration officials say are China’s own aggressive moves, including the pushing of anti-America disinformation worldwide, increased military activity in the South China Sea and clampdowns on freedoms in the semi-autonomous global financial city of Hong Kong. Mr. Trump’s aides and Republican lawmakers also aim to amplify criticism of China partly to deflect from the administration’s own record on the pandemic, especially as the general election in November approaches. Those in Washington advocating a more stable relationship with China, including some of Mr. Trump’s top economic advisers, warn that the administration must take care not to overreach. China is likely to emerge from the recession caused by the pandemic faster than other nations. The U.S. — still reeling from the virus, with more than 1.1 million infected and more than 65,000 dead — will probably rely on economic activity in Asia to help prop up its own economy. Part of that involves getting Beijing to comply with a trade agreement signed in January. China controls a vast supply of the masks and protective gear needed by U.S. hospitals. And if China develops a vaccine first, it will wield a powerful card.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-officials-take-a-hard-line-on-china/article31492659.ece
03 May 2020||Washington,||U.S. offers relief to H-1B holders, green card applicants||In a major relief for professionals and immigrants from countries like India, the U.S. government has given a grace period of 60 days to H-1B visa holders and Green Card applicants, who have been served notices for submission of various documents, taking into account the massive COVID-19 outbreak in America.   The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (U.S.CIS) on Friday said the 60-day grace period for responding to its requests will include requests for evidence; continuations to request evidence (N-14); notices of intent to deny; notices of intent to revoke; notices of intent to rescind; and notices of intent to terminate regional investment centres; and filing date requirements for Form I-290B, Notice of Appeal or Motion. USCIS’s comment “USCIS will consider a response to the above requests and notices received within 60 calendar days after the response due date set in the request or notice before taking action,” it said in a statement. The USCIS said it will consider a Form I-290B received up to 60 calendar days from the date of the decision before it takes any action. The U.S.CIS can issue a maximum of 65,000 H-1B work visas every year to highly skilled foreign workers. It can issue an additional 20,000 H-1B visas to those highly skilled foreign workers who have obtained masters or higher degrees from an American educational institution. Under the existing law, the U.S. can issue a maximum of 1,40,000 employment-based green cards every year with a per country cap of seven per cent. Accordingly, in fiscal year 2019, Indian nationals received 9,008 category 1 (E-B1), 2,908 category 2 (E-B2), and 5,083 category 3 (E-B3) green cards. E-B13 are different categories of employment-based green cards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-offers-relief-to-h-1b-holders-green-card-applicants/article31492649.ece
03 May 2020||MIAMI,||Ex-Green Beret led failed attempt to oust Venezuela’s Maduro||The plan was simple but perilous. Some 300 heavily armed volunteers planned to sneak into Venezuela from the northern tip of South America and ignite a popular rebellion that would end in President Nicolas Maduro’s arrest. Instead, the ringleader of the plot is now jailed in the U.S. on narcotics charges. Authorities in Colombia are asking questions about the role of his former U.S. Green Beret adviser. And dozens of combatants who flocked to secret training camps in Colombia have been left to fend for themselves amid a global pandemic. This bizarre, never-told story of a call to arms that crashed before it launched is drawn from interviews with more than 30 Maduro opponents directly involved in or familiar with its planning. Most spoke on condition of anonymity fearing retaliation. The poorly-planned operation stood little chance of beating the Venezuelan Army, said Ephraim Mattos, a former U.S. Navy SEAL who trained some of the would-be combatants in basic first aid. “You’re not going to take out Maduro with 300 hungry, untrained men,” Mr. Mattos said. When hints of the conspiracy surfaced last month, the Maduro-controlled state media portrayed it as a CIA plot. An Associated Press investigation found no evidence of U.S. government involvement in the plot. Nevertheless, interviews revealed that leaders of Venezuela’s U.S.-backed opposition knew of the covert force, even if they dismissed its prospects. Opposition leader Juan Guaido was also told about it but was not involved and showed little interest, according to Hernan Aleman, a Venezuelan lawmaker. Barracks revolt Planning for the incursion began in the aftermath of an April 30, 2019, barracks revolt by a cadre of soldiers who swore loyalty to Mr. Guaido, recognised by the U.S. as Venezuela’s rightful leader. A few weeks later, some involved in the failed rebellion retreated to Bogota, Colombia. That’s where they met Jordan Goudreau, an American citizen and three-time Bronze Star recipient who served as a medic in U.S. Army special forces. Mr. Goudreau, 43, said in a written statement that he would not “confirm nor deny any activities in any operational realm.” Venezuelans he interacted with described him alternately as a freedom-loving patriot, a mercenary, and a gifted warrior. After retiring from the Army in 2016, he set up Silvercorp USA, a private security firm, near his home in Melbourne, Florida. Mr. Goudreau’s focus on Venezuela started in February 2019, when he worked private security at a concert on the Venezuelan-Colombian border in support of Mr. Guaido. In Bogota, Lester Toledo, Mr. Guaido’s aide, introduced Mr. Goudreau to a rebellious former Venezuelan military officer — Cliver Alcalr. Mr. Alcalr and Mr. Goudreau told the volunteers that — once challenged in battle — Mr. Maduro’s troops would collapse like dominoes. The plot came to an end in late March when Colombian police stopped a truck transporting a cache of brand new weapons. Mr. Alcalr claimed ownership of the weapons shortly before surrendering to face the U.S. drug charges. After the would-be insurrection collapsed, Mr. Maduro’s allies celebrated. Socialist party boss Diosdado Cabello said the government was aware of the plot for at least six months. ”We knew everything,” said Mr. Cabello. “Some of their meetings we had to pay for. That’s how infiltrated they were.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/ex-green-beret-led-failed-attempt-to-oust-venezuelas-maduro/article31492661.ece
03 May 2020||Samarra,||10 Iraqi paramilitary men killed in Islamist attack||Ten Iraqi paramilitaries were killed in Islamic State (IS) group attacks north of Baghdad overnight, security forces said on Saturday, the deadliest operation by jihadist sleeper cells in months. Iraq declared IS defeated in late 2017 but remnants of the group still wage hit-and-run attacks on security forces in remote areas of the north and west. Fighters targeted Early on Saturday, the jihadists attacked fighters of Iraq’s Hashed al-Shaabi paramilitary force stationed outside a town about 180 km north of Baghdad, according to a statement by Iraq’s security forces. “Six fighters were killed. As another unit was dispatched to reinforce them, an explosive device detonated on that convoy and killed three fighters,” the statement said. A 10th fighter was killed in a separate IS attack on nearby unit from the Hashed, a network of armed groups incorporated into the regular army chain of command. A security source in Salahaddin province, where the attack took place, said that the first IS ambush took place just before midnight. “All the Iraqi security forces manning the checkpoint were killed. F16 planes are flying overhead to search for the IS fighters,” said the source. The attack was IS’s deadliest in several months and appeared to cap a period of more numerous and aggressive operations. Last week, the jihadists claimed a suicide attack that wounded four outside an intelligence headquarters in the northern province of Kirkuk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/10-iraqi-paramilitary-men-killed-in-islamist-attack/article31492651.ece
03 May 2020||Beirut,||Cousin pleads to Syrian President to save firm||A cousin who has been a bulwark of support for President Bashar Al-Assad posted a video on Facebook late on Thursday pleading with the Syrian leader to prevent the collapse of his telecommunication company through what he called excessive and “unjust” taxation. The unprecedented video pries open what has been rumoured as a major rift in the tight-knit Assad family, which has ruled Syria for nearly 50 years. The cousin, Rami Makhlouf, was once described as central to Syria’s economy and a partner to the President. Media reports by pro- and anti-government sites suggested a campaign against Mr. Makhlouf, possibly at the behest of Russia. Russian media reports in recent weeks have published criticism of corruption in Syria. Former Syrian diplomat Bassam Barabandi aid Makhlouf’s financial holdings and charities have played a central role in financing and ensuring patronage, particularly among Syria’s minority Alawite community — from which Mr. Assad hails.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/cousin-pleads-to-syrian-president-to-save-firm/article31492655.ece
03 May 2020||United Nations,||China, U.S. spar over Taiwan||China has condemned a U.S. tweet backing Taiwan’s push for participation at the United Nations as the global body works with its 193 member states to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. Beijing’s diplomatic mission to the UN expressed “strong outrage and firm opposition” to a message on Friday by the United States calling Taiwan’s exclusion an “affront” to UN principles. The self-ruled island, which Beijing considers a wayward province awaiting reunification, has been held up as a model in fighting the virus. “Barring #Taiwan from setting foot on UN grounds is an affront not just to the proud Taťwanese people, but to UN principles,” the tweet by the U.S. mission said. U.S. Ambassador to the UN Kelly Craft retweeted the message. In response a statement by Beijing said “Taiwan is an inalienable part of China”. The Twitter account of the U.S. mission also shared earlier tweets from the U.S. State Department that called for Taiwan’s inclusion in a coming World Health Organization (WHO) assembly. Relations between the UN and Taiwan were strained long before the pandemic but have deteriorated in the past three months. The WHO’s leadership have been accused of being complimentary of China’s response to the virus’s spread.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-us-spar-over-taiwan/article31492650.ece
03 May 2020||Caracas,||17 killed in Venezuela prison riot||At least 17 inmates were killed Friday in a Venezuelan prison riot, military authorities said. Detainees at Guanare city’s Los Llanos prison staged “a disturbance of public order... resulting in 17 deaths and nine injuries,” according to a military report. The Army gave no reason for the riot, stating that inmates had attacked prison officials. Among those wounded were the prison’s director, hurt in the back, and a lieutenant injured by shrapnel from a grenade. “The prisoners are upset that they are not allowed visits and they do not have water or food,” said Carolina Giron of the Venezuelan Prison Observatory (OVP).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/17-killed-in-venezuela-prison-riot/article31492662.ece
03 May 2020||Washington,||Drug approved for use in emergency||American authorities have approved an experimental drug for emergency use on coronavirus patients, as more U.S. States eased pandemic lockdowns despite another spike in deaths from the disease. The approval is the latest step in a global push to find viable treatments and a vaccine for the coronavirus. Remdesivir, an antiviral drug initially developed to treat Ebola, was given the green light on Friday after a major trial found that it boosted recovery in serious COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/drug-approved-for-use-in-emergency/article31492656.ece
03 May 2020||Nur-Sultan,||Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan, May 2, 2020 (AFP) -||Kazakhstan’s President on Saturday dismissed the eldest daughter of his veteran predecessor Nursultan Nazarbayev as Senate Speaker, triggering fresh speculation over a power struggle in the energy-rich Central Asian state. The 56-year-old Dariga Nazarbayeva’s post had positioned her as second in line to the head of state.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/nur-sultan-kazakhstan-may-2-2020-afp/article31492653.ece
03 May 2020||Mumbai,||Das reviews credit flow, loan moratorium with bank chiefs||Top officials of the Reserve Bank of India, including its Governor Shaktikanta Das, and Deputy Governors, met the chief executives of public and private sector banks on Saturday to review the current economic situation and took feedback on the credit flow and liquidity situation. The central bank also discussed the issue of loan moratorium in the meeting. The issue assumed significance in the light of the recent Supreme Court ruling that banks need to follow the RBI guidelines on moratorium in letter and spirit. There was a lot of customer complaints that banks and other lending institutions were not extending the loan moratorium benefit, particularly to non-banking finance companies. Credit flows to different sectors of the economy, including liquidity to NBFCs, micro finance institutions, housing finance companies and mutual funds, were discussed in the meeting, the RBI said. Some of the mutual funds also faced redemption pressure due to which RBI had opened a window specifically for these entities which can be accessed by banks to tap liquidity to lend to mutual funds. However, there was not much appetite from banks to tap the liquidity window. In his opening remarks, Mr. Das appreciated the efforts of banks in ensuring normal to near normal operations during the lockdown period, the RBI said. The interaction was held in two separate sessions through video conferencing. Post-lockdown credit flows, including provision of working capital, with special focus on credit flows to MSMEs, were also discussed. The government has provided significant relaxation for starting economic activities in the third phase of the lockdown that starts from Monday. Some other issues that came up during the interaction was monitoring of overseas branches of banks in view of the slowdown in economies across the globe, and stability of the financial sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/das-reviews-credit-flow-loan-moratorium-with-bank-chiefs/article31492637.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||‘It will take 6 to 9 months or even longer for consumption to get back to normal’||The supply chain sector needs cash flow. As such, banks have to provide funding through ways and means advances, which means that it is not linked with an asset or with any working capital related security, says R. Dinesh, managing director, TVS Supply Chain Solutions, in an interview to The Hindu . Edited excerpts:  Do you think COVID-19 will have a long-term or short-term impact? It will have both short-term and long-term impact. Today, we are operating only about 15-20% of our normal business. We have about a thousand people working, as against 12,000 to 13,000 people under normal circumstances. Therefore, it is going to have a short-term impact on our cash flow and operations. While post-lockdown this may improve, it is going to have a significant short-term impact as we ramp up during the next couple of months. It will affect other businesses and the economy as a whole. It will be about six to nine months or even longer for the consumption side to get back to normal. Definitely the first two quarters will be significantly impacted and it will last beyond the third quarter, with some pick-up happening by the fourth. What are the measures you feel that can kick start the economy? The supply chain sector needs cash flow. So, the banks have to provide funding through ways and means advances, which means that it is not linked with an asset or with any working capital related security. Logistics sector can use these funds to pay salaries to employees and repay this over a period of three years. Further, the losses incurred during the first quarter can be treated as a deferred revenue loss and can be written off over a period of the next three years rather than writing off in one go, because this is an extraordinary event affecting everyone. This would also help the engines of the economy to keep running. How to get the trucks back on the road? Three steps are important to get the trucks back on the road. The first step is to remove fear in people’s mind. We give the truck drivers and load men protective kits, which reduces their fear of operating the trucks during this time. The second is to shift to digital mode and avoid physical handling of papers. Thirdly, truckers should get health insurance cover and supported by the government. What kind of growth can we see during the current fiscal? It is too early to get a sign and honestly it all depends on how long this situation will last. As regards growth in the logistics and supply chain sector, generally, if you look at it, consumption items like food or essential services will grow, and definitely not go down. But, if you look at other areas of supply chain like automotive, or FMCD, we could see a general slowdown. Therefore, I do not see truck additions taking place and the challenge would be to increase the utilization of these vehicles. What lessons can be learnt from these kind of disasters? The biggest takeaway is that we have to focus on technology We have learned to deliver and interact with our customer without any physical interaction and by moving to app-based solutions. As we evolve, all physical paperwork will disappear, which is a good business practice, and actually speeds up the whole process. Do you have any plans for the next three months or six months? In the initial three months, there are three focus areas for us — employee safety, cash protection and business opportunity by pivoting to new customers for growth. So, obviously, we are taking all necessary actions to make sure that we as an organisation are ready whenever the lockdown gets lifted and have money left not just to run the business, but also make the necessary investments to be ready for the future. The focus for the next six months is to invest further in our technology solutions not only to know where our vehicles are located (which we already have) but also to further connect deeply with our customers and provide even more simpler solutions through phone-apps. Your advice to MSMEs and other companies? To the extent possible, MSMEs need to have better cash management and choose the right partners who are ready to support them in their difficulty. Many MSMEs look at turnover and the profit and loss, but the focus on cash is something which would come out very strongly at this time. How long will it take for your company to bounce back? As a global organisation providing essential services, we are already fairly active. If you look at in the U.K., 80% of our business is operational because we are supporting mainly essential services, about 60-70% of our businesses are working in Asia and as mentioned earlier, 15-20% in India. Since supply chain is the lubricant of the economy, we will ramp-up our operations as the government starts opening up different sectors. Will there be any change in your capex or any other investment plans for the current year? Short term, yes. Obviously, we will stop all non-essential capex and investments in this year, but we will continue to focus on providing technology solutions and therefore, we will continue to spend on further strengthening our capabilities. The other focus area would be specific customer related support which will also be necessary and essential during this period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/it-will-take-6-to-9-months-or-even-longer-for-consumption-to-get-back-to-normal/article31492634.ece
03 May 2020||Chennai,||‘Now is the time for Centre to use its mints’||Printing currency notes, abolishing the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) and allowing Indian firms to borrow abroad at low interest rates are among the steps that former Solicitor General of India and Supreme Court lawyer Harish Salve said India needed to take right away to help resuscitate the economy. Addressing the ICAI Leadership Summit last week, Mr. Salve said the economy needed a ventilator immediately. “The first thing you would do [to such a patient] is give a blood transfusion ie cash in the system. The second is the electrolytes; that would be smooth-enough-doing-business in India. Statutory compliances? Tax disputes? Intrusive investigations into small violations? Put them on the back burner; let people spend time in factories rather than run to government offices answering show-causes.” “Every government is cash strapped. The U.S. has had several million claims for unemployment; they are looking at a huge outflow. The U.K. is paying £2,500 to every person without a job, so at least the groceries can be bought. Where is the money coming from? This is the time to use your mints. “Don’t worry about inflation. Print money, put it back in the system, fill in the hole created by the NBFC crash; demand will pick up, small-medium enterprises and real estate will pick up. In six months you’ll start seeing the change.” “Inflation rates the world over are at an all-time low; LIBOR was between less than 1% to 1%; in India, interest rates are still 6%. Why not allow Indian industry to freely borrow from anywhere in the world? Repeal FEMA. Do we really need it?” Mr. Salve batted for the removal of bank officers from the purview of the Prevention of Corruption Act. “Which bank officer today would risk sanctioning a loan? He would be hounded if the loan is not repaid.” “Global firms want to move out of China. But India has to stop fantasising that we are the only alternative destination.” He cited Ireland convincing Apple to set up base there by offering low tax rates. “The PM sat with the CEO of Apple and negotiated a deal. This is how people do it. Prime Ministers talk to business folks saying. ‘Invest $20 billion in my country and we will charge one third the tax.’”  At a time when credit has to go up, bank officers are averse to risk, not wishing to invite scrutiny||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/now-is-the-time-for-centre-to-use-its-mints/article31492639.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||PM meets FM for second economic stimulus package||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held a series of meetings with key ministers, including Home Minister Amit Shah and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, and officials to firm up the second stimulus package for sectors impacted by the lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19, sources said. The Prime Minister held discussions with Mr. Shah and Ms. Sitharaman and would have follow up meetings with ministers of key economic ministries such as micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME), sources said. The Finance Ministry, which deferred release of monthly GST collection numbers on Friday, is also scheduled to make a detailed presentation to the Prime Minister later in the day on the state of economy and several initiatives that it plans to undertake to stimulate Indian economy. The Prime Minister already had meetings with different ministries including civil aviation, labour and power on Friday. He had detailed deliberation with commerce and MSME ministries among others on Thursday with focus on attracting both domestic and overseas investment and revival of small businesses in the country so that the recovery process is hastened. During these meetings both the Home Minister and the Finance Minister were present. To mitigate hardships faced by the bottom of the pyramid, the government in late March had announced a Rs. 1.7 lakh crore stimulus package comprising free foodgrains and cooking gas to poor and cash doles to poor women and elderly. Sources said the government is considering to announce a second dose of relief measures for the segment and a stimulus package for India Inc. shortly. The government had first imposed a 21-day nationwide lockdown beginning March 25 and later extended it till May 3.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/pm-meets-fm-for-second-economic-stimulus-package/article31492641.ece
03 May 2020||MUMBAI,||India Inc. welcomes resumption of economic activity in lockdown 3.0||Industry captains have welcomed the government’s decision to extend the lockdown till May 17 allowing selected economic activities in all zones. “We appreciate PM Narendra Modi’s decision to exit the nationwide lockdown in a graded manner by giving equal importance to the lives and livlihood of Indian citizens. This will go a longway in uplifting the sentiments of the stricken Indian industry, helping the daily wagers, poor and the needy earn their livelihood and also revive India’s economic growth trajectory, said D.K. Aggarwal, president — PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The chamber, however, urged the government to provide an increased stimulus relief package of Rs. 16 lakh crore, which is around 7% of GDP, sooner than later to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. “The virus while controlled will be a threat till we find a vaccine. However, we need to find ways to work within a ‘new normal’ to bring this economy back to capacity in the shortest period of time,” Sajjan Jindal, chairman of JSW Group, said in a tweet. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), while welcoming the decision to extend the lockdown, has asked for a revival package. “CII has suggested instituting a government spending package equivalent to 3% of GDP, which would add Rs. 6 lakh crore to the available firepower. Enhanced debt to GDP ratio can be a way out for adding fiscal space at a time when the debt to GDP ratio is modest in India,” Chandrajit Banerjee, director general, CII, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/india-inc-welcomes-resumption-of-economic-activity-in-lockdown-30/article31492638.ece
03 May 2020||Mumbai,||RBI cancels CKP Co-op Bank’s licence||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has cancelled the licence of Mumbai-based The CKP Cooperative Bank Ltd., with effect from the close of business on April 30, 2020, as the lender’s financial position had deteriorated and it was not in a position to repay depositors. “The Registrar of Co-operative Societies, Pune, Maharashtra, has also been requested to issue an order for winding up the affairs of The CKP Cooperative Bank Ltd., Mumbai, and appoint a liquidator for the bank,” RBI said in a late evening statement on Saturday. The depositors of the bank will get a maximum of Rs. 5 lakh from the Deposit Insurance and Credit Guarantee Corporation (DICGC), as per law. The deposit insurance cover was increased to Rs. 5 lakh from Rs. 1 lakh earlier this year. The bank has a deposit base of Rs. 485.56 crore, as on November 2019. “The financial position of the bank is highly adverse and unsustainable. There is no concrete revival plan or proposal for merger with another bank. Credible commitment towards revival from the management is not visible,” the RBI said, giving reasons for the decision. The bank has negative networth of Rs. 239.2 crore. It has a customer base of 1,34,167 and has eight branches spread across Mumbai and Thane districts. The banking regulator said the bank did not satisfy the requirement of minimum capital and reserves and was not in a position to pay its present and future depositors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-cancels-ckp-co-op-banks-licence/article31492635.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||‘It’s not the players’ job to find a way’||India’s top-ranked singles tennis players, Prajnesh Gunneswaran and Sumit Nagal, aren’t entirely in agreement with the player-driven model to help lower-ranked competitors weather the coronavirus pandemic crisis. They agree in principle with the idea of creating a relief fund, but feel the game’s governing bodies should have taken the lead instead. Nagal (ranked 127) and Prajnesh (ranked 132) are in a bracket where they would neither be expected to contribute nor receive help from the fund, but both have toiled long enough to understand the rigours players go through. Not the right thing “Ideally the ATP, the ITF and the Slams should raise the money,” Nagal told The Hindu . “The $10,000 promised is certainly going to be nice for some, but taking it from the players isn’t the right thing. It is not the fault of the guy ranked 30 that a player at 400 is not making money.” While Prajnesh stated that it was important in these stressful times to look out for fellow players, he pointed to the need for better targeting of beneficiaries. “Players ranked outside 250 are surely losing money because they spend more than they earn,” Prajnesh said. “But a contributing player may like to know what has changed now because they are not spending. It is a tough question to ask but not all players ranked outside 300 make a living purely by playing. Tough ask “Some may play club matches, do some coaching or travel only when there is money. Maybe breaking even is tough now because of constant expenses but no earnings. So we need solid criteria to determine who needs support, like career prize money, federation support.” Players who consistently appear in the main draw of Grand Slams — a solitary first-round appearance can fetch as much as $55,000 — will be in a better position to contribute, Nagal believed. “They should have taken the average singles cut-off for the past five years and drawn the line well inside that. It is fair for people who are consistently making the main draws of Slams but not others,” Nagal opined. Prajnesh said that paying players better in normal times will help cushion them from future disruptions. “The right way is for the governing bodies to raise the money or create a system where they pay the players more so that such a situation doesn't arise. It’s not the players’ job to find a way.”  It is not the fault of the guy ranked 30 that a player at 400 is not making money Sumit Nagal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/its-not-the-players-job-to-find-a-way/article31492788.ece
03 May 2020||Coimbatore,||TNBA comes up with fresh plans for the elite shuttlers||With a strong revenue model and systematic training facilities, the Tamil Nadu Badminton Association (TNBA) has helped the sport grow by leaps and bounds in the State. The TNBA had a lot lined up for the players this year, but the lockdown imposed to deal with COVID-19 has brought things to a standstill. “We host about 1,700 matches in a year, with 20,000 participants in various age groups,” said TNBA secretary V.E. Arunachallam. “Our players have become the strongest contenders for the podium in all the national championships. They are performing well at the international level too, and top industrialists, sporting brands and media houses are willing to back them.” But the TNBA has been forced to draw up fresh plans to adapt to the challenges of the pandemic. “The elite players who train close to six hours a day are reduced to training behind closed doors. They are so used to training under the watchful eyes of expert coaches and in controlled conditions. They cannot afford to do that now. The lockdown has hit them really hard. A whole year, if not more, may be lost,” said Arunachallam. To bring them back on track, the TNBA plans to run a camp for the top 20 to 30 players once things settle down. “There will be one coach for every two-three players at one centre. They will maintain social distancing and sanitisation norms strictly. “We are also looking at roping in top coaches to train them on a rotational basis. It will be completely sponsored by the TNBA,” he added. Is it that easy? “It requires special permission from the government and the Sports Ministry. But the biggest challenge for us will be to engage the second and third-level players as we do not have that many academies and coaches to help them,” said Arunachallam. “There are close to 3,500 active aspiring players across the State. Finding sponsors, getting back to the system and competing at a higher level may never be possible without the government’s support. But I believe we will be able to pull through,” he summed up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/tnba-comes-up-with-fresh-plans-for-the-elite-shuttlers/article31492831.ece
03 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Huge response to fund-raiser chess||There has been an overwhelming response to Chess Kerala’s Checkmate COVID-19 international online blitz tournament. The tournament, a fund raiser for the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief fund (CMDRF), has attracted entries from 428 players from across the globe. 32 GMs taking part British chess legend and FIDE vice-president Nigel Short, Alexander Donchenko, Alan Pichot, Elshan Moradiabadi, Jakhongir Vokhidov, Bilel Bellahcene, Aravindh Chithambaram, Nihal Sarin, S.L. Narayanan and Jose Martinez Alcantra are among the 32 GMs who will be taking part in the 10 round Swiss event. “It’s a small move, really, but glad to be of help in the fight against COVID-19 in Kerala” tweeted Short. The tournament has so far raised Rs. 3,88,316 as donations from players and well wishers.  Kerala’s 69-year-old veteran player K.K. Praveen Kumar made the biggest contribution of Rs. 70,000, but he will not be competing. GM K. Sasikiran, who donated Rs. 15,000, and Kerala’s first GM G.N. Gopal (Rs. 4000), will also not take part in the tournament. “The response from the chess fraternity, from both India and outside, has been tremendous. Unexpected “We personally requested leading players from the country to take part. But we never expected such a big turnout.  “There are 32 GMs and 31 IMs taking part. Chess Kerala is indebted to IM V. Saravanan, who took the initiative to organise this. He contacted Viswanathan Anand who put up a video promoting the tournament. “There are players from 16 countries in the fray. We collected nearly Rs. 3.90 lakh, which was beyond our expectations. “We will be donating the money to CMDRF within a few days. “We are thankful to the players and well-wishers who have supported us,” said Chess Kerala’s president N.R. Anilkumar. The tournament carries a total prize money of Rs. 52,000, with the top finisher getting Rs. 12,000. The event is sponsored by Chess Houseboat Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/huge-response-to-fund-raiser-chess/article31493024.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||AFI targets September return||The Athletics Federation of India (AFI) is officially targeting a return to action by September even as the tenure of its office-bearers was extended till physical elections could be held when situation becomes conducive. The AFI held its Special General Meeting via videoconferencing on Saturday to take stock of the road ahead in terms of planning and preparation of events and athletes. The extension of tenure had already been approved by AFI members earlier and was ratified during the SGM. AFI president Adille Sumariwalla was authorised to decide on fresh date of AGM and elections. Prospective calendar High Performance Director Volker Hermann, Chief Coach Bahadur Singh and Deputy Chief Coach Radhakrishnan Nair shared a prospective competition calendar, assuming resumption of domestic events in September. “We had planned for competition in two phases but have had to draw up in one, delayed phase,” AFI Planning Committee chairman Lalit Bhanot said. IOA president Narinder Batra, attending the meeting, assured the AFI of support in securing contract extensions for overseas coaches and support staff. The meeting also saw tributes paid to legendary coach Joginder Singh Saini, who passed away on March 1, and Sumariwalla announcing an online pre-Level 1 coaching module to provide proper guidance to parents and coaches of young athletes and avoid over-training and burnout.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/afi-targets-september-return/article31492774.ece
03 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Abhishek and Dimple get HFC extension||ISL debutant Hyderabad FC continued its preparations for the next season extending the contracts to midfielder Abhishek Halder and defender Dimple Bhagat. Officials of Hyderabad FC, which had a forgettable debut last season, said the duo will be at the club till the end of 2021-22 season. The 22-year-old, Kolkata-born Abhishek featured for the Hyderabad outfit in eight games. “Although I have played in the I-League and ISL before, this year was a massive learning experience for me. I want to improve and develop further and give my very best for Hyderabad,” he said in a statement. “I got to play more games but I also realised how much competition is there in every squad and how hard we must keep working. It starts with being focused in training and working on the new philosophy which we have now with Albert Roca and Xavi Gurri,” said Abhishek. The 21-year-old Dimple, who hails from Punjab and mostly plays left-back, made his debut against Odisha FC in January and played another game against BFC towards the end of the campaign. “I am very happy to have extended my stay with Hyderabad. The club has shown faith in my ability and I want to keep working hard and repay that. It was a great experience to finally make my debut in the ISL,” he said. “But, it’s going to get tougher as we move ahead. I’m looking forward to the new season and intend to work even harder as we get into the pre-season,” said Dimple. The duo joins Adil Khan, Mohammad Yasir, Asish Rai, and Nikhil Poojary who have also extended their stay with HFC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/abhishek-and-dimple-get-hfc-extension/article31492968.ece
03 May 2020||Mumbai,||Sai crowned ISRL-2 champion||The practice arena turned into a battlefield for the new generation of India’s racers in the lockdown time. Cooped up inside homes and missing out on valuable wheel time, racers from 14 cities took part in the country’s most popular online competition — the Indian Sim Racing League (ISRL), in association with Volkswagen Motorsport. And Chennai’s Sai Prithvi made the best use of it to tally a maximum of 252 points over the five rounds to emerge Season Two’s undisputed champion. He enjoyed four victories which was sufficient enough to give him the crown and testing in a Volkswagen Motorsport race car. Thrissur’s Abdul Fattah (191) and Mumbai’s Raiden Samervel (172) finished for the next two places respectively. Attractive prize pool ISRL’s third season will begin on May 8, with promise of upgrades, more viewer-friendly format and an attractive prize pool. Registrations are already open. The championship, organised by eight-time national karting champion Rayomand Banajee and his IR eSports, pits India’s best online racers against real world racers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sai-crowned-isrl-2-champion/article31492790.ece
03 May 2020||Chennai,||Satish Kumar resets sights after writing 2020 off||After topping the national rankings in the under-19 category last year, Tamil Nadu shuttler K. Satish Kumar was hoping that 2020 would be the year that launched him onto the international stage. His target was to finish the year just outside the top 100 in the world badminton rankings. Instead, the pandemic has meant that the 18-year-old has had to write 2020 off. Satish started the year well, reaching the semifinals of the senior National ranking tournament in Bareilly before losing to Harsheel Dani. “I had planned to play more than 10 international tournaments this year. If things went well, I would have played at least four over the last two months abroad,” said the youngster, currently based in Coimbatore. “I had planned to play in the international challenge and series events and hoped to get my senior rankings on-board, but it looks like now I have to wait till next year. My long-term target was to be in contention for the 2024 Olympics. Right now, it looks tough,” he added. Great experience Satish also made his debut in the Premier Badminton League this year for Chennai Superstarz. Although he lost both his matches, rubbing shoulders with international stars was a great experience. “The first match I was very nervous because it was the first time I was playing in front of a huge crowd and it was being telecast live,” he said. Training at the National Sports Centre under former international and Thomas Cupper Ajit Wijetilekk, Satish has made rapid strides in the junior category. He is a part of a group of promising youngsters from the State, which includes S. Sankar Muthusamy, Rithvik Sanjeevi, Siddhanth Gupta and V.S. Varshini. Asked about the rise of young talent in the State, Satish said, “I think there is a lot more interest. More players are taking up the sport. Also, a few years back we just had a centre with two or three courts, but now there are more centres opening with six or more courts. The qualified coaches, trainers and physios at these centres have helped.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/satish-kumar-resets-sights-after-writing-2020-off/article31492827.ece
03 May 2020||Chennai,||Wall the best companion: Ramji||Practising cricket in times of lockdown can take us to old-fashioned techniques adopted by the Indian and Australian greats, among others, who perfected the art by using the walls of their houses. Former India strength and conditioning coach Ramji Srinivasan believes such training methods could help batsmen and bowlers find some rhythm, against the odds, as the usual training avenues are shut down because of coronavirus. He spoke about batsmen using a wet tennis ball, banging it against the wall, and playing with soft hands and deft touch as it bounces off the surface at varying heights. “You can also bat against a tennis ball taped on one side. It will assist reverse swing as the ball comes off the wall,” he said. Ramji also advocated using a multicoloured golf ball and dribbling it with one stump, keeping the sphere in the air as long as possible to help hand-and-eye coordination, so essential for batsmen and ’keepers. He noted that opting for an uneven wall in the backyard or a corner of the flat could be useful for catching practice since the ball could come at varying speeds and angles, so important for catching.  Circles, lines or squares can be drawn on the ground and the batsmen can improve their footwork and balance by performing various positional drills. For the bowlers, Ramji suggested posterior kinetic chain exercises to strengthen key muscles such as glutes, calf, lower back and hamstring. Even for bowlers, agility and footwork drills would be beneficial to find balance and stability, he said. But complex drills must be performed with only individual monitoring. “The bowlers, particularly the pacemen, should opt for softer surfaces for training. Even if the bowlers do not have access to modern gym facilities, they could use the ground and the pillow for lots of routines. “There is also a difference in aerobic exercises done indoors and outdoors because of ground reaction forces and running mechanics,” Ramji said. Innovative methods He added that bowlers could, innovatively, try lifting loads of a bucket of water or bottles or a water can and perform both the rotational and anti-rotational movements. Then, the bowlers, too, could bowl off a shorter run against the wall just to stay in some kind of rhythm and keep track of their bowling action that can be lost easily during lengthy breaks. Indeed, in times like these, the wall is a cricketer’s best friend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/wall-the-best-companion-ramji/article31492829.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Players steal the thunder at coaches’ workshop||The world may be in lockdown, and the sporting scene frozen. But, Indian tennis was at its vibrant best, as leading players like Rohan Bopanna, Yuki Bhambri, Ankita Raina, Prajnesh Gunneswaran and Ramkumar Ramanathan lit up a coaches’ workshop with their depth of thought and hearty narration of invaluable experience. It was an online webinar, hosted by coach Sureshkumar Sonachalam over a week now, conducted by the All India Tennis Association (AITA) in collaboration with the Sports Authority of India (SAI) for the benefit of hundreds of coaches across the country. To each his own Stressing that the Indian coaches had the ability to make champions, Rohan Bopanna said it was important to work on “tennis-specific movements” of players at an early age. Yuki Bhambri said each player should work on his fitness and game to suit his personal requirements, and not follow a general pattern. Ankita Raina, the country’s No. 1 woman player, talked about self-awareness and the need to channelise good and bad experiences. “Win or lose, one should have the discipline to keep doing the right things. Positive assertion is the key to breaking a negative thought chain,” said Ankita. Ramkumar Ramanathan recalled how he used to play tournaments every week when he trained in Spain, not bothering about results. And, how satisfied he used to be to go back and win the same tournaments after having worked on his game.  Mind trainer Dr. Janki Deole took the example of Roger Federer who blossomed from a talented kid throwing tantrums, to the most adored tennis player of all time, with the help of sports psychology. Seasoned coach Nandan Bal mesmerised everyone with his eloquent presentation on strategy and tactics, taking the example of players at all levels across different eras.  Coach M. Balachandran stressed the need for clear communication to young players on “what, when, where and why”. Movement efficiency Cheston Pinto, an expert with the Bopanna Academy, talked about strength and conditioning, and “movement efficiency” being most important for tennis. Coach Gary O’Brien won everyone’s admiration by sweating it out at his home, demonstrating possible ways of indoor tennis for kids during lockdown. He also talked about strategy and tactics for players below 14 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/players-steal-the-thunder-at-coaches-workshop/article31492794.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||Batra continues push for outdoor training||Indian Olympic Association president Narinder Batra on Saturday said he will again request the government to allow national campers to undergo outdoor training inside the country’s major sports centres during the coronavirus-forced lockdown. Batra said the IOA had earlier requested the government in this regard but was not successful in eliciting a positive response. Some athletes at the NIS-Patiala had also written to the Sports Ministry to allow outdoor training by observing government’s social distancing guidelines. “We have made some efforts trying to convince the Ministry of Home Affairs to allow athletes to train outdoors with all social distancing guidelines,” said Batra. Batra suggested the AFI consider extending the contracts of the coaches till the 2022 Asian Games and Commonwealth Games. “Please take a decision on the extension of contracts of High Performance Directors or coaches. Let me know if I can be of any help. I will intervene whenever required and try to sort out the issue (with sports ministry). “I think in some sports, the Asiad or Commonwealth Games are 2024 Olympics qualification events or will offer ranking points for qualification. So, federations can even think of that on the extension of contract of coaches.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/batra-continues-push-for-outdoor-training/article31492778.ece
03 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||HCA considers tweaking league format||The Apex Council of Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) is locked in an internal debate on how to make leagues more competitive and produce quality players. With the delay in the commencement of the league due to COVID-19, HCA is using this down time to make appropriate plans. “There is a need to have a totally different format for the coming season. We have 216 affiliated members, including 54 institutions, some of which play an exclusive league also,” HCA secretary R. Vijayanand told The Hindu . “Performances in the A-Division three-day league get precedence when it comes to team selections for Ranji Trophy and State under-23 tournament. There is a proposal to have two more league teams to make it a 20-team affair (in two groups). This will help produce more quality players in contention for our State teams,” he said. Performance matters “This season we are keen to ensure that only performing cricketers in the league are selected, and none get into the State team just because they were in the Ranji squad last season,” Vijayanand said. “Once we have the guidelines for State selectors to pick the different teams, the issue of backdoor entry will also be resolved. Unless a player performs in the league, his case cannot be pushed however influential he may be,” he said. “We are also thinking of tying up select schools with clubs which are interested in promoting young talent. HCA will monitor them for better results,” he said. “We will also have clearly laid-out guidelines for State selectors in different age groups,” Vijayanand said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-considers-tweaking-league-format/article31492969.ece
03 May 2020||Paris,||ITF issues guidelines for post-pandemic events||No shaking, no showering, no sharing, no signing! Welcome to what the world of tennis could look like once government restrictions caused by the coronavirus pandemic have been lifted. On Friday, the International Tennis Federation (ITF) issued a set of guidelines for local and National-level competitions. “They emphasise that decisions made by governments take precedence and that tennis (either competitive or recreational) should not be played until governments have sufficiently relaxed any restrictions that are currently in place,” said an ITF statement. The guidelines include arriving at venues already dressed and leaving immediately after the match. “Do not use the locker rooms or showers,” says ITF. Masks are to be worn while off-court, players and officials should maintain at least two metres between each other and handshakes are banned. Each player is asked to use a personal set of balls — separately numbered. Ball boys and girls to wear rubber gloves, while at changeovers players must go around opposite sides of the net. Players are also discouraged from signing autographs, taking selfies and warned not to share equipment, water bottles or food. Tournaments should also only be singles and played without spectators. “While following measures such as these will ensure that the risk from COVID-19 is minimised, the guidelines are clear that it cannot be eliminated altogether,” added ITF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/itf-issues-guidelines-for-post-pandemic-events/article31492791.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Mithali live!||Catch India ODI captain and Padma Shri awardee Mithali Raj in a live chat on Sportstar' s Instagram handle ( @sportstarweb ) on May 3 (Sunday) at 5 p.m. IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/mithali-live/article31492775.ece
03 May 2020||Colombo,||England tour of Sri Lanka rescheduled||England’s Test tour of Sri Lanka, which could not be completed in March due to COVID-19, has been rescheduled to January next year, SLC CEO Ashley de Silva has said. England had spent around 10 days in Sri Lanka in March and played a warm-up match before the tour was called-off. It was supposed to be a two-Test series as part of the World Test Championship. However, England is scheduled to tour India in January for a five-Test series, so it remains to be seen how the scheduling will work out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/england-tour-of-sri-lanka-rescheduled/article31492776.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||ICA raises Rs. 39 lakh||Cricket legends Sunil Gavaskar and Kapil Dev have pledged their support to Indian Cricketers Association’s (ICA) initiative to financially help around 30 needy players amid the nationwide lockdown, said its president Ashok Malhotra. ICA has so far raised Rs. 39 lakh to help former cricketers who are in dire need of funds. “Gavaskar, Kapil, Gautam Gambhir and Gundappa Viswanath have joined us. A corporate from Gujarat has also offered its support,” Malhotra said. The ICA will continue to accept donations till May 15, following which it will shortlist five to six players from each zone (north, east, west, south and central).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ica-raises-rs-39-lakh/article31492785.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nakamura gets past Caruana, reaches final||Hikaru Nakamura outplayed Fabiano Caruana 4-2 to reach the final of the $250,000 Magnus Carlsen online chess tournament on Friday. After the first two games were drawn, Nakamura took the lead in the third. Caruana held his nerve to clinch the fourth. In the two-game blitz tie-breaker, Nakamura proved superior.  The result: Semifinal: Hikaru Nakamura (USA) bt Fabiano Caruana (USA) 4-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nakamura-gets-past-caruana-reaches-final/article31492781.ece
03 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Documenting the last honey hunting community of Arunachal Pradesh||Kezang D. Thongdok’s 26-minute film Chi Lupo was adjudged the best documentary at the 10th Dada Saheb Phalke Film Festival Awards 2020 announced a week ago. But for the filmmaker from Arunachal Pradesh’s West Kameng district, beneath the happiness is a deep sadness: The honey-hunting skill of the Sherdukpen community and the associated indigenous craftsmanship will fade away with the half-a-dozen subjects of his film. Medicinal properties Chi means honey and Lupo is hunter in the dialect of the Buddhist Sherdukpen community, whose total population is estimated to be 4,500. They are concentrated in 12 villages in the district. “Our people used honey collected from the wild for its medicinal properties and for preparing delicacies in the not so distant past,” Mr Thongdok told The Hindu from his hometown Rupa. “Very few venture out now because of better connectivity and access to medicines and food stores and the young are not interested in learning the tough skill,” he added. The six honey-hunters the 37-year-old film-maker had followed into deep jungles at about 6,000 ft above sea level are from Thongri and Jigaon villages that are about 25 minutes’ drive from Rupa. While Thongri has some 70 houses, Jigaon has 100. Mr. Thongdok’s four-member crew and the honey-hunters trekked for almost three hours from Thongri to a base camp where they stayed for the night. They walked for another two hours to reach the spot where clusters of beehives hung from protruding rocks on a steep mountain. Body of knowledge “We shot the film over a few trips in June-July 2018. What struck me while filming was that smoking the bees out with certain leaves and twigs and collecting the beehives was not the only skill under threat. An entire body of knowledge of making ladders, spatula, tongs and baskets with forest produce would go with these six men, who were in the upper mid-50s then,” he said. The honey harvesting — Mr. Thongdok prefers the “phonetically correct” Shertupken over the official Sherdukpen —has traditionally been done twice a year. The bees make honey from wild flowers in June-July and primarily from rhododendron in October-November. The winter variety has an intoxicating effect if consumed in larger doses, he said. During the course offilming, Mr. Thongdok noticed that the inside of the baskets used by the honey-hunters for collecting the beehives was lined with a kind of indigenous rubber. “It was neither factory-made rubber nor produced from the rubber tree. And I found out there aren’t many around who know that art or the natural element from which it is made,” he said. Mr. Thongdok intends to document the art before it dies with the latex makers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/documenting-the-last-honey-hunting-group-of-arunachal-pradesh/article31492771.ece
03 May 2020||Mumbai,||85 stars join concert to raise funds||Over 85 celebrities from India and across the globe will unite to raise funds for the country’s fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. A.R. Rahman, Aamir Khan, Priyanka Chopra, Katrina Kaif and Aishwarya Rai Bachchan are among the Indian celebrities who will join global icons Will Smith, Mick Jagger and Bryan Adams for a Facebook home-to-home fundraiser concert titled ‘I For India’. The four-hour concert will be live globally on Facebook on May 3 at 7.30 p.m. All proceeds generated will go to the India COVID Response Fund managed by GiveIndia.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/85-stars-join-concert-to-raise-funds/article31492772.ece
04 May 2020||May 03 2020 08:09 IST,||Sudoku - May 3, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-3-2020/article31493274.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Less than healthy news||Just before the lockdown was announced, Manikandan*, an autorikshaw driver in Coimbatore, bought train tickets to travel to Chennai with his daughter. After Pooja’s Class XII exams were over, he was to take her to the Voluntary Health Services for free blood transfusions, just as he had done twice a month for years: Pooja has thalassemia, an inherited blood disorder that causes the body to make less haemoglobin than normal. But now with the lockdown, the family has had to settle for transfusions at a private hospital in Coimbatore, taking their relatives along as blood donors. They have already spent Rs. 5,000 on transfusions, a sum they can ill afford, especially as Manikandan’s income has all but dried up since the lockdown began. And even if they had managed to go to Chennai, Pooja would have likely faced another problem: a shortage of blood. “We always see a dip in blood donations in April and May because of the summer vacations; but this year, the blood scarcity began even earlier due to the lockdown,” says Revathi Raj, paediatric hemato-oncologist and honorary president of the Thalassemia Welfare Association. With no public transport, and apprehensions about being booked for violating the lockdown, fewer blood donors are coming in, says Dr. Raj. Tamil Nadu’s health department has now written to Superintendents of Police and District Collectors asking them to facilitate the unrestricted transport of blood vans and donors, and ensure that blood donation camps are held. In some places, such as at Bengaluru’s government Victoria Hospital, most of the hospital has been converted into a centre to treat COVID-19 patients. With resources in several hospitals now directed towards COVID-19 control, and the lockdown curtailing movement, a huge section of people in need of regular medical care and monitoring — people with chronic and non-communicable diseases, such as thalassemia, who need blood transfusions; people with kidney failure who need dialysis; cancer patients who need chemotherapy or radiation, and even pregnant women — find themselves dangerously adrift. Full up In Mumbai, until a fortnight ago, Irfan’s anxiety rose with every sip of water he took. The 26-year-old software engineer has been on dialysis for five years — for an atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome, a rare genetic disease that leads to kidney failure — and has not missed a single treatment to flush out the toxins from his body. But on April 20, the hospital in South Mumbai that he visited regularly, shut down after a patient tested positive for COVID-19. Skipping one or two dialysis sessions can be manageable for some patients, but for Irfan it can rapidly become life-threatening. His disease causes clots in his arteries and has already damaged his heart, and a missed dialysis cycle can put him at a greater risk of organ damage. “I called more than 15 centres. Most of them said they were full and had patients coming from other centres. Others said I should check back after I get a COVID-19 negative report.” “In the meantime, I had no choice but to drastically reduce my fluid intake. I only had water with medicines, I stopped tea, fruits and rice,” he says. Mumbai has nearly 10,000 patients on dialysis and there are an estimated 300 dialysis centres in the city. Some are shut temporarily due to COVID-19 encounters, some have a severe staff shortage due to the lockdown. Last week, Irfan finally got dialysis after missing two sessions and getting increasingly breathless. His dialysis centre opened after Mumbai’s civic body warned strict action against centres that delayed restarting their services. Access to any healthcare centre is tedious in Delhi, which now has over 90 containment zones. And Basanti Kumari, 32, who is all set to deliver her fourth child, is worried. She works as a domestic help and has been going for her health check-ups to one of Delhi most crowded government medical institutes — Safdarjung Hospital. The multi-specialty hospital has a footfall of over 1,000 people on average each day and is also a COVID-19 designated hospital. What concerns her now is that the hospital’s obstetrics, gynaecology and intensive care units have been shut after a suspected COVID-19 case was detected here. Turned away “Doctors have told me I am a high-risk patient with my high blood sugar and high blood pressure,” says Basanti. “Doctors at Safdarjung Hospital don’t want me admitted before time because of the possibility of cross infection; but I often wonder, will I be able to get to the hospital in time for delivery?” Two private hospitals in Chennai have turned away Sushila, 85, who has been undergoing chemotherapy for breast cancer. “She sometimes has side effects such as fever. Her hospital had assured us that there would be no problems treating her. But two weeks ago, when she developed breathlessness and we took her there, they found she had a fever and refused to treat her,” says Sushila’s granddaughter. Another hospital said the ICU was full and there were no doctors, but after much pleading, they finally provided Sushila with an ambulance that had oxygen support, and she was taken to a government medical college hospital 20 km away, where she was kept for three days, tested for COVID-19, and discharged after she tested negative. Meanwhile, after reports of blood shortages across the country, the Union Health Ministry has initiated some steps. The Secretary General of Indian Red Cross Society, R.K. Jain, says they have been asked to send mobile blood collection vans to the homes of regular blood donors to facilitate donations. “This is to ensure that we have an adequate supply for people who need regular blood transfusion such as thalassemia patients, people with sickle cell anaemia, and haemophilia.” But for many many others who are chronically ill with a multitude of ailments, the road ahead is a long and risky one.  *Some names changed to   protect identity.   Inputs from Zubeda Hamid, Jyoti Shelar, Bindu Shajan Perappadan and Tanu Kulkarni.   “I called more than 15 centres. Most of them said they were full and had patients coming from other centres. Others said I should check back after I get a COVID-19 negative report.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/less-than-healthy-news/article31492617.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||1 carrot, 1 radish and a few beans||I know this is not the place: it is, after all, a food column. But when I was asked to write it, focusing on the situation, something in me turned. The Hindu has readers who have access to food, but need ideas on how to cope with shortages. Shortages not of quantity, but of variety; in the worst-case scenario, maybe of traditional ingredients. And oftentimes of help. A couple of weeks ago, an American magazine had a tongue-in-cheek article where the author, an accomplished baker, went to the local grocery, noted that yeast was clean off the shelves, and had a face-off with another customer over the last bag of flour on the top rack. He muttered — in his mind — about how the other chap had probably never baked bread before in his life, what a waste that bag would be, and how he knew the other would fail and get his comeuppance. I am a grasshopper It was slightly funny, in a superior, nudge-nudge, wink-wink sort of way. But deep down, it was a reminder of how privileged we are; we look for variety. When asked to give to those who have nothing, we hem and haw. I’m trying not to sermonise, but let’s count our blessings and do what we can to help others. I can’t help but think of the ant and grasshopper fable because when the lockdown was expected, all the ants I know drove around loading their cars, stockpiling victuals. Grasshoppers like me didn’t, for vaguely moral reasons. And now we’re stuck with what we have in our cupboards. Which are, like Old Mother Hubbard’s, bare. Unfortunately, I’m a relentless cleaner-of-shelves, so no serendipitous delights await me, however far back I reach into fridges or cupboards. I know exactly what I can expect to find — how many stumps of drying cheese and how many inches of peanut butter in the jar. I see what people post on social media about what they cook, of how they’re coping with the lockdown. And I’m amazed at the dishes home cooks are conjuring up. The Westerners all seem to have forgotten jars of sundried tomatoes in extra virgin olive oil so they can make flavourful pasta, and bags of buckwheat flour so they can make soba noodles, and bags of almond meal and boxes of cocoa powder so they can make gluten-free cake. This seems to be an opportunity to experiment. Some Indian cooks are making gatta curry, chana bhatura, gol gappa and ras malai. Watching these posts gives me a complex, so I prefer to believe that they must be proficient cooks anyway. Maybe it’s to do with their now having more time to indulge a hobby, but I don’t know how to make complicated dishes and I’m dealing with a different challenge. Vegetables aren’t consistently available. Sometimes, if we have only handfuls of different vegetables in the house, I make combinations that may seem odd bedfellows, but I’ve always been charmed by the Bengali panch mishali. So we collect a single radish, a carrot, a handful of beans, a layer or two of cabbage, a few leaves of spinach, a chunk of pumpkin, a potato, half a cauliflower. Making do The principle we’ve adopted is to make do and to juxtapose textures: firm and soft-and-squishable. The varieties may be more or less than panch or five, the spicing may be different, but the method is broadly to temper mustard oil with a single spice like kalonji , nigella, or a standard combination like panch phoran , a couple of green chillies, and then cook the vegetables, having cut them into cubes or fingers and timing their addition at the appropriate moment to make sure they cook. A bit of ginger juice freshens the flavour and probably helps digestion. Finally, I add a smidgen of ghee and a pinch of sugar and it lets me pretend it’s authentic. We are a meat-eating family and there is no meat, fish or chicken. Egg supply is erratic. This week, the local Safal is well stocked with lentils and pulses. Fortunately, I have a full chest of spices. The upshot of all this is that I can only perk up flavour with unexpected combinations and spices. Because I’m one of the miraculously lucky élite whose only pressing concern is combating ennui. A principle we learnt back in the days before liberalisation was to substitute, replace and adapt. I had a recipe for aubergine parmigiana that looked uncomplicated enough, but since it asked for Parmesan cheese and I had only stubs of Cheddar and Red Leicester, and because it asked for fresh basil and I had none, I did what I could. Because I had the main ingredients: aubergines and tomatoes. And the dish is elastic and accommodating.  Gone yeast Meanwhile our local ‘artisanal’ bakery has temporarily shut shop, so last week, the baker-in-residence said he’d make bread. Unfortunately, the dough didn’t rise. When I told a friend this, she suggested that the yeast could have expired, and sent me, in the hope of better times, the link to a video describing how to make near-perfect toddy at home, with a mere three ingredients: coconut water, sugar and yeast. I’m saving it for when yeast is available. Instead I made muffins. I wrote about them about 12 years ago, in one of my earliest columns here. Because they are so satisfying and so easy to make in these hard times, it seemed worth sharing again. As my mother, who taught me the recipe, said, “they’re very forgiving” — you can use any flour, any shortening, they take a few minutes, and if you want you can bung in whatever flavouring you have at hand, sweet or savoury. From the once-forbidden joy of eggs to the ingratitude of guests, the writer reflects on every association with food.vasundharachauhan9@gmail.com    Unfortunately, I’m a relentless cleaner-of-shelves, so no serendipitous delights await me, however far back I reach into fridges or cupboards||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/1-carrot-1-radish-and-a-few-beans/article31492555.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The global text of hunger||Knut Hamsun received the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1920, exactly a century ago. His best-known work remains the starkly titled novel Hunger , an alarmingly accurate study of the physical and mental distress caused by extreme poverty in a Norwegian town sardonically named Christiania, towards the end of the 19th century. As Hamsun saw it, hunger broke the back of rational thought; it destroyed the body in a way the soul could not tolerate, leading to ‘immoral’ actions such as theft, corruption and the destruction of property. And on April 21, the Director of the UN Food Programme warned of a “hunger pandemic” also looming in 2020, which could kill as many as 300,000 every day for the next three months, in addition to the Covid-19 toll, unless quick action is taken.  Hunger teaches us that great literature, like the most potent viruses, does not recognise national boundaries. The harrowing scenes in India today of workers and migrant labourers wanting to return to their villages, after being reduced to living in the unbearable conditions imposed on them by the lockdown, remind us that the text of hunger is — and always has been — global. Which is why Indians have as much to learn from Hamsun’s dark and complex portrayal of hunger as Norwegians from, say, Premchand’s descriptions of destitution in ‘Kafan’ or Godaan.  If the world today seeks to collectively effect a paradigm shift from the competitive model of ‘the survival of the fittest’ to the compassionate one of ‘the survival of the weakest’, the deep probes of the human sciences could prove invaluable. A post-pandemic situation, like a post-truth one, will depend on sophisticated skills that can separate fake data from real and derive qualitative empathy from quantitative graphs. Literary scars Here is a single extended passage from Hamsun’s book:  The pains of hunger were unbearable and never let me alone. I swallowed spit over and over to take the edge off, and I felt it did some good. I had had very little to eat generally for several weeks, even before this current trouble, and my strength now was falling off noticeably… How could it be that nothing ever turned up for me! Didn’t I have the same right to life as anybody else, Pascha, the rarebook seller, for example, or Hennechen, the steamship clerk? And didn’t I have shoulders like a giant and two strong arms for work, and hadn’t I in fact tried to get a job chopping wood on Møller Street to earn my bread? Was I lazy? Hadn’t I applied for jobs…? And hadn’t I lived like a miser, eaten bread and milk when I was rich, bread when I wasn’t, and gone hungry when I had nothing?... I lived in a shack, a loft, in a tinsmith’s shop deserted by both God and man since last winter because snow came in.  Substitute the word ‘snow’ and you will recognise how well this description fits 21st century India. For all the well-intentioned talk of “we are in this together”, a novel like Hunger forces us to remember that although every society struggles with inequality, it is invariably those whose rights, even in the best of times, come last, who are the first to suffer when disaster hits. They may have done nothing in the least criminal, but they are the ones most likely to be ‘criminalised’. Disasters throw into sharp relief the fissures that already exist within cultures: between those at the edge of poverty lines and those at the pinnacles of the social order. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world, and ranks first on several development indices. In contrast, India stands, for instance, at an unconscionable 102 among 117 countries on the 2019 Global Hunger Index. This is not, however, an attempt at self-flagellation; it is simply to observe that, at first glance, there seem few points of comparison between these two vastly different nations. For starters, India’s size and diversity imply that its tryst with democracy and development has to be incommensurable with Norway’s, with its population of about 5.5 million. Yet, the fact is hunger and farmland poverty were grim realities in Norway not so long ago, leaving an indelible mark on the psyche of the nation. Hunger is a literary manifestation of that scar. The fiction of the body At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic appears to have presented India with disturbing choices between ‘lives and livelihoods’, between possible deaths from hunger versus probable deaths from an infectious disease, I suggest that we can maybe learn more than what meets the eye from the unlikely juxtaposition of the Indian and Norwegian scenarios. Positing human vulnerability in terms of a face-off between ‘nature’ (the pandemic) and ‘nurture’ (theeconomics of making goods and services available to all) immediately comes under a scanner when we do this. This is because vulnerabilities vary. Norway was once a conservative and relatively stressed country; it is now very wealthy, partly because of its large oil reserves, but, equally, because it has a highly progressive democracy and an educated electorate. Even though the crash in oil prices now may affect Norway, we can safely bet that its long-standing social investments will stand it in good stead. Ironically, Norway still imports basic items such as cereals, whereas India possesses huge buffer stocks of grains that, for some unfathomable reason, it has as yet to freely distribute among its hungry — and increasingly angry — people. But how can fictional texts possibly contribute to a debate on such basic social issues? I believe they do so by revealing a fundamental flaw in most top-down policy recommendations about the amelioration of distress. In our straitjacketed bureaucratic imaginations, the poor are conceptualised as mere bodies — that must be fed, clothed and kept healthy, but their individuality is regarded as less than important in a developing society. This is a cardinal error. All humans, young children included, are perpetual thinking machines, fuelled by endless desires and opinions. It is exactly these complicated mental resources that give the ‘common man’ the uncommon resilience to resist the advice of the ‘authorities’ and embark on long marches home. The production of mind Disciplines like literature, philosophy and psychology are critical because they typically view civilisation and its discontents in terms of insubordinate minds rather than passive bodies — they show that minds are idea factories that produce horror or healing, fake news or true insight. Consider a chilling illustration: both Knut Hamsun and the infamous Anders Breivik, who killed 77 people in Norway in 2011, had explicit Nazi and fascist sympathies. Both were subjected to cruelty as children, leading to psychological problems in adulthood. Despite being born 120 years apart, both were obsessed with Christendom, subscribed to cultural nationalism, and celebrated ‘son of the soil’ ideologies. It is the differences, though, that are crucial. Every page of Hunger is never less than a compellingly honest, excruciatingly self-aware text that transcends its author’s faux beliefs. In contrast, Breivik’s e-compilation ‘2083: A European Declaration of Independence’ is a shallow and silly ‘manifesto’ where one is hard put to find a single original observation. Breivik believed Muslims were encouraged to immigrate to Norway because of the government’s liberal policies. Hence, supporters of that view deserved to die. In Hamsun’s fiction, one can literally hear the birdsong amid the silences; genuine empathy pervades it. But in Breivik’s global social media echo chamber, all you hear is endless chatter; empathy is crowded out. This could be why Breivik was oblivious to a stunning social detail that I feel sure Hamsun would not have missed. Indian newspapers in 2011 reported that Breivik “was wearing a uniform with an embroidered insignia. The insignia, ordered online by Breivik for his militant outfit Justiciar Knight, was embroidered by Mohammad Aslam Ansari.” So absorbed was Breivik with his own narcissistic image that he did not notice that one of its backend producers happened to be a Muslim weaver from the holy Hindu city of Varanasi! Square one, two square meals In its report, The Hindu noted a further irony. In an interview published on July 26, 2011, Ansari said he had no idea who had ordered the badges and was horrified when he found out. Ansari had not made much money out of his transaction: “I am back to square one, doing jobs on my family loom for others. Generally, we are paid Rs. 150 per metre, of which half goes to the weaver who is working on the loom. It is too meagre to meet even our daily needs.” If the pandemic has brought one truth home to us, it is that we cannot afford to go “back to square one”. Independent India managed to wipe out the famines of the colonial period and eradicate diseases like smallpox. Now, India has to find the same willpower to eliminate hunger and strengthen its rickety healthcare system. Simultaneously, it must address a far more cognitively challenging task: it must train its youthful, mobile-savvy citizenry to distinguish between the real voices of Ansari and Hamsun and the false ventriloquism of a Breivik. This can only happen if our imaginations are released from the prolonged lockdowns to which our educational systems have metaphorically been subjected over the years. In Hunger, the narrator invents a whole new word to describe the phenomenology of his hunger experiences: Kuboaa. This word, as it first enters the character’s consciousness, can signify anything: padlock or sunrise or even god. The nameless narrator says: “My thoughts took amazing leaps as I tried to establish the meaning of my new word”.  It is these ‘amazing leaps’ of thought for which our shaken world is, I believe, now ready — even hungry. The writer is critical theorist, writer, poet, and Professor Emerita of Linguistics and English at IIT Delhi.  For all the well-intentioned talk of “we are in this together”, a novel likeHungerforces us to remember that although every society struggles with inequality, it is invariably those whose rights, even in the best of times, come last, who are the first to suffer when disaster hits||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-global-text-of-hunger/article31492588.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Heading into a perfect storm||A vast majority of migrant workers in the Gulf region, especially those who are on subsistence wages, are facing a crisis in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Living and working conditions are not anything to write home about, and with links cut off from India, poor migrants are on the brink. Though the Asianization of Migrant Workers in the Gulf Countries, edited by leading migration scholars S. Irudaya Rajan of Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram, and Ginu Z. Oommen, a member of the Kerala Public Service Commission, was written before the novel coronavirus attacked the world, the volume gives readers a timely perspective on labour migration in the region. Among the many migration corridors that exist in the world, the Asia-Gulf Migration Corridor is the largest such corridor — 12 million people from across south and southeast Asia live and work in the Gulf region. Old and new bonds A compilation of papers by some of the biggest names in the study of labour migration from Pakistan, Sri Lanka, the Philippines, Indonesia, and the Gulf countries, as well as migration stalwarts like Andrew Gardner and Marie Percot, the volume offers valuable insights on current trends and forecasts on future of such migration. For governments across the region, who have enormous stakes in the migration corridor, this is excellent material to draw upon in the drafting of laws and as a blueprint for any future contingency in a consistently volatile region. Linking the world Asians constitute around 12 million out of roughly 15 million expatriates in the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC), comprising Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates. This is a natural outcome of the old, historical linkages, religious and cultural proximity, poverty, unemployment, political instability and insurgency in the Asian countries on one hand. On the other, as Oommen and Rajan demonstrate through carefully analysed data, it was also “to avoid the spread of radical and socialistic political ideologies in the Gulf region.” So when the development boom perched on oil money demanded the import of labour to the Gulf countries, the workforce came largely from neighbouring Arab countries like Egypt, Yemen and Sudan. However, by the 1980s, the GCC countries shifted the preference of workforce towards Asian countries, particularly from the South Asian region. This was a conscious decision mainly to safeguard the political interests of oil-rich monarchies as the political establishment of the GCC countries did not view Asians as a threat. The Asian workforce, as late diplomat and scholar Andrzej Kapiszewski demonstrated in several works, also became a preferred choice due to certain characteristics: specifically docility, political neutrality, flexibility, willingness to work at manageable wages and readiness to work hard. In addition, the involvement of Asian governments in the recruiting process helps in attracting a monitored and filtered workforce. Remittances flow Hence, the ‘Asianisation’ of the migrant labour in the Gulf — the outcome of the “preference and choice” of the receiving governments due to various economic–political considerations — paved the way for the “extraordinary and unmatched movement of the people, remittances flow, developmental initiatives, voluminous trade, energy security, diplomatic and strategic overtures of the ‘Asia–Gulf Migratory Corridor’ in the region” as George Naufal and Ismail Genc point out in their chapter, Labour Migration in the Gulf Cooperation Council. The movement of workers to the region was so large that it altered the demographic structure of the GCC countries. Foreigners constitute on average more than half of the population in the region and in some countries, like in the UAE, some estimates show they are more than 80%. Remittances from GCC countries play a significant role in the foreign exchange reserves of the home country, alleviation of poverty and socio-economic development. Trends & legislation Rich in data culled from primary and secondary sources, through case studies of migrants from India, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia and the Philippines, the volume unpacks the many layered and different dimensions of the Asianisation process of the Gulf’s labour force — migratory trends, gendered experience, migration legislation in both the home and host countries, the status of the migrants in the host countries, the impact of nitaqat or localisation of labour laws in the GCC and their impact on Asian migration. A highlight of this volume is a chapter by Oommen on the impact of “social remittances” on society in his native Kerala, particularly in the religious sphere on the Christian community.  The reviewer is a journalist and political analyst, tracking South, Central, and West Asia.  Asianization of Migrant Workers in the Gulf Countries Edited by S. Irudaya Rajan, Ginu Z. Oommen Springer  Rs. 8,490||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/heading-into-a-perfect-storm/article31492601.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Irrfan: actor, dissenter, comrade||Z amana bade shauq se sun raha tha, hum hi so gaye dastaan kehte kehte. (The world kept listening spellbound, it was I who fell asleep narrating my stories) — Saqib Lakhnavi The year was 2012 and I was a student at JNU. There were at least 400 or 500 of us students gathered in the open-air theatre. Irrfan walked in, wearing an unassuming black shirt with an olive-green muffler carelessly thrown around his neck. Looking quite like a regular JNUite, a tall and handsome man. The instant connection he established with the crowd with his four-minute-long speech intensified over the two hours of discussions afterwards, which ranged from cinema to various passions in life and the beauty of ordinariness. He was also asked who his first love was, and no surprises here, it was cinema itself. He had said that his wife Sutapa was his last love! Back then, coming to JNU was not akin to professional suicide for artists, as it has become now. Irrfan passed away this week, at the young age of 53, battling a colon infection. To a world already reeling under the shadow of a global pandemic, the news of his death was a cruel shock. And it triggered a massive wave of mourning on social media. People spoke of the void he had left behind, but also of his legacy of giving us so many more ‘everyday heroes’. They spoke of how they felt his death was a personal loss and how his personality and cinema had been an inspiring presence. Irrfan played the role of everyday heroes in his movies, his brilliant skills spilling out of the frame each time, and he grew to become a giant in Indian cinema, even crossing over rather easily into Hollywood. He made us believe that a common person, facing everyday challenges, can also be a real hero. Outside the big screen, Irrfan was a man of few words, who led a discreet and downplayed life. From the outside, it seemed as if his days revolved only around cinema, but he was in fact much more than an actor. Taking a stand Irrfan was one of those rare people from Bollywood who not only had strong socio-political awareness but who wasn’t wary of voicing his opinions or taking a stand. In the 2009 general elections, in fact, he even campaigned for Mallika Sarabhai when she stood for elections in the Ahmedabad constituency against prime ministerial candidate L.K. Advani. He had strong views about candidates with criminal charges and said they should be debarred from politics. Scrolling through his Facebook page, tucked away amidst the film promotions, you come across posts of Gram Seva Sangh (GSS), an organisation that fosters synthesis between rural and urban India and promotes handmade products. In 2018, while inaugurating a GSS symposium, Irrfan said his art was also like that of the artisans — both use the same tools, the human body. This was his peculiar ability, to form a bond with every person he met, to empathise. Among the last posts that Irrfan wrote before he passed away, he expressed support for the Karonakuch campaign of GSS, which demanded prioritisation of welfare for poor artisans and the protection of natural resources. He expressed solidarity with the organisation’s tax denial satyagraha, which demanded a GST exemption for handmade goods, and he called out the exploitation of artisans. These are not easy stands for a star to take, but Irrfan clearly did not care about how the cinema ecosystem might react. In quite a radical move, given the massive popularity of ‘Khans’ in the industry, Irrfan Khan dropped his surname, saying he wanted to carve a niche for himself through his work, not his lineage, caste or religion. In 2016, he publicly questioned the concepts of fasting, qurbaani , and tajiya processions, which didn’t go down well with Islamic clerics. He later clarified that he did not intend to create a controversy, but maintained that a discussion must begin around these rituals. All religions must introspect and change to stay relevant, he said. At other times, he invoked his Muslim identity to make the point that, unlike him, most Indian Muslims were poor, and any communal divide was unsustainable for this country. When he died, he was mourned across religious identities, even though for one set he was just a Muslim ‘jihadi’ and for another, he was not Muslim enough. There was something about the man that allowed him to be embraced by many despite being disowned by a few. Freethinking iconoclast Irrfan was a freethinker, environmentalist, socialist and heretic. His portrayal of the Marxist Urdu poet, Makhdum Mohiuddin, the man who led the Telangana movement, in Kahkashan , made an indelible mark in the hearts of socialists. His recitation of the poem ‘Thakur Ka Kuan’, a critique of the caste system, at the Jaipur Literature Festival in 2014, has been shared several times over. As has his own composition, ‘Idhar Aao’, which alludes to the alienation of labour, kaam zarurat nahi, zarurat kaam nahi. Junoon aur sukoon mein koi farq nahi (Work can’t be necessity, nor necessity work. What difference then between passion and mere comfort.) After his death, the iconic lines he spoke in Pan Singh Tomar: “ Bihad mein toh baghi hote hain, dakait milte hain parliament mein,” (The badlands have rebels, it’s Parliament that has the dacoits) have become the status message of thousands of social media accounts. Quietly, smilingly, Irrfan was a dissenter and a comrade. And that is why his death feels like a personal loss to so many people who didn’t even know him. He really did make his audience believe in what he said in JNU that day, “Aam aadmi hi hero hota hai” (It’s the common man who is the hero.) Irrfan is no more and hope, like many other things, is in short supply these days. But before we lose what little we have, let’s remember that this man fought cancer to give us the joy of one last film, to tell us one more story before he slept. The writer has a Ph.D. from the School of International Studies, JNU, on migration and identity issues.  In a radical move, given the massive popularity of ‘Khans’ in the industry, Irrfan Khan dropped his surname, saying he wanted to carve a niche for himself through his work   Irrfan was one of those rare people from Bollywood who not only had strong socio-political awareness but who wasn’t wary of voicing his opinions or taking a stand||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/irrfan-actor-dissenter-comrade/article31492557.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The priest and the maverick||As a 17-year-old in Calcutta, just out of school, I had a stroke of great luck. I was waiting outside the best camera-repair workshop in the city for my father’s Nikon to be fixed when I fell into conversation with a girl, a little older than me, who was also waiting for her camera. We began discussing photography. After a while she asked me: “Have you heard of Chitrabani?” I hadn’t. She handed me a flyer about this institute that was offering courses in ‘Media Communication’. I repeated that I was just out of school and probably not qualified to be accepted. “Don’t worry. It’s quite an informal thing. Just go and see.” I asked the girl if she had joined and she said she hadn’t, what with college and a fledgling modelling and film career, but she wished she could. A few days later I made my way to the church compound on Wellesley Road where this Chitrabani was located. Asking about the course, I was directed to a small, dark room on the ground floor. I reached through the curtain and knocked on the door. A deep voice asked me to come in. Going in, all I could see was the silhouette of a thin, older man with thick specs, a bright window behind him. Radio ga ga He growled, asking me what I wanted. I told him. He asked me to sit down and I did. “Tell me, what are the major mass media of this country?” I answered, “Films, television…” and then I ran out of things. His growl went up a gear. “ Radio !?! Radio is not a major mass media of this country?” I was told to go away and come back with a few short notes on films and plays I had seen, and how they had affected me. I came back with the notes and was admitted into the course, which was a bit like Alice falling through a magic portal into another world. The man, who was the director of the course, was one of Calcutta’s great intellectual mavericks, Deepak Majumdar. He had recently been hired by Gaston Roberge, aka Father Roberge of the Jesuits, another maverick of sorts, who was the founder and head honcho of Chitrabani. Roberge had come from Quebec to Calcutta in 1961, and then convinced the extremely conservative Jesuit chain of command to send him to UCLA to do a course in film studies. Upon returning, Roberge began writing on Indian cinema; on everything from Satyajit Ray to Sholay . There are many who would attribute the beginning of Cinema Studies in the subcontinent to the Canadian, but Roberge had wider ambitions. In Chitrabani he set up an institution that contained among other things a state-of-the-art sound recording studio, a working radio station for the Jesuits, a photography laboratory, the best library on media in the country, a regular film screening programme, and the Media Studies course under Majumdar. Strange combination Other media study centres came up across the country soon, but Chitrabani preceded all of them, working in partnership with FTII in Pune and NID in Ahmedabad. At its peak, CB, as we called it, set off all sorts of ideas and projects that influenced the study and understanding of mass media in India long before the discipline became fashionable and, in so many places, watered down into the superficial ‘media courses’ we see currently. Today, it is difficult to describe the strange combination of informality and rigour that characterised CB. If Roberge’s famously French-accented Bangla communicated his liberal patrician’s vision and his metronomic, de rigeur priestly sternness, Majumdar’s was the pioneering irascible craziness that led students and staff into different risky but fruitful adventures. Through them and through others who associated with them, we learnt all sorts of important lessons: not to look ‘down’ with the camera at a poor or destitute person, not to regard traditional performance and crafts as ‘primitive’, not to use the marginal and the downtrodden as image-fodder for your own aggrandisement, to try and understand and value non-verbal communication that operated very far away from the overt and covert canons of Western thought. That being Calcutta of the late 70s and early 80s, people would often ask me if Chitrabani wasn’t a Trojan Horse designed to insert Catholic Christianity in through the back door. Others, tending towards Stalinist-Maoist hackery, would add the lazy charge of the place being a CIA operation. To the first I would reply that this was the place which, with its work on the Bauls, allowed me a proper entry into Bengali Vaishnavism; and to the second bunch I would say this was the place that houses one of the best anti-capitalist photo archives of India.  I came back with the notes and was admitted into the course, which was a bit like Alice falling through a magic portal into another world||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-priest-and-the-maverick/article31492620.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Do you have ubuntu?||If there is a human attribute that can transform our response to Corona-related societal woes, it is ubuntu (oo-boon-too). In his book,God has a Dream: A Vision of Hope for Our Time, Archbishop Desmond Tutu explains that in the traditional African worldview, a person with ubuntu was someone with attributes of generosity, hospitality, warmth, compassion and the willingness to share and care. To be told that “You have ubuntu ” was high praise. It was a compliment that meant you truly understood that we need other human beings to be human; that you recognised that “I am because we are”, that a “person is a person through other persons”; that you valued human beings for their intrinsic worth, and not for external markers of wealth, status, ambition, race, gender or creed; that you perceived the world as one big human family thriving on loving mutuality and interdependence; and above all, you were someone who cared deeply for the well-being of others, not just your own, and were willing to go the extra mile for your human family. Inside out In these challenging times, when the world is in the throes of a deathly pandemic, what we need more than ever is to unlock our innate ubuntu and put it into practice, to realise that our humanity is unmistakably bound up with that of others; that we must look out not only for our near and dear ones but also for those separated from us by six degrees, or more. And we must do this not out of pity or charity, but out of a sense of shared humanity. In his book, Tutu asks, “Would you let your brother’s or sister’s family, your relatives, eke out a miserable existence in poverty? Would you let them go hungry? ...How I pray that in our world we can learn to emulate a true family.” To alleviate such suffering in the current lockdown, persons with ubuntu would act out of the love and care a family has for its own; they would feel the humiliation and hunger of the stranded migrants, the loneliness of the elderly who are without company; the fatigue and fears of the frontline nurses and doctors; the anxiety of the students stuck on campus; the depression of that friend of a friend who lost her job; and the inhibition of that old single aunt to ask for help. It is important to recognise that each one of us can act out of ubuntu and reach out with love and empathy to those around us. We could cook extra meals for watchmen and migrant families in our area; support our domestic staff, drivers and gardeners with money transfers or prepare essential ration kits with vegetables and groceries, dairy and toiletries that can sustain them. We could help arrange an ambulance or offer our cars if residents of the nearby basti or our own neighbours need to rush someone to hospital. Common humanity We could encourage our children and students to organise simple and creative online fundraisers; or give our time, resources or money to government departments and civil society organisations engaged in tireless relief work. We could commit to calling and conversing with elderly grandparents, aunts and uncles, friends who have lost their jobs, or others in need of cheering and encouragement. In this way, we would walk towards what Tutu calls ‘our common humanity’ and hopefully pave the way for a more empathetic future.   I am compelled to share the story of ‘common humanity’ behind ubuntu , a story that has often done the rounds of the Internet, but is worth repeating nevertheless. An anthropologist, who was studying an African community, prepared a beautiful basket of fruits and left it under a tree. He then asked the children from the village to stand ready behind a line, and fetch the basket as soon as he signalled ‘go’. The understanding was that the first to reach the basket would win the hamper. To his great surprise, when he signalled ‘go!’ the children instinctively held each other’s hands and ran towards the basket — together! Then, under the tree, they enjoyed eating the fruits — together! When asked why they did that, a little girl answered with a question: “How can any one of us be happy when the others are sad?” Years later, Tutu explained ubuntu (or ‘I am because we are’) as the philosophy behind the girl’s answer. Today, during the pandemic, it’s this philosophy that might bring us out of the collective distress that we are in. The writer is a Delhi-based educator and social policy analyst.  Persons withubuntuwould act out of the love and care a family has for its own; they would feel the humiliation and hunger of the stranded migrants, the loneliness of the elderly||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/do-you-have-ubuntu/article31492632.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Happy in the middle rung||Let’s face it. The middle class is neither here nor there, the people in between, millions like you and me. The inconvenient truth is we don’t make a good story. Or don’t we? Perhaps a bit of misplaced modesty has stood in the way of us getting our due. We make perfect “people next door” —give or take the occasional squabble over parking or the racket that the children make in the common lobby. Neighbours in tony Malabar Hill in Mumbai and its counterparts around the country don’t meet each other for months and are strangers for all practical purposes. But come down to the less snooty suburbs and things get far more chummy. In Andheri, my neighbours know me, my daily routine, state of health and state of wealth. If you get chatting, they will even tell you how things stand between me and my in-laws. All this means that the spectre of loneliness, which looms before the world’s big cities, can’t spook us. You are never alone in Andheri, especially Chakala. The masterminds of big money crimes are millionaires attempting to become billionaires. There is only one role that the middle class play in such financial thuggery — victims. We are scrupulous in paying our taxes. Saying that such morality is by default since most of our dues are deducted at source is mean-spirited. The fact is apart from those occasions when we claim leave travel allowance while not stirring out of home or getting reimbursed for taxi fare when we have actually taken an autorickshaw, our balance sheet is clean. No ill-gotten gains for us — continue deriving happiness from things money can’t buy. You can pity the poor. And you can call the rich names — crass (“there’s no culture in the kitty party crowd”), heartless (“they torture their maids”) and unpatriotic (“they go on vacation when they ought to be voting”). But nobody has an unkind word for us. As we speak, the rich are rapidly getting richer and the poor poorer. French economist Thomas Piketty says that as long as the returns on capital are higher than the rate of economic growth, the gap between the classes will only widen. This means that the middle will have an even bigger role in the increasingly fierce social tug of war. Jairam.menon@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/happy-in-the-middle-rung/article31492585.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The future is now||A sense of foreboding overhangs Lavanya Lakshminarayan’s debut book. The interconnected stories march steadily towards you like an advancing army — with every word you read, the comfortable distance created by speculative fiction is slowly eroded and you feel exposed to possibilities that look all too real. The book is in a Bengaluru of the future when it is called ‘Apex City’ — a world where the Bell Corporation has established ‘meritocratic technarcy’ to define the boundaries of life, literally and figuratively. You have the ‘Analogs’ of Apex City living outside the Carnatic Meridian, bearing the full brunt of a world that has succumbed to climate change, with barely any fresh food and water, and deprived of technology, while the ‘Virtuals’ live on the other side. There you have ClimaTech for simulated weather, OmniPorts and HoloTech for communication and interaction, bots as teachers, humble video games that assume larger-than-life proportions and the ‘vegetable farm’ where you can be ‘harvested’ should you slip down the ladder of merit — Lakshminarayan’s world-building is impeccable. Within this, characters come and go, some etched deeply, some lightly, but each one adding another layer of meaning. The two stories that especially worked for me are ‘Études’, which sensitively portrays an adopted Analog’s journey in becoming a pianist without technology, and ‘The Be-Moji Project’, which envisions a future where words will become immaterial and holographic ‘emojis’ will take their place. Her stories, effortlessly criss-crossing between the poignant and the absurd, pulsate with solid life. Despite the initial discomfort of not having a central character to invest in emotionally, the book works because of the assuredness with which it subverts ideas of class, power, dissent by showing what the world looks like when boundaries are closed. We already know one version. Here is another one. The reviewer edits an art magazine. Rs. 399  Analog/Virtual: And Other Simulations of Your Future Lavanya Lakshminarayan Hachette India  Rs. 399||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-future-is-now/article31492590.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Fragile as papadums||In The Cliffhangers, Sabin Iqbal follows the adventures of four friends who are Muslim by birth but wary of the trappings of religion. Moosa, Thaha, Jahangir and Usman live in a new India where, far away from their sea-facing village, eating beef invites death as punishment. They also live in a new Kerala where religious fault lines are beginning to show; where there is a “delicate peace” which “could crumble like papadums” at any moment. The Cliffhangers, as the boys call themselves, are caught between two extremist groups — the Hindu Rashtra Sangh, which believes that their names spell trouble, and the Jama’th, which considers their free lifestyle beyond the pale. For the Cliffhangers who wear only “trainers, sweatpants or tracksuits, and polos, brought by relatives from the Gulf” and no “symbols of any faith or religion”, the middle path is fraught with danger.  The Cliffhangers is also a story of aspiration. The four boys, all of them tour guides, belong to poor families who depend on remittances sent home from West Asia. Like millions, they believe that English is an emancipatory language. They are keen to befriend tourists, for it always gives them yet another chance to better their English and to upward social mobility, but establishing friendships with strangers proves easier than getting a grasp over grammar and vocabulary. This is equally a story about adolescent friendship, romance, and separation. Iqbal masterfully explores a wide gamut of relationships in episodic bursts: puppy love, teenage lust, incestuous relationships, and marriages drained of love. Some of these episodes, in fact, have the potential to be turned into entire books.  The Cliffhangers is an ambitious novel about many things, and while this is not necessarily a bad thing, the many themes tend to overwhelm. There is a sub-plot about the rape of a foreigner; stray incidents of local thuggery; a minor character drowns in the sea. And yet, the book is surprisingly engaging. Iqbal’s simple but descriptive writing immerses us in the cultural richness of Kerala. You may not get one great story here, but sitting at home in isolation, you will smell the salty sea, reminisce about teenage friendships, and sense the fog of hatred closing in.  The Cliffhangers Sabin Iqbal Aleph Book Company  Rs. 499||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fragile-as-papadums/article31492592.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A divided bench: Inside the world of courts and their verdicts||At a time when faith in the independence of the judiciary in India has diminished, Chintan Chandrachud provides us with a historical perspective on the uneven legacy of the courts in his new book. He elaborates the course of decision-making in 10 ‘forgotten cases’ that may have faded from public memory but left an indelible imprint on the course of justice in India, nonetheless.    Lost opportunities With the apex court entering its 70th year in 2020, the book is timely in its critical assessment of the functioning of the courts. Unlike commemorative volumes, this book demonstrates how the court has not always risen to the occasion to safeguard us from the “indiscretions and misadventures of Parliament and the government”. For instance, in Keshav Singh v State of UP (1965), when an opposition party member was charged with breach of legislative privilege for political pamphleteering, it sparked a conflict between the Uttar Pradesh assembly and the Allahabad High Court concerning the separation of powers. When the Supreme Court intervened, it allowed the high court to prevail in the matter but missed a vital opportunity to codify the privileges as per the Constitution. This could have helped strike a balance between elected representatives exercising their privileges and citizens enjoying their fundamental rights. The high court went on to uphold the assembly’s decision and Singh was imprisoned for contempt. An opportunity to make the state policy of reservations a facet of the right to equality was similarly lost when the Supreme Court placed fundamental rights as a stumbling block before the advancement of the backward classes in the State of Madras v Champakam Dorairajan case. This helped propagate the vocabulary of binaries such as ‘reservations versus merit’ that has endured. Justice delayed, denied The courts have also failed to deliver justice to women abused by government employees often reinforcing patriarchal values in the process. In the Tukaram v State of Maharashtra case (popularly known as the ‘Mathura case’), though two policemen had raped Mathura while in custody, the Supreme Court acquitted her perpetrators arguing that a lack of consent could not be established. In the R.D. Bajaj v K.P.S. Gill case , the  law machinery dragged its feet on sentencing the IPS officer for sexual misconduct, with the SC convicting Gill only 17 years later, without imprisonment, and demanding a token amount of Rs. 2,00,000 as compensation. The courts are also guilty of using real and imagined threats to national security to shield state excesses as seen in Kartar Singh v State of Punjab and Naga People’s Movement of Human Rights v Union of India . In these instances, the police and the Army had abused provisions of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act and the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) respectively against terror accused individuals. However, in both cases, the Supreme Court upheld draconian aspects of the law in favour of the government. Guardian of the Constitution The book demonstrates how, in the end, it falls on civil society, Parliament and rights’ agencies such as the National Human Rights Commission to pursue the course of justice when the courts fail. For instance, public pressure in the aftermath of the Mathura judgment led to the Law Commission recommending changes to rape laws to address aspects of consent given under pressure. Likewise, the NHRC intervention in 1994 and the mobilisation of political support to discontinue TADA beyond 1995, stopped that law from being enforced. The book is a must-read for anyone interested in aspects of law and politics in the country. The author has done a fine job of disabusing us of the notion that the courts are the ultimate guardians of the Constitution.  The reviewer is a doctoral researcher in Anthropology at SOAS, University of London.  The Cases that India Forgot Chintan Chandrachud Juggernaut  Rs. 599||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-divided-bench-inside-the-world-of-courts-and-their-verdicts/article31492607.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On April 3, 1913, the first full-length Indian feature film was released. Based on the legend of Raja Harishchandra, it was a silent film with subtitles in English, Marathi and Hindi. The director completed 95 feature films over 19 years. Who was he in whose name an award for lifetime contribution to cinema in India has been instituted? 2Bulbul-e-Paristanis a 1926 big-budget fantasy film with a lot of special effects. The screenplay was written by Fatma Begum who began her career in Urdu theatre. After playing many leading roles she started her own production company under which Bulbul-e-Paristan was made. What was special about her work in this movie? 3Kisan Kanyawas a 1937 film directed by Moti B. Gidwani which was based on a novel by Saadat Hasan Manto and focussed on the plight of poor farmers. It is in the record books because it was India’s first indigenously made film to have a certain attribute which we all now take for granted. What wasKisan Kanyathe first of in India? 4Alam Arawas a 1931 film directed by Ardeshir Irani which chronicles the love story between a prince and a gypsy girl and was based on a Parsi play. When it debuted the police had to be called to control the crowds as this was the first time a film had a certain attribute. What isAlam Ara’s claim to fame in the Indian film industry? 5Released the very next year in 1932,Indrasabhawas a movie based on an Urdu opera/ play set in the celestial court of Indra. The original play had 31 ghazals, 8 thumri, 15 songs and many more dances. The movie made by J.J. Madan ran for 3.5 hours and holds a world record. What record? 6Bhanu Athaiya is a costume designer who started her career as a freelance fashion illustrator for various women’s magazines in Bombay. In 1982, she and British costume designer John Mollo (who is renowned for his work in theStar Wars Universe) worked together on a film by Richard Attenborough, for which they won global acclaim. What’s the movie and what did Bhanu Athaiya become the first Indian to achieve because of her stellar work in that film? 7Love and Godwas the directorial debut of K. Asif. It was the legendary love story of Laila Majnu. The film initially had Guru Dutt as the protagonist, but he passed away during the shoot. The film was restarted with Sanjeev Kumar playing the lead but then K. Asif passed away. Eventually his widow Akhtar Asif put together what she could and finally released it in 1986, a year after Sanjeev Kumar had passed away. What special, rather unfortunate, record does this film hold? 8Carnatic singer K.B. Sundarambal, who was referred to as the Queen of the Indian stage, made her onscreen debut in 1935 in the Tamil filmBhakta Nandanar. She was a fierce political activist during the Indian independence movement and recorded many songs to show her support and motivate the freedom fighters. After India gained independence she became the first film artist in India to enter another field. What did K.B. Sundarambal do? 9Viswa Mohini, a Telugu romantic thriller by Y.V. Rao, follows a Mohan Rao who cheats his way to become the owner of a company; his father wants him to get married to the daughter of a lady who is into film production. He falls in love with a popular actress and eventually his ulterior motives are found out. Released in 1940, what did this film become the first to depict? 10In the 1970s, India overtook America as the world’s largest film producer and a certain term was coined then to refer to the film industry. This refers to the city in India where the industry blossomed and a neighbourhood in Los Angeles. Likewise each regional film industry is also known by a variation of that name. What is the name of the industry and those for Bengali, Kannada, Punjabi, Malayalam, Tamil and Telugu?  A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article31492622.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The curious case of Facebook||Why does Facebook look like a prison? “Well, you have a Profile photo; you pretty much do nothing all day but write on walls. And, worse, you get poked by guys you don't really know.” Jokes apart, this says a lot about how Mark Zuckerberg’s social media network has changed human life ever since its inception in the U.S. in 2004. For sure, when future historians attempt to chronicle the era we live in today, the story of social media will account for a significant part of the narrative, as a formidable force that influenced almost every walk of life in ways previously unimagined. And Facebook, with a claimed customer base of over two billion users, will be the propeller of the whole story. Global connections Facebook’s story, hence, is the story of our times, too. Steven Levy’s well-timed tome, Facebook: The Inside Story , tries to capture that — how Zuckerberg and Facebook were able to connect the world like no other human endeavour had ever done, not even the Roman emperors, has empowered us beyond measure, allowing us to know things as and when we want to, stay in seamless contact with friends and family, discuss everything under the sun without fear and with favour, and make money or spend it by selling and buying products. That seemed a perfect world. Only that it wasn’t. The recent years exposed startling vulnerabilities in the moral infrastructure of Facebook. And they look unfixable to many. Going by the adage that data is the new oil, Facebook seems to be on its way to become the world’s biggest polluter. Levy’s narrative, however, doesn’t give you that story. Levy’s Facebook is long on information and short on insight. It works as a great rich-in-detail textual extension to The Social Network , offering all the background stories behind those rapid-fire dialogues written by Aaron Sorkin. Out with it Levy’s focus seems to be more on unravelling the curious events and actions that powered the inception and rapid evolution of Facebook. His approach is not critical at all; but to his credit, he treats the subject with some degree of nonchalance that is laudable. He is, clearly, not awestruck at the FB success story, but stays away from offering insights that would help readers figure out where the social network, which many rightly call the Frankenstein monster of the digital world, is headed. Maybe that could be a different book. Still, Levy’s project is so detailed and rich with anecdotes that a keen observer of Facebook can find out — only if the reader is smart and industrious enough to read between the lines — a good amount of cues she can use in analysing where the company is going to be a few crucial years down the lane. Sample this: Facebook’s ad business, when it started, had the code name Panda, “a quasi-portmanteau of the words ‘Pages and Ads’.” But soon the code for the advertising business — whose hidden desires and dynamics would soon change the social networking world devastatingly — would morph to “something less pleasant: Pandemic”. That’s some Freudian slip, I tell you.  Facebook: The Inside Story Steven Levy PRH  Rs. 799||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-curious-case-of-facebook/article31492605.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Online classes are only for the connected||Amid the lockdown, many schools in India have started online classes. But only those who have a smartphone or a computer with a strong Internet connection can access these classes. Technology has improved life. Some schools are now equipped with smart classrooms. Privileged students are going online for advanced courses for better prospects. But the situation is not equal for all. How could a class be limited to a small number of privileged students, given that a large number of students in the country have no access to a smartphone or the Internet? A student in Class 12 regretted that his friend would not be able to join the live classes for he has no smartphone. The extended lockdown does not allow his friend to go out of his home to find a way to get online. It is heartbreaking that a student is deprived of education just because he or she does not have a smartphone or a computer to attend online classes. It is the school that teaches students that they have the right to be treated equally without discrimination and today the same school is running discriminatory classes. Each of the schools running online classes may have dedicated teachers. They want to provide an uninterrupted learning experience to the students. But the objective here is defeated as it fails to include all students. How helpless would some poor students coming from financially disadvantaged families feel knowing that they are missing out on classes? If it is a government’s directive, every student should have an equal opportunity to attend classes. I fear that it will hurt the poor students. The value of a year in a student’s life is immense. We had to come up with a “feasible” plan to resume classes as soon as possible but not in the way we do it now. If the system is not accessible by all, the extraordinary method, though temporary, will dismantle harmony among students and discourage the poor students. shayandas9992@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/online-classes-are-only-for-the-connected/article31492583.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Four out of five||South’s two no trump bid, in competition, showed the same range as a jump to two no trump would have shown without the two- spade overcall — 18-19. North bid aggressively after that to an excellent slam. 12 tricks would have been easy with a 3-2 split in either red suit. East won the ace of spades at trick one and continued with the queen of spades to South’s king. If anyone had four diamonds to the jack, surely it would be West, so declarer led a diamond to dummy’s king and a diamond back to his ace. East having four diamonds was a surprise, not to mention a disappointment, but it did help South to get a count on the hand. East was known to have a six- card spade suit and was now known to have started with four diamonds. Three high clubs showed that East had started with two clubs and a singleton heart. Was the singleton heart the jack? That was against the odds, as there were four little hearts missing also. The chance that East’s singleton heart was the jack was four to one against. South backed his judgment by leading the 10 of hearts from his hand, intending to run it if West played low. West chose to cover with the jack, although it didn’t matter. South captured this with dummy’s ace. He returned to his hand with the king of hearts and led a low heart to dummy for the proven finesse against West’s nine of hearts. Very well played!||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/four-out-of-five/article31492625.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A million phone calls||Respected Madam/ Sir, First of all just want to check ifeverything is ok with you or no? Corona means everybody is tension party. Neighbour tension. Friends tension. Wife tension. Son tension o tension. One second please, Mrs. Mathrubootham is calling for something. Sorry. Brinjal in the fridge has done samadhi. And Mrs. Mathrubootham wanted to put one shouting to me because apparently she told me one million times cook brinjal immediately, cook brinjal immediately, and I said, no no, not today maybe tomorrow no no brinjal please, is this house or central jail canteen. She has put full shouting. I have come back. Ok hello Madam/ Sir, I was going to tell you one Corona story that happened two or three days back. So whether you know Dr. Shankaramenon is new president of Residents’Association? Ok he is president. So for one month he is acting as if... One second please, phone call has come. Excuse me, Madam/ Sir, five minutes peace of mind is not there since Pandemic. Phone is ringing like temple bell in Guruvayoor. Ding ding ding ding ding ding. Just now Mohammed Usman is calling to check if Netflix is working in the house. Stupidly wasted my 10 minutes. After I checked, he is saying no need Mathrubootham wifi router switch was off by mistake, everything is ok. I said, “Usman what is on top of your neck? Brain or cabbage?” What I was saying? Correct. Dr. Shankaramenon story. So after Corona and all has come, he is acting as if Residents’ Association is North Korea and he himself is one periya Kim. Plus, he is having MBBS also. Unbearable means unbearable. Morning to evening Kimkaramenon is putting notice on the wall, putting messages in WhatsApp group, and all. Rules means non-stop rules. Two metres. No touching. No dancing. No watering plants. No this, no that. Excuse me, Mrs. Mathrubootham is calling again like tuberculosis is calling lungs for friendly meeting. Madam/ Sir, brinjal gone bad my problem. Water heater not working my problem. Who used metal spoon in nonstick pan also my problem. Everything in this house is my problem. So many problems this is house or entrance exam? Nonsense. Madam/ Sir, so I am telling you about Kimkaramenon. So this chicanery fellow, this blackguard, this thorough rapscallion is then secretly putting phone call and saying Mr. Mathrubootham, I have one plan. I said your highness, what is your command. He said what nonsense you are talking. President of Association means I have to be professional no? Personally, what rules are there? Nothing. In life you must never mix personal and professional matters. Mathrubootham, you want to come to my house secretly and play rummy? Madam/ Sir, can you believe the hypocritical behaviour of this fellow? Whether in the whole world any other President is there who is behaving in such a stupid manner? I took the phone and said, “Dr. Shankaramenon listen carefully, no one in this world can tell Mr. Mathrubootham what to do and what to not do and how to do and... MY GOD ONE SECOND. SON AND WIFE AND PHONE IS ALL RINGING AT THE SAME TIME. Madam/ Sir, you please go home. You please go. Five minutes also I cannot get peace in this house. Fed up. Totally fed up. No time for exasperation also, J. Mathrubootham||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-million-phone-calls/article31492630.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||e-wages||China introduced a digital currency, the e-RMB, in several cities, and state-run media reported that some government employees would receive their salaries in it from this month onwards. The e-RMB is also being used for transport subsidies in Suzhou, and for food and retail in Xiong’an. Pegged to the renminbi, this is the first digital currency to be adopted by any major economy worldwide.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/e-wages/article31492567.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Oscar goes with the flow||With cinemas closed during the novel coronavirus pandemic, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Science announced that films that debuted on streaming platforms will qualify for Oscars nominations this year. Traditionally, films needed to have had at least a week-long run in a Los Angeles theatre to be eligible. This, however, will be a ‘temporary exception’ to eligibility rules, and will end when theatres reopen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/oscar-goes-with-the-flow/article31492569.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Million strong||Data compiled by Johns Hopkins University revealed that more than one million people have been diagnosed with COVID-19 in the U.S., making it the country with the world’s most reported novel coronavirus infections. Meanwhile, New Zealand announced that community transmission had stopped. “We are opening up the economy, but we’re not opening up people’s social lives,” said Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/million-strong/article31492571.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Fiscal indiscipline||The Centre reacted angrily to an unsolicited report by 50 officers of the Indian Revenue Service with suggestions for coping with the pandemic, such as hiking taxes on the super-rich to 40%. Released through the IRS Association’s website and social media, the government termed it an ‘act of indiscipline’, and filed charges against three senior officers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fiscal-indiscipline/article31492573.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Homecoming||The government announced a major operation, involving the Navy, the Air Force and Air India, to bring home Indians stuck in West Asian countries. State governments and central police are also reported to be involved in planning the rescue and the subsequent quarantine process, while Indian embassies abroad have been compiling lists of the stranded people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/homecoming/article31492575.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Knocked out||India lost the right to host the 2021 men’s World Boxing Championships after the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) failed to pay the host fee, prompting the International Boxing Association (AIBA) to void the agreement signed in 2017, and award the event to Serbia. BFI then hit out at AIBA, saying the decision was “taken in haste” and the delay in payment was due to “procedural complications”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/knocked-out/article31492577.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||How Much of These Hills is Gold||C. Pam Zhang  Virago Rs. 745.50 (Kindle price) In the twilight of the Gold Rush, two siblings cross a landscape with a gun in their hands and the body of their father on their backs. They roam an unforgiving landscape dotted with buffalo bones and tiger paw prints, searching for a place to give their father a proper burial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/how-much-of-these-hills-is-gold/article31492594.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Breasts and Eggs||Mieko Kawakami, trs Sam Bett,   David Boyd  Barnes & Noble $27.00 This novel recounts the intimate journeys of three women as they confront oppressive traditions and reclaim their futures. Thirty-year-old Natsu, her older sister, Makiko, and Makiko’s daughter, Midoriko are at the centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/breasts-and-eggs/article31492596.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The King’s Retribution||Mercedes Rochelle  Sergeant Press $2.89 (Kindle price) This second instalment of The Plantagenet Legacy series is about King Richard II. Here he takes revenge on his enemies for the humiliation inflicted on him but goes too far, underestimating the powers of his arch rival, Henry Bolingbroke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-kings-retribution/article31492598.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Mysteries of the Mundane: The Films of Girish Kasaravalli||Orient BlackSwan  John W. Hood Rs. 495 Girish Kasaravalli’s films may be rooted in Karnataka but his exploration of the commonplace shows that within the local culture lie values and dreams that are universal. Across 15 chapters, Hood discusses Kasaravalli’s films.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/mysteries-of-the-mundane-the-films-of-girish-kasaravalli/article31492603.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Taken at the Flood||Vasanth Kannabiran  Women Unlimited Rs. 375 An activist and writer gathers the many strands of her life to write a memoir recounting not only her journey, but that of a country in flux. From a tumultuous era in Andhra Pradesh to the women’s movement, Kannabiran enfolds her life into the politics she lived.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/taken-at-the-flood/article31492609.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s World||Rajiv Dogra  Rupa Rs. 595 Since Independence, Prime Ministers have been the principal architects of India’s rise. From Nehru to Narendra Modi, the book outlines ways in which several Prime Ministers have made history. It also discusses India’s place in the world and how Prime Ministers have shaped its role.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/indias-world/article31492611.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Reviving Jobs: An Agenda for Growth||Edited by Santosh Mehrotra  Penguin Random House India Rs. 499 By 2040, India will be an ageing society. This volume offers suggestions on how India can make the best of the remaining period of its demographic dividend that began in 1980. Failure to do so will cause millions to suffer in poverty, it says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/reviving-jobs-an-agenda-for-growth/article31492613.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3098||Across  1 ‘Perhaps Stamp Act’s boring?’ — renowned army officer (1,1,8) 6 Second chop is unappealing food (4) 9 Lacking a piano, music therapy revised for ‘80s pop duo (10) 10 Berliner oddly taken with cheese (4) 12 Little is known about these biscuits baked with roe (11) 14 Instrument whereby Europe divides UK and the French, twice (7) 15 Son loses enthusiasm about, primarily, higher educational establishments (7) 16 During crash of Euro, fellow returns with charm (7) 18 Solver’s taking long time? I accept that (5,2) 19 Narcissistic novelist given small amount of money and wine (4-7) 22 What odds may — or may not — be (4) 23 Comedian’s heartless joke describes higher echelons (4,6) 24 Idiot comes back with waterproof (4) 25 Going around Cyprus, Dick gets something to eat (6,4)  Down  1 Draws even with final four of penalties (4) 2 Primarily, lipoid adiposity rendered digestible? (4) 3 Notice how I’ve given free rein to a man (4,3,5) 4 All together, magically, finally: ‘Open Sesame!’ (2,5) 5 Company with £1,000 invested in support’s making mistakes (4-3) 7 Act as master in torrid love resort (4,2,4) 8 Throng, with nose out of joint, continues moving forward (7,2) 11 Wild youth ate nuts hastily (7,5) 13 Suppressing a pain, regret inflamed rear that’s used in cycling (10) 14 Independent in US Senate troubled, most troubled (9) 17 Enmity engendered by Franco urgently (7) 18 Norse wearing strangely frosty underwear (1-6) 20 Assistance in ordering some prime numbers (4) 21 Queen’s shielded by bishop and king? Idiot (4)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3098/article31492628.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Stars fade||Bollywood mourned the death of two prominent stars. Award-winning actor Irrfan Khan, best known for his roles inThe Namesake,Paan Singh TomarandThe Lunchbox, died aged 53 on Wednesday. Khan, who was battling neuroendocrine cancer, was being treated for a colon infection. The next day, veteran actor Rishi Kapoor, star of blockbusters likeBobbyandAmar Akbar Anthony, who had been battling leukaemia, also died in Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/stars-fade/article31492561.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown lunch||The Centre announced plans to continue the mid-day meal scheme in government schools over the summer holidays, earmarking Rs. 1,748 crore in funding and three lakh tonnes of foodgrains, worth about Rs. 990 crore. The scheme is being implemented differently across States, with Kerala home-delivering cooked meals and Delhi redirecting students to general relief centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lockdown-lunch/article31492563.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Migrant moves||Even as the number of COVID-19 cases in India crossed 30,000, with more than 1,000 deaths, the Centre announced that lakhs of stranded migrants, tourists and students would finally be given safe passage home. Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla issued guidelines for States, specifying that buses were to be organised, and that sending and receiving States must agree on the movements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/migrant-moves/article31492565.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/sunday-recipe/article31492559.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Dead fragments of novel coronavirus led to false positives in recovered patients||In early April, South Korea announced that patients who were declared as COVID-19 recovered have once again tested positive, suggesting that it could be a case of reinfection or reactivation (where the virus is not completely cleared once again begins to replicate). By the end of April, South Korea had recorded 263 such cases. China too reported such cases. Cause of concern This news caused concern as it highlighted the issue of low levels of immunity in people who have recovered and the short duration of protection offered by antibodies developed in response to the infection. If natural infection shows only a short duration of protection, it raised concerns about the duration of protection that vaccines can offer. But on April 30, infectious disease experts in South Korea confirmed that dead virus fragments still present in recovered people had led the people numbering over 260 to test positive again for the novel coronavirus even weeks after marking full recovery. Addressing a press conference a few days earlier, Zhong Nanshan, China’s top respiratory expert had said the same — recovered persons can test positive because fragments of the disease remained in their body. Little reason Oh Myoung-don, who leads the central clinical committee for emerging disease control, said that the committee members found little reason to believe that those cases could be COVID-19 reinfections or reactivations, Korea Herald reported. The RT-PCR used for testing samples amplifies the genetic material of the virus prior to testing. The molecular test cannot distinguish between dead and live genetic fragments and hence cannot make out whether the virus is alive or not. Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (KCDC) deputy director Kwon Joon-wook told CNN that so far there is no indication that patients who retest positive are contagious, even though about 44% of them showed mild symptoms. “At the moment, we think that there is no danger of further secondary or tertiary transmission,” Kwon told CNN. Family of cases The KCDC had investigated three cases from the same family where patients tested positive after recovering. But scientists were unable to grow (culture) the virus. Culturing the virus is typically done for testing and producing vaccines. The inability to grow the virus in a cell culture confirmed that live virus was not present. “The respiratory epithelial cell has a half-life of up to three months, and RNA virus in the cell can be detected with PCR testing one to two months after the elimination of the cell,” Oh told Korea Herald.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/dead-fragments-of-novel-coronavirus-led-to-false-positives-in-recovered-patients/article31492719.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Broad-spectrum antiviral inhibits novel coronavirus||Broad-spectrum antivirals for emerging zoonotic infections become particularly important when specific interventions do not yet exist. Researchers have found that a ribonucleoside analogue (beta-D-N4-hydroxycytidine or NHC) that has previously shown to be effective against influenza and Ebola is also potent against coronaviruses, including the novel coronavirus that is currently causing the pandemic. The drug was found to be effective in both cell lines and primary human airway epithelial cultures against SARS, MERS and SARS-CoV-2. It was also effective against three closely-related bat coronaviruses that were capable of replicating in human cells without undergoing any adaptation, suggesting potential direct transmission from bats to humans. In vitro analysis The NHC drug is highly active against all three coronaviruses — 2002 SARS, MERS and the novel coronavirus. While it was not toxic to human cells, there was a dose-dependent reduction in SARS, MERS and novel coronavirus infectious virus production in human airway epithelial cell cultures. The team led by researchers Timothy P. Sheahan and Ralph S. Baric from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in a paper published in Science Translational Medicine found that the antiviral activity of NHC arises from increased mutation rate in viral genomic RNA. In the case of MERS, treatment with 1 microMolar of NHC resulted in three-fold increase in error rate and 138-fold decrease in virus titer. When the amount of NHC used was increased to 10 microMolar, the error rate increased sixfold and virus titer reduction increased 26,000-fold. Explaining the process that leads to increased mutation rates, the authors say that NHC gets incorporated during RNA synthesis and then subsequently misread leading to enhanced mutation. Prodrug tested Encouraged by these results, the researchers tested an orally bioavailable prodrug of NHC designed for improved oral bioavailability in humans and non-human primates and better pharmacokinetics. The prodrug was tested in vitro using the 2002 SARS coronavirus. Lung haemorrhage was significantly reduced and there was a dose-dependent reduction in lung titer of SARS coronavirus. They found the prodrug given as a prophylactic was “robustly antiviral” and was able to prevent SARS coronavirus replication and disease. As in the case of the 2002 SARS coronavirus, in genetically modified mice, the prodrug protected from significant weight loss and lung haemorrhage due to MERS. Viral replication was not seen at all prophylactic doses (50, 150 and 500 mg per kg). But only treatment initiated before 12 after MERS infection prevented body weight loss. When treatment was initiated 24 or 48 hours after infection, it did not confer any protection. “Collectively, these data demonstrate that NHC prodrug robustly reduces MERS-CoV infectious titers, viral RNA, and pathogenesis under both prophylactic and early therapeutic conditions,” they write. “The data provided in this manuscript suggest that EIDD-2801 should be quickly evaluated in primate models of human disease using immediate models for MERS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis or newly described cynomolgus and rhesus macaque models for SARS-CoV-2,” the authors write. Other viruses “Our data support the continued development of NHC prodrug as a potent broad-spectrum antiviral that could be useful in treating contemporary, newly emerged and emerging CoV infections of the future,” they note. The authors have not been able to test the efficacy of the drug against novel coronavirus using animals models. Also, it is known that disease severity increases with age, but the authors were not able to test the drug against coronavirus using aged mouse models.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/broad-spectrum-antiviral-inhibits-novel-coronavirus/article31492715.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||NIAB develops portable coronavirus detection kit||Adding support to the Health Minister’s promise that India will be able to produce RT-PCR and antibody test kits by the end of May, researchers from the National Institute of Animal Biotechnology (NIAB), Hyderabad, have developed a biosensor that can detect the novel coronavirus in saliva samples. Biosensors have been currently used across the world to detect toxins, narcotic drugs, and are also considered as a reliable tool to detect infectious diseases. New device The new portable device named eCovSens, can be used to detect the presence of novel coronavirus antigens in human saliva within 30 seconds using just 20 microlitres of the sample. The in-house built biosensor consists of a carbon electrode and the coronavirus antibody. The antibody is capable of binding with the spike protein found on the outer layer of the virus. An electrical signal is generated when the antigen and antibody binds. Electrical components in the device further amplify this signal, process it, convert it to digital readings on an LCD display. The device can also be connected to a computer or cellphone via Bluetooth and studied. The signal’s intensity was found to be proportional to the concentration of the antigen in the sample. Battery-operated The device can also be battery-operated as it uses very low voltage of 1.3V to 3V. The team also compared eCovSens to a regular potentiostat and found the new device to be ultrasensitive and quicker. “The device is portable and can be taken to the bedside of the patient too. Also, it requires only a very small amount of saliva. The device is stable and when built in bulk can drastically bring down the cost of testing. The validation studies using saliva samples from coronavirus patients are yet to be done,” explains Dr. Sonu Gandhi from DBT-NIAB, Hyderabad, and corresponding author of the paper posted on the preprint server bioRxiv on April 29. It is yet to be peer-reviewed and published in a scientific journal. Other viral antigens Cross-reactivity studies were done to check if the antibody in the device binds with any other viral antigen. No electric current was generated when tested with antigens of the Avian influenza virus. The paper adds, “the device can be customised to any target analyte, and can also have other future applications for detection of various other ailments.”  The device is portable and requires only a small amount of saliva. It is stable and when built in bulk can drastically bring down the cost of testing. Sonu Gandhi DBT-NIAB||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/niab-develops-portable-coronavirus-detection-kit/article31492711.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||A protocol for pooled RT-PCR testing of COVID-19||IIT Bombay researchers have developed an algorithm which can be used to help conduct pooled testing of samples for COVID-19. In order to validate this protocol – known as Tapestry Pooling – in vitro experiments using synthetic RNA and DNA fragments have been carried out by NCBS and InSTEM, Bengaluru, and Wyss Institute of Biologically Inspired Engineering, U.S. Further validation using clinical samples is under way. An important part of managing the COVID-19 pandemic is aggressive testing of people and quarantining those who test positive, to contain the spread. Until now, in India tests have been carried out only on people with travel history and their contacts, and on clusters that have known to be infected. This is due to the lack of sufficient testing kits to test a larger population. In this context, pooling of samples is one way of reducing the number of test kits used and increases testing capacity. Pooled tests Pooling of samples involves testing them in batches, and when pooled sample tests positive, then individual samples are assessed. Using combinatorics, an algorithm is found that unscrambles the test results and tells you which of the individuals in the pool are positive. In effect, the number of tests that need to be carried out is less than if there had to be test done for each individual.  The Android application named BYOM Smart Testing, which was developed by Shop 101, guides the user on how to perform the test. The technician enters how many samples they want to test, and the prevalence rate. They are given a pooling matrix. “Samples are pooled according to this pooling matrix. Pools are tested and the quantitative reading from the tests is entered into our algorithm, which reconstructs the list of positives, negatives, and their viral loads,” says Manoj Gopalkrishnan, from IIT Bombay and corresponding author of the preprint posted in MedRxiv server. Preprints are yet to be peer-reviewed. The present version of the protocol has fixed numbers of samples. That is, for instance, 40 samples can be tested in 16 RT-PCR tests (up to 3 positives). This can go up to 961 samples that can be tested in 93 RT-PCR tests (up to 10 positives). “In version 2, the user will be able to tell how many samples they want tested, and we will give corresponding pooling instructions,” explains Dr Gopalkrishnan. Being a non-adaptive test, all the RT-PCR tests in Tapestry pooling are conducted at one go. This could take four hours to perform typically. An adaptive test which has two rounds of testing, can take twice the amount of time. Graceful failure mode The protocol also has a so-called graceful failure mode. “It estimates actual prevalence rate in the batch and if this is much higher than the projected prevalence so that the algorithm is not able to identify all positives exactly, it returns a list of suspected positives which includes all the positives, and possibly a few false positives which can be eliminated in round two of testing,” explains Dr Gopalkrishnan. The group is in the process of drafting and obtaining permissions for a clinical trial in collaboration with Tata Memorial Hospital, Kasturba Hospital and P.D. Hinduja Hospital, in Mumbai, Malabar Cancer Centre, in Thalassery, Kerala, and NCBS, Bengaluru.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/a-protocol-for-pooled-rt-pcr-testing-of-covid-19/article31492717.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Using human sweat as diagnostic tool and source of power||Recall those early days when the family physician was called home to treat a patient. The first thing he’d do was to touch the skin on your face, temples and chest. This would let him diagnose quickly. If the skin feels hotter than usual, you have fever; if it is paler than the usual, you are dehydrated and must drink more water; if it has a bluish tinge, you need to breathe more oxygen; and if it feels wet, you need to exercise less or cut your physical stress and so on. Then you are given what he considers the appropriate medicine as pills or potion, or an injection. Alas, we have now replaced him with a doctor sitting in a clinic, who asks you to go to a commercial centre for diagnostics and prescribes the medicine based on the report. Skin-based diagnosis is a gone thing for general practitioners. These days, skin specialists do an interesting procedure, in which they attach a thin polymer-based sheet which contains the desired drug, stick it to the skin on your arm or chest and deliver the drug past the sweat fluid directly into the body, using a tiny electric current on the patch. This is thus a wearable technology for personalised medicine — no pills or potions. And with the advent of microelectronics and bio-compatible polymers, we now have ‘electronic skin’ (e-skin), and nanoscale wires that can be attached and an external electric power supply using micro-scale batteries. Role of sweat Notice in all this, the active body fluid, namely, the sweat, is ignored or treated as an inert carrier of no other value. The role of sweat fluid in our body and the chemicals it contains are becoming increasingly understood and utilised only recently. Sweat comes out of three types of glands distributed across all over our skin, secreting water and substances that help keep our body at the optimum temperature of 37 degrees C (or 98.4 degrees F). Our brain has temperature-sensitive nerve cells (neurons) which control the sweat glands in releasing the fluid depending on the temperature and physical and metabolic activity of the body. Sweat is thus our body’s thermo-regulator. What does sweat contain? It is 99% water containing sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium and chloride ions, ammonium ions, urea, lactic acid, glucose and other minor components. An analysis of the sweat fluid in a patient and how it compares with that of a ‘normal’ individual will thus be of diagnostic value (just as much as other body fluids do). For example, in the illness called cystic fibrosis, the ratio of the sodium to chloride ions in the sweat is different from that of a normal individual. Likewise, the amount of glucose in the sweat of a diabetic is higher than normal. But the problem is the amount of sweat available from the skin. Diagnosis based on e-skin It is here that modern-day technology has become of value. Now that microelectronics and e-skin patches are both available, scientists have been using them for real-time measurements of some chosen component in the sweat, using the appropriate probe (sensor) in the patch in order to detect and measure the level of the component. But would it not be much better if we can measure as many components as we desire if the e-skin patch be loaded with probes not for one but several components simultaneously? A breakthrough on this was made by a group of biologists, material scientists, computer experts and electrical engineers from California (Stanford and Berkeley), and was published with the title: “Fully integrated wearable sensor arrays for multiplexed in situ perspiration analysis” ( Nature 2016 January 28; 529(7587): 509-514. doi:10.1038/nature16521. free access on the web).They put in not just one but six sensor probes — for Na, K, Cl ions, lactate, glucose and the temperature of the sweat — all six of them embedded on a e-skin patch, such that a stable sensor-skin contact is maintained. Signals coming from each sensor measuring the sweat component as a tiny electrical signal are then converted into a digital form, and sent to a micro-controller, and from there to a Bluetooth transceiver, which can be seen on a mobile phone or other screen, and passed on through SMS, email, or uploaded to the Cloud interface. The Californian Group followed it up with another paper in 2017 titled: “Autonomous sweat extraction and analysis applied to cystic fibrosis and glucose monitoring using a fully integrated wearable platform” in Proceedings of the National Academy of Science, 114(18), 4525-4630; https://www.pnas.org/content/114/18/4625. Since the amount of sweat accessible in sedentary people is too low, the group resorted to what is called iontophoresis, wherein one can stimulate local secretion of sweat at chosen sites, thus getting enough of the fluid, analysing its relevant components in normal (control) individuals, and people with cystic fibrosis and also monitoring glucose levels in the sweat — all this in a similar integrated platform as was used in their Nature paper. In a control individual, they found 26.7 mM of Na ions and 21.2 mM of Cl ions (note that the Na level is higher than Cl level here), while in a CF patient, Na level was 2.3 mM and Cl level 95.7 mM (far higher than the Na level), in keeping with what CF specialists have found in their routine (“classical”) practice. The group further found that oral glucose consumption while fasting led to increased glucose levels in sweat and in blood. Sweat as power supply Note that in all these assays, the probes and sensors need to be powered externally using microbatteries. If these e-skin platforms are to be used in robotics and other devices, can we do away with this external, and have the material in the sweat itself be used as a biofuel generator of electric power? The group showed in their paper that just appeared 10 days ago in the journal Science Robotics (Yu et al., Sci. Robot. 5, eaaz7946(2020)). On a patch on the individual’s e-skin patch they added the enzyme Lox which would react with the lactate in the sweat and oxidise it to pyruvate in a bioanode, and reduce the oxygen into water in a biocathode, thus generating electrical energy that is sufficient to drive the patch with no external energy source — what a brilliant idea! Finally, in these COVID-19 days, it is good to know that sweat does not carry any pathogen (bacteria or virus); on the contrary it carries a germ-killer protein called dermcidin (Schittek et al, BMJ 2001, 323(7323);1206). One wonders if dermcidin or its modification can be anti-viral. dbala@lvpei.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/using-human-sweat-as-diagnostic-tool-and-source-of-power/article31492713.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Can antibody tests help tackle COVID-19?||The story so far: In the COVID-19 fight, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had advised States to use antibody testing for surveillance and reiterated that the focus has always been on real time RT-PCR (or real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) tests for diagnosis. The rapid testing kits that State governments had been using to detect antibodies to the novel coronavirus were throwing up unreliable results. In Rajasthan for example, rapid testing kits failed to detect antibodies even when the laboratories had confirmed patients to be COVID-19 positive. What is the difference between rapid antibody tests and the RT-PCR tests? There are two ways to detect the presence of a virus, directly or indirectly. Antibody tests, also called serological tests, have usually been the time-tested approach to finding out the presence of a virus in the body. They do so by detecting the presence and quantity of antibodies that are produced by the immune system to battle an infection. It is an indirect test because it cannot find the virus, but it can determine if the immune system has encountered it. Antibodies can show up between nine to 28 days after an infection has set in; by that time, an infected person, if not isolated, can spread the disease. Sometimes the antibodies may be produced in response to a closely-related pathogen and sometimes they may not be the right kind to counter the infection. These are the factors that can make an antibody test erroneous. In an RT-PCR test, a nasal or throat swab is taken from a patient suspected of having the disease. The test involves extracting RNA or ribonucleic acid, the genetic material of the virus, and checking if it shares the same genetic sequence as the SARS-CoV-2 virus. If it is a match, the sample is deemed positive. The only way such tests turn negative is if the actual sample does not have the virus or the swab was not properly administered and too little of the virus was gleaned. As the sequencing of genomes is now widespread and the technology well understood by experts in several countries, China, and subsequently others, were quickly able to determine the structure of the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus and learn what differentiates it from related viruses. This is why it was possible to prepare accurate tests to detect the virus relatively quickly, almost in the middle of a pandemic, and the RT-PCR tests began to be followed as the ‘gold standard’ in detecting the virus. As not enough research hours have been spent studying the antibodies and the profile of recovered patients, the antibody tests we have for COVID-19 are imperfect. Why is there a clamour for antibody kits? Antibody tests are fast and relatively inexpensive. The current RT-PCR technology requires RNA extracting machines, a specialised laboratory, and trained technicians. And at least a minimum of 30 samples are needed to make the process economically viable. The tests are done in batches and it can take up to four hours to confidently test for the presence of a virus from a batch. If one adds the time taken to isolate the RNA from swabs, this could again take a couple of hours. The scale of logistics involved can mean that it can practically take a day for results from a sample to be known. If one adds the cost of chemicals needed to perform these tests and the vagaries of importing practically every element of the paraphernalia involved, in the midst of a pandemic when demand far exceeds supply, it results in the test not being cheap. It can cost at least Rs. 4,500 depending on whether one is tested at a public or privately-run facility. Antibody tests are portable, can be administered on-site, conducted en masse and give quick answers. However, these answers are useful in-so-far as those who are using them are asking the right questions. What do antibody tests reveal? Given that they are not useful for directly detecting the presence of the virus, antibody tests can be used to gauge the extent of infection in a community or a large group of people who may have had exposure to the virus. Much like pregnancy detection kits, rapid-test kits change colour when particular molecules are detected. Two kinds of antibodies result from an infection: Immunoglobulin M and Immunoglobulin G (IgM and IgG). In response to an infection, the IgM is first produced within a week of infection. Two weeks later, the levels of IgM reduce and are replaced by IgG. The latter is a longer-lasting antibody and, depending on the infectious agent involved, can offer different durations of immunity. Antibodies to the chickenpox virus last for decades. Those to influenza viruses and even other coronaviruses (that cause the common cold) last no more than a year or two. This is why people need flu shots at regular intervals, and one of the reasons why it is practically pointless to have a vaccine for the common cold. It is too early in the course of the COVID-19 pandemic to determine how long immunity lasts. Nevertheless the presence of IgM, IgG can in a sample of the population determine whether the virus is present in certain clusters. Ideally, this can help government authorities decide on what regions in a lockdown can be opened up if the aim is to get regular life back on track as soon as possible. This is what happened when infections had reached frightening proportions in the United States and Europe. It was apparent that the limitations of the RT-PCR combined with the virus’s ability to spread even through those who were not visibly sick would mean large numbers would be infected without being detected. Rapid antibody tests can also play a role in determining the degree of “herd immunity” in a population. That is, the true number who may have been infected; when a sizeable fraction of the population has been infected, the virus ceases its pace of spread. Current research expects herd immunity to have been achieved when 55% to 80% of the population has been infected — only careful serological surveys can establish that. Studies in India too have shown that for every symptomatic positive, there are two asymptomatic or presymptomatics (those who do not visibly manifest the disease). Thus, antibody tests could also be used for such estimates in India. The ICMR had laid out the strategy to use antibody tests to gauge the degree of COVID-19 presence in the country. The plan involved using a combination of both RT-PCR and antibody tests to establish infection levels. What happened to India’s rapid testing plan? Two Chinese companies, Wondfo and Livzon, got licences to sell 500,000 rapid antibody kits to the ICMR. Several of these were to be given to States and some were for the ICMR’s own use. A first batch was deployed in some States and soon complaints began pouring in over inaccurate results. The ICMR then asked States to stop using these kits for two days. After two days, the ICMR advised States to stop using the kits altogether. The Health Ministry has cancelled the licences given to the companies that were importing these kits from China. So far, the ICMR has not clarified what was wrong with the kits. The Chinese companies have also claimed that the kits were validated by the ICMR’s expert body, the National Institute of Virology (NIV). However, the NIV only clears batches of kits that are submitted for testing. It is possible that even if a company’s kits get cleared, it ends up supplying kits on the field that are not up to the mark. Another feature of the kits is their sensitivity (in percentage terms, the times the tests correctly identify people as positive for an infection) and specificity (in percentage terms, the times the test correctly rules out those not carrying the virus). Specificity refers to its ability to accurately distinguish between the target virus and other viruses. It is a well-established feature of tests that in regions of low actual prevalence of a disease, they can, depending on the kit’s specificity and sensitivity, miscategorise vast numbers of those tested. It is not clear if these were factored in in tests using kits blamed as faulty by States. India is not the only place where complaints over Chinese kits have been raised. The United Kingdom and Spain have also raised such issues with these kits. In either event, there is no clarity if the ICMR has ordered more kits. The Health Minister, Dr. Harsh Vardhan, has said that by the end of May, the country will have kits that are made in India for antibody and RT-PCR tests.  Health officials say the antibody tests for COVID-19 are imperfect as not enough research hours have been spent studying antibodies and the profile of recovered patients||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/can-antibody-tests-help-tackle-covid-19/article31492643.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Minorities panel chief charged with sedition||Delhi Police Special Cell on Saturday registered an FIR against Delhi Minorities Commission chairman Zafarul Islam Khan on charges of sedition after he allegedly made a “provocative” Facebook post for which he later apologised. A senior officer said the FIR has been registered under Sections 124 A (Sedition) and 153 A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) based on a complaint by a resident of south Delhi’s Vasant Kunj. The complainant stated that on April 28 Mr. Khan shared a post social media which was “provocative”. In the post, he thanked Kuwait for taking note of the “persecution of Indian Muslims” in the context of the violence in north-east Delhi. Mr. Khan later issued a statement apologising for the post. “I realise that my tweet was ill-timed and insensitive in view of our country facing a medical emergency and fighting an unseen enemy. I apologise to all whose sentiments were hurt. Further, the limitation of a tweet, which has to be very short by its very nature, was also responsible that the whole narrative was not made out in plain language,” he had said. In a parallel development, a group of former judges, bureaucrats, and others on Saturday urged Delhi Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal not to allow Mr. Khan to complete his term, which ends in July. “Mr. Zafarul Islam is completing his term in July this year. Keeping in mind his concurrent and recurring potential to abuse the authority bestowed upon him by the law, we plead to your honour that he should not be permitted to complete the term,” the letter read. ‘Criminally culpable’ The group, who called themselves “concerned citizens of India”, termed Mr. Khan’s post an “ill-conceived communal rant” and an “anti-national act”. The letter said the “illegal” action of Mr. Khan also makes him “criminally culpable” on many counts.  The group of 106 people included S.M. Soni, former judge of Gujarat High Court; Permod Kohli, former Chief Justice of Sikkim High Court; and Anand Bose, former Chief Secretary of Kerala.   I realise that my tweet was ill-timed and insensitive in view of our country facing a medical emergency and fighting an unseen enemy. I apologise to all whose sentiments were hurt Zafarul Islam Khan Delhi Minorities Commission chairman||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/minorities-panel-chief-charged-with-sedition/article31492913.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||When will a COVID-19 vaccine be ready?||The story so far: On April 23, Oxford University initiated a phase-1 human clinical trial of its vaccine — ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 — against the novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2. A single dose of the candidate vaccine will be administered to 1,112 healthy volunteers to study the safety, ability to produce immune response and efficacy of the vaccine. Oxford University is optimistic of a positive outcome of the candidate vaccine and has planned to get millions of doses of the vaccine before the end of the year even as results of the final phase of the trial (phase-3) are awaited. The vaccine candidate was developed by the University’s Jenner Institute which began trials in humans on April 23 jointly with the University’s Oxford Vaccine Group. How was the vaccine being tested constructed? The vaccine, ChAdOx1 nCoV-19, uses the common cold virus (adenovirus) that causes infections in chimpanzees. The adenovirus has been genetically altered so that it does not grow once injected. The construct carries the genetic material of the novel coronavirus that makes the spike protein. The spike protein is found on the surface of the virus and plays a crucial role in binding to specific human receptors found on cell surfaces and entering the cells. By introducing the genetic material of the spike protein, the candidate vaccine will help the body recognise it and make antibodies against the spike protein. The antibodies produced will help mount an immune response and prevent the virus from entering the human cells and causing an infection. Oxford University has used vaccines made from the adenovirus construct to over 320 people and has found it to be safe and well tolerated. It does cause transient side effects such as a fever, headache or a sore arm but is otherwise safe. Has it been tested on animals? The adenovirus construct has been used by Oxford University researchers to test safety for both the 2002 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS). Once the safety of the MERS vaccine was proven in a trial carried out in the U.K., a trial began in December last year in Saudi Arabia, where MERS outbreaks occur frequently. The safety of the candidate vaccine was earlier tested on six rhesus macaque monkeys. A single dose protected all the six animals for nearly a month even when exposed to high levels of the virus, boosting the confidence of the researchers. What is the process of the clinical trial? Up to 1,112 healthy volunteers from Oxford, Southampton, London and Bristol have been recruited for the phase-1 trial. Volunteers, both male and female between 18-55 years, are being recruited for the trial. A single dose of the candidate vaccine will be administered to volunteers. The participants will be randomly assigned to receive either the candidate vaccine (ChAdOx1 nCoV-19) or a ‘control’, the MenACWY vaccine, for comparison. Oxford University is using the MenACWY vaccine — that protects against four strains of meningococcal bacteria — rather than a saline control. The participants will not know if he or she received a candidate vaccine or not. The university researchers will also be testing two doses of the candidate vaccine given four weeks apart on a small group of 10 volunteers to assess the dosage and immune response. For the control group, why is a vaccine for meningococcal bacteria being used and not saline? The MenACWY vaccine is a licensed vaccine given routinely to teenagers in the U.K. since 2015. The MenACWY vaccine is being used as an “active control” vaccine to help understand participants’ response to ChAdOx1 nCoV-19. The reason for using this vaccine, rather than a saline control, is because researchers expect to see some minor side effects from the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 vaccine such as a sore arm, headache and fever. Saline does not cause any of these side effects. If participants were to receive only this vaccine or a saline control, and went on to develop side effects, they would be aware that they had received the new vaccine. It is critical for the study, says Oxford University, that participants remain blinded to whether or not they have received the vaccine, “as, if they knew, this could affect their health behaviour in the community following vaccination, and may lead to a bias in the results of the study”. While all participants will be told how to reduce infection risk, it is necessary that participants receiving both vaccines are exposed to the virus and some get infected. Only then will it become possible to understand if the vaccinated group remained protected or not compared with the control arm. For this purpose, keeping the participants in the dark about the vaccine received makes the trial robust. What is the timeline for the trial? The phase-1 trial is expected to be completed in end-May if transmission remains high in the community. The phase-2 trial may be completed by August-September. According to Suresh Jadhav, Executive Director of the Pune-based Serum Institute of India Pvt. Ltd., phase-2 and phase-3 trials may get combined if the phase-1 trial results are encouraging. When will Pune’s Serum Institute start manufacturing the vaccine? According to Mr. Jadhav, the company will start manufacturing the vaccine the moment the phase-3 trial or the combined phase-2/phase-3 trial begins. If the last two stages of the trial are combined then it would start manufacturing the vaccine by end-June and be ready with millions of doses by the end of the year. The company is confident of manufacturing 60-70 million vaccine doses by the end of the year. He says, “Since we will begin manufacturing when the last phase of the trial is initiated, we will have millions of vaccine doses ready by the time the trial ends.” How much will it cost? In a tweet on April 30, Oxford University said it is partnering with AstraZeneca to manufacture and distribute the vaccine as quickly as possible. It said the vaccine will be made available on a “not for profit basis for the duration of the coronavirus pandemic”.  The Pune-based Serum Institute of India plans to manufacture the vaccine when phase-3 or the combined phase-2/phase-3 trials begin. Millions of doses are likely to be ready by the end of the year||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/when-will-a-covid-19-vaccine-be-ready/article31492647.ece
03 May 2020||New DELHI,||No word on plan to move workers, city’s stations wear deserted look||The New Delhi and Nizamuddin railway stations bore a deserted look on Saturday, just a day after the Centre announced special trains to transport migrants, students, tourists and others stranded in the lockdown to their respective States. The entrance to the Nizamuddin railway station is bordered by lines of parked black and yellow taxis. The Ajmeri Gate side of the New Delhi railway station resembled an abandoned piece of vacant land, in the absence of serpentine queues of autos, cabs and private cars. With no word yet on when the transportation process will start in the Capital, both railway stations — that usually witness unending hustle at all hours — are currently populated only by skeletal staff of the Railways and a few policemen. With a few stationary trains at some of the platforms, authorities at both stations said that they were awaiting orders from the Centre before starting to move people. ‘Order from govt.’ A senior official at the Nizamuddin railway station said, “There has been no intimation from the government yet and necessary arrangements can begin to be made only after that. But we are not sure if and when trains start if it will be from Nizamuddin as it is in close proximity to the containment zones. So, we doubt if any train will be able to operate from here. Stations like Anand Vihar and New Delhi are more likely to be the ones. However, there is no confirmation yet.” The platforms at the New Delhi railway station, which till a little over a month back saw daily footfall in thousands, are now spick and span, with the exception of lone cargo trains being loaded with items. With stations being devoid of the usual activities, announcements, passengers lugging along, the only ones maintaining the prescribed social distance are a group of canines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/no-word-on-plan-to-move-workers-citys-stations-wear-deserted-look/article31492908.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||Students stuck in Kota likely to return today||The Delhi government on Saturday dispatched 45 buses to bring back an estimated 800 students to the Capital, who are stranded in Rajasthan’s Kota. The AC buses were requisitioned from the Delhi Contract Bus Association (DCBA). The buses left Delhi at midnight on Friday and reached their destination around noon on Saturday, the DCBA said. The students are expected to reach the city by early Sunday morning. “Hundreds of our children studying in Kota were stuck there for over a month. We are arranging for their return to Delhi. I am so happy they will soon be reunited with their families,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted. According to the Delhi government, not more than 22 students would be allowed on one bus and all would be screened at the time of departure as well as arrival. Delhi Contract Bus Association general secretary Harish Sabharwal said the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits for staff and the full sanitisation of buses at both points, masks, face shields and sanitiser bottles were provided by the association. One home guard and one Delhi Police constable were also deployed aboard each bus. A team of doctors, senior officials from the Home Guards and the Delhi government’s Social Welfare Department were also among the contingent that was on board the buses. AC luxury buses “All the buses deployed are luxury AC with 2x2 push bk seats so that social distancing can be taken care of during journey. Not more than 22 students are allowed in one bus or coach,” Mr. Sabharwal said, adding: “The buses are ready to leave by 8 p.m. on Saturday so as to reach the Interstate Bus Terminal in Delhi by 5 a.m.-6 a.m.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/students-stuck-in-kota-likely-to-return-today/article31492910.ece
03 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police caution stranded migrant workers about fake travel forms||The police have released a video to spread awareness about a fake form that is being circulated online asking migrants from Bihar to fill up the documents in order to go back to their hometowns. Sent on WhatsApp In the video message, Assistant Commissioner of Police (Gandhi Nagar) Siddhartha Jain said a form is being circulated on WhatsApp asking migrant workers living in Gandhi Nagar sub-division to fill it up so that they can go back to Bihar. “I would like to request everybody to not pay heed to any such form. No such document has been issued by the government or the police which you can fill and go to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar,” he said. The video was shared in Resident Welfare Groups of the area. On how the information on the fake form reached the police, a senior officer said a call was received from a resident of Gandhi Nagar stating that such forms were being photocopied and distributed at a photocopy shop in Gandhi Nagar. When the police reached the spot, they were informed by the shop owner that he has no knowledge of who made the form. Case registered A case under Section 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC has been lodged against the photocopy shop owner and further investigation is under way.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-caution-stranded-migrant-workers-about-fake-travel-forms/article31492915.ece
03 May 2020||May 03 2020 00:00 IST,||Debt and mutual funds||The story so far: In view of the possible redemption pressure that the mutual fund industry may face after the abrupt winding up of six debt schemes of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Monday announced a special liquidity window of Rs. 50,000 crore for mutual funds. Under the scheme, the RBI will conduct repo (repurchase agreement) operations of 90-day tenor at a fixed repo rate of 4.40% for banks. According to the RBI, banks can avail funds under this facility exclusively for meeting the liquidity requirements of mutual fund houses by extending loans and undertaking outright purchase of and/or repos against the collateral of investment grade corporate bonds, commercial papers (CPs), debentures and certificates of deposit (CDs) held by the fund houses. The scheme will be open till May 11 or up to utilisation of the allocated amount, whichever is earlier. Why was it needed? The trigger for the liquidity window was Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund’s decision to wind up six debt funds that had a combined assets under management (AUM) of almost Rs. 26,000 crore. The fund house said that it decided to wind up the schemes to preserve the value at prevailing levels — their value had eroded because of redemption pressures and mark-to-market losses due to lack of liquidity on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. That led to fears that the debt funds of many other fund houses could face redemption pressure accentuated by the panic sparked by Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund’s sudden move. Are mutual funds’ debt schemes under pressure? While the mutual fund industry clarified that what had happened at Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund was an isolated case, wider liquidity and other concerns persist. A couple of fund houses have already seen huge erosion in the net asset values of a few debt schemes post the Franklin Templeton episode due to mark-downs of their holdings. Incidentally, till date, banks have borrowed about Rs. 2,000 crore through the RBI liquidity window for mutual funds. Market observers say debt schemes are under pressure due to a combination of factors. How much debt assets do mutual funds manage? The AUM of debt schemes of the mutual fund industry is about Rs. 15-lakh crore, which is more than half of the total AUM of Indian fund houses. The worst affected sub-category of debt funds is Credit Risk funds that account for only 5% of the overall debt assets. Investors, however, are sceptical about the overall credit quality of the assets; hence debt schemes are likely to see a spike in redemptions. Mutual funds are allowed to borrow up to 20% of their assets to meet liquidity needs for redemption or dividend pay-out. As of April 23, four mutual funds — of a total of 42 fund houses — had a cumulative borrowing of Rs. 4,427.68 crore, according to the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). Fund managers say that while such borrowings are common in March — there are huge redemptions due to advance tax payment and other quarter-end obligations — a spillover of such borrowings to April is a cause for concern. What is the quality of debt securities held by mutual funds? Fund managers are of the view that more than half of the assets in debt schemes have a rating of AA or above. They say that while about 20% to 30% of total debt AUM would be AAA rated or in cash, another 30% to 50% would be in AA+ or AA rating. While the overall debt quality, based on current ratings, looks good on paper, the ongoing nationwide lockdown has impacted cash flows of most corporates, and investors are expecting defaults especially from the mid and small-sized corporate segment. What are the regulators doing? The regulators are aware of the potential risk and are monitoring the situation closely. Market participants have already written to the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to take action against Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund including appointing a high-powered committee to take over the management of the fund house while examining its investment decisions. The Association of National Exchanges Members of India (ANMI), an umbrella body representing about 900 brokers, has written to the Ministry of Finance and SEBI that as much as 64.73% of the total AUM of Franklin India Low Duration Fund was in securities rated A or below, while in Franklin India Short Term Income Plan, such securities accounted for almost 59% of total assets. The brokers’ association says Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund invested in long duration securities even though SEBI norms state that ultra short duration funds can only have bonds with a tenure between three and six months.  While the overall debt quality looks good on paper, fund managers admit that the lockdown has impacted cash flows of most corporates, especially in the mid- and small-sized segments||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/debt-and-mutual-funds/article31492645.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||Volunteers’ group flags issues in accessing blood||A group of volunteers comprising health professionals and citizens that has been facilitating access to healthcare during the nationwide lockdown have flagged issues in accessing blood requirements to the State government. In a letter to the Delhi Health Minister, the Medical Support Group stated that patients in need of blood were asked to provide replacement blood donations to the hospital’s blood bank in several cases involving city hospitals. The group claimed that the State government hospitals were not readily accepting donor cards issued by the Delhi government hospitals. They stated that transporting donors to a hospital and exposing them to the risk of infection was not prudent. To address these concerns, the group suggested regular mobile blood donation camps, relaxing donor replacement practices, free blood for pregnant women and that donor cards issued by government hospitals be honoured at all hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/volunteers-group-flags-issues-in-accessing-blood/article31492914.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. launches exercise to identify, open liquor shops||The Delhi government on Saturday launched an exercise to identify and open liquor shops in areas where such activity is allowed according to the latest guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). The Excise Department directed four government-run agencies, which are responsible for the sale of liquor in the city, to identify such outlets which fulfill all conditions prescribed by the MHA except those located in COVID-19 containment zones or hotspots. The Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation (DTTDC), the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIDC), the Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation Limited (DSCSCL) and the Delhi Consumer’s Cooperative Wholesale Store (DCCWS) can open liquor shops in public places, except those located in malls. The agencies were asked to immediately provide details of shops which operated under the L-6 and L-8 licenses and also give an undertaking stating that liquor shops being allowed to open will fulfill all conditions prescribed by the MHA, according to the excise department order. There are an estimated 450 liquor shops, except those in malls, in the Capital. The latest guidelines by the Centre state that the sale of liquor, paan, tobacco will be allowed after ensuring minimum six-feet social distancing while no more than five people will be allowed inside a shop at a time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-launches-exercise-to-identify-open-liquor-shops/article31492916.ece
03 May 2020||New Delhi,||Court dismisses Tahir Hussain’s bail petition||A Delhi court on Saturday denied bail to suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain in a case related to communal violence that took place during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act in northeast Delhi in February. Additional Sessions Judge Tyagita Singh rejected Hussain’s bail plea on the grounds that the investigation is at an initial stage at present and his custody was required for it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/court-dismisses-tahir-hussains-bail-petition/article31492912.ece
