12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Modi asks States to prepare for ramping up economic activity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said at a video conference with Chief Ministers that the lockdown would continue in some form or the other even after May 17, but that the State governments should send in their plans for ramping up economic activity in green zones between May 15 and 17 for consideration by the Centre. In a marathon meeting that lasted (with a half-an -hour break in between) for nearly six hours, and saw most Chief Ministers speak their mind, Mr. Modi said the imperative was to protect rural areas from the COVID-19 pandemic as these areas were largely untouched at the moment. According to one Chief Minister who spoke to The Hindu , Mr. Modi indicated that a full exit from the lockdown was not possible in the current circumstances, especially since five Chief Ministers, including those of West Bengal, Telangana and Bihar, asked for an extension. He lauded the State governments for their work in containing the pandemic till now, and said it was to be a united effort. Migrant labour He also said the movement of migrant labour to their native States should be expedited within the next 10 days. “This may lead to some problems in terms of States that employ them and even in their native States where there may be a spike in cases,” Mr. Modi is reported to have said. All States, however, should now think in terms of economic revival as well, he emphasised. He said, “I am of the firm view that the measures needed in the first phase of lockdown were not needed during the second phase and similarly the measures needed in the third phase are not needed in the fourth.” “And therefore, we can now further focus our strategy in this battle against coronavirus, as should be the case. We have a twofold challenge — to reduce the transmission rate of the disease, and to increase public activity gradually, while adhering to all the guidelines, and we will have to work towards achieving both these objectives,” Mr. Modi said. He said the new way of life would be on the principle of “ Jan Se lekar Jag Tak ,” from an individual to the whole of humanity. He said we must all plan for the new reality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/modi-asks-states-to-prepare-for-ramping-up-economic-activity/article31562091.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India adds 4,213 cases in highest single-day rise||The country on Monday registered its highest spike in COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours with an addition of 4,213 cases, taking the tally to 67,152. An additional 97 deaths were reported, taking the nationwide toll to 2,206. India currently has 44, 029 active cases; 20,916 persons have recovered. “In the last 24 hours, there were 1,559 recoveries which takes the recovery rate to 31.15%,” Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said. According to data from the State Health Departments, the nationwide death toll was 2,295, with 45,932 active cases. The total number of cases stood at 70,768. The Union Health Ministry denied that any religion-based mapping of patients was done and termed any news in this regard as “baseless, incorrect and irresponsible”. Responding to allegations about the government mulling community/religion-based mapping of the COVID-19 spread, Mr. Agarwal said, “This is a very irresponsible piece of news. The virus does not see people’s caste, creed or religion.” “The Supreme Court has already said no fake news should be published, and news should be published after checking facts. News should not spread fear, we should stay united to fight this virus. Nobody should encourage non-factual news,” he said.  “Awareness and adhering to guidelines issued by the government is our best weapon against the virus. We have to fight the stigma falsely associated with coronavirus. People having COVID-19 symptoms should come forward to report so that they don’t spread infection to their family members and others,” he added. The Ministry also announced further changes in its discharge policy and revised the home isolation guidelines for very mild/pre-symptomatic cases. Under the new guidelines there is no need for testing after the end of the home isolation period for such cases. The Ministry said the revisions were based on the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) review from lab surveillance data.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-adds-4213-cases-in-highest-single-day-rise/article31562088.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Flight with 326 passengers from London lands at KIA||An Air India flight from London, with Karnataka residents who were stuck abroad, landed at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) on Monday morning. There were 326 passengers, including three infants, on the flight, and all of them were screened at the airport. Later, they were transported in 20 non-AC BMTC buses to identified quarantine facilities. “To maintain social distance, only 20 passengers were allowed to travel in each bus,” said a BMTC official. Deputy Commissioner of Bengaluru Rural district P.N. Ravindra told The Hindu that all the passengers have been sent to designated hotels for quarantine. “The flight landed around 4.45 a.m. There were 323 adults and three infants on the flight. All of them were screened at the airport.” “No one showed any symptom of COVID-19 during the screening. They will stay in the identified hotels for 14 days and have to bear the accommodation cost,” Mr. Ravindra said. It was the first flight under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ to arrive at Bengaluru. Airport sources said the flight had a planned stopover at Delhi airport before reaching Bengaluru. One of the passengers, Ritika Srivatsan, a student in the U.K., said that ever since Europe became the epicentre of COVID-19, everything was closed. “Unfortunately, my college closed right after they announced the ban in India and I was unable to get back. I booked tickets for when they said the ban would be lifted but that didn’t happen and it only got extended,” she said. Glad to be “home”, she waved to her parents from the bus which transported them to the quarantine facility. “We were only allowed to board in London after a temperature check. The food on the plane was already packed, wrapped and left on the seat table. After stepping off the plane, we were given hand sanitiser and various forms to fill regarding health and quarantine,” she said, adding that everything went on smoothly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/flight-with-326-passengers-from-london-lands-at-kia/article31562134.ece
12 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||13,000 tonnes of styrene to be sent back to South Korea||Jolted by the death of 12 persons and hundreds falling sick due to the gas leak at the LG Polymers factory in Visakhapatnam, the Andhra Pradesh government has begun the process of transporting 13,000 tonnes of styrene gas in two consignments of 8,000 tonnes and 5,000 tonnes to South Korea. The remaining gas in the storage tanks of the factory that leaked has been converted to 100% polymer. The government is also drawing up plans to shift the hazardous industries to places far away from cities and towns to avert such accidents. At a review meeting through video conference on the situation in the affected areas, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials of industries and factories departments to conduct a safety audit, particularly those involved in the manufacturing and processing of harmful chemicals. Safety protocols Mr. Reddy emphasised on the need for relocation of hazardous industries and strict compliance with safety protocols stipulated by the Central government. Visakhapatnam Collector V. Vinay Chand informed the Chief Minister that the danger at the plant had subsided as the temperature of the styrene gas had been brought to relatively cool 73 degrees Celsius. “Around 13,000 tonnes of gas stored in tanks is intact and it is being loaded into two vessels. The process will be completed in around five days,” he said. Ministers M. Srinivasa Rao and Botcha Satyanarayana said ex gratia was paid to the five bereaved families whose legal heirs were finalised and the remaining ones would get the solatium in the coming days. Sanitisation of the villages in the vicinity of the factory has almost been completed, they said. Mr. Reddy instructed the officials to pay Rs. 10,000 to each resident of the five affected villages irrespective of their age and credit it to the unencumbered bank accounts of the women in those families.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/andhra-pradesh-to-send-back-13000-tonne-styrene-to-south-korea/article31562069.ece
12 May 2020||Bhopal,||Migrant exodus chokes Maharashtra-M.P. border||Having walked and hitchhiked from Navi Mumbai for almost a week, Sonu Kumar, 18, was both elated to sit at last when he boarded a Maharashtra government bus. “ Hume laga ab ghar jaayenge seedha (I thought I will directly reach home now),” he said, peering outside while gripping the window grille. But just a few miles into the journey, the bus took a u-turn at the Bijasan border with Madhya Pradesh. Mr. Kumar, a mason, almost lost the little hope he had salvaged after the lockdown rendered him jobless and hungry for two months. His heart sank as did his hopes of returning home to Madhubani in Bihar, around 1,500 km away. Dropped back 2 km from the border, as an array of trucks, buses, motorcycles, scooters, cars, autorickshaws, bicycles and trailers — all carrying migrant workers — clogged the Mumbai-Agra Highway, he trudged back to the border, hailing every passing vehicle for a ride in vain. “We were told the Madhya Pradesh government will take us onward,” said a desperate Mr. Kumar. Police overwhelmed Hunger seemed a greater threat than the coronavirus at the State border. At 3 p.m. on Sunday, as the inflow of workers from Maharashtra and Gujarat swelled, an overwhelmed police force gave up checking for permits. No one was being screened for illness nor were social distancing norms observed. Vehicles — especially open trucks — were stopped intermittently to allow waiting workers, clutching backpacks and cycles, to get in. “SP sahab has given orders. Don’t drop them midway,” a young constable warned a truck driver. For the stranded and hapless workers, the searing heat had flipped the daily rhythm — they walked and pedalled at night, and slept through the day. “Just look how they are going back,” said a policeman from Madhya Pradesh. “This is a humanitarian problem, not a law and order one.” On Saturday, around 50,000 workers had crossed the border, but by Sunday night, twice that number had entered Madhya Pradesh. A policeman from Maharashtra, slumped in a chair, wondered: “Will our economy work if they leave like this?” When Madhya Pradesh had earlier refused to accept workers bound for Uttar Pradesh, he confessed that the police had suggested the workers take alternative routes to avoid detection. “How can someone be stopped from going back home,” he asked. Then, the held-up workers had begun throwing stones, injuring three policemen.  Vehicles stranded Among the vehicles were several autorickshaws and taxis, bearing the Mumbai, Pune and Nashik registration numbers, heading for Uttar Pradesh. “For the first time, I am riding my rickshaw this long, on a highway,” said Umakant Sharma who was returning to Prayagraj. “I will return after the lockdown ends.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/migrant-exodus-chokes-maharashtra-mp-border/article31562093.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Huge spike in COVID cases in TS||Telangana witnessed huge spike in single-day coronavirus positive cases on Monday with 79 persons testing positive for COVID-19. More worrisome is the fact that all the cases have been reported from GHMC area, the State Capital. Such a huge increase in the number of cases in one day is highest-ever reported in Telangana so far. With the addition of positive cases on Monday, the number of confirmed cases in the State has gone up to 1,275. Active cases According to an official bulletin issued on Monday night, the number of active cases is 444 and 801 persons who tested positive in the past have been discharged from hospitals till date. However, the number of deaths remains at 30 as on Sunday. The bulletin issued by the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare has also stated that three districts – Warangal Rural, Yadadri-Bhongir and Wanaparthy have no positive cases as on Monday and another 26 districts have reported no positive cases during the last 14 days. Strangely, four migrants in Yadadri district tested positive on Sunday but the Monday’s report has no mention of it. Of the 50 persons discharged on Monday, 42 belonged to Hyderabad, four to Suryapet and one each from Nirmal, Kumram Bheem-Asifabad, Medchal-Malkajgiri and Karimnagar districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/huge-spike-in-covid-cases-in-ts/article31562342.ece
12 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Policemen abuse schoolteacher for recording ‘high-handedness’||A case of “high-handedness” of Uttar Pradesh Police came to light on Monday when a 53-year-old schoolteacher in Agra tweeted for urgent help after some policemen allegedly hurled abuses at her and her family for making a video of them “beating those violating the lockdown”. Deepti Saraswat, a teacher at St. Felix Nursery School, wrote in her tweet that she and her doctor husband, currently posted at a COVID hospital in Aligarh, saw some policemen abusing two elderly persons on scooters on the road in front of their house. “We were seeing this happening since 6.30 a.m. as policemen were rebuking and abusing anyone who was on road. Within no time, SHO [Ajay Kaushal] and Assistant Superintendent of Police [of] Hariparavat [Saurabh Dixit] appeared on the scene. The SHO got down from his jeep and started beating the two persons who were asking for mercy. My instinct forced me to record it on my mobile,” read her tweet. When the policemen saw her recording the incident, they allegedly started hurling abuses and ordered her to come down. She claimed the SHO entered her house, asked for her cell phone and deleted the six-second-long video. “ASP Saurabh Dixit publicly shouted at us and asked us to behave.” Speaking to The Hindu, Ms. Saraswat said, “I was recording the video to show it to my son, who was insisting on going out for some work. The moment they objected, I stopped. I had no intention to capture how they were harassing people.” “The police were working under pressure but it didn’t give them a right to humiliate me. The ASP abused my son who had come out,” she said. Ms. Saraswat said she spoke to the wife of SSP Babloo Kumar. “I am yet to receive any call from her husband or any other officer. All I want is an apology.” SP (City) Rohan Pramod Botre said he has taken note of the tweet. “We will listen to both sides and take necessary action. Today [Monday], we were busy with the transportation of migrant labourers, tomorrow I will speak to her.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/policemen-abuse-schoolteacher-for-recording-high-handedness/article31562285.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. sees record spike of 798 cases||Six persons, including two women in their 30s, died due to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, taking the toll to 53 till date. This, on a day when the number of cases in the State passed the 8,000-mark, with 798 persons testing positive. It was a record single-day surge for both the State and its capital city. Of the new cases, Chennai alone accounted for 538, bringing its total to 4,371. Tamil Nadu’s tally stood at 8,002* as on Monday. The deceased comprised four women and two men. According to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, a 32-year-old woman, a resident of Cuddalore and suffering from systemic hypertension, bronchial asthma and basilar artery aneurysm, was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 6 and died at 2.10 p.m. on May 8. Another woman, a 36-year-old from Chennai, had diabetes mellitus and bronchial asthma and was admitted to RGGGH on May 9. She died at 7.30 p.m. the same day. A 67-year-old woman with systemic hypertension, diabetes and hypothyroidism from Chennai, died at RGGGH on May 10, while a 66-year-old woman with systemic hypertension and coronary artery disease died in a private hospital on May 11. A 50-year-old resident of Chennai with systemic hypertension and diabetes died at RGGGH on May 10 while a 65-year-old man with stage 4 carcinoma of the pancreas along with multiple metastasis, admitted to the Kanniyakumari Medical College Hospital, died on May 9. The number of deaths has been rising steadily over the past week. A senior doctor said, “Private hospitals usually refer COVID-19 patients to government hospitals. Now, the number of referrals is more, and many of them have debilitating conditions. Many of these patients have multiple co-morbidities and have incidentally tested positive for COVID-19. Once they test positive, private hospitals are referring them to government tertiary care centres.” Ninety-two patients were discharged from various hospitals. This brought the number of patients discharged to 2,051 in the State. There are 5,895 active cases in the State while 4,273 persons suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 are admitted to isolation wards. The 798 (514 men and 284 women) new cases were reported from 17 districts. Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu were the worst hit. While Tiruvallur had 97 cases, Chengalpattu had 90, taking the total in the two districts to 440 and 356, respectively. Ariyalur had 33 new cases. There were 10 cases in Tiruvannamalai, eight in Kancheepuram, four each in Madurai and Ramanathapuram, three each in Thanjavur and Thoothukudi, two in Dharmapuri, and one each in Dindigul, Kanniyakumari, Perambalur, Ranipet, Vellore and Virudhunagar. A health official said the cases continued to surge in Chennai due to a number of clusters. “Chennai has cases from the Koyambedu cluster, front line workers cluster, hospital cluster and mediapersons cluster. Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Kodambakkam and Teynampet are the four highly-affected zones in the city,” he said. The day saw a high number of children aged 0 to 12 testing positive in the State. A total of 63 tested positive, taking the total number of children affected till now to 427. Another 49 persons aged above 60 are among the new patients. The number of samples tested dipped on Monday. A total of 11,862 samples were tested. With this, 2,54,899 samples have been tested so far in the State. Testing of 1,335 samples is under process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-sees-record-spike-of-798-cases/article31562184.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC sets up panel to look into J&K Internet curbs||The Jammu and Kashmir government’s orders do not reveal any reason for making mobile 4G Internet inaccessible across the Union Territory (UT), the Supreme Court said in an order on Monday. Besides, the government orders snipping the Internet speed to 2G were meant to operate for only a limited time. “Although the present orders indicate that they have been passed for a limited period of time, they do not provide any reasons to reflect that all the districts of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir require the imposition of such restrictions. At the same time, we do recognise that the Union Territory has been plagued with militancy, which is required to be taken into consideration,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana observed in the 19-page order. The order was based on petitions filed separately by media professionals, school associations and private citizens claiming that lack of access to high-speed Internet in J&K had crippled medical efforts to contain the COVID-19 contagion and pulled the rug under online education and businesses. The government, on the other hand, maintained that high-speed Internet was a facilitator of terrorism in the UT. The top court appointed a special committee led by the Union Home Secretary to “immediately” determine the necessity of continuing the restrictions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sc-sets-up-panel-to-look-into-jk-internet-curbs/article31562089.ece
12 May 2020||Hyderabad,||KCR against restoring train services||As the stage is being set for commencement of train services from Tuesday, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the Centre not to restore trains as it can lead to problems. All the major cities including New Delhi and Hyderabad have been affected by COVID-19 pandemic reporting significant number of positive cases. Allowing train travel at this juncture would enable mass transport and it would be difficult for the governments to keep tabs on the people moving in and out of the respective States. There would be difficulties in tracing people with the virus as it would not be possible to screen all those boarding trains. “The governments will face problems in quarantining all those arriving at their respective States,” the Chief Minister said. KCR made these remarks during the video conference Prime Minister Narendra Modi had with State CMs on Monday to evolve a way forward as the deadline for lockdown 3.0 is ending on May 17. Mr. Rao was particular that there was no scope for immediate relief from the pandemic and hence, steps should be taken accordingly to protect people from the virus. He said efforts were on to make a vaccine for coronavirus and companies based out of Hyderabad were hopeful of launching it by July/August. People should be educated in the meanwhile to take necessary precautions to prevent the virus spread. “Efforts should be made to sensitise people about the virus and confidence should be instilled among them that there is no cause of concern if necessary precautions were taken,” he said. KCR reiterated the demand that the Centre reschedule loans availed by States on the lines of banks that rescheduled crop loans. This was necessary as the finances of the States were severely affected by the pandemic and no state was in a position to repay the loans. The Centre should also enhance the borrowing limit under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management norms so that the States could meet their commitments. He stressed the need for strict enforcement of lockdown in containment zones without giving scope for negligence. The States were working in utmost coordination with the Centre in checking the spread of the virus by taking appropriate decisions based on the emerging situation. “ The Telangana government took all necessary steps to effectively check the spread of the virus.There was no dearth of equipment, medicines, PPE kits and beds for quarantining the affected people and the government was geared up to meet any eventuality, the CM said. He, however, wanted the Centre to speedily declare green and orange zones after the conditions stipulated were fulfilled. He expressed concern over delay in announcing green and orange zones and said this was in turn delaying the commencement of economic and other activities in these areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/kcr-against-restoring-train-services/article31562343.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||CM for restart of economic activity in city||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, during the videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterparts from other States on Monday, asked for economic activity to be allowed to resume across the Capital, barring containment zones, sources said. The AAP government has already demanded from the Centre that all 11 districts of Delhi be not treated as red zones so that more economic activities are allowed in the national capital. Mr. Kejriwal spoke for five minutes around 8 p.m., almost five hours after the videoconference commenced. The Delhi government would follow the consensus reached at the meeting, said a source. On April 11, Mr. Kejriwal had sought to make a case for a Centre-sponsored relief package and funding on a par with other States to deal with the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-for-restart-of-economic-activity-in-city/article31562286.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Do away with district-wise zones, says CM||Seeking to further relax the lockdown norms, the State government on Monday proposed, to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, doing away with district-wise zones and instead identifying only containment zones that can be strictly cordoned off. It also proposed commercial activities, including commencement of public transport, in non-containment zones. BSY presentation Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who made the presentation at the videoconferencing of Chief Ministers with the Prime Minister, said: “50 to 100m around known clusters may be declared as containment zones. We propose to do away with district-wise red, orange, and green zones.” While suggesting compulsory institutional quarantine for international and inter-State travellers, which Karnataka has made it mandatory, the Chief Minister urged the Prime Minister to establish nationwide testing guidelines to determine the minimum number of tests per million to be carried out in each State. “We must test only those with symptoms and need hospitalisation. We must make telemedicine the new protocol to approach the pandemic,” he suggested. Mr. Yediyurappa also added that inter-State travellers should be issued health clearance certificate at the place of the origin of journey, without which persons should be placed under compulsory quarantine. While he urged the Centre not to allow both domestic and international air travel at least till the end of May, he also said that the restrictions on malls, cinema halls, dining facilities and establishments with central ACs should be continued. He further suggested that persons above 60 years and children below 10 years should be advised to remain indoors and stay protected while people with co morbidity have to be protected with utmost care. Meanwhile, Mr. Yediyurappa highlighted the steps taken by the State to fight the virus, including the increase in the number of labs from two that tested 300 samples in February to 35 testing 6,000 samples now. He said that it will be increased to 60 labs by the end of this month. He also pointed out the online training completed by Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences to 93,700 healthcare personnel in the State. He also pointed out that Arogya Setu app has been downloaded by about 58 lakh people in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/do-away-with-district-wise-zones-cm/article31562132.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Don’t resume air, rail services till May 31: CM||Citing the rising number of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi not to resume regular air and rail services to the State till May 31. Referring to media reports on plans to resume regular train services to and from Chennai from Tuesday (May 12), he said, “As the positive cases in Chennai are showing an increasing trend, don’t permit train services up to May 31 in my State.” He made a similar request with respect to air services. During a video-conference with Mr. Modi, he also sought financial aid, including refinancing support of Rs. 2,500 crore for the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation through SIDBI and commercial banks. A copy of the CM’s address was released to the media. Recalling efforts to combat COVID-19, Mr. Palaniswami said that as on May 10, Tamil Nadu had tested 2,43,037 samples and 7,204 persons had been found positive. Besides, 59,610 contacts and “suspected persons” were under active quarantine. Effective medical treatment had ensured that the death rate in Tamil Nadu was the lowest at 0.67%, he said, and added that the discharge rate was 27%, with 1,959 patients recovering. He reiterated his request for more RT-PCR testing kits. The State, which has sent back 13,284 persons, including migrant workers and patients on 12 trains, plans to send more migrant workers and others on 61 trains by May 17. Mr. Palaniswami, however, sought early consent from Chief Ministers of receiving States. The State has received four flights and a ship under the “Vande Bharat” and “Samudra Setu” missions and over 900 passengers have been quarantined and tested, he said. Pointing out that Tamil Nadu has a large number of MSME units with several thousand labourers, he requested that the annual credit plan target for lending to MSMEs should be enhanced to Rs. 1,25,000 crore for 2020-21. “A credit restructuring package may also be provided so that they do not have repayment obligations till December 31, 2020. Fresh working capital assistance should be extended to MSME units,” the Chief Minister said. He reiterated his plea for a special grant of Rs. 2,000 crore to enhance available medical equipment. Besides, the State must be allowed additional borrowing of 33% above the permitted level for 2020-21, given its pending GST compensation and 50% of the 2020-21 Finance Commission grants for urban and rural local bodies. Insisting that no cuts should be made in devolution to States from the Union Budget estimates for 2020-21, he sought an ad hoc grant of Rs. 1,000 crore from NDRF to procure medical, protective materials and for the movement of migrant labourers, the cost which had been borne entirely by the State government. Yet again, he urged that the CMPRF be made eligible to receive CSR contributions under Schedule-III of the Companies Act, 2013. Mr. Palaniswami sought additional allocation of foodgrains for all cardholders, including the NPHH beneficiaries, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana and the Custom Milled Rice subsidy of Rs. 1,321 crore to facilitate paddy procurement. Besides, he sought a relief package to ease the immediate burden on the power sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-resume-air-rail-services-till-may-31-cm/article31562178.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||7 more cases in Kerala||Kerala reported seven more cases of COVID-19 on Monday, six of which are either expatriates or people who have returned to the State from other parts of the country.page 4||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/7-more-cases-in-kerala/article31562394.ece
12 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘State needs Rs. 16,000 cr. to upgrade health infra’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy told Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video-conference on Monday that Andhra Pradesh (A.P.) was able to control COVID-19 to a large extent by diligently following the guidelines laid down by the Central government in the last two months. The State required Rs. 16,000 crore for strengthening medical infrastructure and the Centre should help in that regard. Plus, the State was looking for an economic stimulus package to overcome the crisis, he saifd.  However, Mr. Jagan suggested that standard operating procedures (SOPs)for workplaces, markets and the manufacturing sector have to be evolved without any ambiguity and further relaxations were required.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-needs-rs-16000-cr-to-upgrade-health-infra/article31562080.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready to roll||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ready-to-roll/article31562079.ece
12 May 2020||KOZHIKODE/NEW DELHI,||Domestic flights may resume soon||After railway services, domestic flights are expected to resume soon, with the Civil Aviation Ministry in the process of taking a final call on when and how such flights commence. A top Central government source told The Hindu that a nod from the Union government to resume flights had to be in sync with the willingness of the States to let flights operate. Views of CMs “Air services can even begin before May 18. Operating protocols are in place. But a political decision on this has to be taken after keeping the views of Chief Ministers in mind.” the source added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/domestic-flights-may-resume-soon/article31562085.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||Manmohan stable, under observation||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh is stable but is being investigated to rule out causes of fever, a Congress functionary said on Monday, quoting sources in the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. “Dr. Manmohan Singh was admitted for observation and investigation after he developed a febrile reaction to a new medication. He is being investigated to rule out other causes of fever and is being provided care as needed,” a source said, quoting AIIMS doctors. A person close to the family confirmed to The Hindu that “Dr. Singh is fine but he will spend the night at the hospital, just to be safe”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/manmohan-stable-under-observation/article31562094.ece
12 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM seeks more freedom to alter lockdown curbs||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to accord States more latitude in rationalising the structuring of COVID-19 lockdown regulations to suit local realities and regional epidemic situations. At a conference with Mr. Modi and Chief Ministers of other States by video link, Mr. Vijayan argued for the resumption of autorickshaw, metro rail, and stage carriage services in urban centres that did not fall in the red zone category. The governments should limit passenger capacity to meet social distancing norms. The Centre should make pre-flight antibody tests compulsory for non-resident Indians seeking to travel to India. Interstate travel should be subject to restrictions. Railways should insist that those booked on special trains to Kerala should have the entry pass issued by NoRKA. He demanded more special trains to Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-seeks-more-freedom-to-alter-lockdown-curbs/article31562395.ece
12 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||SIT constituted to probe Gurugram teen’s death||A Special Investigation Team has been constituted by Gurugram Police to probe the death of a teenager in DLF Phase-V here a week ago. The 17-year-old was found dead after a girl made a social media post accusing him of molestation three years ago. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Chander Mohan said the SIT would probe the “scientific” and “cyber” aspects of the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sit-constituted-to-probe-gurugram-teens-death/article31562289.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||Capital reports 310 new COVID-19 cases, no death||The Capital reported 310 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total to 7,233. No death was reported and the toll remained at 73, stated the Delhi government’s health bulletin. Of the total deaths, 48.53% were people above 60 years of age though they account for only 14.86% of the total cases, read an official statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-reports-310-new-covid-19-cases-no-death/article31562288.ece
12 May 2020||UDUPI,||Four workers under quarantine in Karkala||Four workers were quarantined at Karkala in Udupi district as they had come into contact with a lorry driver from Tamil Nadu who tested positive for COVID-19 in that State. District COVID-19 Nodal Officer Prashanth Bhat told The Hindu on Monday that the driver had brought a truck laden with cement to Karkala on April 22. These four workers had unloaded the cement from the truck. The truck driver has now tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/four-workers-under-quarantine-in-karkala/article31562322.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Over 6,000 rooms booked for quarantining travellers||As many as 6,068 rooms in 84 hotels of various categories have been booked by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for quarantining travellers coming into the city from abroad and from different parts of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-6000-rooms-booked-for-quarantining-travellers/article31562136.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Recovered patient has a relapse in Belagavi||Karnataka reported its first COVID-19 relapse case on Monday with a 50-year-old Tablighi Jamaat convention attendee testing positive again after getting discharged. Health officials confirmed that P-298 from Kudachi who had recovered and was discharged has suffered a relapse. He has now been re-admitted to a designated hospital in Belagavi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/recovered-patient-has-a-relapse-in-belagavi/article31562137.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,||All private hospitals can treat COVID-19 cases||In a shift from its policy thus far of authorising only select private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients, the State government has now directed all private clinical establishments to provide dedicated fever clinics, following guidelines prescribed by it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/all-private-hospitals-can-treat-covid-19-cases/article31562182.ece
12 May 2020||Villupuram,||Two AIADMK men held for setting girl on fire||The police have arrested two AIADMK functionaries for allegedly setting a 14-year-old girl on fire. The victim died at a Villupuram hospital. The party has expelled Kaliaperumal and Murugan in connection with the murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/two-aiadmk-men-held-for-setting-girl-on-fire/article31562181.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Guidelines issued for starting industries||The government on Monday issued guidelines for restarting manufacturing industries after the lockdown. Industries have been asked to consider the first week as the trial or test run period and ensure all safety protocols. The guidelines also spelt out norms to be followed for storage of raw material.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/guidelines-issued-for-starting-industries/article31562179.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||No need for testing after home isolation||The Health Ministry has issued revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild, pre-symptomatic COVID-19 cases. It states that the isolation of patients will end after 17 days of the onset of symptoms (or the date of sampling for pre-symptomatic cases) and if there is no fever for 10 days. “There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over,” notes the Ministry in the revised guidelines. The caregiver and all close contacts of such cases should take hydroxychloroquine prophylaxis as per protocol and as prescribed by the treating medical officer. These guidelines are in addition to those on the appropriate management of suspect/confirmed cases of COVID-19 issued by the Ministry on April 7. As per the existing guidelines, during the containment phase, the patients should be clinically assigned as very mild/mild, moderate or severe and accordingly admitted to a COVID-19 care centre, a dedicated COVID-19 health centre or a dedicated COVID-19 hospital, respectively. However, very mild and pre-symptomatic patients having the requisite facility for self-isolation at home will have the option for home isolation. The eligibility for home isolation includes that the person should be clinically assigned as a very mild or pre-symptomatic case by the treating medical officer and such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation and also for quarantining the family contacts. “A caregiver should be available to provide care on a 24x7 basis. A communication link between the caregiver and hospital is a prerequisite for the entire duration of home isolation,” notes the Ministry. Aarogya Setu app It adds that the Aarogya Setu app should be downloaded on the mobile and it should remain active at all times (through Bluetooth and Wi-Fi). As per protocol, a patient is required to agree to monitor his health and regularly inform his health status to the District Surveillance Officer for further follow-up by teams. The Ministry explains that patients/caregivers will seek medical attention if serious signs or symptoms develop. “These could include difficulty in breathing, persistent pain/pressure in the chest, mental confusion or inability to arouse, developing bluish discolorations of lips/face etc,” it says. Additionally, utensils and dishes used by the patient should be cleaned with soap/detergent and water wearing gloves. Also patients should at all times use triple layer medical mask and discard it after eight hours of use or earlier if they become wet or visibly soiled. “Mask should be discarded only after disinfecting it with 1% Sodium Hypo-chlorite,” it notes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/no-need-for-testing-after-home-isolation/article31562031.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India part of race to develop a vaccine’||There are nearly 30 “attempts” from India to develop vaccines, K .VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the Union government, said at an online web conference on Friday. “There are over a 100 vaccines being developed worldwide and at least 30 attempts in India. These include efforts where India is participating in global attempts and partnerships among Indian academia and industry,” he said during the webinar organised by the Confederation for Indian Industry (CII) and the Technology Development Board of the Department of Science and Technology (DST). NIV initiative On Saturday, the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) announced a collaboration with the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Ltd. to develop a potential vaccine based on a SARS-CoV-2 strain isolated at the ICMR-National Institute of Virology in Pune. The Pune-based Serum Institute of India has tied up with Oxford University that is testing a vaccine using a weakened adenovirus (which causes common cold). Early trials have already been conducted, and the Serum Institute has said it is ready to start an initial run of production in June, without waiting for clearer results of the vaccine’s efficacy. Bharat Biotech is also involved in two other vaccine development projects with different groups. Test kits At the webinar, Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, DST, said a major thrust was to develop antibody tests that would help with a graded exit out of the lockdown. “Lots of professors and heads of institutes from the IITs [Indian Institutes of Technology] ask me how can we reopen colleges and hostels. Having effective testing kits will be useful in taking decisions such as these,” he said. On Saturday, the Health Ministry announced the development of an ELISA antibody test kit that would help in district-level sero-surveillance. This is a cruder but cheaper way of checking a sample of the population to determine exposure to the virus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-part-of-race-to-develop-a-vaccine/article31562041.ece
12 May 2020||Barwani,||Pandemic adds to the penury of tribal people in M.P.||In February, Gulab Jamre’s family made the biannual trip from Barwani in Madhya Pradesh to Junagadh in Gujarat, some 700 km away, hoping to clear some debt through work and also buy farm implements. In fact, they made enough money this time. But then the lockdown was announced, scuttling their plan to return in March and draining all their earnings. Before they starved, the family of three decided to board a truck back home paying Rs. 6,000. “I will go back after the rains. There is no work back home,” said Mr. Jamre, 30, who worked in Junagadh as an agricultural labourer along with his wife. A loan of Rs. 10,000, taken for medical expenses, is outstanding. And the half-acre land back in Sawariyapani village of Barwani can sustain the Barela adivasi family for only two months. Widespread malaise The Jamres are not alone. As thousands of adivasi migrant workers return empty-handed amid the extended lockdown, battling uncertainty and hunger, their villages have little to offer. Their land holdings are small, local agricultural wages are low, payments under the MGNREGA are sluggish and measures to create local employment have faltered — the very predicaments that drove them to leave home for work in the first place. In Gujarat, the workers make Rs. 300-400 a day, almost three times the wages in Barwani. “Our fathers had meagre plots of land. And now it is divided among four-five brothers,” said another migrant adivasi, 40-year-old Saka Ram. As workers boarded the bus to Gujarat ahead of the harvest, each paying Rs. 700 as fare, they were accompanied by villagers who were stepping outside for the first time. “We get a commission of Rs. 50 for convincing a villager to come with us. Next year, they will convince others,” said Mr. Ram. Coupled with a faltering economy in the villages and the incentives of working for a decent wage, the number of migrants is swelling each year. “Our forefathers depended mostly on forest produce,” said Valsing Sastia, of Limbi village in the district. “But foliage has disappeared gradually with felling of teak trees for timber.” This time, said Kailash Solanki, the village’s Rozgar Sahayak, around 300-400 more villagers than usual had applied for work under MGNREGA. Delayed payments “The demand has increased now as more workers are returning than before. Under the scheme, they get paid in 15 days, but outside, they are paid the same evening. That’s why they migrate,” he said. Of the 2,380 voters, 887 have MGNREGA job cards. Sawariyapani’s Rozgar Sahayak Suresh Lakdiya Jamre said, “Uncertainty of payments under the scheme drove workers away.” Around 900 households have job cards, while the village's population is 4,000. “If it doesn’t rain enough this time, they will migrate now. If it does, they will migrate after three-four months,”said Madhuri Krishnaswamy of the Jagrit Adivasi Dalit Sangathan. “These are marginal farmers who eke out bare subsistence from farming. It feeds them for only a few months.” Workers in the Nimar region of Barwani, Khandwa, Khargone and Burhanpur districts, were lately moving to work in industries, where conditions were worse, added Ms. Krishnaswamy. “The supply of labour is more than the demand in agriculture locally,” she explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pandemic-adds-to-the-penury-of-tribal-people-in-mp/article31562054.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Don’t crush labour rights: Rahul||The COVID-19 pandemic cannot be an excuse to trample upon labour rights and crush their voices, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi said on Monday. “Many States are amending labour laws. We are together fighting against corona, but this cannot be an excuse to crush human rights, allow unsafe workplaces, exploit workers and suppress their voice. There cannot be any compromise on these basic principles,” Mr Gandhi tweeted. ‘Quack remedy’ Former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh also said it would be dangerous and disastrous to loosen laws in the name of economic revival. “In the name of economic revival and stimulus, it will be dangerous and disastrous to loosen labour, land and environmental laws and regulations as the Modi govt is planning. The first steps have already been taken. This is a quack remedy like demonetisation,” he tweeted. At the party’s online press conference, Congress leader Shaktisinh Gohil said the BJP-ruled States were amending labour laws in the garb of attracting foreign investors, and urged PM Narendra Modi to deny permission to the States to amend laws that would “strip workers of their basic rights”. Mr. Gohil accused Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat of suspending labour rights. “This is yet another shocking but unsurprising blow to workers and labourers by BJP governments. If the PM has little concern for workers and labourers, then he should himself tell these States not to go ahead with amendments to the labour laws and not allow them in doing so. We would expect him to intervene today itself.” It was ‘shocking’ to note that at a time when the country was dealing with an unprecedented pandemic, the government was taking this as an opportunity to deprive them of their rights. “This is shameful and once again highlights the true nature and priorities of this ‘Suit-Boot ki Sarkar’,” he said. Mr Gohil argued that as these labour laws were in the Concurrent List, no such suspension could take place without the explicit approval of the Central government. “We, therefore, ask the Modi government to deny any permission that strip workers of their basic rights and have the potential of diminishing their livelihood. Also trade unions must be consulted before such an adverse step is taken,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dont-crush-labour-rights-rahul/article31562016.ece
12 May 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra tally crosses 23,000||With another big spike of 1,230 new COVID-19 cases, Maharashtra reported its fourth consecutive 1,000-case surge on Monday. The tally crossed the 23,000 mark to reach 23,401 cases, while 36 deaths took the State’s total death toll to 868. As per the State Health Department, 20 of the fatalities were reported from Mumbai to take the city’s death toll to 528 till date, while Pune district reported three fatalities to take its death toll to 158. As many as five deaths were reported from Solapur to take the district’s toll to 16. Two fatalities were reported from Thane, while one each was reported from Amravati, Aurangabad, Nanded, Ratnagiri and Wardha. “About 75% of the deaths reported today had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. 587 discharged As many as 587 persons were discharged on Monday, taking the cumulative discharged till date to 4,786, said Dr. Awate. Of the new cases, Mumbai city reported the bulk — 782 — as the city’s cumulative tally crossed the 14,000-case mark to touch 14,521.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-tally-crosses-23000/article31562027.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Aarogya Setu data protocol norms issued||Data of nearly 13,000 Aarogya Setu App users who have tested positive for COVID-19 have so far been transferred to the server for health intervention, says Ajay Sawhney, Chairman, Empowered Group on Technology and Data Management. On Monday, he issued an order notifying the Aarogya Setu Data Access and Knowledge Sharing Protocol, 2020, that lays down the guidelines for collection, processing, storage and sharing of “anonymised” data. Stating that Aarogya Setu had contributed immensely to the fight against COVID-19, Mr. Sawhney said privacy protection was the primary consideration while developing the app. It stores an encrypted signature when the user comes in proximity with other registered devices. This interaction information is not pushed to the server unless the user tests positive. Till 60 days He said the encrypted data of all users, stored in their devices, got deleted automatically in 30 days. Data of the users who undergo tests were kept for 45 days and for those who had tested positive, it was stored in the server till 60 days from the day they recovered from the illness. Based on the data of fewer than 13,000 users who tested positive, alerts were sent to 1.4 lakh users, he said. Nearly 9.8 crore people had so far downloaded the contact-tracing app. The same service would soon be made available in feature phones. Mr. Sawhney said that upon sign-up, every app user was assigned a unique randomised anonymous device ID. All communications between two devices and between the device and the server was done using that ID. No personal detail was used or shared with anyone. The location data was used in case the person tested positive, only to map places the user visited in the past 14 days, for sanitisation and testing of people to prevent further spread. Hot spots The information was combined with self-assessment data to identify the areas that were likely to turn into a hotspot. The details were shared with district and State authorities for timely preventive steps. The tool had helped in identification of 697 such potential hotspots, Mr. Sawhney said. The protocol states that the contact and location data will, by default, remain on the device on which the app is installed. It may be uploaded to the server only for the purpose of formulating or implementing appropriate health responses. The contact, location and self-assessment data, collected by the National Informatics Centre (NIC), will not be retained beyond the period necessary to satisfy the purpose for which it is obtained. The period, unless a specific recommendation to this effect is made, will not ordinarily extend beyond 180 days from the date on which it is collected, after which it will be permanently deleted, it says. Demographic data of an individual, collected by the NIC, will be retained for as long as the Protocol remains in force or if the individual requests that it be deleted, for a maximum of 30 days from such request, whichever is earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/aarogya-setu-data-protocol-norms-issued/article31562038.ece
12 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||1,800-km hurdle for an eager father||Lal Dev became a father around the time the nation went into lockdown to curb the COVID-19 outbreak. Two months later, he faces a daunting 1,000-km ride on a bicycle before he can hold his newborn son. He has already pedalled 750 km of the 1,800-odd km from Vijaywada in coastal Andhra Pradesh to his home in Gorakhpur in eastern Uttar Pradesh. With him on the long journey home is Hari Lal, also the father of three-month-old baby girl. Mr. Dev, Mr. Lal and two other men from U.P. had been engaged by a Hyderabad-based outsourcing company. Just before the lockdown was announced, they were sent to Vijaywada on an assignment. The four had Rs. 40,000 then, of which they already spent Rs. 10,000 on food over the past two months. “We cannot die before holding our babies in our arms. We managed with the little rations till now and could not stretch it further. Despite our formal registration with the U.P. government, no concrete assurance was communicated to us [on arrangements to travel back],” said Mr. Dev. Bought new cycles Unable to bear the uncertainty, the group set out six days ago. Investing the last of their savings in four new bicycles at Rs. 5,000 each, the four charted their route from Vijayawada to Visakhapatnam, on to Bhubaneswar, Jamshedpur and finally Gorakhpur. The Hindu met them as they took a break at Bhubaneshwar on Monday. Luck favoured them in the first stage of the journey as three truckers gave them a lift for around 250 km. They have completed another 500 km on the cycles. “We hope to meet some more kind-hearted truckers for the remaining 1,000 km journey,” said Mr. Lal.  “Hunger and uncertainty are forcing people to take drastic steps. I have seen at least 25 groups either cycling or walking along NH-16 in the past one week,” said Kalyan Anand, a volunteer, who has been arranging food and some transport for such groups.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1800-km-hurdle-for-an-eager-father/article31562056.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||Counsel migrants against walking home, says Centre||The Union Home Ministry on Monday wrote to all States and Union Territories to cooperate with the Railways in running more special trains to facilitate the movement of stranded migrants. In another letter, it asked the States to ensure that private clinics and nursing homes are allowed to open without any hindrance. On Sunday, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held a videoconference with all State Chief Secretaries to discuss various issues concerning the lockdown. After the meeting, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote to the States seeking compliance of the Cabinet Secretary’s direction. “...All State governments should ensure that migrant workers do not resort to walking on roads and on railway tracks. In case they are found in such a condition, they should appropriately be counselled, taken to nearby shelters and provided with food, water etc., till such time they are facilitated to board the ‘Shramik’ special trains or buses to their native places. As requested by Cabinet Secretary, all State governments should cooperate in the running of more ‘Shramik’ special trains,” the letter said. In the other letter, the States were asked to ensure the smooth movement of all health workers after some of them flagged the issue of restrictions on inter-State movement of medical professionals, paramedics, sanitation staff and ambulances. At many places private clinics and nursing homes had not been allowed to open and the functioning of these facilities, which supplement the regular medical infrastructure and relieve the burden on hospitals, was also crucial, it stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/counsel-migrants-against-walking-home-says-centre/article31562035.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||With no transport, govt. staff find commuting a big hurdle||Central government employees who do not own vehicles and are finding it difficult to reach office amid the lockdown also face the risk of being marked absent. Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation Ltd. (IRCTC), a Union government enterprise, sent an e-mail to employees on May 5 that “absence of staff/officer during roster period will be treated as absent from duty.” The IRCTC said that on the directions of the Union Home Ministry, all officials were expected to attend office as per roster except those who reside in containment zones. “We are not asking 100% attendance, 33% of people sitting in common areas, without cabins… need to come. This is as per the Ministry’s order. If you see this means a person needs to come for five to seven days in a month…We are not going to take any strict action against those who don’t come. We will have a compiled list later… we will see then,” a senior IRCTC official said. An official said the Ministry guidelines in public domain needed to be followed. Considerable relaxations On May 1, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ministry extended the countrywide lockdown till May 17 and allowed considerable relaxations in red, orange and green zones. Largely all forms of public transport remain suspended except buses and taxis allowed with riders in green and orange zones subject to implementation by the local administration. The order said all “government offices shall function with senior officers of the level of Deputy Secretary and above at full strength, and the remaining staff attending up to 33% as per requirement.” It said “arrangements for transport facilities shall be ensured with social distancing wherever personal or public transport is not available.” “I do not have a personal vehicle, metro rail is not functioning and there are no buses or autos either. How am I supposed to reach office? If I am marked absent I also lose the day’s salary,” said a Central government employee who lives in Delhi. Paswan’s intervention Earlier, Consumer Affairs Minister Ram Vilas Paswan intervened and revoked an April 13 order that asked officials “unwilling to continue work” to intimate the establishment so that action may be taken to relive them. As per an April 23 order, the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) had asked for staggered work hours for the government employees and “suitable roster” be drawn by the heads of department. Work from home The order also added that those working from home should be available on phone and electronic communication at all times and should attend office in case of exigency. “It is assumed that all government employees must be owning a car or a motorcycle. Either the office arranges transport for us. I have to request colleagues every day to drop me somewhere close to home,” said another government staff. Most Central government offices are located in Lutyens zone in Delhi. Only senior officials are entitled to personal vehicles provided by the government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/with-no-transport-govt-staff-find-commuting-a-big-hurdle/article31562043.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shramik Specials to have 3 stops, increased capacity||The Railways have added three stops in the destination State for Shramik Special trains being run for stranded migrant labourers to go home. The trains so far did not have stops. Also, each Shramik Special will now carry 1,700 passengers against 1,200 at present, a Railway spokesperson said. In a statement, the Railways said 468 Shramik Specials had been run till 10 a.m. on Monday. “As on 11th May 2020, a total of 468 ‘Shramik Special’ trains have been operationalised from various States across the country, in which 363 trains had reached their destination and 105 trains were in transit,” the statement said. Of the 363 trains, 172 terminated in Uttar Pradesh, 100 in Bihar, 30 in Madhya Pradesh, 25 in Odisha, 22 in Jharkhand, four in Rajasthan, three in Maharashtra, two each in Telangana and West Bengal and one each in Himachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shramik-specials-to-have-3-stops-increased-capacity/article31562047.ece
12 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Amid new rules, work gains pace at Assam tea gardens||A few of Assam’s 803 tea estates have started working with full workforce following a clearance from the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA). A majority of the planters big and small are, however, wary of the interpretation of COVID-19 guidelines by the local authorities and complications that could arise from the arrival of people now stranded outside the State. ASDMA chairperson Kumar Sanjay Krishna, who is also the Chief Secretary, had through a May 8 notification allowed all tea gardens and tea manufacturing units to operate with full capacity subject to maintenance of social distancing, hygiene and other guidelines of the Health Department. “All our employees have started working,” said Bidyananda Barkakoty, adviser to the North Eastern Tea Association (NETA). “About 65% of the total workforce is engaged in plucking and each plucker is allotted two rows of tea bushes. The spacing automatically fulfils the criterion of social distancing,” said Mr. Barkakoty, who has gardens in Golaghat district. Other gardens are apprehensive about issues cropping up if they let all employees work at a time. “We are awaiting directions from the district authorities,” said Nazrana Ahmed, chairperson of Assam Tea Planters’ Association (ATPA). Representatives of NETA, ATPA and the Bharatiya Cha Parishad had a meeting with Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on the impact of the pandemic. He assured the planters that the government would implement the relief measures announced for the sector in the 2020-21 Budget.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/amid-new-rules-work-gains-pace-at-assam-tea-gardens/article31562058.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Right to religion: SC explains reference to larger Bench||A nine-judge Bench of the Supreme Court declared that superior courts enjoy untrammelled power to take up any cause to do complete justice. This declaration came in a judgment explaining why the Bench, three months ago, decided to go ahead and examine “larger issues” of religious freedom across multiple faiths in connection with the Sabarimala review. The judgment was officially delivered on February 10, but published on Monday. The nine-judge Bench has not ben able to hear the case as the nation went into a lockdown in March following the COVID-19 pandemic. Entry of women On November 14 last year, a five-judge Bench led by then Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi did not complete its assigned task of reviewing the court’s original Sabarimala judgment of 2018, which allowed women of every age to enter and worship at the temple. Instead, it had framed “larger issues” concerning essential religious practices of various religions and clubbed other pending cases on subjects as varied as female genital mutilation among Dawoodi Bohras to entry of Parsi women who married inter-faith into the fire temple and Muslim women into mosques and referred them all to a larger Bench. CJI S.A. Bobde, who succeeded Justice Gogoi, set up a nine-judge Bench to hear the reference. But matters came to a head when several parties raised objections before the nine-judge Bench about the reference. They questioned how a Bench sitting in a limited review jurisdiction assumed powers to frame new questions of law. Secondly, the lawyers had argued that the Gogoi Bench should have decided the Sabarimala review petitions first before referring any questions of law to a larger Bench. Thirdly, objections were raised on how the Gogoi Bench chose to rope in unconnected religious issues in the Sabarimala review. Dismisses objections On February 10, the nine-judge Bench dismissed the objections and decided to hear the reference. It had, however, postponed the publication of the detailed judgment. On Monday, the 29-page judgment of the Bench dismissed objections to its powers of reference.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/right-to-religion-sc-explains-reference-to-larger-bench/article31562013.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Arrests made in Delhi riots one-sided’||In a joint letter to President Ramnath Kovind, eight political parties have condemned the recent arrests of activists and students in connection with the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) movement at a time when the country is battling the COVID-19 pandemic. The letter has been signed by Sitaram Yechury, CPI (M) general secretary, D. Raja, CPI general secretary, Dipankar Bhattacharya, CPI(ML) general secretary, Debabrata Biswas, AIFB general secretary, Manoj Bhattacharya, RSP general secretary, Sharad Yadav, LJD general secretary, Manoj Jha, RJD MP, and Thol. Thirumavalavan, MP and VCK president. ‘Manufactured charges’ The government’s priority must be to single mindedly focus in effectively dealing with this pandemic, the letter says. The arrests of women activists in Delhi under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act were on “manufactured charges”. On April 10, M.Phil student Safoora Zargar was arrested for her association with anti-CAA protests. Similarly, the letter points out that the victims in the violence perpetrated in Jawaharlal Nehru University are being targeted while there has not been a single arrest of those outsiders who unleashed this violence against students and teachers. In case of the riots in northeast Delhi, the eight leaders accused the police of making one-sided arrests of young Muslim men and interrogating only members of the minority community, creating a sense of insecurity among them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/arrests-made-in-delhi-riots-one-sided/article31562018.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||90-minute check-in, masks must for special trains||Passengers looking to travel by “special trains” from Tuesday will need to reach the stations 90 minutes before departure time, wear masks, and preferably bring their own food and linen and travel light, the guidelines issued on Monday said. The Railways on Sunday announced plans to start 15 pairs of special trains from Tuesday as part of plans to restart the passenger service gradually. The bookings for these trains from New Delhi to Dibrugarh, Agartala, Howrah, Patna, Bilaspur, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Secunderabad, Bengaluru, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Madgaon, Mumbai Central, Ahmedabad and Jammu Tawi, were to start at 4 p.m. on Monday. However, this had to be pushed by two hours as the “data pertaining to special trains” was not updated on the IRCTC website. Till 7.30 p.m. on Monday, more than 18,000 tickets were booked, the Railways said. These trains will have only air-conditioned classes — first AC, second AC and third AC — and tickets can be booked only on the IRCTC website or mobile application. General category passengers will not be able to book at the reservation counter or through “agents”. The “barest minimum PRS reservation counters” will be opened at some stations. Special categories, including HOR holders, sitting and former MPs and freedom fighters will be able to book at these counters. The advance reservation period has been kept at a maximum of seven days and only confirmed e-tickets will be booked. Booking of RAC/wait-listed ticket and on-board booking by ticket checking staff will not be permitted. “Current booking, tatkal and premium tatkal booking shall not be permitted. No unreserved tickets (UTS) shall be permitted,” the Railways said. “For movement of the passenger(s) as well as the driver of the vehicle transporting the passenger(s) to and fro the railway station will be allowed on the basis of the confirmed e-ticket.” The fare structure of the “special trains” will be equal to that of the Rajdhani trains, excluding catering charges. While the provision for pre-paid meal booking and e-catering will be disabled, “dry, ready-to-eat food and bottled water will be provided on demand, inside the trains on payment basis... Passengers are encouraged to carry their own food and drinking water.” Online cancellation will be permitted up to 24 hours before the scheduled departure with cancellation charge of 50% of the fare. Compulsory screening All passengers, the Railways said, will be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers allowed to enter and board trains. They would also need to wear masks and observe social distancing. No linens, blankets or curtains will be provided inside the train and passengers have been advised to carry their own linen. “The temperature inside the coaches shall be suitably regulated for this purpose,” the Railways said. The Railways has advised passengers to download and use the Aarogya Setu application. Further, no stalls or booths on the platforms will be opened and no train side vending will be permitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/90-minute-check-in-masks-must-for-special-trains/article31562045.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||BMS opposes suspension of labour laws||The RSS-affiliated workers’ organisation Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh on Monday asked its State units to oppose the “unilateral withdrawal of labour laws” that some States have implemented and others are considering. The statement by BMS general secretary Virjesh Upadhyay comes at a time when BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat have come out with employer-friendly changes to labour laws. The BMS asked all its units to write to their respective Chief Ministers to “stop withdrawal of labour laws and ask them to discuss with trade unions every step taken in the labour sector”. “The State governments have not so far been able to convince the public how the laws are hurdles in economic activities... On the contrary, for the labour, the COVID-19 situation has created an extraordinary situation of massive economic losses and job losses...” the BMS said, adding that the workers’ issues needed urgent attention. The trade body told its State units to ask the Chief Ministers for detailed road maps for economic activities and employment generation after the effect of COVID-19 ends, it said. ‘Grave situation’ Citing the recent incidents of gas leak in Visakhapatnam and deaths of migrant workers run over by a train in Aurangabad, the BMS said the situation in the labour sector was ‘grave’. It asked its State units to set up help desks for migrant workers to address immediate concerns. “The BMS demands the governments to make smooth arrangements for free train travel for the migrant workers who want to meet their family members in their home States. Those workers who want to resume work should be given free transport facilities to workplaces in the absence of public transport.” It asked the government to provide wage support in the green and orange zones where activities have started as payment of wages was an “immediate major issue,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bms-opposes-suspension-of-labour-laws/article31562008.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,||NAL makes ventilator for non-ICU COVID-19 cases||The National Aerospace Laboratories, Bengaluru, on Monday said it had developed its version of BiPAP, a non-invasive breathing support device, for the use of non-critical non-ICU cases of COVID-19. The premier aerospace lab of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research said its team of doctors and specialists used a spinoff aerospace technology to come out with the device. The portable ventilator, named SwasthVayu, was developed in a record 36 days, a release said. NAL director Jitendra J. Jadhav said, “This is ideal for treating COVID-19 patients in wards, makeshift hospitals, dispensaries and at home in the current Indian scenario.” NAL said its BiPAP, with an externally connected oxygen concentrator, would be ideal to treat moderate or mid-stage severe COVID-19 patients who do not require intubation and invasive ventilation. Talks have been initiated with public and private industries to be production partners of NAL. It has also begun the process of seeking regulatory approvals. It was developed based on global experiences and specific inputs from pulmonologists in India and abroad. NAL said its machine was simple to use. It was cost-effective, compact and configured mostly with indigenous components. A team of technocrats and medical practitioners led by Dr. C.M Ananda, Head, Electronics Department, Dr. Amarnarayan D., Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Viren Sardana, respiratory physiologist IGIB, and NAL scientists worked through the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nal-makes-ventilator-for-non-icu-covid-19-cases/article31562060.ece
12 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Another boat with migrants reaches Odisha from Chennai||Another fishing boat carrying 42 migrant workers from Chennai reached Odisha’s Ganjam district on Monday night. This is the fourth motorboat carrying migrants from Chennai to Ganjam since April 25. To dodge the lockdown, the workers had opted for the dangerous journey without any navigation equipment. Ironically, a special train carrying migrant workers from Tamil Nadu also reached Jagannathpur station in Ganjam on Monday. The 42 migrants, who are from traditional fishing families, had together contributed Rs. 1.8 lakh to buy the boat, which set out from Chennai on May 6. Thirty-three of its passengers were from Markandi panchayat while the rest were from other coastal areas of Ganjam district. The district administration, which had information about the voyage, made arrangements to receive them. Berhampur Sub-Collector Shinde Dattatreya Bhausaheb said they would be sent to institutional quarantine after a check-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/another-boat-with-migrants-reaches-odisha-from-chennai/article31562062.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Trade unions may knock at ILO’s door||Ten central trade unions on Monday said they were considering lodging a complaint with the International Labour Organisation (ILO) against the “anti-worker” changes in the labour laws in some States, which they said was at the “instance of the Central government”. In a joint statement, they said the recent blanket exemption given to establishments from the employer’s obligations under several labour laws for three years by the Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh governments was a retrograde and anti-worker move. While the U.P. government had brought an ordinance for this, the M.P. government had reportedly said it would also do the same. The Gujarat government was also reportedly working on a similar exemption. “As the mass of the working people have been subjected to inhuman sufferings owing to loss of jobs, loss of wages, eviction from residences etc reducing them to hungry non-entities in the process of 45 days lockdown, the government of the day at the Centre has pounced upon those working people..Now the government at the Centre has taken the strategy of letting loose their pliant state governments to take such anti-worker and anti-people autocratic measures, many other state governments are expected to follow suit,” the statement said. This move was the second phase of anti-worker policies after six State governments increased the working hours form eight to 12 hours, it stated. “Central trade unions consider these moves as an inhuman crime and brutality on the working people, besides being gross violation of the Right to Freedom of Association [ILO Convention 87], Rights to Collective Bargaining [ILO Convention 98] and also the internationally accepted norm of eight hour working day – espoused by core conventions of ILO. The ILO Convention 144 in regard to tripartism has also been undermined by the government,” it said. The unions added that they were “seriously considering to lodge a complaint to the ILO on these misdeeds of the government for gross violation of labour standards” and that they would soon give a nationwide call to action. The statement was signed by representatives of the Indian National Trade Union Congress, the All-India Trade Union Congress, the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, the All-India United Trade Union Centre, the Trade Union Coordination Committee, the Self Employed Women’s Association, the All-India Central Council of Trade Unions, the Labour Progressive Federation and the United Trade Union Congress.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/trade-unions-may-knock-at-ilos-door/article31562010.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||India adds 4,213 cases in highest single-day rise||The Ministry also announced further changes in its discharge policy and revised the home isolation guidelines for very mild/pre-symptomatic cases. Under the new guidelines there is no need for testing after the end of the home isolation period for such cases. The Ministry said the revisions were based on the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) review from lab surveillance data. “Recent studies have also shown that viral load peaks in the pre-symptomatic period (2 days before symptoms) and goes down over the next 7 days which makes the revised discharge policy safe. However, cleared patients still have to follow rules issued by the Ministry,” Mr. Agarwal said. He added that the discharge policy has been changed in several countries. Stating that India is yet to register community transmission, the Health Ministry said the country, however, had some relatively large outbreaks in certain locations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-adds-4213-cases-in-highest-single-day-rise/article31562006.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Get ready to ramp up economic activity: PM||“Even as we look at the gradual withdrawal of the lockdown, we should constantly remember that till we do not find a vaccine or a solution, the biggest weapon with us to fight the virus is social distancing,” Mr. Modi said. Apart from asking for an extension of the lockdown, several States like Bihar, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh expressed misgivings about restoration of train services. Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar reportedly said that as a former Railway Minister “he knew better than most” how it could lead to a rapid spread of the disease at this crucial juncture. The railways announced on Sunday evening that it would be running 15 trains in pairs from May 12 to select destinations in a partial opening of till now shuttered passenger services. While five States asked for an extension of lockdown, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said it was time that the country “learned to live with coronavirus,” indicating that he was in favour of some opening up of the economy. Mr. Kejriwal also said that instead of “red” or “green zones,” containment zones be demarcated within districts to signify open and locked down areas. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel was vehement that States be left to decide containment and open zones and draw up micro plans for themselves.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/get-ready-to-ramp-up-economic-activity-pm/article31562014.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||SC sets up panel to look into J&K Internet curbs||The court directed the panel to examine the “appropriateness” of the petitioners; suggestion to limit the Net restrictions to areas where it was necessary and allow faster Internet (3G or 4G) on a trial basis in certain geographical areas and advise the J&K government on it. The court took a leaf from its Anuradha Bhasin judgment of January 2020, which dealt with the months’ long curfew imposed in J&K following the dilution of Article 370, to quote that restrictions should not be disproportionate to the “emergent situation”. Nevertheless, the court did not discount the Centre’s reasons for the restrictions, which included “continuous infiltration, foreign influence, violent extremism and issues of national integrity prevalent in J&K”. These were indeed serious issues. But hardships faced by citizens during the COVID-19 pandemic also raised serious concerns, it said. The court had to “reasonably and defensibly” balance national security concerns and citizens rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-sets-up-panel-to-look-into-jk-internet-curbs/article31562020.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Domestic flights may resume soon||The source pointed to comments made by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami that the Centre should not allow air services till May 31 Apparently, the Centre is ready to go ahead with allowing airlines to fill the middle seat as operators have said time and again that it doesn’t make commercial sense to fly with the middle seat vacant. Another source attached to the Airports Authority of India said that delineation of metros like Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, Bengaluru, and Chennai, apart from Pune, Hyderabad and Ahmedabad as red zones was an issue in resuming operations. “The Centre is prepared to allow airlines to resume domestic flights to cities where the COVID-19 situation is not risky. Kochi, Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode in the State [Kerala] are busy airports based on passenger traffic and aircraft movement. Except Kochi, the other two airports under the AAI may not attract the necessary load factor,” he pointed out. “Airports have readied to resume operation of domestic flights. Already arrangements are in place following the evacuation of stranded Indians from abroad, especially from Gulf nations from May 7,” he said. (With inputs from Delhi Bureau)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/domestic-flights-may-resume-soon/article31562019.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Manmohan stable, under observation||Dr. Singh, who is a Rajya Sabha member from Rajasthan, was admitted to AIIMS around 8.45 p.m. on Sunday following complaints of reported uneasiness and chest pain. “He is stable and under care of a team of doctors at the Cardiothoracic Centre of AIIMS,” the party functionary added. Since Sunday evening, wishes for Dr. Singh’s speedy recovery have poured in. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, “Much worried to know former PM Dr. Manmohan Singh j i has been admitted to AIIMS. I wish him speedy recovery and pray for his good health and long life.” Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel said in a tweet, “Praying for good health of Doctor saheb . We are sure he will be fit and fine at the earliest.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/manmohan-stable-under-observation/article31562021.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal summons Indian envoy over border row||Nepal on Monday summoned the Indian envoy and handed a diplomatic note of protest over the construction of a link road that will reduce travelling time from India to the pilgrimage zone of Kailash Mansarovar in China’s Tibet. Indian Ambassador to Nepal Vinay Mohan Kwatra was met by Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali, who conveyed Nepal’s territorial claims over the Kalapani region. The diplomatic note was in line with the statement from Nepal’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which recalled the bilateral treaties, and urged India from carrying out any further activities in the region. India’s Ministry of External Affairs did not respond formally till late on Monday though a social media post from the Embassy of India in Nepal stated that Mr. Kwatra had handed over a past statement of the Official Spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs regarding the Kalapani region located in the state of Uttarakhand. Nepal disputes India’s claims and maintains that the region is part of its sovereign territory. Speaking to The Hindu via telephone on Sunday, Mr. Gyawali had stated that Nepal will strengthen border posts and deploy more forces in the country’s southern and western borders with India. Kathmandu also witnessed protests on Monday by the student organisation of the Nepali Congress, and the Rashtriya Seema Rakhsha Abhiyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepal-summons-indian-envoy-over-border-row/article31562024.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||New norms to increase testing at district level||The Union Health Ministry has issued new guidelines to increase COVID-19 testing and sampling at the district level, stating that it has decided to conduct a population-based serosurvey in select districts across the country. This surveillance will be in addition to the routine testing and the new trend-checking method. “There is a need to establish systematic surveillance for COVID-19 infection in districts and monitor the trend in the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 at the district level,” the Ministry said. The surveillance unit will consist of 10 health facilities from each district. Among the low-risk population, outpatient attendees (non-ILI patients) and pregnant women will be tested and among the high-risk population, healthcare workers will be surveyed. At least 100 samples per week and 400 per month from selected districts among the high-risk population will be collected. Results of this sample pooling are for surveillance purposes. It should not be used for diagnosis of patients, it said. In addition to throat/nasal swabs, blood samples should be collected for detecting IgG antibodies for ELISA testing, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-norms-to-increase-testing-at-district-level/article31562036.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Result of meditation||The Supreme Brahman is beyond human thought and speech, say the scriptures and to search for the Nirguna Brahman who is transcendent, formless and without attributes is more difficult than to worship Saguna Brahman who can be approached by meditating on His gunas. Adi Sankara has indicated that though Nirguna Upasana is the final goal to be attained, Saguna Upasana is also equally efficacious to lead to the ultimate end, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. In various instances in his bashyas, the acharya has shown that in essence both are one and the same, even as the two sides of a coin. Just as a judge adopts the suitable dress code when discharging his duty in court, Brahman too dons the Saguna aspect when engaged in Srishti, Stiti and Laya. But Brahman is the essence of eternal consciousness and bliss, Sat-chit-ananda. He does not depend on any of the indriyas while all of them depend on Him for their functioning. He can see without eyes and hear without ears. He is smaller than the smallest; like the tip of a grain such as barley, millet or mustard. He is also bigger, higher and greater than the biggest, highest and greatest. The acharya has endorsed the advantages of Saguna upasana and in keeping with the saying, ‘As you think so you become,’ one begins to imbibe and incorporate Brahman’s attributes when meditation is practised in earnest. Gradually, one begins to understand that the same unique Brahman with and without attributes is also the indweller in the cave of one’s heart. His subtle presence holds absolute sway over the entire universe and creation. This awareness confers a sense of humility and serves to reorient individual perception of one’s own life and aims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/result-of-meditation/article31562039.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC extends protection to Arnab||The Supreme Court on Monday extended the protection granted to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami from coercive action by the Mumbai police, while noting that a balance should be struck between the right to free speech and the police’s duty to conduct investigation without fear or favour.  “We must ensure somebody is not subject to harassment but we should not create an environment where anybody in particular is exempted from the normal course of proceedings,” the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sc-extends-protection-to-arnab/article31562011.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||Expedite Bihar migrants return: LJP||The migrant workers from Bihar can’t be left to their own fate, Lok Jan Shakti Party (LJP) president Chirag Paswan wrote to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, urging him to speed up the process of bringing home those stranded in cities. In the letter, the LJP, a constituent of the National Democratic Alliance, he flagged many holes in the administration’s approach to bring back workers. “It’s the Bihar government’s responsibility to come to the aid of the workers who are facing economic and mental distress,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/expedite-bihar-migrants-return-ljp/article31562022.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Single Judge Benches to hear bail pleas||The Supreme Court on Monday announced it will have Single Judge Benches sitting from May 13 to hear bail and anticipatory bail applications involving offences entailing imprisonment up to seven years as well as pleas to transfer cases from one court to another. Normally the court sits in multiple Benches of combinations of two or three judges besides the Constitution Benches. Besides other amendments, the competent authority has provided that certain categories of matters may be “heard and disposed of finally by a judge sitting singly nominated by the Chief Justice”. It said the Single Judge would also hear application for transfer of cases under Section 406 of the CrPC and also application of urgent nature for transfer of cases under Section 25 of the CPC.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/single-judge-benches-to-hear-bail-pleas/article31562025.ece
12 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||20 deaths, 347 fresh cases in Gujarat||The fatalities due to COVID-19 in Gujarat crossed 500 when 20 deaths occurred on Monday, increasing the toll to 513, while 347 infections were reported to bring the total number of cases to 8,542. Of the 8,542 cases, 2,780 have been discharged from hospitals. On Monday, 235 patients were discharged. The State’s recovery curve is rising sharply after the new guidelines issued by the Centre regarding the discharge of patients. As per the new guidelines, patients with mild symptoms can be discharged after 10 days treatment in hospitals without retesting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/20-deaths-347-fresh-cases-in-gujarat/article31562033.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Weekend effect’ takes a toll on testing||On a day that saw India post its highest number of confirmed COVID-19 cases at 4,213, the number of daily tests saw its sharpest decline by about 21,000. On Monday, the Indian Council of Medical Research reported 64,651 tests on Sunday, according to data available on the website of the National Institute of Epidemiology, an ICMR institute. The previous day it had reported 85,824 tests. Since May 4, the organisation has consistently reported over 80,000 tests a day. This is the first time that the daily test data has declined by nearly a quarter from the previous day and by over 20,000. An ICMR spokesperson attributed it to a weekend lull. “Even though there are nearly 400 laboratories working double shifts, sometimes more, it does happen that Saturdays and Sundays see a drop in collection [of samples],” L.K. Sharma, Scientist, ICMR, and media relations in-charge, told The Hindu. “It will rise as the week progresses.” Exactly a week ago, on May 4, the ICMR reported having tested 60,783 samples, a sharp fall from the 70,087 the previous day. As of May 11, the ICMR had reportedly tested 1.6 million samples, making India the seventh largest tester in the world. However, as a fraction of population tested, India occupies the lowest position in the world. Every day, the ICMR reports the cumulative number of samples tested without a break up of how many tested positive and negative. Last week, the ICMR slightly eased up on its testing criteria. As of May 8, those with ‘mild’ or moderate symptoms can — provide they confirm to certain clinical criteria — be discharged without a negative RT-PCR test. An RT-PCR test is the recommended test that detects the virus and used to diagnose a person as positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/weekend-effect-takes-a-toll-on-testing/article31562032.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nominations for Gandhi Prize extended||The Union Ministry of Culture on Monday extended the nomination period for the Gandhi Peace Prize from April 30 to June 15. “For 2020, the last date for receiving the nominations was April 30. Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the last date for receipt of nominations for the Gandhi Peace Prize 2020 has now been extended up to and including June 15,” a Ministry statement said. Nominations and recommendations in the format given on the Ministry’s website can be emailed to joint secretary Nirupama Kotru at jsmuseakad-culture@gov.in, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nominations-for-gandhi-prize-extended/article31562049.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rs. 6,195 crore released to 14 States||The Centre released Rs. 6,195.08 crore to 14 States on Monday as the second equated monthly instalment of the Post Devolution Revenue Deficit Grant as recommended by the 15th Finance Commission. “This would provide [them] with additional resources during the COVID-19 crisis,” Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said in a tweet. The biggest chunk will go to Kerala, which will get Rs. 1,276 crore. Himachal Pradesh will get Rs. 952 crore while Punjab will get Rs. 638 crore. Other States which will benefit are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, Uttarakhand and West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-6195-crore-released-to-14-states/article31562051.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Journalist questioned by Delhi police||The Delhi police on Monday questioned Mahender Singh Manral, a Delhi-based reporter with The Indian Express newspaper, for a recent report on the alleged doctoring of an audio clip attributed to Tablighi Jamaat chief Maulana Saad. Mr. Manral was summoned for questioning on Sunday — the same day the newspaper carried a statement issued by the police denying the contents of the The Indian Express ’ report relating to the clip. He was asked to join the police investigation on Monday or face legal action under Section 174 of the Indian Penal Code. The notice was sent by Inspector Satish Kumar, who is investigating the Tablighi Jamaat case||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/journalist-questioned-by-delhi-police/article31562048.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tharoor slams proposed EIA notification||The Centre’s proposed Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification “legitimises” some actions that are currently categorised as violations, such as in construction, Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor tweeted on Monday. “Streamlining regulation is OK, but damaging environment is not?” “The draft notification reduces the frequency of compliance reports required from project owners from once every six months to once every year. Again, that’s fine only if environmental safety is assured. Have experts been asked,” he queried. He also questioned the rush in wildlife clearance given to a slew of projects in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tharoor-slams-proposed-eia-notification/article31562050.ece
12 May 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi breaches 900-mark in cases||Dharavi crossed the 900-mark after recording 57 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday. The tally in the area has risen to 916, while the death toll stands at 29. The latest cases were reported from Matunga Labour Camp, Dharavi Cross Road and PMGP Colony. Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has stopped issuing ward-wise data of cases citing technical reasons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dharavi-breaches-900-mark-in-cases/article31562028.ece
12 May 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||HC deplores decision to reopen Tasmac shops||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday observed that tipplers in serpentine queues threw caution to the wind, flouted physical distancing and mask norms and thronged Tasmac shops. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi made the observation while hearing the public interest litigation petitions filed by A. Bonyface and C. Selvakumar, challenging the government’s decision to open Tasmac shops when nationwide lockdown was in place in view of COVID-19. The State was aware that due to the lockdown, the spread of COVID-19 was controlled in Chennai. But, reopening of Koyembedu vegetable market led to a huge spike in positive cases. WHO guidelines clearly warned of an increase in violence under the influence of alcohol during the pandemic, the court said. The right of the State to carry on liquor sales through Tasmac shops was not an absolute one. When that right sought to trample the right to life guaranteed under the Constitution, the former had to give way, the judges said. The State could not be permitted to hide behind the cloak of policy decisions when its action was likely to kill people in droves. The State’s main grievance was that it required revenue to combat the pandemic and Tasmac shops would fill its coffers. The State was aware that people had become penniless due to the lockdown. It was obvious that the little money they had to buy food for the family had gone to Tasmac shops, the judges said. The court said had the government permitted resumption of small business activities and thereafter opened Tasmac shops, none could have had any grudge. When the government had rightly prohibited entry into places of worship, its decision to allow tipplers to congregate at Tasmac shops was indubitably antithetical. With the Principal seat having passed orders on similar petitions, the court directed the Registry to place the petitions before the Chief Justice to be dealt with appropriately. The State has preferred an appeal in the Supreme Court against the HC’s order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-deplores-decision-to-reopen-tasmac-shops/article31562453.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospitals in city overwhelmed||The surge in COVID-19 cases is stretching hospital resources in Chennai. Flooded with hundreds of patients, government medical college hospitals in the city are overwhelmed and doctors are worried that the existing manpower will be inadequate to manage the rush in the coming days. In fact, many doctors suggest that their counterparts from agencies such as the Greater Chennai Corporation be roped in. The city has 3,632 active cases. “A section of doctors and nurses is placed under quarantine, while some have tested positive for COVID-19. The patient load is so high that adequate personnel will be required in the coming days. Already, the morale is affected and the workforce is feeling exhausted and stressed. It is time that doctors and nurses from the Directorate of Medical Services (DMS) and the corporation are roped in. The Indian Medical Association should also chip in,” a senior doctor said. Another senior doctor suggested that medical officers of the Corporation should take over treatment at COVID care centres. Sharing load “Medical colleges are deputing doctors and staff nurses to these centres. Instead, Corporation medical officers should take over screening and managing patients at these centres. If they take care of asymptomatic patients, we can handle patients in need of treatment,” the doctor added. An assistant professor said that doctors were being deputed from affiliated institutions such as the Institute of Child Health, the Government Ophthalmic Hospital and the Government Dental College to these quarantine facilities. “To reduce the workload in the city, doctors and staff from peripheral centres and hospitals in areas that have fewer cases could be roped in,” he said. Future tense Doctors fear they may soon run out of hands if the surge in cases continues. “Right now, relaxations in lockdown are bringing in more patients. Once the lockdown is lifted, we will have a surge in cases. Then, we may not have sufficient manpower for managing COVID-19 wards and facilities,” a senior doctor said. A doctor at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital said that as of now, non-clinical doctors were not posted on COVID-19 duties. In fact, the National Health Mission-Tamil Nadu, in a letter to the Directorate of Medical and Rural Health Services, said that Chennai was facing an acute shortage of healthcare professionals due to the pandemic. Tertiary care hospitals providing maternal healthcare were bearing the brunt of the pandemic because of the shortage of manpower. The letter said that it would be necessary to divert obstetricians and gynaecologists from institutions under DMS to maternity hospitals in Chennai — IOG Egmore, RSRM Royapuram, KMC and KG Hospital — under the Directorate of Medical Education. K. Senthil, president of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association, said, “The worst is yet to come, and the situation is worrisome. The government has to engage Corporation medical officers on COVID-19 duty, and mobilise AYUSH doctors. Outpatient services should be streamlined once lockdown is lifted and the government should issue guidelines such as on physical distancing. If not, OP services will be flooded, and there are high chances that healthcare professionals will be infected,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-hospitals-in-city-overwhelmed/article31562194.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. issues guidelines for restarting industries||With just a few days left till the end of the COVID-19 lockdown on May 17, the Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued guidelines for restarting manufacturing industries post lockdown. The guidelines were necessary, since following several weeks of lockdown and closure of industrial units, “it is possible that some of the operators might not have followed the established Standard Operating Procedure”. As a result, some manufacturing facilities, pipelines, valves, etc., may have residual chemicals, which may pose a risk, Revenue Secretary Atulya Misra said. He communicated the guidelines framed by the Centre — and endorsed by the State — to all District Collectors, Secretaries of Industries, Labour and Public Works Departments and other authorities. The Centre’s guidelines, issued incidentally two days after a gas leak in Visakhapatnam, said, “When lockout/tag-out procedures are not in place, many energy sources can prove to be hazardous to operators/supervisors, who are servicing or maintaining electrical, mechanical or chemical equipment.” When restarting units, industries should consider the first week as the trial or test-run period, and ensure adherence to safety protocols. To minimise risk, employees who work on specific equipment must be made aware of the need to identify abnormalities. The guidelines also spelt out specific norms to be followed for the storage of raw material and manufacturing processes (carrying to tightness test, service test and vacuum hold test, among others). Temperature checks have to be undertaken on all employees twice a day, and workers showing symptoms should not report for duty. The importance of hand sanitisers, COVID-19 awareness and quarantine and physical distancing measures were among the aspects highlighted in the guidelines. “Factories have to prepare accommodation to isolate workers, if needed. HR has to help manage the whole process for the individual, and all travelling employees must undergo a mandatory 14-day quarantine,” the guidelines said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-issues-guidelines-for-restarting-industries/article31562218.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private healthcare institutions roped in||In a shift from its policy thus far of authorising select private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients, the State government has now directed all private clinical establishments to provide dedicated fever clinics, following guidelines prescribed by it. The private sector, which is very robust in Tamil Nadu, has so far played no role or a supportive role, at best, with regard to the COVID-19 crisis. While some hospitals have been authorised to treat COVID-19 patients, most have delivered general health care, preferring to refer patients to government hospitals. While this has been the protocol so far, the rising numbers have brought on a change of strategy. “We have had complaints of hospitals referring mothers who have just delivered their babies to government hospitals, the moment they find the woman has tested positive. This is being done very hastily, like packing the woman off. It’s about time that private hospitals started pitching in too,” said Beela Rajesh, Health Secretary. A meeting was held of representatives of private hospitals, and they were told to get their act together and help fight the virus in the State. Officials of the Directorate General of Health Services are to inspect the premises of institutions coming under the Clinical Establishments Act, and ensure that the instructions - with regard to physical distancing, human resources deployment, infection control procedures and quarantine leave period - are followed.  Rules drawn up As per the guidelines drawn up, all staff of private clinics should be trained in COVID-19 procedures. The hospital should provide an adequate number of taps with running water and soap at the entrance, three-ply masks for all patients and screening with a thermal gun. If a patient is found to have fever, he will have to be diverted to the fever clinic. Hospital functionaries with influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms should be placed under quarantine and this period should be considered paid leave, the rules state. In addition to the fever clinics, the private hospital must also earmark a separate area for ILI outpatient care, with a separate waiting area for people with respiratory illness. Hospital timings should be so arranged that there is no crowding at any point, and all visitors must be barred. The hospital can arrange for video calls with a patient’s relatives. It is important to ensure, in case a hospital worker tests positive for SARS-CoV-2, that prescribed infection procedures are followed strictly. The standard procedure of rapid isolation, followed by contact listing and tracking and sanitisation must be adhered to. But there is no need to shut down the entire facility, the order states.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-healthcare-institutions-roped-in/article31562192.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GI tag for Thanjavur Netti Works, Arumbavur Wood Carvings||The Thanjavur Netti Works and Arumbavur wood carvings have been given Geographical Indication (GI) tag by the Geographical Indications Registry here in Chennai. The application for Thanjavur Netti works was filed by Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation (Poompuhar) and in the case of Arumbavur wood carvings it was filed by Poompuhar in association with the Arumbavur Wood Carvers’ Handicrafts Industrial Cooperative Society Limited and the Arumbavur Temple Car and Woodcarving Artisans Welfare Society. “Both the applications got registered and GI tag has been granted,” said Chinnaraja G.Naidu, Deputy Registrar of Geographical Indications. The tag conveys an assurance of quality and distinctiveness, which is essentially attributable to the geographical origin of the product. The owner of the GI tag has exclusive rights over the product IPR Attorney and GI Advocate Sanjai Gandhi, who was instrumental in getting the GI tag for the products, said, “Thanjavur Netti Works (Thanjavur Pith Work) is made from pith. The pith is obtained from netti, a hydrophyte plant called as Aeschynomene aspera. The artisans are skilled in this particular craft and this art is traditionally transferred from their forefathers.” Arumbavur Wood Carving is done at Arumbavur and around the Veppanthattai taluk of Perambalur district. The wood carvings are primarily made out of wooden logs of Indian siris (Poo Vaagai, Albizia lebbeck), mango (Mangifera indica), lingam tree (Mavilangam), Indian ash tree (Othiyan – Odina wodier), rosewood, neem tree (Vembu – Azadirachta indica). The carvings in Arambavur Wood Carvings are often inspired by architectural details on temple sculptures and carvings.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gi-tag-for-thanjavur-netti-works-arumbavur-wood-carvings/article31562205.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patients step up stir, demand to be sent home||Patients in COVID-19 care centres of the Greater Chennai Corporation intensified their protests on Monday, demanding that the Corporation shift them to their home. The COVID-19 positive patients and their relatives shared on social media information about the delay in discharging those who have tested negative after their stay in the care centres. Unrest was reported in Chennai Trade Centre at Nandambakkam on Monday. More than 60% of the COVID-19 positive patients in the Chennai Corporation care centres have subsequently tested negative and such persons have demanded that they be to permitted them return home. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the patients who participated in the agitation would be permitted to go home and remain on home quarantine. “The government has decided to permit COVID-19 positive patients who are asymptomatic to be on home quarantine. Patients who are agitating in the COVID-19 care centre in Nandambakkam are asymptomatic. Many patients have tested negative for COVID-19. All such patients housed in the COVID-19 care centres will be permitted to be on home quarantine,” said Mr. Prakash. Risk assessment The regional deputy commissioners in the three regions of the Corporation have been asked to take a decision after assessing the condition of the patients’ families and the risk associated with home quarantine. As many as 357 persons who were housed in the COVID-19 care centre in Nandambakkam have been requesting the civic officials to permit them to leave the facility. Corporation South Regional Deputy Commissioner Alby John Varghese said 150 persons who tested negative had been sent home. “We have sent all patients who have tested negative for COVID-19. “Another 50 patients who have tested negative will be sent home today,” said Dr. Varghese. The team led by Dr. Varghese visited the care centre at Nandambakkam on Monday. “Many patients here live in crowded areas. Home quarantine is not possible in such areas. They cannot ensure separate enclosures for patients at home. We explained to the patients the need for medical observation. We explained that it is a contagious disease and they can spread it to their family members, ” said Dr. Varghese. Four patients from Theni and Udhagamandalam were yet to be sent home from the COVID-19 care centre in Nandambakkam, said Dr. Varghese. “All other patients who have tested negative have been sent home,” said Dr. Varghese.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/patients-step-up-stir-demand-to-be-sent-home/article31562195.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM grants Rs. 5 lakh to Villupuram girl’s family||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday condoled the death of a schoolgirl in Villupuram who was set ablaze by two AIADMK functionaries (since expelled) and announced a solatium of Rs. 5 lakh to her family from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund. “I strongly condemn this act of violence. Severe legal action will be taken against persons involved in the incident,” he said pointing out that the accused had been arrested. DMK president M.K. Stalin said the police should ensure maximum punishment for the ruling AIADMK functionaries, saying that only such punishment would protect girls from similar incidents. In a statement, he said the police should take effective legal measures and ensure speedy justice. “Their action should not be affected by the fact that the culprits are ruling partymen,” he said. Second incident Mr. Stalin charged this was the second incident with the involvement of the ruling partymen in such a crime after the bus-burning incident in Dharmapuri in February 2000. “Those involved in a sexual assault case in Tiruppur were allowed to escape justice. It should not happen in this case,” he said. ‘Unacceptable act’ Condemning the incident, PMK founder S. Ramadoss said humanity should precede any enmity and that such acts were unacceptable. Those who are responsible for this act should be immediately apprehended by the police, he added in a statement. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri demanded the harshest of punishment to the two AIADMK cadre. He also said the State government should provide a financial assistance of Rs. 25 lakh to the girl’s family. DMDK founder Vijayakant demanded death penalty for those who killed the girl.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-grants-rs-5-lakh-to-villupuram-girls-family/article31562204.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Veggie prices may stabilise as Thirumazhisai market opens||After a gap of nearly a week, wholesale vegetable trade resumed in the city in the temporary market set up in Thirumazhisai on Monday. With this, the prices of vegetable, which had skyrocketed recently, may begin to stabilise in Chennai, according to wholesale traders. Inaugurated on Sunday evening, the market started receiving produce from different places, including Andhra Pradesh, and sales began from early hours of Monday. The premise was bustling with activity as retail traders from neighbouring districts and city’s peripheral areas arrived from 2 a.m. to pick up fresh produce. Officials of the Koyambedu Market Management Committee said about 300 vehicles from various places brought vegetables to the market since Sunday evening. Of the nearly 3,200 tonnes of vegetables that were sourced from different areas, nearly 2,600 tonnes were sold by Monday morning. Retail traders who arrived at the market were screened and their vehicles sanitised. About 3,000 vehicles came from neighbouring districts such as Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram to take back vegetables. According to wholesale vendors, the new market would have witnessed a crowd of about 50,000 on Monday. D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of Koyambedu Wholesale Vegetable Merchants’ Association, said as the vegetables were affordable, most of the stock was sold by 7 a.m. Prices came down by 50% in the wholesale market as there were plenty of fresh arrivals. For instance, tomato sold Rs. 10 to Rs. 15 a kg. Similarly, a bunch of coriander fetched Rs. 10 and carrot and potato sold Rs. 25 a kg. “We expect the vegetable prices to stabilise as the new market started operating. It may take one or two days for the dip in price to reflect in the retail market,” he said. Members of the association said there was a need for facilities such as storage space for unsold stock and doors for the shops. More food stalls would help the workers, the traders said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/veggie-prices-may-stabilise-as-thirumazhisai-market-opens/article31562186.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Quarantine an ordeal for pregnant women who returned from abroad||Twenty-nine-year-old Suganya Saravanan, who is pregnant, was relieved when she landed in Chennai from Dubai a few days ago. Little did she realise that she would have to endure harrowing days. “The hotel where I am quarantined has been providing us with some terrible food. I have been vomiting and having diarrhoea for two days now. I had a miscarriage two years ago and I’m dreading what will happen to the baby if this continues,” she says. Passengers who returned to Chennai in repatriation flights were given a choice to either stay in quarantine in free accommodation on a private college campus or pay for stay in hotel — one that would cost them Rs. 1,500 a day located in Periyamet and the other Rs. 2,500 a day in Guindy. Like Ms. Suganya, pregnant women who opted to stay in the hotel in Periyamet allege that they have been suffering, as the food served to them caused vomiting and diarrhoea. Shalini Devi Chandrasekhar, 29, six months pregnant, says they were given dosa and khichdi for breakfast, a variety rice for lunch and chapatti and rice for dinner. “Many of us ended up vomiting because the food was poorly cooked, very oily and it barely had any vegetables. The rice was mostly uncooked. We can stay in quarantine, but we need at least cooked and healthy food; I don’t think that is asking for too much. After all, we are paying Rs. 1,500 a day. All of us are hungry, because the quantity given is grossly insufficient,” she adds. Twenty-five-year old S. Saranya says the hotel provides only one litre of water bottle for the whole day. “After dehydration from vomiting and diarrhoea, we had to beg them for more water. Even when we are ready to pay them, we have to wait for hours. Yesterday, we went to the reception and some of us broke down in desperation; after that, we got an additional bottle,” she adds. Anitha S., 27, a resident of Salem, who is nine months pregnant, says she has been through one of the most stressful times. “My due date is fast approaching. If something happens at midnight, what will I do? We have no idea whom to contact in case of an emergency. We decided to come back to India because we have help here, but now, I’m terrified what might happen,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/quarantine-an-ordeal-for-pregnant-women-who-returned-from-abroad/article31562188.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deemed varsities release entrance test schedule||The SRM Joint Entrance Examination Engineering (SRMJEEE) for B.Tech courses for the academic year 2020-2021 will be held from July 30 to August 4. Successful candidates will be admitted to SRM Institute of Science and Technology (earlier SRM University), Kattankulathur (Main Campus); Vadapalani; Ramapuram; and Delhi – NCR; SRM University in AP; Sonepat in Haryana; and Sikkim. Hall ticket may be downloaded in the third week of July.The two hour and 30-minute computer-based test will have 125 multiple choice questions with no negative marks for wrong answers. Counselling is expected to be held in the second and third week of August. The last date for applying has also been extended. Sathyabama Institute of Science Technology will conduct the entrance exam for admission to BE, B.Tech, B.Arch and B.Des courses from August 3 to 5. The results will be announced on August 8 and online counselling will begin on August 12.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deemed-varsities-release-entrance-test-schedule/article31562206.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation workers press for compensation||The Greater Chennai Corporation workers launched an agitation, demanding compensation to families of front- line workers who died during the lockdown. Participants of the agitation in the Teynampet zonal office said all civic workers would stop work for a few minutes on Tuesday as a mark of protest against the failure of the Corporation to give compensation to bereaved families of their colleagues. “The families of police personnel who lost lives received Rs. 50 lakh compensation. But families of front- line workers of local bodies have not received compensation. The workers sacrifice their lives during the pandemic. But their families are yet to get any compensation,” said a representative of the workers. Jobs sought The participants stressed on the need for filling more than 2 lakh vacancies in various civic agencies in the State. “Instead of filling vacant posts, the civic agencies hire workers under NULM (National Urban Livelihood Mission), leading to challenging conditions at work, particularly during a pandemic. This affects the entire family. The families of workers who lost lives should get jobs,” said a worker. The workers said the agitation would be held in Ripon Buildings. A 40-year-old malaria worker of the Corporation, who was hired under the National Urban Livelihood Mission, died on Saturday after testing negative for COVID-19. The malaria worker, who was at work in a testing centre in ward 116 of Teynampet zone, was admitted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on May 3 after he reported breathlessness. He was declared dead on May 9, after testing negative for COVID-19. The family of the worker was yet to receive any compensation. Many workers have tested positive for COVID-19 in the city, affecting the containment measures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-workers-press-for-compensation/article31562190.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Banks should not levy cancellation charges for currency contracts’||A cross-section of exporters has sought relief on the levy of cancellation charges by banks on currency forward contracts they had entered into, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. A currency forward contract is an agreement between two parties to exchange a certain quantum of a currency for another currency at a fixed exchange rate on a fixed future date. This is used by exporters and importers to hedge their foreign currency payments from exchange rate fluctuations. “During the COVID-19 lockdown, exporters in India were not able to honour the contract. The entire business across the world had come to a halt from the last week of March 2020,” said R. Viswanathan, partner, Sirius Business Solutions, which is into electronic goods exports. He said his company had entered into a forward currency contract with a large private sector bank and was completely dependent on airlines for shipment of goods. Services had been affected due to the lockdown. “Buyers have cancelled orders, and some have not received payments for sales that happened prior to the lockdown. Exporters who had signed the forward contract are facing huge losses as banks are debiting the cancellation charges for non-performance of the contract within the stipulated period. With the rupee appreciating against the dollar, the cancellation charges are huge, which is affecting the working capital of every exporter,” Mr. Viswanathan said. He has already made a representation to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue, and is planning to register a compliant with the Banking Ombudsman. Panaruna Aqeel, chairman, Council for Leather Exports, pointed out that the non-performance of the contract was not intentional and was due to factors beyond one’s control. “Banks should understand [this] and be considerate, given the hit taken by exporters due to the pandemic, and should not levy the charges,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/banks-should-not-levy-cancellation-charges-for-currency-contracts/article31562210.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Industry body urges State to amend labour laws||The Tamilnadu Small & Tiny Industries’ Association (TANSTIA) has urged the State government to amend labour laws. In a statement, it cited the relaxation of such laws in States like Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. “We are being kept in the dark regarding whether the Tamil Nadu government will follow suit. Unless the rules are relaxed, it will be impossible to revive industries and production,” it added. The association requested the government to study the relaxations announced by other States and make suitable amendments to labour laws which, it said, will help attract foreign companies looking to relocate from China to India. With a majority of migrant workers going back to their native States, it would be difficult to restart industries even after the lockdown is lifted, it pointed out. The association said the Labour Act must be simplified and the number of forms reduced to a single comprehensive form. It alleged that despite the State power regulator having directed Tangedco to levy only 20% of the fixed charges on HT consumers currently under lockdown, the power utility had arbitrarily chosen to send bills with 90% demand charges. This will push the already cash-strapped units to the brink. The State government should instruct Tangedco to withdraw the bills and send new ones as per the instructions of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission, TANSTIA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industry-body-urges-state-to-amend-labour-laws/article31562215.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tea shops, vehicle repair centres do brisk business||Monday saw people thronging neighbourhood tea shops, which had reopened after weeks of lockdown. However, though the government had mandated that tea shops (and restaurants) could only offer parcel services, many customers were spotted having tea in front of the shops. In some places, physical distancing norms were undermined. Vishal Chandrashekar, an event planner, said that in places like Perambur, Periyar Nagar and Jawahar Nagar, people were consuming tea/coffee right outside the shops. “The tea was being served in glasses,” he said. A popular South Indian restaurant chain on Anna Salai served tea and coffee to customers in steel tumblers on its premises, though restaurants are allowed to offer only a takeaway service. Aiyyapan, a vegetable vendor, said he had tea at a shop in Guindy, and there were plenty of other people enjoying the beverage in front of the shop. ‘Takeaways impossible’ A tea shop owner in T. Nagar said it was impossible to offer a takeaway service. “We don’t have disposable flasks like those in the organised sector do. We don’t have those expensive disposable cups either. If I tell my customers that only takeaway is allowed, they will find another shop nearby, which would, in turn, affect my businesses,” he added. Shops offering vehicle repair and servicing also opened their shutters on Monday. While some of them asked customers to bring their vehicles for servicing, others went out of the way to pick up vehicles from the customers’ residence. Since most vehicles had been idling in parking lots for over 45 days, they required repairs, including battery recharge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tea-shops-vehicle-repair-centres-do-brisk-business/article31562219.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Review of lockdown on May 15 and 17’||The Centre and the State government on Monday informed the Madras High Court that they would be taking a call on either extending or lifting the lockdown on May 15 and 17 respectively and only then a decision would be taken on reopening religious institutions. Justices Vineet Kothari and Pushpa Sathyanarayana recorded the submission made by Central Government Standing Counsel Srinivasamoorthy and Additional Advocate General S.R. Rajagopal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/review-of-lockdown-on-may-15-and-17/article31562201.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NCPCR seeks report in a week||Taking suo motu notice of reports in The Hindu [website] and TV news channels on the immolation of a schoolgirl in Villupuram, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Monday sought a report on the crime from the Villupuram Collector. The NCPCR referred to news reports on two AIADMK functionaries allegedly setting ablaze a 14-year-old girl on Sunday and her subsequent death on Monday at the Villupuram Government Medical College & Hospital. NCPCR member R.G. Anand told The Hindu that he has sought a report on the incident from the Villupuram Collector within seven days. According to the official communication, the Commission requested the Collector to inquire into the matter and take strict action.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ncpcr-seeks-report-in-a-week/article31562207.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Can’t pay for return of those stranded abroad: Centre||The Centre on Monday informed the Madras High Court that it cannot foot the bill for the air travel of those who had gone to foreign countries on tourist visas and were unable to return due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The submission was made in response to a PIL plea filed in the court, seeking a direction to the Ministry of External Affairs to bring back 256 Tamil tourists reportedly stranded in Malaysia. When the case was listed before Justices Vineet Kothari and Pushpa Sathyanarayana, the litigant, M. Gnanasekar, an advocate, stated that some of the 256 tourists had returned to India by paying travel expenses out of their own pockets. Since the others were unable to return due to paucity of funds, he urged the government to step in to bring them back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cant-pay-for-return-of-those-stranded-abroad-centre/article31562212.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plasma therapy trial begins at MMC||The clinical trial for convalescent plasma therapy commenced at the Madras Medical College with the first donor — a patient who recovered from coronavirus disease (COVID-19) — coming forward to make the donation on Monday. The Madras Medical College is part of the Indian Council of Medical Research’s multi-centre trial, and also obtained the approval for an institutional trial for severe COVID-19 patients. “A patient who recovered from COVID-19 has donated plasma for the trial. With this, the approved clinical trial has commenced at MMC,” an official said. Apart from the MMC, the ICMR has granted approval for Madurai Medical College, Tirunelveli Medical College and Christian Medical College, Vellore, for its multi-centre clinical trial.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plasma-therapy-trial-begins-at-mmc/article31562197.ece
12 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs in Coimbatore resume production||Many Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore resumed production on Monday after several weeks of lockdown. Owners of industrial units had to ensure that the machinery was fit to operate. “Since the Vertical Milling Centre had not been used for more than a month, I requested the [manufacturing] company to send their service personnel over, and they are having a look at the machinery now,” said Arul Das, a small entrepreneur in KNG Pudur. He supplies components to the Railways and takes up machinery service for different sectors. Mr. Das employs eight workers. But on Monday, only four turned up for work. “We have asked them to bring hot water and lunch. We have decided to give them only biscuits in-between,” he said. Around 90% of the MSMEs in Coimbatore Corporation limits resumed operations on Monday. Most of them saw only a few labourers reporting to work. “For full-fledged operations to resume, all workers and unit owners should return,” said C. Sivakumar, president of Coimbatore and Tirupur Districts Tiny and Micro Enterprises’ Association. J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said, “It is just the beginning. Some large-scale companies have cancelled the orders they had placed a month ago. We will know how the situation has evolved in a week or 10 days.” According to data available with the District Industries Centre, 5,728 applications had been submitted for special permission to operate during the lockdown period, of which 3,680 had been approved. More than 50,000 MSMEs are located in the Coimbatore Corporation limits. “Industries have limited raw material. MSMEs need funds to continue operations non-stop. The units saw 30%-50% operations on Monday,” said R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries’ Association.  Some large-scale companies have cancelled the orders they had placed a month agoJ. JamesPresident, Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/msmes-in-coimbatore-resume-production/article31562256.ece
12 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘E-pass of Kerala government must to cross borders’||Coimbatore rural police have issued advisory to people who are planning to travel to Kerala through the district. Inter-State borders The police have informed that those who want to travel to Kerala should come to the inter-State borders Walayar, Velanthavalam and Anaikatti only if they have obtained the e-pass issued by the Kerala government. Coimbatore rural Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar issued the advisory on Sunday after major inter-State borders witnessed beeline of Keralites who wanted to cross go to their native places though they had not obtained e-pass issued by the Kerala government. The borders witnessed heavy rush of people returning to Kerala on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Majority of them attempted to return from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Thooyamani Vellaisamy, inspector of K.G. Chavadi police station, said that Walayar check post did not witness much people who came without obtaining e-pass of the Kerala government. In order to reduce rush at inter-State borders, Coimbatore rural police checked vehicles of those travelling to Kerala at places including Madukarai and Neelambur. People, who did not have Kerala government’s e-pass, were not allowed travel further to inter-State borders, said Mr. Vellaisamy. Digital submission He said that the Kerala government was mandating digital submission of COVID-19 test result (negative) for the issuing of e-pass.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-pass-of-kerala-government-must-to-cross-borders/article31562251.ece
12 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation removes restrictions from 21 containment zones||Coimbatore Corporation on Monday lifted restrictions from 21 containment areas, the highest ever since the State government imposed COVID-19 lockdown in the third week of March. According to sources, the Corporation lifted the restrictions from Railway Colony, Sai Nagar, Thirumarai Nagar, Karupparayan Kovil Street, Kasthuri Garden, Amman Nagar, Main Road, Auditor Street and near City Union Bank – all in Podanur, Savithri Nagar – Cheran Managar, Thiyagaraya New Street – Marakkadai, Ponnaiahrajapuram, Siva Nagar and Dr. Ambedkar Nagar – Kavundampalayam, Vasantham Nagar – Kuniamuthur, Ortho Dept. – Ramanathapuram, Ramachandra Road and West Periasamy Road – R.S. Puram, Bharath Nagar – Karumbukkadai and Rose Garden and G.M. Nagar – Ukkadam. The 21 locations had seen 55 persons test positive for COVID-19. The Corporation had taken them to the quarantine ward at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. The first of the 55 persons to return after treatment was from Railway Colony, Podanur and the 28-day period after the treatment ended on April 27, the sources said. From the 21 containment areas, the Corporation had lifted 2,236 samples and all those had tested negative. At the time the Corporation had enforced the containment restrictions, it had deployed conservancy workers to spray disinfectants twice a day and exclusive team at each of the areas to collect and separately dispose of the waste. It had also sent doctors and paramedical samples to collect swab samples from people in the affected person’s neighbourhood. Monday marked the second round of Corporation lifting the containment restriction. The first place where it had lifted the restriction was in a part of K.K. Pudur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corporation-removes-restrictions-from-21-containment-zones/article31562241.ece
12 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Indian diaspora in Tanzania seeks govt. intervention for repatriation||More than 1,000 Indians stranded in Tanzania following COVID-19 pandemic have sought the intervention of Indian government for their repatriation. Representatives of the Indian diaspora in the East African nation alleged that the Government of India and the Indian High Commission in Dar Es Salaam were yet to respond to their plea for repatriation. Rajan Pandya, a native of Vadavalli in Coimbatore who has been doing advertising business in Dar Es Salaam for 12 years, told The Hindu over phone that the Indian diaspora came together through WhatsApp groups and contacted the Indian High Commission for intervention multiple times. They also produced a list of people who sought repatriation. In its letter to the High Commission, the diaspora forum named Indians in Tanzania said that that it was in talks with Air Tanzania and the airline was ready to fly if the Indian Government and the High Commission nodded for the same. The 1,000-plus Indians who live in Tanzania are from most of the Indian States and union territories. “We are ready to bear the cost of repatriation and the cost of quarantine upon reaching India. This was conveyed to the High Commission,” said Mr. Pandya, who wanted to be with his wife and two children in Coimbatore during the pandemic. Stranded Indians also plead for help through Twitter, tagging handles of Prime Minister of India, Home Minister, Minister of External Affairs and other prominent leaders. Manoj Kumar Nehara, a stranded Indian from Sikar, tweeted that COVID-19 was spreading across African countries and he wanted to return to India. Tagging Indian authorities, Ravi Shah, a native of Vadodara, tweeted that there was no lockdown in the country and community spreading was very high. “We often get alerts in groups that our people die of COVID-19. However, reports on the rate of infection and death toll do not seem to be factual in Tanzania,” said Mr. Pandya, who was apprehensive about the capabilities of the African nation in COVID-19 management. A mail sent by The Hindu to the Indian High Commission in Dar Es Salaam did not fetch reply when this report was filed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/indian-diaspora-in-tanzania-seeks-govt-intervention-for-repatriation/article31562257.ece
12 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘ESI should pay wages to workers’||Coimbatore Corporation Contractors Welfare Association has demanded that the Employees State Insurance (ESI) Corporation should pay wages to workers of private organisations. In a release, it said that the employers were affected because of the lockdown and faced financial difficulty. Therefore, the ESI should pay the wages. Or, if the employers paid the April 2020 salary, the ESI should reimburse it to the employers. Doing so would help save the employers, it said and added that its secretary K. Chandraprakash had filed a case in this regard in the Madras High Court, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/esi-should-pay-wages-to-workers/article31562222.ece
12 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Elephant found dead||The female elephant that was found dead inside the Sirumugai forest range on Sunday is suspected to have suffered from pregnancy-related complications, forest officials said. During the autopsy on Monday, a decomposed foetus was found inside. The elephant, aged around 18, was found dead in the Pethikuttai beat of the forest range on Sunday evening. The carcass was around three days old. Samples were collected for forensic analysis, and the carcass was buried in the forest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/elephant-found-dead/article31562229.ece
12 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK event at Corporation main office raises eyebrows||The Thondamuthur Assembly Constituency unit of the AIADMK led by the party’s Coimbatore rural district secretary and Minister S.P. Velumani on Monday distributed personal protection kits to doctors and paramedical staff and relief materials to conservancy workers. The party held the function at the Coimbatore Corporation head office in Town Hall in the presence of District Collector K. Rajamani, Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath and eight MLAs, all from the AIADMK. Protection kit The Minister said, “We are giving 1,000 personal protection equipment to as many doctors and paramedical staff and relief materials in the form of a few essential commodities to conservancy workers from the Corporation, municipalities, town panchayats and village panchayats in the district – around 7,500 persons in all.” The boxes that he distributed to the workers carried stickers that showed that they were sponsored by the Thondamuthur Assembly Constituency AIADMK unit. The stickers carried the photographs of the Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister and former Chief Ministers M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa. There was neither the State government insignia nor that of the Corporation. Two MLAs, who attended the function, said the Minister, who represented the Thondamuthur Assembly constituency, had sponsored the personal protection equipment and relief materials from his personal funds. It was not even from his constituency development fund. The Minister further said the AIADMK had foot the bill at the budget canteens (Amma Unavagam) and so far over five lakh people had benefited. Though the officials were present at the stage, they did not give away any of the relief materials to the conservancy workers. A senior Corporation official said though the AIADMK might have sponsored the personal protection kits, since it was an event intended to honour the frontline workers – doctors, paramedical staff and conservancy workers – the Corporation decided to host the function. The function was, in essence, an event to honour workers and therefore there was nothing wrong in giving the place. Besides, the Corporation decided to have the function on its premises because of the lockdown restriction and not in another place, as originally planned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/aiadmk-event-at-corporation-main-office-raises-eyebrows/article31562236.ece
12 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Relaxation for vegetable, flower traders||The vendors who had stalls at the flower market here have welcomed the decision of Coimbatore Coporation to provide them with alternative space. “Lot of people who are not regular traders at the market have put up temporary stalls on the roadsides and are selling flowers. We are losing business because of this. We have requested the officials for an alternative venue. We will put up at least 100 shops in the temporary venue,” said Selvakumar, president of the flower market traders’ association. At the Thyagi Kumaran market, as many as 55 shops were reopened on Monday. “We have worked out a system where three shops in each row will be opened every day. This will ensure personal distancing. A trader will be able to open shops at least two times a week,” said M. Rajendran, president of the Thyagi Kumaran Market Vegetable Merchants’ Association. While the shops at the two bus stands in Gandhipuram will continue to be functional till the lockdown is lifted, the Thyagi Kumaran market is also open. It gives confidence to the traders, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relaxation-for-vegetable-flower-traders/article31562249.ece
12 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘We have taken the first step’||“Today, we have taken the first step to return to normal business. In a couple of weeks, businesses expect to see more footfalls and customers,” says C. Balasubramanian, vice president of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore. With the State government giving a detailed list of trades that are permitted to operate from Monday, almost all shops were open in Coimbatore Corporation limits. In Gandhipuram and Oppanakara Street major retail showrooms remained shut on Monday. However, in other parts of the city, almost all the retail outlets were opened. Standalone textile shops, photo studios, flex printing units, photo copying shops, sweet stalls, clock and footwear retail outlets, automobile showroom and service facilities, automobile workshops, hardware shops, and outlets selling industrial consumables were all open in the city. Aavin booths were also serving customers in several places. “Major textile and jewellery showrooms, with or without AC, departmental stores, commercial complexes are not permitted to open shutters. In the case of tea stalls and bakeries, only parcel service is permitted. If they violate, the outlets will be closed,” said District Collector K. Rajamani. “We opened the bakery for parcel service about a week ago. We sell snacks and tea. Two of us manage the outlet. Though we get only one fourth of the customers we used to get, most of them want to have tea at the stall. So they stand outside and drink their tea,” says Ayyappan, who manages the counter at a bakery at Edayarpalayam. In Saibaba Colony, Shanthi, who runs a textile showroom, says customers walk in to buy basic products and those priced low. “I have one assistant who is not able to come because there is no bus service. For the last one week, the shop was open from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. From today, the shop will be open till 7 p.m.,” she says. According to Unni, a two-wheeler mechanic, he has kept the workshop open for the last three or four days. There are a few customers. Since the spare parts outlets are also open, there is no problem, he says. The retailers have started keeping the shops open till 7 p.m as the government has permitted them to do so now. Several restaurants have started parcel service and are food delivery apps. “The small-scale gold and silver shops in Big Bazaar Street and many parts of the city were not opened on Monday. Since we have the permission to open from the district authorities, the shops will function from Tuesday,” said B. Sabarinath, president of Coimbatore Jewellers Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-have-taken-the-first-step/article31562247.ece
12 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Guest worker found hanging||A 20-year-old guest worker from Odisha was found hanging from a tree in Kovilpalayam on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Pansanan Poi from Balangir in Odisha. The police said the man was working in an industrial unit at Kovilpalayam and he was frustrated as he could not go to his native due to the lockdown. The man left his residence near his workplace on May 7 afternoon and did not return. He was found hanging from a tree at Shanmugam Garden near Kovilpalayam on Sunday morning. It was alleged that the man had lost his job and some of his friends teased him saying that it was because he contracted COVID-19. The Kovilpalayam police registered a case of unnatural death based on the complaint filed by his brother Anarthan Poi. The police were yet ascertain the reason for the alleged suicide. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling ‘Sneha’ 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050 and the State’s health helpline 104.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/guest-worker-found-hanging/article31562237.ece
12 May 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Workers reach home in Dharmapuri||As many as 62 construction workers who remained stranded in Karnataka were brought back to Dharmapuri on Monday. The workers were quarantined at the Government Engineering College in Chettikarai. According to officials, as many as 70 workers who had gone to Udupi for construction works contacted District Collector S. Malarvazhi and Higher Education Minister K.P.Anbalagan and sought help to return home. Based on their request, Mr. Anbalagan arranged transportation and 62 workers from Udupi reached Dharmapuri on Monday. Their swab samples were taken for tests. Thirty-five workers would be brought here in the coming days.  60 from Erode leave for Rajasthan A total of 60 migrant workers, who were staying in the city for work, left for their native village in Rajasthan in two private buses. A survey carried out by an official team found that there were approximately 10,000 workers in the district involved in industries, farming, construction, and work as loadmen and selling snacks. Due to lockdown, their livelihood was affected and many wanted to return to their natives, mostly in North India. They had submitted applications to the district administration and e-passes were issued to them. Two batches of workers, each comprising 30 persons, left in two buses to Rajasthan on Sunday. Officials said most of them were working at lorry booking offices in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workers-reach-home-in-dharmapuri/article31562233.ece
12 May 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Two from Dharmapuri test positive||Two persons from Dharmapuri, who had worked in Chennai, tested positive on Monday. According to officials, a 23-year-old woman police personnel, who returned to Dharmapuri after working in Chennai, has been admitted to the Dharmapuri GH . Similarly, a 29-year-old man from Dharmapuri, who worked at the canteen of a private hospital in Chennai, tested positive and is undergoing treatment in Chennai. District Collector S. Malarvizhi said that they have requested the health officials to revise the numbers, since the male patient has not visited Dharmapuri and was under treatment in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-from-dharmapuri-test-positive/article31562254.ece
12 May 2020||DINDIGUL/THENI,TAMIL NADU||Customers flock to markets, mobile phone showrooms||Showrooms and small eateries started functioning in Dindigul district on Monday. Customers started arriving at automobile workshops from 7 a.m. Many bikers could not start their vehicles as they had not used them for a long time, said Esakki, a mechanic at Round Road. In a welcome sign, a police officer regulating traffic near Main Road said people by and large wore face mask and head gear while travelling. Teashop owners too said customers adhered to social distancing norms voluntarily. Besides flocking to vegetable markets, many could be seen buying fresh greens from road side vendors in and around South Car Street and Big Bazaar areas. Mobile phone showrooms were crowded, but the sales personnel regulated physical distancing among customers. Paint shops, hardware stores and other showrooms functioned without air-conditioners. The Chamber of Commerce thanked Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for relaxing curfew norms, saying it was the need of the hour to revive money flow. In Dindigul, the number of positive cases crossed 100 last week and the number of discharged patients stood at 79. Theni district In neighbouring Theni district, all 34 categories of shops and establishments opened at 7 a.m. In Andipatti, Periyakulam and Theni town, markets saw brisk sale as people from interior villages arrived in two-wheelers as public transport and private autos were off the roads. In Cumbum, Uthamapalayam and Bodinayakkanur, farming activities took place on a small-scale. The grocery stores in and around bus stand functioned. Tender coconut and water melon were the most preferred among customers. Petrol pumps and vulcanising shops also saw good crowds. The district administration reported 59 positive cases, with 42 discharged from Theni Government Medical College Hospital. On Sunday, three fresh cases were reported including from Kadamalaikundu. The areas were identified as containment zone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/customers-flock-to-markets-mobile-phone-showrooms/article31562451.ece
12 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||340 in quarantine centres||A total of 340 persons are in the 16 quarantine centres in the district, while 92 persons who tested negative for COVID-19, were discharged from the centres, here on Monday. Officials said that persons arriving at the district’s border are quarantined for 14 days at the centres established in each of the 14 blocks in the district. They are sent home if they test negative at the end of the quarantine period. A total of 92 persons were discharged while samples were lifted from 276 persons and report is expected on Tuesday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/340-in-quarantine-centres/article31562242.ece
12 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Traffic snarls witnessed in Erode||With the government permitting more standalone shops to function from Monday, shops offering services saw good business. As a result, vehicular traffic and movement of people saw a sharp increase on the arterial roads after shops were opened on Monday. With lockdown to end on May 17, the State government had announced relaxations in a phased manner allowing industries to function and opening of shops. Reasonable crowd was witnessed at mobile phone sales and service centres, two-wheeler repair and service centres, bakeries, shop selling household appliances and repair shops, electrical stores, photocopying shops and courier booking offices. Since only parcel service were allowed in tea shops, a few customers could be seen in the shops as shop owners said that their business could be normal only when the restrictions were removed. In many shops, a worker was deputed to instruct customers to maintain personal distancing and also give sanitisers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-snarls-witnessed-in-erode/article31562244.ece
12 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Nethaji market to be shifted||With bus services expected to resume from May 18, the Nethaji daily vegetable and fruits market functioning temporarily at the Central Bus Stand is expected to be shifted to the V.O.C. Park ground soon. Following the lockdown, the congested Nethaji market on R.K.V. Road was shifted to the bus stand premises to ensure personal distancing. The end of lockdown on May 17 necessitated the Corporation to look for alternative place to run the market. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan inspected the V.O.C. Park ground on Sunday and said it would be adequate for people to ensure personal distancing. But traders want to function from the bus stand premises. The Corporation is expected to hold a meeting with the traders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nethaji-market-to-be-shifted/article31562223.ece
12 May 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Police station sealed after accused tests positive||Thirunallar police station in Karaikal district, hitherto a green zone, was sealed on Monday in the wake of an accused testing positive for COVID-19 virus. The accused, a 37-year-old driver of Surakudi, who was booked by the police in connection with a quarrel case, tested positive putting Karaikal under Orange Zone. The driver tested positive during the mandatory medical examination before being sent for judicial remand. Soon after the results were known, the residential locality of the driver was made into a containment zone. Throat and nasal swabs have been lifted from eight of his contacts. After sealing the police station, the 25 personnel have been kept under observation in isolation wards at the Karaikal Government Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-station-sealed-after-accused-tests-positive/article31562200.ece
12 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||All the crowds, vehicles and cacophony are back||With a large number of business establishments resuming operations following further relaxation of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions, all major roads in Madurai were flooded again with two-wheelers and four-wheelers. It was like any other Monday at Kalavasal, Goripalayam and Periyar bus stand, some of the busiest places in the city. The opening of tea shops (for parcel service) after around six weeks was sure to be a boon for labourers, said K. Ibrahim, the proprietor of Subam Coffee Bar. On Monday, when his shop opened after a 45-day break, Mr. Ibrahim said that both the labourers working at his shop and daily wagers at construction sites and small businesses were dependent on a glass of tea to keep them charged. Apart from tea and coffee, he served home-made vadas. “Tea shops formed part of a chain of Indian economy. Our tea master and vada master get jobs. We purchase a lot of milk, sugar and tea leaves, and we boost the economy,” he said. L. Ravi, a tea shop owner from Palanganatham, said he did not have enough sachets to give ‘parcel tea.’ “Only a few bring flasks or vessels to buy tea,” he said. However, R. Kanakaraj, the owner of Food Park Bakery, said people preferred sitting down at a shop to drink tea or eat baked goods. “Unless we allow people to sit down, we may not receive many takeaway orders,” he said. Huge crowds were witnessed in front of two-wheeler and four-wheeler servicing shops. “A large number of customers say they are unable to start their vehicles and due to the hot summer, flat tyres pose a problem,” said S. Nagaraj who services vehicles at Kalavasal. In stark contrast to these crowded shops were the near empty jewellery stores. Madurai Jewellers and Bullion Merchants Association secretary R. Sivarajan said jewellery shops would not attract much of a business as people will be wary of making investment in jewellery at this juncture. “Only after taking care of their immediate needs will they think about buying jewels. Transport restriction will also affect jewellery sales,” he said. Mr. Sivarajan said that it would be better for jewellery shops to open when the spread of COVID-19 is curtailed to the maximum. “If all shops open and the spread of the disease is fast, there will be another long lockdown which could be very damaging,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-the-crowds-vehicles-and-cacophony-are-back/article31562462.ece
12 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 toll touches 121||The number of COVID-19 cases in Madurai district rose to 121 as four persons tested positive on Monday. The district continued to record the highest number of cases in south Tamil Nadu. Collector T.G. Vinay said two contacts who tested positive were from Goripalayam. They included a 54-year-old man and a 43-year-old woman. Both had diabetes and hypertension. While the man was from the containment zone, the woman was a contact of a COVID-19 positive case. Another positive case was a 35-year-old woman from Boothamangalam. The woman is a resident of Mumbai, who came back to her native village on May 10. She has been quarantined at an isolation centre but does not display any symptoms, the Collector said. The last positive case was a 23-year-old man from Thonderi who contracted the disease from another positive person. Four new cases While three men from Thoothukudi district tested positive on Monday, a 65-year-old man in Kanniyakumari district contracted the viral infection. Now, Thoothukudi has reported 33 positive cases and Kanniyakumari 25 cases. The number of active cases in Thoothukudi district stands at six. In Kanniyakumari district there are eight active cases. Like Tirunelveil, both the districts have so far witnessed one death each.  40th positive case Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district has again got a containment zone, after a 60-year-old man, who was admitted to a private hospital for chest pain, tested positive. An aged man from the town was the first person to be tested positive in the district. Subsequently, four of his contacts tested positive. The containment zone that was spread to the entire town was later restricted to four wards of Rajapalayam municipality. “After nearly 28 days, we have a containment zone in the town,” Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan said. The source of infection for the man was yet to be established. With this new case, the total number of positive cases in the district has risen to 40. With 31 persons already discharged, nine active cases are at Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai. “We have got adequate quarantine facility to hold the visitors, who have come to the district either with or without pass, for a couple of days till their COVID-19 test results are out,” Mr. Kannan said. Only those who get negative report are allowed to go for home-quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-toll-touches-121/article31562467.ece
12 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Atrocities against SCs high during lockdown’||In the last five days alone, four Scheduled Caste (SC) persons were murdered in different parts of Tamil Nadu, including two in Thoothukudi district, said A. Kathir, executive director, Evidence, a Madurai-based NGO. Speaking to The Hindu here on Monday, he said atrocities against the SCs were high during the lockdown period. Three newly elected panchayat presidents were not permitted to discharge their duties by caste Hindus, he alleged. Though the police arrested the accused in most of cases, the suspects obtained bail. During this lockdown, the courts had said there was no need to issue notice to complainants while hearing anticipatory bail applications. After getting bail, the accused might exert pressure on the petitioners to withdraw their complaints. He Mr. Kathir urged the government to take a policy decision to ensure a situation where those booked under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act did not get bail,he said, adding the accused named in the FIRs should be detained under the Goondas Act. The Chief Minister was mandated to convene a meeting with top officials, including the Collectors and Superintendents of Police, once in six months to review cases of atrocities against the SCs. However, this government had not convened a meeting so far, he said. The government should launch a toll-free number for the SC/STs to lodge their complaints immediately, he stressed. The murder of a man and his son-in-law in Thoothukudi three days ago was for a paltry sum of Rs. 40,000. A financier and his men attacked the two men, when they demanded the documents pledged as collateral security six years ago. Similarly, over a petty issue, a 20-year-old SC man, Vinod, was stabbed to death by a friend from a dominant community in Kanniyakumari district four days ago. A total of 28 complaints of atrocities against the SCs were filed across the districts in the State in the last 34 days, Mr. Kathir said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/atrocities-against-scs-high-during-lockdown/article31562463.ece
12 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Gaur death: three forest employees suspended||Three staff from the Kodaikanal Forest Division were suspended on Sunday for allegedly failing to investigate the death of an Indian Gaur. The animal is said to have died on April 18 after it came in to contact with uninsulated wire on encroached land. District Forest Officer S. N. Thejasvi said the land in Devadanapatti village in Theni district, which belonged to PWD department, had been encroached by a mango farmer for 40 years. The land was adjacent to Murugamalai Reserve Forest and provided favourable conditions for mango cultivation. The Indian Gaur were attracted to the fruit and often entered the agricultural lands, seeking them during April and May. On April 18, the animal reportedly came in to contact with a live wire connecting a borewell inside the farm and died. The farmer buried the carcass without informing the forest department. “Some farmers, who cultivated in nearby areas, told us about the incident, but our department staff in-charge of the area did not know what happened,” he said. The farmer was remanded to judicial custody. “Following the suspension, a detailed inquiry has been ordered regarding the conduct of officials,” he said. Though the area’s forest range officer too was transferred on Sunday, it was not related to the incident, the officer added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gaur-death-three-forest-employees-suspended/article31562452.ece
12 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||New bridge work to start tomorrow||Work on constructing a high-level bridge on Kuruvikaran Salai across the Vaigai, in place of the causeway, will begin from Wednesday. The bridge will be open for traffic movement only after the completion of the new bridge by 18 months. A Corporation official said an alternative road was laid on the riverbed during the lockdown. The administrative sanction for the project was received in September. The project is estimated at Rs. 27.50 crore – Rs. 23 crore from Infrastructure and Amenities Fund and Rs. 4.50 crore from the Corporation’s general fund. The bridge will be 17.5 metres wide, 200 metres long and three metres higher than the causeway. With the construction of a two-lane road on the banks of either side of the Vaigai, the traffic flow is expected to increase in the near future. This high-level bridge will help in reducing congestion and facilitate a smooth flow of vehicles to both sides of the city. Kurivikikkaran Salai is one of the oldest causeways across the Vaigai and has withstood many floods.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/new-bridge-work-to-start-tomorrow/article31562464.ece
12 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Villagers call for closure of stone quarry||A section of residents from Karuvelampatti village in Tirupparankundram taluk petitoned Collector T. G. Vinay here on Monday seeking closure of a stone quarry. B. Raman, one of the petitioners, said that the villagers have been affected by the operations at the stone quarry for several months now. “When the quarry employees blast rocks, the tremors are felt at our houses and in the government school. Concrete has fallen off from the roof of the school and several deep cracks can be seen at the houses,” he said. His brother B. Lakshmanan, another petitioner, said that the dust from mining stones had caused serious damage to agricultural lands. “They have destroyed acres of paddy, banana and jasmine plantations,” he said. He added that upon independent investigation, it was found that the quarry did not have permission to use crusher. Since they had been getting several threats, the villagers informed the office of the Superintendent of Police. “We immediately took this up with officials from the district administration too,” he said. Tirupparankundram Tahsildar C. Natarajan has submitted two reports to the Collector along with video evidence regarding the current situation at the village. An official said there are several pollution control board violations. The organisation did not have permission to use a crusher and the quarry licence was going to expire soon. It had been recommended to seal the plant.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-call-for-closure-of-stone-quarry/article31562470.ece
12 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘TNERC order not followed’||Madurai District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (MADITSSIA) has raised objection to the manner in which electricity bill for April was calculated for industries. In a petition to Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO), its convenor KR. Gnanasambandam said that Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) had issued an order that only 20% of the demand charges were to be collected from units that remained closed during lockdown. If the unit functioned during lockdown, the actual charges or 90% of the demand charges, whichever was higher, must be collected. “However, TANGEDCO has billed all units at 90% of the demand charge, whether they functioned or not. This is highly unethical and unacceptable,” he said. The TANGEDCO must reissue corrected bills and not add burden to the industries which were facing difficult times because of the lockdown, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tnerc-order-not-followed/article31562476.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||SC not to hear Tasmac’s appeal today||In an unexpected turn of events on Monday, the Supreme Court deleted the list of cases, including Tamil Nadu government’s appeal against a Madras High Court order to close liquor shops in the State, scheduled for hearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan on May 12. Sources said the Bench would not assemble for videoconferencing on Tuesday. The case may be taken up again on May 15. The Bench, which also comprised S.K. Kaul and B.R. Gavai, was scheduled to hear the State's contention that an indefinite closure of liquor shops would lead to “grave” revenue and commercial losses. The State government has accused the High Court of judicial overreach, highlighting that the ban order was passed the very same day the Supreme Court dismissed an identical call to close liquor shops across the country. Tamil Nadu, represented by advocate Yogesh Kanna and State Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan, said liquor retail was owned and operated by the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac). The order, an open-ended ban, was on the basis of petitions by parties interested in keeping the State-run liquor shops closed. On the issue of online liquor sales and home delivery, Tamil Nadu said the Supreme Court clarified on May 8 that a decision on online sales and home delivery of liquor would be entirely left to the discretion of the States. “The Supreme Court order recognised that States have a broad margin of power to determine whether and how to effect sales of liquor in this lockdown period,” the Tamil Nadu government’s appeal said. It said no other State, except Maharashtra where the virus figures were three to four times more than Tamil Nadu, sold liquor exclusively online. Online sales could at best supplement sales through physical outlets, it added. “E-payment and home delivery call for immense logistical coordination and supply chain management, which need time manpower, especially in the present COVID-18 situation,” the petition contended. Besides, it pointed out that the Tamil Nadu Liquor (License and Permit) Rules, 1981 did not provide for online sales. The State would also have to amend the Tamil Nadu Liquor Retail Vending (In Shops and Bars) Rules of 2003. The High Court could not dictate liquor sale policy to the government, it said. The State had issued a government order on May 5 to resume the operation of Tasmac shops from May 7. The order was in line with a directive issued by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs on May 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sc-not-to-hear-tasmacs-appeal-today/article31562220.ece
12 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||No false cases registered: Puducherry police||Puducherry police on Monday denied that they had violated laws while cracking down on illegal sale of liquor during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. In a statement, the police department said it acted within the bounds of the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-false-cases-registered-puducherry-police/article31562202.ece
12 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Business as usual in Salem||Business went on as usual with majority of automobile workshops, bakeries, electronic appliances stores and other businesses started functioning here on Monday. Traffic was busy on Meyyanur Main Road where many automobile workshops operate. According to Salem district two-wheeler mechanic employees’ association, close to 1,000 workshops started functioning. S .Devarajan. general secretary of the association said, “workshops are opened, however, we are operating without any job works as of now. Besides this, many spare parts shops have not opened despite relaxations. So even if vehicles are accepted for repairs, we would not be able to get sufficient spare parts. The government must consider offering relief to mechanics as they have been jobless for over a month now.” Many bakeries and tea shops remained closed. P.L. Palanisamy, secretary of Salem District Hotel Owners’ Association said, “operating just on take away would not help us. Even on just parcel basis, we would have to employ four-five persons and there would not be enough business to meet even their salary needs. Most of the bakeries are thinking reopening once things normalise.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/business-as-usual-in-salem/article31562252.ece
12 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Inform about persons from other places to Salem’||Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh advised the public to inform officials about persons travelling from other districts and State to Salem. In a release, Mr.Sadheesh said the public could contact 0427 – 22 12 844 to provide information. The Corporation had set up a quarantine facility at Karuppur Engineering College here. Officials said that based on police checks, those coming into the city from other districts were quarantined at the College and their swab samples were collected. They said that between April 27 and May 10, 430 persons were quarantined at the facility and 345 persons were sent home to be under quarantine after the results were negative. Results were awaited for 85 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/inform-about-persons-from-other-places-to-salem/article31562230.ece
12 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not compel parents to pay school fees’||Collector S.A. Raman said, in a release, that private schools should not compel parents to pay school fees during the lockdown. “It has come to our notice that some schools are demanding parents to pay fees,” he said. Private schools should neither compel parents to pay the pending fees for 2019-20 academic year nor demand fees for coming academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-compel-parents-to-pay-school-fees/article31562234.ece
12 May 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Shop sealed||A textile shop was sealed in Sivakasi on Monday for violating lockdown norm. Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar, who inspected the shop, found 20 customers and six employees inside. Mr. Dinesh Kumar said the shop was found opened on Saturday and Sunday. “We warned the shop-owner with action for violating the curfew order. No textile shop with or without AC facility was allowed to function in urban area. But the shop-owner ignored our warnings.” The official also said that none of the persons inside the shop wore mask and were not maintaining social distancing. The shop also did not have handwash facility. A police complaint would also be lodged against the shop, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shop-sealed/article31562454.ece
12 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Kumbakonam vegetable market closed||The vegetable market complex at Kumbakonam has been sealed as a lorry driver who had brought in a consignment to the market tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. Blood and swab samples were lifted from the lorry driver, a native of Uttar Pradesh, who had brought in a potato load from Mettupalayam to the Kumbakonam market on May 8, at the Neelaththanallur check post. He had stayed in the vehicle for two days looking for some cargo from Kumbakonam area to destinations en route to his native State. The positive test result came out on Sunday and he was immediately admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Subsequently, the Kumbakonam Municipal and District Health Department officials landed at the vegetable market complex and ordered the vendors to evacuate the premises immediately. Disinfectant was sprayed covering the entire complex area, including the goods vehicles parked in the complex. Later in the night, the complex was sealed by the officials who directed the vendors to continue their business at the temporary site identified by the civic body at Valayapettai on the Kumbakonam by-pass road till the market complex gets cleared by the Health Department for carrying out business. Since the infected person had moved around in the market complex, vendors, traders and others who had visited the market to purchase vegetables from May 8 have been traced and brought under surveillance. Special arrangement have been made to test the identified persons for novel coronavirus, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kumbakonam-vegetable-market-closed/article31562532.ece
12 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Restriction is not everyone’s cup of tea||With the Tamil Nadu government allowing the opening of tea stalls in non-containment zones in the State, vendors on Monday opened shops to sell parcels of the beverage to customers. However, restricting the sale to only parcels has not gone down well among the tea stall owners, although a majority of them have resumed their business after a gap of about 45 days. According to industry sources, there are about 4,000 tea shops in Tiruchi city alone. Nearly 75% of them double up as petty shops that sell tobacco, biscuits and snacks. Out of 4,000 tea shops, it is said that more than 3,000 resumed their business on Monday. But, a section of them, who were unhappy over the State government’s condition on providing only parcel service, preferred to wait for a few more days. “Our biggest challenge is to retain our skilled tea and bonda  masters. We had to shell out money regularly to them. The relaxation has come as some relief, ” said B. Benny, who runs a tea stall at Kumaran Nagar on Vayalur road. However, most of the tea stalls reported dull business as they were restricted to offer only parcel service. A. Raja, owner of Naganathar chain of tea stalls, Srirangam, said that he did not open his tea shops as business was not viable if the customers could not be served tea or coffee at the stalls. Customers visited tea stalls to relax and take breaks. They would not come if they were not allowed to sip tea at the stalls, he said. “On a normal day, our stall usually would attract people from all sections of society. People would hang around discuss business and other issues while having tea. But now they have to bring flasks or will have to take the packets and pour it into glasses at their offices, which would be an inconvenience,” said R. Chandran, a tea vendor near the District Court campus. The vendors are however, grateful that they have been allowed to work after 40 days. “I have been selling facemasks on my bicycle for a major part of the lockdown. After the norms were relaxed, I opened up my stall to sell snacks and juices, today is the day I can light my stove after a long time,” said another vendor on Vayalur Road. Meanwhile, motor mechanic shops also opened on Monday. A shop in Woraiyur which had been converted into a vegetable stall has now resumed maintaining and fixing up two-wheelers. “We were able to manage because of switching to vegetable sale, but now that spare parts are also available, we can go back to our normal work,” M. Murugan, a mechanic said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/restriction-is-not-everyones-cup-of-tea/article31562536.ece
12 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||37 test positive in central region||Thirty-seven persons, 33 in Ariyalur district, three in Thanjavur and one in Perambalur, tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Monday. Most of the patients had contracted the infection from Koyambedu market, official sources said. In Ariyalur, 28 of the 33 patients who tested positive had travelled to their home towns in the district from Koyambedu market, where they had been working. The other five patients, including three women, are contacts of the men who returned from Chennai. The addition of these new cases raises the total number of positive cases in the district to 308. District Collector D. Rathna on Monday inspected the 12 institutional quarantine facilities set up in the district. A total of 178 patients who are asymptomatic have been accommodated at these facilities and a team of doctors and nurses continue to monitor them round-the-clock, while food and other necessary amenities are arranged by the district administration. Meanwhile, 36 patients, 24 of who had tested positive and admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital and 12 patients who were primary contacts of the patients but had tested negative were discharged on Monday. The 12 patients were admitted in a ‘pre-isolation’ ward at the GH which has been set up for high-risk and primary contacts. “They have all been asked to self-isolate themselves for 14 days. They will be allowed to venture out only after the isolation period is completed,” officials here said. An armed reserve police personnel of the dog squad who had been undergoing treatment for COVID-19 was also discharged. He was applauded and welcomed to his residence in the police quarters by police personnel led by Ariyalur Superintendent of Police V.R. Srinivasan. In Perambalur district, a 32-year-old woman tested positive for the infection on Monday. The woman’s husband who is a vendor at the Koyambedu market in Chennai has already tested positive for the virus last week. Three patients, a 23-year-old woman and two men aged 35 and 32 tested positive for COVID-19 in Thanjavur district. The patients have all been admitted to the Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital and are undergoing treatment, officials here said. Four patients were also discharged from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after they tested negative for the virus. Of the 65 patients who have tested positive in the district so far, 55 have recovered and returned home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37-test-positive-in-central-region/article31562537.ece
12 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Stranded, they await a rescue flight||Many stranded Indians from Tamil Nadu, including pregnant women, who have been waiting desperately for operation of a rescue flight from Singapore to Tiruchi, expressed their disappointment over the last-minute cancellation of one such scheduled flight. A rescue flight from Singapore to Tiruchi International Airport was scheduled for May 10. However, just days before the date of journey, it was cancelled without any further information, says Mythili Krishnasamy, an IT professional in Singapore. Her 55-year-old mother, a heart patient had come to Singapore to visit her but was now stranded there. “We are unable to get her medicines and my father, who has been diagnosed with cancer is living alone in Namakkal,” she said. The women have formed a WhatsApp group and through it, are providing support to one another, Ms. Mythili said. Of the 100 people on the group, eight pregnant women are in their third trimester. “We have no jobs here any more and cannot afford regular check-ups or even be able to go for delivery,” a pregnant woman requesting anonymity said. “There is an option to travel to Bengaluru but we must show proof of a residential address there. How is this possible?” she asked. Airlines only allow pregnant women to fly up to 36 weeks and five of the nine women are nearing their 36th week, she said, demanding a flight to either Chennai or Tiruchi soon. The group members had posted their concerns on Twitter and were able to get the attention of the High Commissioner of India in Singapore, Ms. Mythili said. “To one of our tweets on Monday, Jawed Ashraf, the High Commissioner, said that the state government was dealing with local COVID-19 cases and is unable to immediately accept incoming passengers without the risk of exposure to infection but work on it is under way,” she said. Officials of Air India in Tiruchi, which is operating flights for the Vande Bharat Mission said that the May 10 flight had to be cancelled due to operational difficulties. “We have no information on whether the flight has been rescheduled,” they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stranded-they-await-a-rescue-flight/article31562538.ece
12 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||AMMK man detained||The Pudukottai Town police on Monday detained P. Muthukumar (35), the state IT wing secretary of the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam, on charges of ‘defaming’ State Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar in a Facebook post recently. A case was registered against Muthukumar, a native of Vanur in Villupuram district, recently in this regard on a complaint preferred by an AIADMK functionary Gunaseelan of Pudukottai Town. Mr. Vijayabaskar had recently distributed free rice bags to the poor in view of the current lockdown in his Viralimalai Assembly constituency. The bags carried his picture. The accused had allegedly inserted the caption ‘Naalaaya Muthalvar’ (Future Chief Minister) above the photograph of Mr. Vijayabaskar on the rice bag. The images went viral in the social media platform thereafter. Based on a complaint from Mr.Gunaseelan, a case was registered by the Pudukottai Town Police. Muthukumar was picked up from his house near Vanur by a team from the Pudukottai Police on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ammk-man-detained/article31562539.ece
12 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Bail for bank heist accused||The District Munsif-cum-Judicial Magistrate Court at Srirangam on Monday granted bail to N. Murugan, the prime accused in the Punjab National Bank’s burglary reported in early 2019. Murugan is currently lodged in Bengaluru Jail. Police sources said the court granted the bail on the condition that Murugan should execute bond for Rs. 20,000 along with two sureties and surrender himself on any working day after the courts returns to normal functioning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bail-for-bank-heist-accused/article31562540.ece
12 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||122 shops sealed for not ensuring personal distancing||The Tiruchi Rural Police have sealed over 100 shops across the district for not ensuring personal distancing in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic while carrying out their business. A police press release said a total number of 122 shops have been sealed since March 24 for violating the government’s directive to ensure personal distancing while carrying out their business activity. On Monday alone, 19 shops were sealed by the police for violating the directive, a police press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/122-shops-sealed-for-not-ensuring-personal-distancing/article31562534.ece
12 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||After 45-day lockdown, small businesses reopen in southern districts||Almost all smaller business establishments in Tirunelveli district reopened on Monday following relaxation of lockdown restrictions by the State government. However, physical distancing appeared to go for a toss as people moved around freely unmindful of the impact of the viral infection. The lockdown was declared on March 24 in the wake of COVID-19 and small business establishments had to down the shutters. On Monday, more than 75% of business activities resumed after the government loosened relaxation for 34 types of establishments including teashops. All shops began conducting business from the early hours. Since teashops were instructed to hand out only parcels to customers and not serve hot beverages at the stalls, they did not enjoy good business. However, the snacks sold like hotcakes. “After opening our shops at 4 a.m., we usually sell tea and coffee made from seven litres of milk within four hours. But we could use only two litres of milk today,” said the owners. Small jewellery showrooms in Tirunelveli Town and other areas too reopened after a gap of 45 days. Though more than 90% of them had air-conditioners, they were not used as instructed. The glass doors of the shops remained open with fans providing respite from the sweltering heat. Pushcart traders selling garments and fancy products, especially on North Car Street, in the town also returned to work. “We are in extreme depression with no income for nearly one-and-a-half month. Although the threat of pandemic remains, the reopening will ensure regular income and boost our confidence,” said N. Murugan, a trader. Showrooms selling domestic appliances too resumed operations. “We are ready to serve our customers from today. We have taken all precautionary measures on our premises. All our staff have been provided with quality masks and sanitisers and instructed to ensure physical distancing as they engage customers,” said Rex, manager of Vasanth & Co at Palayamkottai. “When customers enter the showroom, their hands are sanitised. They are also asked to wear masks while entering the shop. If they do not have one, we give them,” he added. Showrooms selling paint had only a few customers. “We expect business to pick up during the week with construction activities resuming everywhere,” said Fermin, Nippon Paints dealer from Tuckerammalpuram on Palayamkottai outskirts. Barring business establishments in containment zones, shops were allowed to reopen in Tenkasi district. Besides asking traders to ensure physical distancing of their customers, local bodies also asked them to spray disinfectants in their shops at least five times a day. With similar restrictions in place, shops in Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts were also allowed to function on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/after-45-day-lockdown-small-businesses-reopen-in-southern-districts/article31562457.ece
12 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Advocate, father, brother, two others held for murder of Siddha doctor||Thisaiyanvilai police have arrested five persons, including an advocate, his father and younger brother, in connection with the murder of Siddha medical practitioner S. Thirupathi, 34, of Mela Pandarapuram on Saturday night. The arrested are advocate G. Muthukrishnan, 30, of Mela Pandarapuram, his father Ganesan, 57, his brother Kavin Rajkumar, 25, L. Sivanantham, 28 of Muthammalpuram and Vimal alias Vimalanathan, 33, of Sri Lankan Refugees’ Colony at Samoogarengapuram near Valliyoor. Investigators believe that Muthukrishnan hired Vimalanathan to orchestrate the crime. The police said an armed gang waylaid Thirupathi at Vijaya Achampadu near Ithamozhi when he was returning home from his clinic and hacked him to death. The assailants dumped the body in a nearby well and also pushed the Siddha doctor’s two-wheeler into the well. As Thirupathi did not return home even after 10 p.m., his family members started searching for him and found the body floating in the well after midnight. On getting information, Thisaiyanvilai police rushed to the spot and retrieved the body and the two-wheeler from the well. Previous enmity During investigation, the police found that Thirupathi had enmity with Muthukrishnan, his neighbour, over using the pathway near their houses. When Muthukrishnan and his family allegedly threatened him to resolve the issue through negotiations, Thirupathi did not budge. Agitated over it, Muthukrishnan, his father and brother, along with Sivanantham and Vimalanathan, murdered Thirupathi, the police said. The police also said Vimalanathan, who had engaged Muthukrishnan to argue his cases in the past, became close to him and Sivananatham was a friend of the prime accused. “We suspect that Vimalanathan, an accused in a case registered under the POCSO Act, and Sivanantham might have been hired by Muthukrishnan for murdering Thirupathi as the duo were in no way connected to the deceased,” a police officer said. Vimalanathan, along with one of his close relatives, figured in the murder case of a cab driver from Ambasamudram a few years ago though he did not have any personal motive to commit the crime. After figuring in a few more cases, including robbery, he was arrested eight months ago for sexually harassing a 12-year-old girl. “In all these cases, Muthukrishnan was appearing for Vimalanathan and hence the advocate could have hired him,” the police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/advocate-father-brother-two-others-held-for-murder-of-siddha-doctor/article31562459.ece
12 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||10 patients discharged from TVMCH; 147 rescued from Maldives||Ten COVID-19 positive patients, all from Puliyangudi in Tenkasi district and undergoing treatment at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, were discharged on Monday. The patients, six men and four women, left for their homes in the evening. The hospital now has 38 positive cases: 13 each from Tirunelveli city and rural Tirunelveli, 11 from Tenkasi and one from Thoothukudi. Death case Meanwhile, a 63-year-old male from Mayilaadi, who was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam, died on Saturday. Hospital sources said the man was a cancer patient and terminally ill. He was undergoing treatment in a hospital in Chennai and was brought to Nagercoil and admitted to Government Medical College Hospital. As he displayed COVID-19 symptoms, he was admitted to isolation ward and samples were collected. Even before the result was available, he died and his body was kept in the mortuary. The tests showed that he was positive and his body was cremated at Puliyadi. The sources maintained that the patient died of “cancer-related health issues”. His daughter, who brought him in an ambulance from Chennai, was under observation in isolation ward of the hospital. Also, officials had quarantined 147 persons in Kanniyakumari district. They were rescued from lodges at Kollencode, Kaliyakkavilai and Nagercoil in Maldives by the Indian Navy and brought to Kochi in a naval ship. “Samples have been collected from them and we are awaiting the results,” the sources added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-patients-discharged-from-tvmch-147-rescued-from-maldives/article31562458.ece
12 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||KKNPP migrant workers want to go home||Continuing their protest for the second day, migrant labourers at Kudankulam Nuclear Power Projects — mainly engaged in construction of reactors 3 and 4 — on Monday demanded that they be sent back to their hometowns immediately. The 5,000-odd north Indian labourers, put up in sheds on the sprawling KKNPP premises by their contractors, struck work on May 9. The protestors said the contractors and KKNPP, through the State government, should ensure operation of special trains to their States to send them back to their hometowns. They were not even being allowed to leave the premises now. Koodankulam inspector Jegatha and a constable, Sakthivel, sustained injuries when a section of the protestors pelted stones on police personnel entering the premises on Monday. A case of rioting and injuring police was registered against 32 workers and a strong posse of policemen deployed on KKNPP premises. Talks held During the talks held with protestors on Saturday last, Sub-Collector of Cheranmahadevi Pratik Tayal assured them that their journey to their hometowns would be finalised within a week after discussing the modalities with the State Nodal Officer designated for the purpose. However, the workers continued to abstain from construction work. On Monday morning, around 100 of them tried to leave the premises with their luggage only to be sent back to their sheds by police. A senior KKNPP official said the workers were assured that they would be tested within three or four days and sent back to their hometowns at the earliest. However, they did not report for work and any delay in construction would cause significant loss to KKNNP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kknpp-migrant-workers-want-to-go-home/article31562460.ece
12 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Forest watcher’s body recovered from canal||The body of forest watcher C. Santhru (25), whowas washed away on Saturdayin Udumalpet in Tiruppur district while retrieving the carcass of an elephant in Contour Canal, was recovered on Sunday after nearly 24 hours. According to C. Dhanabalan, Udumalpet Forest Range Officer, Santhru’s body was stuck in a 700-metre-long narrow tunnel in the canal, which was nearly 400 metres away from the spot from where he was washed away. During the operation on Saturday, he and a forest guard jumped into the canal in the hope of rescuing the elephant alive. While the forest guard was rescued immediately, Santhru was washed away. “Both of them knew swimming, but Santhru could not withstand the water current speed,” Mr. Dhanabalan said. Nearly 120 personnel from the Forest Department and Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services were involved in retrieving the body. Santhru was part of the 15-member team from Udumalpet Forest Range sent to rescue a seven-year-old male elephant that accidentally fell into the Contour Canal near Pollachi in Coimbatore district on Saturday. It was found to be dead during the operation and its carcass was retrieved from the canal. Mr. Dhanabalan said that Santhru’s body was taken to his residence at Keeramangalam in Alangudi, Pudukkottai district, after autopsy. The last rites were completed on Monday morning. P.K. Dileep, Tiruppur District Forest Officer, said that this was an “isolated” incident and that it was Santhru’s first rescue operation after he was recruited in December 2019. He said that all Forest Department officials in Tiruppur district would be asked to be “more cautious” during such operations in future. “He was trying to save the life of an elephant. That we need to appreciate,” Mr. Dileep said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-watchers-body-recovered-from-canal/article31562225.ece
12 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur MP leads AITUC protest||Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan led the protest organised by the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) outside the District Collectorate here on Monday demanding relief measures for migrant workers and other labourers. The demands to the State government included ensuring train services for all migrant workers to return to their hometowns, provision of Rs. 7,500 per month for three months for all daily wage labourers, provision of cash assistance for those registered in welfare boards and no implementation of salary cuts, layoffs or increased working hours. Mr. Subbarayan, who is also the State president of the AITUC, sent a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday elaborating on these demands, the AITUC sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tiruppur-mp-leads-aituc-protest/article31562228.ece
12 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Farmer assists in rescuing personnel||An elderly farmer, whose agricultural field was near the Contour Canal in Udumalpet, assisted the Forest Department in rescuing a member of the team on Saturday. R. Karthikeyan (60) said on Monday that he lent his dhoti to the Forest Department team to help one of the personnel, who was in the water trying to retrieve the carcass of the elephant. He was also a witness to forest watcher C. Santhru being washed away on Saturday. Noting that the water current in the canal was high on Saturday, Mr. Karthikeyan said that Santhru jumped into the canal and struggled to swim. “It was sad to see a life being washed away in front of my eyes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmer-assists-in-rescuing-personnel/article31562227.ece
12 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||No active cases in Tiruppur district||With the discharge of two patients from Tiruppur district on Monday, all 114 patients have recovered from the coronavirus and as of now the district has no active cases. The two men, aged 20 and 50, who tested positive on May 2 were discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital in Coimbatore on Monday, sources in the Health Department said. The two had returned to Iduvai on the outskirts of Tiruppur city after a trip to the Koyambedu wholesale vegetables and fruits market in Chennai in the last week of April. The first COVID-19 positive case in Tiruppur was confirmed on March 23. Since then, the district saw two major spikes in the number of cases on April 12 and 18 causing the total number of cases to cross the 100-mark and becoming the third district in the State to do so after Chennai and Coimbatore. The district has not seen any fresh cases for more than a week since May 3. Nine out of the 13 blocks in the district – Avinashi, Uthukuli, Kundadam, Dharapuram, Vellakoil, Mulanur, Gudimangalam, Madathukulam and Udumalpet – have been declared as green zones as they reported no new COVID-19 positive cases for 28 days. The remaining four blocks – Tiruppur, Palladam, Pongalur and Kangeyam – are orange zones. However, Mangalam taluk and Udumalpet Municipality are still red zones as fresh cases were reported here in the last 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-active-cases-in-tiruppur-district/article31562258.ece
12 May 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Opening of Mettur dam for kuruvai||The date of opening of the Stanley Reservoir for kuruvai season will be announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, according to Food Minister R. Kamaraj. Disclosing this at a COVID-19 relief assistance distribution event held at Tiruvarur on Sunday, the Minister expressed confidence that Tamil Nadu would register good harvest in the forthcoming season. In the current season, the State had registered a harvest of over 20 lakh tonnes of paddy, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/opening-of-mettur-dam-for-kuruvai/article31562533.ece
12 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Healthcare workers given special tour of Botanical Garden||The government healthcare workers in the Nilgiris, who are on the frontline in the fight against COVID-19, were given a welcome break from their daily routine for a short while. More than 120 doctors, nurses and other staff were given a special tour of the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam on Monday. The healthcare workers were allowed into the garden by the Horticulture Department, who honoured all the visiting healthcare workers with a round of applause for their work. R. Megha, a nurse, said that she appreciated the gesture. “It also provides us with a welcome relief from the daily stress of working in a hospital during the time of a pandemic, as we have only been commuting between our homes and the hospital with very little time for anything else for the last two months,” she said. The Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam along with all other tourist spots in the Nilgiris have been closed to the public since March 17. With the fate of the annual flower show, which was supposed to be held between May 15 and May 19, yet to be decided, the Horticulture Department staff are continuing to plough ahead with the arrangements for the show. Assistant Director of Horticulture, the Nilgiris district, M.Radhakrishnan, said all the plants had been arranged in the viewing galleries and the lawns prepared. “The only thing missing are the superstructure exhibits that are made every year with flowers and different kinds of foliage,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/healthcare-workers-given-special-tour-of-botanical-garden/article31562239.ece
12 May 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Girl burnt to death, 2 held||The police arrested two ruling AIADMK functionaries for allegedly setting a 14-year-old girl on fire. The teenager died at the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital (VGMCH) in Mundiyambakkam on Monday. The incident took place at Sirumadurai colony near Thiruvennainallur around 11.30 a.m. on Sunday. The victim, Jayashree, daughter of Jayabal, a petty shop owner, had sustained over 70% burns. The arrested have been identified as G. Murugan, 52, husband of a former councillor and K. Kaliyaperumal, 60, both functionaries of the ruling AIADMK. Police said the victim and the men arrested belonged to the same community. Villupuram Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar said the duo was arrested based on the statement of the victim. “We are probing various angles,” he said. Preliminary investigations by the police revealed that Murugan and Kaliyaperumal along with six others had assaulted Jayabal’s brother eight years ago. All the accused in the case had come out on bail. The girl’s family has alleged that she was alone at home and looking after the shop in front of their house, when the duo reportedly poured kerosene and set her on fire. Neighbours heard her screams and rushed to her rescue. The girl, in her declaration to a Magistrate, said that the duo had set her ablaze. Functionaries expelled On Monday evening, AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami in a joint statement in Chennai expelled Kaliaperumal and Murugan, who were arrested in connection with the murder of the schoolgirl. The statement said the two functionaries acted against the party’s principles and brought disrepute to the AIADMK. Hence they were being expelled from the primary membership of the party.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/minor-girl-burnt-to-death-two-aiadmk-men-held/article31562199.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers leave for Jharkhand||About 1,300 migrant workers boarded the train at the Coimbatore Railway Junction on Monday night to return to Jharkhand. The number of workers, who can be accommodated in a train, has been increased to 1,464. On Monday, 1,300 workers, who were employed across Coimbatore district, boarded the train. This was the sixth special train leaving Coimbatore with migrant workers, an official said. The Shramik special train was bound for Bokaro Steel City Railway Station at Jharkhand. Officials from Salem Division of Southern Railway said that the accommodation was increased from 1,140 to 1,464 due to the high number of migrant workers wanting to return home. The accommodation was increased by allowing the passengers in the middle berths of the sleeper coaches, which was not allowed in the earlier Shramik special trains. However, physical distancing would be ensured in all the 24 coaches and the reduced occupancy for the unreserved coaches and the seating-cum-luggage rake coaches had not been changed, the officials added. The train left Coimbatore Junction at around 10 p.m. on Monday.  Tiruppur Meanwhile, railway officials said that a second Shramik special train was expected to be operated from Tiruppur Railway Station on Monday, but it was not confirmed. A special train to Bihar might be operated on Tuesday, according to the officials. On Sunday, Tiruppur saw the operation of the first Shramik special train to Muzaffarpur Junction in Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-leave-for-jharkhand/article31562226.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A familiar sight after so many weeks||Normal vehicular traffic, except for autorickshaws and buses, was back on city roads after the long lockdown on Monday. The high volume of vehicles warranted operation of automatic signals. “All of a sudden there is a huge increase in the number of vehicles. Finding space for parking has once again become a task,” said businessman J.S. Kaleel Rahman, 38. All shops, except for big textile shops and malls, are open. Furniture shops, utensil shops, tea stalls, construction material shops and automobile spare parts shops are open. Though vehicular traffic has increased, footfalls in shops have not increased proportionately, said Mr. Rahman who runs an optical shop on East Veli Street. “May be people just want to move around to have a look of their city. The actual business will pick up slowly,” he said. But a grocery merchant in Nethaji Road had a different story. “All these days under lockdown our shops were going out of stock and a huge crowds were thronging our shops. But, now, we have adequate stock and are eagerly waiting for customers,” said M. Dayalan. With the prolonged lockdown, kitchen appliances such as wet grinders and mixers should have broken down in many households, as a shop selling spare parts for these appliances had a good crowd. Assistant Commissioner of Police B. Joseph Nixon said that only autorickshaws were not allowed now. “Taxis are allowed with only two passengers,” he said. Stating that only Madurai residents were moving around, he added that the real congestion would begin only when people from neighbouring districts such as Virudhunagar and Sivaganga descend here on business. Motorbikes were allowed, but pillion riders were not allowed. People who were not wearing masks and helmets would be penalised, he said. Trucks were not allowed during daytime to avoid spreading of the COVID-19 infection. They were allowed into the city between 10 p.m. and 8 a.m. he added.  Real congestion will begin when people from neighbouring districts descend on Madurai   B. Joseph Nixon Assistant Commissioner of Police||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-familiar-sight-after-so-many-weeks/article31562472.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Smart City projects resume in Madurai||After a long gap since the imposition of lockdown, work has resumed at major projects under the Smart Cities Mission of the Central government on Monday. Work has started on a low scale - at Periyar bus stand and multi-level car parking facility near Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple. City Engineer S. Arasu said work had begun on a few projects with available workers who were staying near construction sites. “We have resumed work by following rules laid down by the government. The workers are given face masks and hand washing facilities have been provided on the site. Officials have been instructed to screen the workers and strictly enforce personal distancing,” he said. A corporation official said that after de-watering, regular work resumed with around 100 workers at Periyar bus stand on Monday. “Heavy rain during lockdown led to water stagnation at the construction site and hence we had to pump out the water before starting work,” he said. Most of the workers were migrants who have been waiting to return to their native States. “To address the issue of labour shortage, we have brought few workers from villages around Madurai and have arranged accommodation for them near the site,” he said. Another official said that relaying of stones on the four Chithirai streets around near Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple and work at Kunnathur Chathiram started on Friday. Work has also begun at Tamukkam ground where construction of a convention centre is under way. “But we have run short of labourers. We hope that full-fledged work will begin next week,” said the official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-city-projects-resume-in-madurai/article31562469.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Don’t resume air, rail services till May 31: CM||Recalling efforts to combat COVID-19, Mr. Palaniswami said that as on May 10, Tamil Nadu had tested 2,43,037 samples and 7,204 persons had been found positive. Besides, 59,610 contacts and “suspected persons” were under active quarantine. Effective medical treatment had ensured that the death rate in Tamil Nadu was the lowest at 0.67%, he said, and added that the discharge rate was 27%, with 1,959 patients recovering. He reiterated his request for more RT-PCR testing kits. The State, which has sent back 13,284 persons, including migrant workers and patients on 12 trains, plans to send more migrant workers and others on 61 trains by May 17. Mr. Palaniswami, however, sought early consent from Chief Ministers of receiving States. Assuring migrant workers that they would be sent home within a week, Mr. Palaniswami urged them to remain in the designated camps till then. The State has received four flights and a ship under the “Vande Bharat” and “Samudra Setu” missions and over 900 passengers have been quarantined and tested, he said. Pointing out that Tamil Nadu has a large number of MSME units with several thousand labourers, he requested that the annual credit plan target for lending to MSMEs should be enhanced to Rs. 1,25,000 crore for 2020-21. “A credit restructuring package may also be provided so that they do not have repayment obligations till December 31, 2020. Fresh working capital assistance should be extended to MSME units,” the CM said. He reiterated his plea for a special grant of Rs. 2,000 crore to enhance available medical equipment. Besides, the State must be allowed additional borrowing of 33% above the permitted level for 2020-21, given its pending GST compensation and 50% of the 2020-21 Finance Commission grants for urban and rural local bodies. Insisting that no cuts should be made in devolution to States from the Union Budget estimates for 2020-21, he sought an ad hoc grant of Rs. 1,000 crore from NDRF to procure medical, protective materials and for the movement of migrant labourers, the cost which had been borne entirely by the State government. He urged that the CMPRF be made eligible to receive CSR contributions under Schedule-III of the Companies Act, 2013. He sought additional allocation of foodgrains for all cardholders, including the NPHH beneficiaries, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana. Besides, he sought a relief package to ease the immediate burden on the power sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dont-resume-air-rail-services-till-may-31-cm/article31562209.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu sees record spike of 798 cases||A 50-year-old resident of Chennai with systemic hypertension and diabetes died at RGGGH on May 10 while a 65-year-old man with stage 4 carcinoma of the pancreas along with multiple metastasis, admitted to the Kanniyakumari Medical College Hospital, died on May 9. The number of deaths has been rising steadily over the past week. A senior doctor said, “Private hospitals usually refer COVID-19 patients to government hospitals. Now, the number of referrals is more, and many of them have debilitating conditions. Many of these patients have multiple co-morbidities and have incidentally tested positive for COVID-19. Once they test positive, private hospitals are referring them to government tertiary care centres.” Ninety-two patients were discharged from various hospitals. This brought the number of patients discharged to 2,051 in the State. There are 5,895 active cases in the State while 4,273 persons suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 are admitted to isolation wards. The 798 new cases were reported from 17 districts. Chennai and neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu were the worst hit. While Tiruvallur had 97 cases, Chengalpattu had 90, taking the total in the two districts to 440 and 356, respectively. Ariyalur had 33 new cases. A health official said the cases continued to surge in Chennai due to a number of clusters. “Chennai has cases from the Koyambedu cluster, front line workers cluster, hospital cluster and mediapersons cluster. Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Kodambakkam and Teynampet are the four highly-affected zones in the city,” he said. The day saw a high number of children aged 0 to 12 testing positive in the State. A total of 63 tested positive, taking the total number of children affected till now to 427. Another 49 persons aged above 60 are among the new patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-sees-record-spike-of-798-cases/article31562211.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Official attacked; workers resort to flash strike||Employees of Thiruthuraipoondi Municipality in Tiruvarur district resorted to a flash strike on Monday morning demanding the arrest of a fish vendor who had attacked a sanitary inspector on Sunday. N. Venkatachalam, the sanitary inspector, sustained injuries after he was allegedly attacked by fish vendor V. Kalvipriyan of Thiruthuraipoondi on Sunday afternoon. As the culprit was not arrested till Monday morning, the civic body staff struck work by suspending piped drinking water supply and cleaning of streets and other sanitary work. According to police, the fish vendor refused to comply with the directions issued by the civic body to shift his place of business from the old bus stand and continued to sell fish at the same place for the past seven days. On Sunday, a team of officials led by the Municipal Engineer-cum-Commissioner (in-charge), Chandrasekharan, issued a warning to Kalvipriyan and directed the officials to collect a fine of Rs. 500 from him. An enraged Kalvipriyan presumed that Mr. Venkatachalam was behind the action initiated against him and attacked him on the Hospital Road with a lethal weapon. However, Mr. Venkatachalam escaped with minor injuries and was admitted at the Government Hospital, Thiruthuraipoondi. Subsequently, police registered a case under Section 307 of IPC against Kalvipriyan based on a compliant lodged by Mr. Chandrasekharan. As the accused, who is said to be an office-bearer of a political party, was not arrested till Monday, the civic body staff struck work. They resumed duty after senior police officers assured them that the culprit, who is absconding, would be arrested soon. Meanwhile, employees of the Tiruchi Corporation staged a demonstration in front of the civic body office expressing solidarity with the municipal workers in Thirutharaipoondi. Employees of Pudukottai Municipality also staged a demonstration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/official-attacked-workers-resort-to-flash-strike/article31562449.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Back in business||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/back-in-business/article31562214.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||As on May 11||Persons in hospitals – 162 (Male -28, Male child – 2, Female – 131, Female child - 1) Govt. hospitals – 131 Private hospitals – 31 Persons tested +ve – 146 (No new case on Monday) Active cases – 4 Persons recovered – 141 Death – 1   House quarantined – 1,383 Positive – 114 (No fresh cases on May 11) Discharged from ESI Hospital – 114 (No active cases)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/as-on-may-11/article31562250.ece
12 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two men grazing sheep die in wall collapse||Two persons who were grazing sheep died after a wall collapsed in Kamakaratti village in Belagavi district on Monday. Kallappa Sambrekar (45) of Kondaskoppa and Parashuram Shahapurkar (17) of Shindoli were sitting in a shed in a field when it started raining heavily. The mud wall collapsed before they could escape, and they were crushed under it. A case has been registered in the Hire Bagewadi Police Station.  Falls into borewell Lakkappa Doddamani (28), a farmer from Sultanpur near Raibag in Belagavi district, fell into an empty borewell in his field on Monday. Police and Fire and Emergency Services personnel began digging a trench near the borewell to retrieve the body. Villagers said that the farmer had dug the borewell on Sunday, but it did not yield water. A family member suspected that the farmer had killed himself out of desperation. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli and Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi visited the village. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-men-grazing-sheep-die-in-wall-collapse/article31562323.ece
12 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Mandya woman cremated in Belagavi||A woman from Mandya district, who died in Pune in Maharashtra, was cremated at a village in Belagavi district on Monday, as the body could not be brought to her hometown. Soumya T.A. of Tailoor village was an employee of a IT company in Pune. She died of a heart attack on Friday. Her husband Sharat Kumar had applied for a transit pass with the district administration in Mandya, but the officers did not issue it as a COVID-19 test was not conducted on the body. Stopped at border Without waiting for the pass, he brought the body till Karnataka border near Nippani. The officers at the check-post also did not allow him to transport further. He waited for some time and contacted Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi. The officer, after consulting with Assistant Commissioner Ravindra Karlingannanavar, allowed him to conduct the cremation on the banks of Doodha Ganga river near Chikkodi. Mr. Kumar, his daughter Yukta and his uncle Appayya, a retired police officer, left for Mandya on Monday, after the cremation, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mandya-woman-cremated-in-belagavi/article31562166.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Recovered patient has relapse in Belagavi; 14 new COVID-19 cases reported in State||Karnataka reported its first COVID-19 relapse on Monday with a 50-year-old Tablighi Jamaat convention attendee testing positive days after being discharged. The State health officials confirmed that P-298 from Kudachi, who had recovered and was discharged, has suffered a relapse. He has been re-admitted to a designated hospital in Belagavi. The patient was initially admitted on April 15 and recovered, testing negative twice on April 30 and May 1. The tests were done at the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Bengaluru, and the National Institute of Traditional Medicine (NITM), Belagavi. Despite recovering, his treatment continued in the ICU for other comorbidities, especially cardiac issues. He was discharged on May 4 and quarantined at an institutional facility in Kudachi. However, he developed symptoms again and was tested for COVID-19 again on May 5 at NITM, Belagavi. The result came back positive. He was re-admitted to a hospital, and on May 6 a second test was done at the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences. Again, he tested positive. New cases Meanwhile, 14 new cases were reported on Monday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka to 862. This includes 31 deaths, one non-COVID death, and 426 discharged persons. Of the 14 new cases, three are from Davangere, two each from Bagalkot and Bidar, and one each from Kalaburagi, Haveri, Vijayapura, Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh, Hassan, and Mandya. Monday’s case in Haveri is the third case in that district. Except for four cases, the rest are either primary or secondary contacts of previous positive patients. A 20-year-old man from Banahatti in Bagalkot, who has a travel history to Ahmedabad, and a 26-year-old man from Haveri, who has a travel history to Mumbai and Bhatkal, tested positive. That apart, a 30-year-old woman from Hassan and a 38-year-old man from Mandya, both of whom had a travel history to Mumbai, also tested positive. Both have been admitted to a designated hospital in Mandya. A 55-year-old woman from Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh, who is a contact of P-796, a 60-year-old patient with Influenza-Like Illness (ILI) from Bengaluru, has now been infected. ‘Under control’ Asserting that there was no need to panic and that the situation was under control in the State, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, said that the number of recovered patients was higher than the number of active cases, which stood at 404 as on Monday. “We have been maintaining this trend for the last two weeks,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/recovered-patient-has-relapse-in-belagavi-14-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-state/article31562161.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 6,000 hotel rooms booked for quarantining travellers||As many as 6,068 rooms in 84 hotels of various categories have been booked by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for quarantining travellers coming into the city from abroad and from different parts of the country. Over 300 people flew into the city from London on Monday and have been quarantined in various hotels based on the standard operating procedure of the Department of Health and Family Welfare to check the spread of the novel corona virus. An order issued by the Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru (Urban), stated that a total of 2,565 rooms have been booked in 18 five-star hotels, 1,927 in 26 three-star hotels and 1,576 in 40 budget hotels across the city. Room rentals The room rents have to be paid by the travellers. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar told The Hindu that the government had authorised the civic body’s Special Ccommissioner to arrive at the rental rates. A committee was later set up and, following discussions with hotel managements, the rates for all categories of hotels were finalised. The rental for a room in a five-star hotel (including lunch and dinner) is Rs. 4,100 per person and Rs. 5,900 per couple. The average cost of a room (including lunch and dinner) in a three-star hotel will be Rs. 1,850 per person per day and Rs. 2,450 per day for a couple. The rate for non-star hotels (budget hotels) was earlier Rs. 900 per person. However, the hotel managements sought an enhancement, and the cost is now Rs. 1,200 per person, inclusive of three meals. Sources in the BBMP said that officials deputed at the Kempegowda International Airport show the rate card to the travellers coming in. “The foreign returnees choose a hotel where they are sent to be quarantined,” the source said.  More quarantine centres  Apart from the 6,000-odd rooms booked in hotels, the BBMP is requisitioning marriage halls (choultries, kalyana mantapas), government run and private hostels, youth hostels, university hostels to serve as quarantine centres. The BBMP Commissioner said that the list of these will be ready by Tuesday. “There are many people coming into the city by trains and by road. However, not all may be able to pay for the rooms in hotels. To accommodate such persons, marriage halls and hostels are being requisitioned. We will ensure quarantine norms are followed in these places with regard to social distancing,” said Lokesh M., Special Commissioner, BBMP. He added that the civic body was ensuring that all these quarantine centres have basic facilities, including beds and clean toilets. Asked if there was resistance from the local communities with regard to setting up of these quarantine centres, he said that the civic body faced some resistance in the initial stages. “We are now under the third phase of the lockdown and there is greater awareness among citizens. Much of their fears of the spread of COVID-19 have been allayed,” he said. “Also, those who test positive will not be in the quarantine centres; they will shifted to designated hospitals,” he added. Mr. Anil Kumar pointed out that the 14-day institutional quarantining of travellers does not apply to those coming into the city from districts within the State. Teams have been deputed at various entry points into the city and check posts have been set up by the Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru (Urban). All travellers are subjected to medical tests at these check posts that have been set up on Tumakuru Road, Old Madras Road and Hosur Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/over-6000-hotel-rooms-booked-for-quarantining-travellers/article31562140.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tears of joy as flight lands in city||It was an emotional moment for passengers of the repatriation Air India flight from London that landed in Bengaluru on Monday. There was sighs of relief and tears of joy. Soundarya, one of the passengers in the flight, told The Hindu that when the flight made its scheduled landing at New Delhi before arriving at Bengaluru, passengers were thrilled and clapped loudly as the pilot made the announcement that the flight is about to land. “I was in tears when the flight landed. ” she said. Ms. Soundarya, daughter of actor-politician Jayamala, was stranded in the UK for close to 50 days after the Indian government banned commercial flights from various countries. This was her second attempt to come back home after the COVID-19 outbreak. “On March 22, I had boarded a flight to India via Dubai. When the flight landed at Dubai, passengers were asked to alight as India had imposed a ban. We were stranded in the airport for more than 17 hours and finally authorities permitted us to go back to U.K. I had to undergo 14 days quarantine after reaching London. Meanwhile, the number of cases continued to rise. It was tough. I wanted to return India no matter what,” she said. She had gone to U.K. to pursue B.Sc. honours in Zoology. She said two of her faculty members and a student were infected too. She booked a ticket for the second time to Bengaluru after the Union government announced the evacuation flight for stranded Indians in the U.K. “There were children, pregnant women and aged people on the flight. Each one had their stories. Some passengers had lost their family members back home during the lockdown,” she said. An economy class ticket on the flight reportedly cost around Rs. 50,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tears-of-joy-as-flight-lands-in-city/article31562143.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC buses turn into mobile fever clinics||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses have been converted into mobile health check-up clinics for general health and COVID-19 testing. The mobile fever clinic bus was launched by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday. According to a press release, the objective of the initiative is to increase number of tests for COVID-19. The release added that the KSRTC has already initiated other such mobile fever clinic buses in association with the district administrations of Mysuru, Mandya, Tumakuru, Mangaluru, Bagalkot, Hubballi, Belagavi, and Raichur. The bus is divided into two zones with beds and consultation area, maintaining proper hygiene conditions. The mobile clinic buses are being developed at the KSRTC workshops. Four more buses will be pushed into service in Bengaluru. The release stated that there would be four teams with four mobile clinics, and each team would comprise a doctor, three nurses, and a lab technician, not including the many volunteers facilitating the process. The teams will start from red zones and screen as many residents as they can. Swab samples of those who have symptoms will be collected at a discounted price of Rs. 3,750. Blood tests will also be offered at Rs. 300.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-buses-turn-into-mobile-fever-clinics/article31562151.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rules to be amended to prevent misuse of PDS foodgrains||Appealing to poor families not to sell the rice given to them for free under the Public Distribution System (PDS), Food and Civil Supplies Minister K. Gopalaiah on Monday said the government would amend the rules to prevent theft and misuse of PDS foodgrains. “I have collected information that 1 kg of rice is being sold for between Rs. 10 and Rs. 13. The excess rice that we purchase from Food Corporation of India is at a cost of Rs. 25 per kg and we have got information that the rice is being sold for between Rs. 10 and Rs. 13 a kg. It is also a loss for the government,” the Minister told presspersons here. “Let them leave it in the stores if there is excess for them. It will be a saving for the government and can be distributed next month,” the Minister said, adding that a scheme meant to help the extreme poor should not be misused. According to him, about 4.34 crore people receive free rice in the country from the Union and State governments and there are 11 lakh Antyodaya card-holders in the State. “In April, each family received 70 kg of rice. They will receive 10 kg this month from the Central pool. The families will also receive 30 kg (for three persons) and 50 kg (for five persons) again this month from the State,” he said. Meanwhile, criminal proceedings have been initiated against several persons for illegally keeping rice meant for PDS purposes. He said that such instances were found in Kalaburagi, Mysuru and Davangere, where the persons caught could explain neither the source of the rice nor the mismatch in stock. According to the Minister, notice has been issued to 499 shops and the licence of 33 shops cancelled already for misuse of stocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rules-to-be-amended-to-prevent-misuse-of-pds-foodgrains/article31562154.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Trade unions protest against amending labour laws||Workers on Monday staged a protest —while maintaining social distancing — in front of the Labour Commissioner’s office against the moves being made to amend/dilute labour laws in the State. They urged the State government to immediately convene a tripartite meeting to discuss the issues. Members of nine trade unions under the Joint Committee of Trade Unions (JCTU) said the move to increase working hours from eight to 12 hours by bringing in amendments would have far-reaching consequences for the labour force. The workers also protested against moves to introduce amendments through the ordinance route and submitted a memorandum. The JCTU said there was a need for a tripartite meeting, and till then the government should not promulgate any ordinance amending labour laws. It said that during the COVID-19 crisis, it is important that the government seek the cooperationof workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/trade-unions-protest-against-amending-labour-laws/article31562157.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC issues advisory to staff of all courts; says breach will amount to ‘misconduct’||In an effort to keep staff of all courts in the State attentive and adhere to COVID-19 precautions, the Karnataka High Court has not only issued basic protective advisories to the staff but has also said that its breach would be treated as “misconduct” leading to initiation of action as per the service rules. The advisory also includes what the staff need to do on going home from office. Also, the High Court has made it clear that all the officers/officials who have been on any kind of leave and have left the headquarters on or before March 24 shall get examined in High Court Dispensary on reporting to duty for the first time, and as per the medical advice they must be ready to undergo compulsory home quarantine for 14 days, if necessary. Apart from the staff, every person entering the court precincts, including the police, personal security staff of judges, advocates, clerks of advocates, and others shall be scanned at the entry point by the health workers to ascertain symptoms of COVID-19 and body temperature. Entry would be denied if any person shows symptoms. Wearing of mask is compulsory and no one will be allowed to enter court precincts without it, the notification states while asking staff to avoid close contact with anyone on the court premises. After entering the offices, the staff will have to wash their hands with liquid soaps or use sanitisers and should use gloves while dealing with office files/case files. High Court Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna, the seniormost judge of the High Court, have issued video messages reminding the staff of the importance of following the advisory not only for their safety but also for the safety of their family members and colleagues. On going home The advisory has asked the staff to ring up home before leaving the office so that those at home can keep the front door open to ensure the staff need not touch the doors or calling bell switch. They are advised to wash their hands and feet with soap water before entering the house. Also, the staff are advised to keep their keys, mobile phones in a box at the entrance and take them inside after wiping with issue papers with sanitiser.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hc-issues-advisory-to-staff-of-all-courts-says-breach-will-amount-to-misconduct/article31562163.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pregnant woman shifted to hospital||While none of the 326 Kannadigas, who returned from London early on Monday morning, showed any symptoms during screening at the airport, one pregnant woman who developed uterine contractions during her journey has been shifted to a hospital. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), told The Hindu that none of the passengers showed any symptoms during the screening. “We allowed only asymtpomatic persons to board. All have been quarantined in six different facilities and will be tested twice during the 14 days,” he said.  Uterine contractions B. Prabhudev Gowda, State Health Nodal Officer for Airport Screening, said the woman was given first aid at the airport medical centre and then shifted to K.C. General Hospital. “She was very tired following the long journey and was feeling sick. She developed uterine contractions and had become anxious as she was in the third month of her pregnancy. She had a craving for idli and we first provided her that. She has been stabilised now and will be under observation for two days after which she will be shifted to a quarantine centre,” he said. Although the aircraft was packed with the 326 passengers with little scope for social distancing, all the passengers including children had worn personal protection equipment. All of them were stamped on the back of their palm and shifted to quarantine facilities in batches of 15-20 in BMTC buses, he said. The next batch will arrive from Singapore on Tuesday at 9 p.m., he added. Meanwhile, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar tweeted: “326 passengers who arrived in Bengaluru from London today morning are asymptomatic and have been shifted to 6 different quarantine facilities in 13 buses. All of them will be tested twice during 14-day quarantine period and swab collection will be done at their place of stay.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pregnant-woman-shifted-to-hospital/article31562144.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Schools conduct surveys to make online classes more effective||With the 2020-2021 academic year set to reopen later this month, several schools that have decided to begin online classes due to the COVID-19 pandemic have asked parents to fill in surveys to get feedback on how they can plan academic activities in a day. Based on the feedback received from parents and students, schools are tweaking their online classes for the convenience of students and to make the learning more effective. Nooraine Fazal, founding managing trustee and CEO, Inventure Academy, said they have conducted surveys for online classes that they ran at the end of the last academic year and for the summer camp which included art, yoga and dance. They have asked students and parents how their ideal day would be and feedback on the online tools and the classes that they liked. Ms. Fazal said they used the feedback and increased the breaks between classes for grades 1, 2 and KG. She also said that feedback from parents, teachers students, and the school staff have helped design the online school, learning outcomes and lesson plans. Keeping in mind the technological challenges, schools have decided to conduct synchronous (face to face) online classes for senior school and asynchronous sessions for primary school. Schools are also trying to devise ways to reduce the amount of screen time for students. A school in Yelahanka New Town has sought feedback from parents on technological gadgets that the child will have access to and the duration he/she can use it. “As it is not recommended for younger students to have prolonged screen time, the assignments can be done asynchronously. The rest of the time, we will be engaged in remote learning. This involves teachers preparing lessons and assigning tasks to students,” the email from the school management stated. Schools are also training teachers to prepare for online classes. They are conducting webinars to figure out how to make learning more engaging. Parents are happy that the schools are asking for feedback. Swati S., whose daughters study in classes 5 and 9 in a CBSE affiliated school said: “We have requested the school to conduct online classes in a staggered manner as we have only one laptop. This was the feedback by most parents and the school has agreed.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/schools-conduct-surveys-to-make-online-classes-more-effective/article31562148.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru-Delhi train service from today||South Western Railways (SWR) is all set to operate Bengaluru to New Delhi services in line with the announcement of the Indian Railways on partial restoration of passenger trains. The daily train service from Bengaluru will start from Tuesday, and from New Delhi from May 14. From Bengaluru, the train (02691) will leave at 8.30 p.m. from Sangolli Rayanna City Railway station. From New Delhi, the train (02692) will leave at 9.15 p.m. An SWR official said 1,076 passengers could be accommodated in a train. Since the notification was issued on starting passenger services from Bengaluru to Delhi, all tickets for May 12 have been booked.  On Monday, SWR operated several Shramik Special Trains for the benefit of stranded migrant workers of other States. The first train left from Chikkabanavara to Gorakhpur with 1,519 passengers. A train was also operated to Jalpaiguri in West Bengal from Malur with 1,419 passengers on board. For the first time, SWR operated a train to Una in Himachal Pradesh from Chikkabanavara with 643 passengers on board. A train to Barauni in Bihar with 1,520 passengers operated from Malur and another from Chikkabanvara to Lucknow with 1,200 passengers. The last train was operated to Bokaro.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bengaluru-delhi-train-service-from-today/article31562147.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Manivannan transferred out of Labour Dept.||In a late evening development on Monday, the State government transferred P. Manivannan, Principal Secretary to Department of Labour and Department of Information and Publicity, over apparent disagreement in distribution of dry ration kits to construction workers. He has been replaced by M. Maheshwar Rao, currently Principal Secretary of Commerce and Industries department (MSME and Mines). Mr. Rao will hold concurrent charge, while Mr. Manivannan has not been given any posting. Sources said the Labour Department has distributed over 10,000 dry ration kits so far to construction workers, the money for which came from the Karnataka Construction Workers Welfare Board. The department has been resisting moves from Bengaluru legislators, who wanted to have a say in the distribution, sources said. “The department has been insisting on transparency in ration distribution that was going to legislators,” sources aware of the developments said, adding that legislators had been asked to give the list of beneficiaries. In its earlier attempt, while distributing one lakh dry ration hampers comprising 13 items, the Labour Department was accused of mismanagement, and under pressure from BJP legislators, the State government handed over the distribution responsibility to the BBMP. Later, the Opposition attacked the government when photographs of legislators appeared on the hampers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/manivannan-transferred-out-of-labour-dept/article31562146.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KASSIA urges authorities to dilute a few norms||At a time when the industrial sector is in a state of collapse, Karnataka Small-Scale Industries’ Association (KASSIA) is eagerly looking forward to the proposed second package of measures being considered by the Union government for industry revival. The measures announced sometime back have not been found adequate, considering the enormity of the crisis triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic that is continuing to ravage the global economy. KASSIA, therefore, in a statement on Monday asked the government to step in with more robust support and concessions to restore industrial production, particularly among the SMEs, which are collapsing. KASSIA has spelt out a few measures so that the concessions are effective in helping the industry get back on track. It has called for relaxation in GST payments for a year. In addition to that, it wants the removal of the cap/qualifications for PF contribution by the government already announced too. It has also called for keeping the NPA norms relaxed for at least six months while easing the compliance norms for six months and suspending penal provisions for a period. KASSIA has also sought the postponement of new minimum wage enactments by two years. It has urged the government to make the support substantial in terms of percent of GDP as done in many countries in view of the magnitude of the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/kassia-urges-authorities-to-dilute-a-few-norms/article31562152.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ministers of Karnataka, Kerala discuss measures to combat COVID-19||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Monday had a videoconference meeting with Kerala Health Minister K.K. Shailaja and discussed the control and treatment practises adopted to fight COVID-19 in both States. During the course of the conversation, which went on for more than 50 minutes, the two Ministers discussedin detail the steps adopted for tracing, testing and treatment of the disease, the outcomes, and the measures to be taken to address the challenges following the ease of lockdown. They agreed to have regular dialogue to share information on disease control and quality treatment of patients. Explaining the steps taken in Kerala, Ms. Shailaja said that soon after some students returned from Wuhan, Kerala took proper precautions to prevent spread of the virus. “Kerala is equipped with health facilities at the taluk level and it became easier for us to quarantine the infected and treat them at the various levels. This reduced the mortality rate in Kerala,” she said. She also said the population density in Kerala was sparse compared to Karnataka. “Along with the Health Department staff, ASHAs are helping in breaking the chain of infection. With help from the CCB police, the State has initiated stringent measures to ensure social distancing,” she said. Ms. Shailaja admitted that it was a challenge now to tackle the migrant workers from other States and abroad who have registered to return after the lockdown. “Many of those who recently arrived from Chennai tested positive,” she said. Appreciating Karnataka’s measures to provide better treatment, she congratulated the State’s technology- and expert-based treatment system. She also commended Karnataka for conducting more than 5,500 tests a day, with 35 labs set up across the State. Appeal to Centre The Ministers also discussed the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines on treatment of pregnant and elderly citizens and the dilemma faced. They decided that an appeal should be made to the Centre for guidance on uniform measures on such issues. Various other issues such as methods of quarantine, testing and treatment of patients with respiratory ailments, cooperation of private medical colleges, and quarantine of international passengers were also discussed at the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ministers-of-karnataka-kerala-discuss-measures-to-combat-covid-19/article31562159.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka HC to give appointments for physical filing of cases in Bengaluru||The Karnataka High Court will allow physical filing of cases on an experimental basis on May 13, 14, and 15 at its Principal Bench in Bengaluru. However, advocates, clerks and party-in-person litigants will have to get prior appointments for entry to the court premises for physical filing of new cases, said a notification issued on May 11. To get an appointment, one has to send an email to hck-filing@hck.gov.in and the registry will process the requests and send through email details of the date of appointment, time and counter number. They will be allowed to enter the court premises only through gate number 5 on production of printed or soft copy of appointment intimation and on clearing health screening at the entry point. They will have to stand in queue to reach filling counters and wearing of mask is mandatory. As many as five cases can be filed by a person at a time. However, this experimental system will be cancelled if the advocates/parties-in-person litigants/advocates’ clerks are found not following the safety norms of wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. The notification said the system of filling cases through e-mail introduced during lockdown period will continue. More details can be obtained from the website of High Court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/karnataka-hc-to-give-appointments-for-physical-filing-of-cases-in-bengaluru/article31562145.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State releases Rs. 487 cr. for salaries of RTC employees||The State government has released Rs. 487 crore to the four State-run road transport corporations to pay salary of the staff. A release from the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation states that 100% of funds required for April salaries and 50% for May salaries have been released. Due to the lockdown, the corporations incurred revenue losses of hundreds of crores. Only a limited number of services have been made available for people. The KSRTC alone incurred revenue losses of Rs. 531 crore due to non-operation of services during lockdown. The release says for the first time in the history of the transport corporations, funds are being provided by the State government to pay the salaries of the staff. There are more than 1.25 lakh people employed by all corporations in the State. The government has instructed the transport corporations to mobilise funds from their own sources for paying salaries in the coming months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-releases-rs-487-cr-for-salaries-of-rtc-employees/article31562165.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Advocates’ clerks move court for financial aid from govt.||The Karnataka High Court on Monday ordered issue of notices to the State government and the Karnataka State Bar Council (KSBC) on a PIL petition seeking financial aid for registered advocates’ clerks in the State in view of closure of courts due to COVID-19. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Shivashankar Amarannavar passed the order on the petition filed by the Karnataka State Level Advocates Clerks’ Association, Bengaluru. While seeking an ad hoc financial aid of Rs. 10,000 per month, the association has sought a direction to the government to set up a corpus fund of Rs. 5 crore under the name Advocates’ Clerks Welfare Fund to assist around 575 registered advocates’ clerks. Hearing adjourned The Bench adjourned further hearing while orally observing that it is very difficult to ask the government to generate amount for this purpose at this stage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advocates-clerks-move-court-for-financial-aid-from-govt/article31562164.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protest against hospital after patient’s death||Tension prevailed around Apollo Hospital in Jayanagar when over 50 people protested alleging that negligence led to the death of a woman on Sunday. The family members said that the deceased, Satyavathi, suffering from gastritis, was brought to the hospital from Ramakrishna Sevashrama after her condition deteriorated. However, doctors at the hospital were reluctant to admit her suspecting that she might have COVID-19. The victim had to suffer in the ambulance for over 45 minutes, they said. Agitated family members protested demanding immediate medical attention. The doctors finally agreed to admit her and began treatment but the victim failed to respond. The family blamed the hospital for not treating the patient on time. The police pacified the family. No complaint has been filed, an officer said. Meanwhile, the doctors had taken swab samples of the deceased and sent it for examination. Yateesh Govindaiah, Unit Head, Apollo Hospitals, Jayanagar, said the patient was brought from another hospital in a critical condition with fever and Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) with septic shock. He said they tried to resuscitate her for over an hour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-against-hospital-after-patients-death/article31562141.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yettinahole phase 1 to be ready by March 2021||The first phase of the ambitious Yettinahole drinking water project, which entails drawing water from the west-flowing river in the Western Ghats and supplying it to several parched districts, will be completed by March 2021, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said on Monday. The project, which was scheduled to be completed in 2020, has been mired in controversy, over environmental issues earlier and land acquisition issues now. “The first phase should be completed by March 2021 and water should be drawn during the next monsoon season,” the Minister told officials of Visvesvaraya Jala Nigam Ltd., which is implementing the project, during a review meeting. A note from the Minister’s office said that t present, five civil work packages and two electrical packages were being implemented. On the issue of acquiring land from farmers for the project, he said farmers should be convinced and compensation given to them. “Land has not been acquired for the project in several areas,” he admitted. Mr. Jarkiholi also directed officials to complete work related to power supply, which in turn is used to pump water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yettinahole-phase-1-to-be-ready-by-march-2021/article31562158.ece
12 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Estate workers walking to native places stopped, quarantined||The Hassan district administration has stopped many plantation workers who were on the way to their native places by walk. Around 35 workers, all natives of Tamil Nadu, who were working in estates at Belur, were stopped at Holenarsipur recently. All of them have been quarantined. Similarly, another group of workers were stopped by the officials and sent back to the estate. Thousands of workers from different States work in coffee estates of Hassan, Chikkamagaluru and Kodagu districts. Normally, a majority of them leave to their native places soon after the harvest season. However, this time they could not return due to lockdown. The police caught those who tried to move out illegally and put them in isolation centres, besides booking cases against estate owners. After the lockdown was eased last week, many workers applied for passes through Seva Sindhu portal. The delay in clearing applications forced the workers to start journey by walk. K.R. Srinivasa, tahsildar of Holenarsipur, told The Hindu: “As there are no restrictions on movement within the district, people take autorickshaws or some other vehicle to travel till check-posts. The officers at the check-posts do not allow people to travel without passes. We stopped 35 people and quarantined them,” he said. Meanwhile, Assistant Commissioner of Sakleshpur Girish Nandan has conveyed to planters that the administration would not allow workers to travel without passes. The planters would have to take care of the needs of the workers and make arrangements for their travel when they get the passes. The workers would get passes only if the authorities at their native places clear their applications.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/estate-workers-walking-to-native-places-stopped-quarantined/article31562167.ece
12 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Seed potato sale begins||The sale of seed potatoes began at APMC Yard in Hassan on Monday. Hundreds of farmers visited the yard with face masks to avoid infection and purchased seed potatoes. The district administration and APMC authorities insisted that all merchants and their staff should wear masks and ensure social distancing at their stalls during transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seed-potato-sale-begins/article31562332.ece
12 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||MNREGA gains significance as migrant labourers return home||Thousands of families are back in their villages in North Karnataka, thanks to reverse migration induced by COVID-19 lockdown in big cities. Many of them are now dependent on MNREGA works, but not all can get jobs. Sudden spurt in demand and new conditions have made the situation difficult. To start with, migrant workers will have to wait, even if they have job cards, as they have to complete the 14-day quarantine period. “Those who don’t have job cards will be issued only after the quarantine period,” said Kalaburagi Zilla Panchayat chief executive officer P. Raja. But there is a technical glitch too. They will get job cards only if they have their names in voters’ list. In Bidar, where nearly 18,000 people have reportedly returned home, only some 6,000 migrants are eligible for job cards. Bidar Zilla Panchayat chief executive officer Gyanendra Kumar Gangwar told The Hindu that plans are on to increase it, by initiating new works, while ensuring social distancing norms. In Belagavi district, works are being allotted to groups of 5-7 persons and maintaining strict social distance, the authorities have given further relaxations to accommodate landless labourers. CEO of Belagavi Zilla Panchayat K.V. Rajendra said that protective gears had been provided and panchayats have also been asked to focus on individual works to stop crowding. However, there is an issue of delayed payment. “We want the government to pay the wages within two weeks as the rules specify,” said Vishveshvarayya Hiremath, convener of the NGO Grameena Koolikarmikara Sangha, that works among landless labourers. In Vijayapura district, more works under MNREGA are being initiated to help migrant workers. “Those with job cards will get jobs immediately. And others will be issued job cards in a day or two,” said CEO of Vijayapura Zilla Panchayat Govind Reddy. Some districts have also launched special initiatives to help out workers. For instance, Dharwad has launched a toll free helpline — 1800-4258-666. In Yadgir district, authorities claimed that 96.38% of payments were made in a week’s time. However, farmer leaders differ. Channabasappa Anegundi of Krishi Kooli Karmikara Sangha said most of the workers were not paid wages due to technical reasons and lockdown has further worsened their plight. Meanwhile, fear of contracting the disease is another issue during these testing times. Many are eager to work, but there is constant fear of contracting disease. “Apart from fear of infection, what is keeping them away is an affidavit reportedly to be submitted by farmers saying that the department would not be responsible if they contract the disease,” Mr. Hiremath said. President of Karnataka Pranth Raitha Sangha Maruti Manpade put the number of migrant workers who have returned to their villages in Kalaburagi district alone at around 50,000. “MNREGA works are the only source of livelihood, but only some may find jobs despite government assurance,” he told The Hindu .  (With inputs from Rishikesh Bahadur Desai, Praveen Para, N. Dinesh Nayak, Firoz Rozindar, Ravikumar Naraboli)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/mnrega-gains-significance-as-migrant-labourers-return-home/article31562172.ece
12 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Third COVID-19 positive case in Haveri||Haveri district has registered its third COVID-19 positive case with a truck owner-cum-driver (P-853) from Andalagi village in Shiggavi taluk testing positive for the pandemic. Deputy Commissioner Krishna Bajpai has said that the 26-year old man had travelled thrice to Navi Mumbai market for business. Now, his brother and cleaners of the truck have been quarantined with him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/third-covid-19-positive-case-in-haveri/article31562325.ece
12 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Twin districts considered one unit for movement of people||The State government has ordered that Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts be considered as one unit for the movement of people to undertake permitted activities between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. Principal Secretary and Member Secretary, Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority, T.K. Anil Kumar, in an order on Sunday, said that there was no need for different passes for commuting between these two districts. However, people should carry their identity cards issued by their respective enterprises/ companies to show that they are carrying out permitted activities only, he said. The State government has similarly considered Tumakuru district as a unit of Bengaluru, along with Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Ramanagaram, Bengaluru Rural and Urban districts through the same order. For people other than those involved in undertaking permitted activities, one-time movement passes would be available through the respective district authorities. Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry had on May 5 urged the government to consider Dakshina Kannada and Udupi as one unit for the benefit of working people as well as entrepreneurs. Though Udupi was carved out of Dakshina Kannada in 1997, people in both the districts depend upon each other heavily, said chamber president Issac Vas in a letter to the Chief Secretary. Seamless movement of people was necessary to kick-start industrial and commercial activities in the two districts, he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/twin-districts-considered-one-unit-for-movement-of-people/article31562327.ece
12 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Reverse migration hits plantation sector hard||Farmers cultivating plantation crops such as coffee, tea, arecanut, pepper and rubber — mostly in southern Karnataka — have been facing the heat of reverse migration of workers. An estimated five lakh migrant workers, at least half of them being from North and Northeast India, were employed in plantations mainly to execute seasonal works. During the pre-lockdown and lockdown period, majority of them have gone back to their native places in North Karnataka as well as other parts of the country. The Malnad and coastal regions, where plantation crops are raised predominantly, had “Ballari workers” for about two decades and when their numbers dwindled, they got workers from Northeast during the last four-five years, said a coffee plantation owner. Karnataka grows about 70% of coffee produced in India. The wages paid in Karnataka are three times more than what they get in their home States. Plantation owners’ woes only got amplified after the Union government asked the State governments and Railways to facilitate reverse migration of inter-State workers, the process of which has started in Karnataka. Harvesting season Karnataka Planters’ Association chairman Shirish Vijayendra told The Hindu that though the coffee harvest season was over by the time majority of migrant workers left, planters were finding it difficult to carry out a host of pre-monsoon activities. The activities such as tree lapping that balances the light and shade on coffee plants, coffee plant grafting, spraying pesticides and providing manure sustain the plantation throughout the year. Some of these activities require skilled labour from Ballari and Tamil Nadu, who have already left, Mr. Vijayendra said. Local migrant workers who go back home during Ugadi normally return by May-end and this time their return is doubtful. Kerekodige Shashishekhar, a farmer in Koppa taluk, said though there has been reverse migration of workers, arecanut growers in Malnad region have learnt to manage without them. Y.S. Subrahmanya, vice-president of Malnad Areca Marketing Cooperative Society Ltd., Shivamogga, said farmers were undertaking pre-monsoon works with the available workers. However, some migrant workers like Devesh from Jharkhand have stayed back after plantation owners provided them accommodation. Mr. Devesh who works at an arecanut plantation in Sullia said four of his family members earn about Rs. 2,000 a day for 20 days in a month. Back home, they cannot earn even Rs. 1,000 a day, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reverse-migration-hits-plantation-sector-hard/article31562173.ece
12 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Train services||The Railways will run New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram-New Delhi Rajdhani Tri-weekly Special Service from Wednesday ex-New Delhi and from May 15 ex-Thiruvananthapuram via Mangaluru Junction. A release from Southern Railway here said that Train No 02432 will leave New Delhi at 11.25 a.m. on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Sundays to reach Mangaluru Junction at 6.25 p.m. the next day and Thiruvananthapuram at 5.25 a.m. on the third day. Train No 02431 will leave Thiruvananthapuram at 7.45 p.m. on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays to reach Mangaluru Junction at 6 a.m. the next day and New Delhi at 12.40 p.m. on the third day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/train-services/article31562326.ece
12 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||177 passengers from UAE arriving today||A total of 177 passengers from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) will arrive at the international airport here on Tuesday. Air India Express Flight IX 0384 will leave Dubai at 5.10 p.m. and land here at 10.10 p.m., a release said here on Monday. Arrangements have been made to accommodate them in 17 hotels and 12 hostels in the city, it said. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said that the family members of the passengers arriving will not be allowed to visit the airport and meet them. The general public also will not be allowed to visit the airport. No public will be allowed to the quarantine facility set up in hotels and hostels. The release said that the passengers will be subjected to medical test on arrival. If anybody showed symptoms of COVID-19 (A category passengers), they will be shifted to the Government Wenlock Hospital, treated there and quarantined for 14 days. Asymptomatic passengers (B category) will be made to stay either in hostels or hotels as per their choice for 14 days. The passengers can book rooms on-line in the hotels of their choice at the airport itself. They can also opt for hostel facility. The district administration has made transport arrangements from the airport to the hotels, hostels and to the hospital. Rahul Shindhe, probationary IAS officer in the office of the Deputy Commissioner who is in-charge of the arrangements for these passengers, conducted a meeting to review the arrangements, on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/177-passengers-from-uae-arriving-today/article31562328.ece
12 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Udupi admn. asked to run Koosamma Hospital||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Monday that the State government will run the Koosamma Shambhu Shetty Memorial Haji Abdulla Mother and Child Hospital when BRS Health and Research Institute (BRSHRI, belonging to NRI businessman B.R. Shetty) hands it over to the former. Mr. Jagadeesha told The Hindu that a decision on BRSHRI handing over the hospital to the government would be taken in a week. BRSHRI had already written to the Chief Secretary stating that it was not possible for it to run the hospital. “The government has asked us to run the hospital,” he said. The government had directed the district administration to appoint doctors to Koosamma Hospital. Accordingly, two gynaecologists and one paediatrician were appointed on Monday. The administration would depute another paediatrician and two anaesthesiologists from the District Government Hospital to Koosamma Hospital. “We will take over Koosamma Hospital after recruitment of nurses and others is completed. We will not let it to be closed down. We will run Koosamma Hospital through User Fund,” Mr. Jagadeesha said. The then Siddaramaiah government had, in August 2016, allowed BRSHRI to construct a 200-bed mother and child hospital, a 400-bed super-specialty hospital and an urban community health centre, under public-private partnership (PPP) mode. These two hospitals and the health centre were to come up on the four acres of land in the heart of the city, where the 70-bed Government Maternity and Children’s Hospital was located. The Government Maternity and Children’s Hospital was razed and the 200-bed Koosamma Hospital was constructed and has been operational for the last three years. But the 400-bed super-specialty hospital has still not been constructed. Kushal Shetty, General Manager, BRSHRI, said that the number of patients coming to Koosamma Hospital had increased due to COVID-19. Hence, BRSHRI had urged the government to appoint more doctors there, which the authorities are doing. “As of today, we are running the hospital,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-admn-asked-to-run-koosamma-hospital/article31562330.ece
12 May 2020||YAGDIR,KARNATAKA||Raja Rangappa Naik passes away||The former MP from Raichur Raja Rangappa Naik passed away in Surpur late night on Sunday. He was 61. He is survived by his wife, son and two daughters. Raja Rangappa Naik was elected an MP in 1996.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/raja-rangappa-naik-passes-away/article31562324.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man arrested on murder charge||An electrical contractor was arrested by the Konanakunte police on Monday for allegedly stabbing an elderly couple to death as an act of revenge against his brother-in- law Naveen B.J., a software engineer. According to the police, the deceased, Govindaiah B.J., 65, and Shanthamma, 55, were at home in RBI Colony in J.P. Nagar when Rakesh D., 25, barged inside and stabbed them repeatedly on Sunday night. Naveen had gone out to shop. He found his parents dead upon his return. During the investigation, Naveen told the police that he was married to Pavithra D. from Avalahalli. The couple used to fight frequently. Pavithra had approached a court and the couple had appeared for counselling. Recently, Pavithra and Naveen had a fight after which the former went to her parents’ house. Naveen used to call her frequently to convince her to come back, but her brother Rakesh was upset. The police said Rakesh assumed that the elderly couple was harassing his sister.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested-on-murder-charge/article31562142.ece
12 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Cess on liquor on cards||The State government will contemplate imposing a cess on liquor, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. He was speaking to reporters here on Monday. Dr. Isaac said the State cabinet would discuss the matter before the reopening of liquor outlets. The Minister, however, said the government was not thinking about introducing fuel cess. Dr. Isaac hinted that the government might have to go in for a fresh budget for 2020-21. “We will have to reset priorities considering the crisis created by the COVID-19 pandemic. May is too early to make a budget. A decision regarding an alternative budget will be taken in June based on a report by a high-level committee. There is also a lot of uncertainties and we will wait for what the Central government is going to do,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cess-on-liquor-on-cards/article31562423.ece
12 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Probe launched||The police have launched an inquiry into the recovery of a human skeleton near Mavedy on Wednesday last. It is suspected that the skeleton is of Pazhampallil Suresh, 40, who has been missing since September.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/probe-launched/article31562523.ece
12 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||11-month-old tests positive for SARS-CoV-2||A 11-month-old boy from Panavally of Thirunelly grama panchayat tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 11. The boy was admitted to the COVID-19 hospital at Mananthavady, R. Renuka, District Medical Officer, told The Hindu . The child had been under observation after his parents brought him to the hospital with symptoms of the disease two days ago, she said. His family members too have been placed in quarantine, though the parents tested negative for the disease. The child had secondary contact with his grandfather, a truck driver, who had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 after his recent visit to Chennai, Dr. Renuka said. Of the 11 cases reported in the district so far, three have been discharged. As many as 1,855 persons are under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/11-month-old-tests-positive-for-sars-cov-2/article31562406.ece
12 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||First flight with NRIs to land in Kannur today||The first flight to the Kannur International Airport with expatriates will arrive from Dubai on Tuesday. The Air India Express flight, which will take off from Kannur at 10.30 a.m., will return with around 180 passengers from Dubai at 7.10 p.m. In addition to the 109 passengers from Kannur, 47 from Kasaragod, 12 from Kozhikode, seven from Malappuram, three from Mahe, and one each from Wayanad and Thrissur will return. V. Thulasidas, managing director, Kannur International Airport Limited (KIAL), said the district administration in association with the police and Health workers had put in place a comprehensive system for receiving, inspecting, and quarantining the passengers. Pregnant women, their partners, children below the age of 14, and those above 75 years of age will be sent to their homes, while those with symptoms will be shifted to hospitals and COVID Care Centres. The passengers will be released in groups of 20. Health officials will then conduct a medical examination. Five special counters have been opened at the airport for the purpose. Those with COVID-19 symptoms will be shifted to a special observatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/first-flight-with-nris-to-land-in-kannur-today/article31562402.ece
12 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Another batch of Gulf evacuees lands in Kochi||Air India Express flight IX 434 from Dubai landed at the Cochin international airport a little after 8 p.m. on Monday with 178 passengers as efforts continued to bring home Indians stranded in the Gulf countries following the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The passengers comprised 86 men and 86 women, five children below 10 years of age and an infant, airport sources said. Two more flights are scheduled to bring Indians to Kochi on Tuesday. According to the Cochin international airport authorities, Air India Express flights IX 485 and AI 1924 will bring stranded Indians from Singapore and Dammam respectively. Both the flights are scheduled to land after 8.30 p.m. Naval ship INS Magar is scheduled to reach Kochi with 202 Indians from the Maldives on Tuesday. The ship is scheduled to berth at the port here around 7.30 p.m.   Full-fledged zone The city police have set up a full-fledged makeshift arrival zone at the Kochi port ahead of the arrival of the second vessel carrying evacuees from the Maldives on Tuesday. “We have set up the entire arrival zone with focus on efficient, speedy and safe disembarkation and transportation of evacuees while maintaining all social distancing norms. We have created a separate waiting area allowing the entry of passengers into the hall only in batches to minimise the exposure of officials handling them,” said Vijay Sakhare, Inspector General and officer-in-charge of handling expatriates returning home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/another-batch-of-gulf-evacuees-lands-in-kochi/article31562405.ece
12 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Virtual space rings with Kathakali, Thullal music||Making up for the many stages lost this season due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, Kathakali musicians are giving connoisseurs some memorable moments, singing various Kathakali padams and posting them on Facebook. Musicians like Palanad Divakaran and Sudeep Palanad, Kalamandalam Surendran, Athipatta Ravi Namboothiri, Kottakkal Madhu and family, Kottakkal Santhosh, Kottakkal Narayanan Karumana, Nedumpilly Rammohan and his wife Meera Rammohan, his disciples, Kalanilayam Rajeevan and his son, and many others have been posting their songs in Kathakali groups on Facebook. Talks too Many Kathakali appreciation forums on the social media have come together to organise these programmes. One of these forums recently organised a talk by veteran Kathakali artiste Nelliyode Vasudevan Namboothiri on understanding Kathakali performances and his journey in Kathakali. Another senior artiste Sadanam Krishnankutty took to the platform on May 6 sharing his thoughts on maestro Kalamandalam Ramankutty Warrier. Ottanthullal artistes have also taken to the social media with their art. Artiste Ranjith Tripunithura in association with his teacher and Thullal maestro Kalamandalam Prabhakaran presented Thullal Sangeetha Maadhuri on Thullal music in 20 ragas. With his guru away in Cherthala, consultations on various portions on the episodes before the actual presentation were really challenging, said Ranjith. From April 29 to May 8, Ranjith presented the programme on Facebook and his guru also participated in the final episode. “In each episode, I presented two padams from Thullal and a Carnatic kriti of the same raga. This was to create awareness of the importance of ragas in Thullal. Thullal padams are taken from different stories, but seldom has anyone given importance to the musical senses in the Thullal padams,” said Ranjith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/virtual-space-rings-with-kathakali-thullal-music/article31562417.ece
12 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Phase 2 of Operation Breakthrough begins||The second phase of Operation Breakthrough to fix the city’s persistent waterlogging issues has begun with work worth around Rs. 10 crore being taken up. However, work under Phase One of the project still remains pending. Of the 35 projects taken up under Phase One, 33 were 90% complete and would be finished this week, said S. Shajahan, Deputy Collector and nodal officer of the project. The two remaining projects, which had encountered technical issues, would be finished by the end of the month. Phase Two of the project will involve ensuring the smooth flow of water in the Koyithara canal, the Chilavannoor lake, the Karanakodamthodu, the Changadampokkuthodu, the Adimurithodu and the mouth of the Thevara-Perandoor canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/phase-2-of-operation-breakthrough-begins/article31562412.ece
12 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Interstate travel poses big risk, say experts||Little priority is being given to the interstate movement of people, which is likely to affect more people in the rural belt of the country that has so far been largely spared of COVID-19, according to medical professionals. Kerala would lose the hard-earned edge in pandemic containment at a phase when everyone is looking forward to a way out of the lockdown, they say. ‘Room quarantine’ Though the movement of migrants cannot be stopped, governments have to strengthen quarantine centres to ensure that there is no let-up in caution, said Padmanabha Shenoy, immunologist. Home quarantine, which should be room quarantine, is not likely to be followed in most households, he says. He wondered why people coming from hotspots such as Mumbai are not placed in institutional quarantine as those coming from Dubai, as the prevalence in both places looks similar, he says. The State government has the means to know from where every person is coming and should use the discretion of quarantine according to the area’s status. A senior Revenue official says that many who have come from other States are yet to be traced. At times, local authorities are unable to access on the portal the details of those who have crossed the check-post. This jeopardises follow-up action and the returnees may not end up in quarantine, says a Health official. The confusion over home and institutional quarantine with respect to interstate travel has caused much distress, he says, adding that it poses a bigger risk to the State. The government is relying on neighbourhood vigil to get information about people who have arrived and not been followed up by the authorities, the Revenue official adds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/interstate-travel-poses-big-risk-say-experts/article31562427.ece
12 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Order issued for full salary of nurses, govt. tells HC||The State government has informed the Kerala High Court that it has issued an order directing all private hospital managements to pay nurses full salary and not to reduce the number of nurses in their respective hospitals. The government made the submission when a public interest litigation against the move of the private hospital managements to reduce salaries and cut down the strength of the nurses came up for hearing. According to the petitioner, Prakash John of Thrissur, Union Ministry of Labour and Employment had directed all the Chief Secretaries to ensure that private sector employees were not terminated from service or their wages reduced in the name of lockdown. The State Labour Department had also issued a similar order. Despite these orders, the private hospital managements were going ahead with the move to reduce the salary of nurses and in some cases terminate them, the petitioner alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/order-issued-for-full-salary-of-nurses-govt-tells-hc/article31562426.ece
12 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Joseph faction seeks dist. panchayat chief post||Marking the start of another phase of infighting in Kerala Congress (M), the faction led by party working chairman P.J. Joseph has approached the United Democratic Front (UDF) seeking it to honour a seat-sharing pact brokered by it last year. In a letter addressed to senior UDF leaders the faction asked the coalition to facilitate the appointment of Ajith Muthiramala as president of Kottayam district panchayat replacing Sebastian Kulathungal, the nominee of the Jose K. Mani faction. The letter, signed by prominent Joseph group leaders Mons Joseph, MLA, and Joy Abraham, pointed out that the term of Mr. Kulathungal as per the existing seat-sharing pact had ended on March 24 this year. As per the pact struck last year, Mr. Kulathungal was to hold the post for eight months and Mr. Muthiramala for the remaining six months, they said. Denies claim While the UDF leadership is yet to respond, the rival KC(M) faction has come out denying claims of the Joseph faction. Stephen George, State general secretary of the Jose K. Mani group, said the claims of the Joseph group were indeed aimed at weakening the UDF. “The district panchayat, under the leadership of Mr. Kulathungal, has taken up a series of COVID-19 prevention activities. A change in leadership at this point will only weaken these activities,” he said. Mr. Georgesaid the only pact within the UDF was that the Congress and the KC(M) would share the five-year team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/joseph-faction-seeks-dist-panchayat-chief-post/article31562524.ece
12 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Number of people under observation goes up||The number of people under surveillance is gradually going up in Kozhikode in the wake of the return of more expatriates and natives of the district from other States. The District Medical Officer has also brought out detailed guidelines for the functioning of COVID-19 care centres to quarantine suspected patients. A meeting was also held at the collectorate on Monday to chalk out a plan of action for hospitals. In a release, V. Jayasree, DMO, said that 3,203 people were under observation now in Kozhikode, including 267 people who were newly added. Twenty-four people are at the Government Medical College Hospital. Nine persons were discharged on Monday. The number of expatriates under surveillance is 164, of whom 75 are at COVID-19 care centres. The rest are at their homes, including 27 pregnant women. Meanwhile, the guidelines issued by the DMO’s office say that public or private institutions being taken over as COVID-19 care centres should be managed by a committee led by local body chiefs. The medical officer, health inspector, and junior public health nurse attached to the respective local bodies as well as the tehsildar, village officer, and staff from the police, civil supplies and fire service should be its members along with a representative of the private or public institution being taken over. Ensuring hygiene and providing food for those being quarantined are the responsibility of this committee. Volunteers who carry food and medicines to the people there should wear N-95 mask and gloves and they should not enter the rooms without personal protective equipment. They should keep a distance of 1.5 metres while providing food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/number-of-people-under-observation-goes-up/article31562410.ece
12 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Actor releases her directorial debut during lockdown||After spending nearly two decades in front of the camera, actor Kaniha decided to go behind it donning the director’s cap. Then struck SARS-CoV-2, upsetting her plans. The popular actor of Malayalam and Tamil cinema had finished the shooting of her maiden short film before the lockdown began in her hometown Chennai, but the post-production work remained. Still, she released Maa on YouTube on Sunday. “I did the post-production completely online, as I wanted to release the film on Mother’s Day,” Kaniha told The Hindu over phone from Chennai. “I got the film edited and the background music recorded through discussions with my editor and composer over phone.” ‘More challenging’ Direction has been a dream for Kaniha, who acted in successful Malayalam films like Pazhassi Raja and Bhagyadevatha.  “I always wanted to get involved in more aspects of film-making,” she says. “Acting is only a part of cinema. Direction is much more challenging.” However, the pandemic and the resultant lockdown posed a different kind of challenge. “Doing the post-production work cooped up in my apartment was not easy,” she says. “I needed to dub for my part, which I did using my phone and lapel microphone.” ‘Good response’ Kaniha is glad that Maa is well received. “Actor Mammootty and director Ranjith told me that they liked the film,” she says. “I want to direct films of a longer duration a little later.” She says she is slowly getting used to the lockdown. “Things are of course bad here in Tamil Nadu,” she says. “It will surely be a while before we can think of resuming work in cinema.” She is impressed by the way Kerala has responded to the crisis. “I think Kerala has done really well to limit the spread of the virus,” she says. Kaniha, whose last release was Mamangam , says she has been a watching a lot of Malayalam films during the lockdown. On new films “I enjoyed watching Fahadh Faasil in Trance and Kumbalangi Nights . What a gifted actor he is!” she says. “I also liked Ayappanum Koshiyum .”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/actor-releases-her-directorial-debut-during-lockdown/article31562425.ece
12 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Panchayat vice-chief quits||Koodaranhi grama panchayat vice-president Thomas Mathew, who was recently booked for allegedly sharing an obscene picture in a local WhatsApp group, resigned from his post on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/panchayat-vice-chief-quits/article31562401.ece
12 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Jolly moves court||Jolly Joseph, the prime accused in the Koodathayi case, has approached the Kozhikode Sessions Court seeking permission to stay at home during the lockdown period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/jolly-moves-court/article31562400.ece
12 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||1,162 migrants board train to Lucknow||As many as 1,162 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh returned home on a special train from Tirur railway station on Monday evening. The special train left for Lucknow at 7 p.m. There were 303 workers from Tirur taluk, 150 from Perinthalmanna taluk, 301 from Kondotty taluk, and 408 from Tirurangadi taluk. Three batches of migrants from Bihar and Madhya Pradesh had left the district in special trains from Tirur and Kozhikode earlier.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/1162-migrants-board-train-to-lucknow/article31562407.ece
12 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Chennai returnee tests positive in Palakkad||A 50-year-old man who reached here from Chennai was confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 on Monday even when the district was preparing to declare itself as disease-free. The man from Sreekrishnapuram returned from Chennai on May 6 along with eight others in a vehicle. The driver was from Tamil Nadu. The team reached the Walayar check-post at 9 a.m. on May 6 and underwent health check-up there. The man in question had no symptoms then. The team was then shifted to Kerala Medical College near Cherpulassery for institutional quarantine. He was shifted to Government Taluk Hospital, Ottapalam, on Sunday when he developed physical discomfort. He was tested positive on Monday. He was managing a tea shop in Chennai. One case in Malappuram One more expatriate who returned from Kuwait was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. The 40-year-old man from Karulai had landed at Nedumbassery airport on May 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chennai-returnee-tests-positive-in-palakkad/article31562408.ece
12 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Three more in isolation in Pathanamthitta||With three more quarantined persons with fever being taken to the hospitals for close observation, the number of people admitted to isolation wards at various hospitals in the district has gone up to nine on Monday. As per the medical bulletin released by the district administration here in the evening, six persons have been placed under observation at the isolation ward at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, two at the General Hospital in Pathanamthitta and one person at the Adoor General Hospital. A total of 190 persons, including 17 COVID-19 patients, were discharged from various hospitals in the district as on Monday. According to the bulletin, a total of 1,018 persons have been quarantined in different parts of the district as on Monday. A total of 333 persons have been quarantined at 43 Corona care centres in the district. In Alappuzha A total of 115 expatriates have reached the district since the Vande Bharat Mission started last week. According to the district administration, 77 of them have been shifted to COVID-19 care centres in the district to serve the mandatory institutional quarantine period. Rest, 38 people have been allowed to remain in home quarantine. On Monday, eight people who reached the district from Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia were sent to a COVID-19 care centre at Kalappura. In Kottayam Amidst the continuing inflow of people from other States and overseas destinations, Kottayam here on Monday completed yet another day without reporting any fresh cases of COVID-19. As on Monday, the number of people entering the district though the inter-State check-posts stood at 11,535. The total number of passes issued till Monday evening was 2,625 while the authorities are slated to consider 852 applications more. Meanwhile, the nursing students from Bengaluru who had been stranded in Tamil Nadu on Sunday following a bus accident were brought to Kottayam in the morning on a bus operated by the TNSTC. As many as nine students, who sustained injuries in the accident, were shifted to the MCH here for further treatment. 38 expatriates in Idukki Thirty expatriates have reached the district from abroad till Monday. Of them 13 were under home quarantine and 25 were accommodated at the facilities arranged by the government.  (With inputs from Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-more-in-isolation-in-pathanamthitta/article31562442.ece
12 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||CM’s claim on TDB funds a lie: Kummanam||The statement made by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan that the government has not been taking any money from temple devaswoms and that it has given Rs. 100 crore to the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) is a blatant lie, BJP leader Kummanam Rajasekharan has alleged. In a statement here on Monday, he said it was a fact that the Chief Minister had promised to provide Rs. 100 crore as financial assistance to the TDB in view of the destruction at Pampa and surrounding areas during the deluge of August 2018. Though a budget allocation too was made in this regard, the TDB had received only Rs. 40 crore so far. The TDB had received only Rs. 40 lakh from the government towards annuity against the Rs. 80 lakh in the previous fiscal, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cms-claim-on-tdb-funds-a-lie-kummanam/article31562525.ece
12 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sabarimala temple to open on Thursday||The Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala will be opened on Thursday for the five-day monthly rituals in the Malayalam month of Edavom that begins on Friday. However, pilgrims will not be permitted to visit Sabarimala this time too in view of the COVID-19-induced nationwide lockdown. Only routine rituals would be performed at the temple. The temple will be closed after the Athazhapuja on May 19 evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-temple-to-open-on-thursday/article31562422.ece
12 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital district to intensify surveillance||The Thiruvananthapuram district administration has intensified its ward-level surveillance mechanism to contain the COVID-19 pandemic in view of the influx of people from other States. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who convened a review meeting to assess the precautionary measures in the district, said the services of teachers, Kudumbashree, and ASHA workers would be utilised for the purpose. The ward-level teams would keep tabs on those who came from other countries and States until the end of their mandated quarantine period. In Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, more than one team would be deployed in every ward. Directives issued Urging greater caution during the third stage of transmission of COVID-19, he urged District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan to issue directives to the presidents and secretaries of the local bodies in this regard. A day after around 650 migrant workers protested in the city, the police visited the labour camps to take stock of the facilities there. The workers were informed of the steps adopted by the government to facilitate their return to their native places. As many as 2,147 people were ordered to go into quarantine on Monday, increasing the number of people placed under observation in the district to 4,111. Among them, 3,627 people were quarantined in their homes. Nine persons were admitted to various hospitals with COVID-19 symptoms. The Thiruvananthapuram City police registered cases against 76 people and seized 29 vehicles for lockdown violations. Moreover, 153 people were booked for failing to wear masks outdoors. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 559 cases, arrested 561 people, and seized 334 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/capital-district-to-intensify-surveillance/article31562445.ece
12 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State bats for hazard maps to fight flood||Kerala is eyeing high-resolution hazard maps for better assessment and identification of vulnerable areas as part of long-term flood management strategies. The State government has requested the Central Water Commission (CWC) to prepare large-scale, high-resolution hazard maps of flood-prone areas in Kerala based on the conditions set down in the National Disaster Management Plan.  Towards this end, the State has sought an urgent meeting — via videoconference if required, given the COVID-19 situation — of the regional committee for the scientific assessment of flood-prone areas at the earliest. This panel, constituted by the CWC, last met in July 2015, an official said. The Water Resources Department placed the State’s requirements before the CWC in a letter last week. For all river basins The executive committee of the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has concluded that the State is in need of the high-resolution maps for all river basins which provide insights into different recurrence intervals for extreme rainfall events using at least a 20-metre digital elevation model. According to the National Disaster Management Plan, 2019, national-level research and technical institutions, Ministry of Jal Shakti and the Department of Space are responsible for the preparation of large-scale hazard maps which identify highly vulnerable locations (zoning, mapping and classification of flood-prone areas).  For Kerala, the devastating floods of 2018 and 2019 had revealed the need for accurate data and inputs for crafting long-term management strategies for tackling natural calamities such as floods. 33 types of maps The higher resolution maps will help the State in the preparation of regional flood plans in the long run. “As part of preparing disaster management plans for local bodies, the KSDMA had already provided 33 types of maps which were validated and used to mark vulnerable areas. These flood susceptibility maps can be further improved, but for that we need maps with a higher resolution,” a senior official said. In the aftermath of the 2018 floods, the KSDMA had updated the ‘Orange book of disaster management — Kerala — Standard operating procedures and emergency support functions plan’ and introduced a separate ‘Monsoon preparedness and emergency response plan’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-bats-for-hazard-maps-to-fight-flood/article31562415.ece
12 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Seven more cases in State, 4 in Kasaragod||Kerala reported seven more cases of COVID-19 on Monday, six of which are either expatriates or people who have returned to Kerala from other parts of the country. One is suspected to have contracted through contact. Four cases were reported from Kasaragod and one each from Palakkad, Malappuram and Wayanad. All four cases in Kasaragod are people who returned from Mumbai. The positive case in Palakkad had returned from Chennai, while the person in Malappuram had returned from Kuwait the other day. The case in Wayanad is believed to have contracted the disease through contact with a known/unknown source of infection. 489 recovered Of the 519 cases reported so far by the State, 489 have recovered. At present, 27 persons are undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the State. Three deaths also registered. A total of 1,307 expatriates had returned to Kerala in this past week, of whom, 650 persons are in home quarantine, 641 in quarantine in COVID care centres and 16 persons in isolation in hospitals. Pregnant women amongst the expatriates who have returned number 229. Under surveillance In various districts, the government has kept 27,986 persons under surveillance, of whom, except for 441 persons who are in isolation wards in hospitals, the rest are in home quarantine. The government has tested samples from 37,858 persons so far, of which 37,098 have returned a negative result. Of the 3,842 sentinel surveillance samples tested so far, 3,791 have been negative. The State has 34 hotspots, with the latest inclusion, Nenmeni in Wayanad. Cases in Kasaragod Kasaragod had been declared free of COVID-19 patients only on Sunday. The four men who tested positive in the district, a 51-year-old from Paivalike, a 61-year-old from Mangalapadi, a 41-year-old, and a 49-year-old native of Kumbala, had returned through the Talapady check-post at the Kerala-Karnataka border. While the person from Paivalike reached on May 4, the others came on on May 8. While one was in home quarantine, the other three were at a corona care centre. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said as several people had entered the district from various States, especially those under red zones, more people could test positive. He appealed to those returning from other places to strictly follow instructions and remain in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/seven-more-cases-in-state-4-in-kasaragod/article31562436.ece
12 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Shramik Specials run out of steam||Has the State lost interest in facilitating the operations of the ‘Shramik Specials’ kicked off by Railways for the movement of the stranded migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and others? With just six days left for the winding up of the Shramik Specials as announced by Railways, it is almost certain that the repatriation of the 2.75 lakh migrant labourers in Kerala who had expressed their desire to return to their States will not be accomplished. For the last three days, no Shramik Special has operated from the key railway stations under Thiruvananthapuram division. This is amidst the migrant labourers who had been working for the upcoming shopping mall turning violent demanding trains to return to their States. Two Shramik Specials left from Tirur and Mangaluru Junction on Monday and on May 10 also there were two special trains from Palakkad division. Lack of pace Railways have all along been pointing out that the pace of the facilitation for the movement of the migrant labourers are not on the expected level. It is for the State government to get the No Objection Certificate from the receiving State for Railways to operate the trains. As on May 11, 468 Shramik Special trains have been operationalised from various States across the country, in which 363 trains had reached its destination and 105 trains are in transit. Of these 468 special trains, only 30 have originated from Kerala with Thiruvananthapuram division arranging 14 trains and Palakkad division 16. Taking into account the 1,200 passengers who are allowed to travel on an average in these trains, only 36,000 migrant labourers out of the 2.75 migrant labourers in the State who had expressed their desire to return to their State. Even if five Shramik Special trains are operated daily till May 17, only 30,000 migrant labourers will be able to travel. Besides securing the NOC from the receiving State, the screening of the migrant workers before boarding the trains, transportation from the camps and arranging food and water are the major challenges faced by the State. Lack of coordination between Railways and the State government also has caused delays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/shramik-specials-run-out-of-steam/article31562414.ece
12 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alerts issued for southern, central districts||Summer showers are likely to strengthen further over the central and southern districts of the State later this week, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Yellow alerts for isolated heavy rainfall (6.4 cm to 11.5 cm in 24 hours) have been issued for Alappuzha, Ernakulam and Idukki for Thursday and Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Kottayam and Idukki for Friday. In all districts All 14 districts are likely to get light to medium rainfall this week. The IMD has also issued a thunderstorm warning for the State. Till Friday, one or two places in Kerala and also the Lakshadweep islands can expect thunderstorms accompanied by lightning and gusting winds with speeds reaching 30 to 40 kmph. Widespread rain was reported in the State on Monday. Kerala has so far received its normal quota of summer rainfall this season and rain is expected to continue till the formal commencement of the southwest monsoon in June. The IMD has predicted a normal southwest monsoon for the country as a whole this year. Advisory to fishermen The India Meteorological Department has also asked fishermen to avoid the Kanyakumari, the Maldives and Lakshadweep coasts due to the persistence of squally weather with wind speeds reaching 40-50 kmph. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has warned the public about the strong possibility of lightning, especially between 2 p.m. and 10 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alerts-issued-for-southern-central-districts/article31562419.ece
12 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tri-weekly trains from tomorrow||Tri-weekly special trains will commence operation in the Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central sector from May 13 as part of Railways’ initiative to restore passenger services in a graded manner. The New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram Central special train is among the 30 trains being operated by Railways on Rajdhani routes after the trains were stopped following the COVID-19-induced lockdown in the country. The train will commence journey from New Delhi at 10.55 a.m. on Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Sundays to reach the State capital on the third day at 5.25 a.m. In the return direction, the maiden run of Thiruvananthapuram Central-New Delhi special will be on May 15. The services will be on Tuesday, Thursday and Friday with the train leaving Thiruvananthapuram Central at 7.15 p.m. to reach New Delhi at 12.40 noon on the third day. It will run via Kollam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam Junction, Thrissur, Shoranur Junction, Kozhikode, Kannur, Kasaragod, Mangaluru, Udupi, Karwar, Madgaon, Sawantwadi Road, Ratnagiri, Panvel, Vasai Road, Vadodara and Kota stations. The train will halt only at Ernakulam Junction, Kozhikode, Mangaluru, Madgaon, Panvel, Vadodara and Kota. Confirmed e-tickets Only those having confirmed e-tickets booked through IRCTC will be allowed to travel. Booking of RAC/waiting list ticket, on board booking by ticket checking staff, current booking, tatkal and premium tatkal booking and unreserved tickets have been curbed. Although the special trains will have only First, Second and Third AC coaches, travellers will not be provided linen and blankets in view of the prevailing conditions. Coaches will not have curtains and passengers will be encouraged to carry food and drinking water. IRCTC will provide limited eatables and packaged drinking water upon payment. Cancellation Online cancellation will be available up to 24 hours before the scheduled departure. No cancellation is permitted less than 24 hours before departure and cancellation charge will be 50% of the fare. Maximum advance reservation period is seven days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tri-weekly-trains-from-tomorrow/article31562428.ece
12 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC operates services to Secretariat||The KSRTC buses were operated from nine depots in the capital district on Monday, extending exclusive services to the employees of the Secretariat as per a government directive to ensure ‘attendance’. However, the response to the nine up-and-down trips to the Secretariat for which Fast Passenger buses were employed was not on the expected level. The commuters had to pay double the fare. Only the buses that came from Neyattinkara and Nedumangad in the morning got good response. In view of the social distancing norms, only 30 commuters were allowed in the bus at a time. All commuters had to wear masks. The crew also functioned as per the health protocol. In the wake of the response to the operations on Monday, Transport Secretary K.R. Jyothilal has asked the KSRTC to use ordinary buses for the service from Tuesday and to allow the staff of the Legislature Secretariat to travel.  Ordinary buses to be used  Legislature staff can also travel||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksrtc-operates-services-to-secretariat/article31562444.ece
12 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Many leave Corporation quarantine centres for home||With the State government allowing Keralites returning home to undergo home quarantine rather than institutional quarantine, many of those who were staying in the city Corporation’s quarantine centres returned home on Monday. According to information from the civic body, as many as 442 people were staying in its quarantine facilities on Sunday, out of which 323 were males and 119 were female. By Monday evening, the total number across the various quarantine centres in the city had reduced to 171, with the number expected to fall further in the coming days. “Many of them had reached these centres in the past three to four days. Out of the 38 people at the Government Women’s College here, 37 have already left. One person does not have proper facilities at home. Anyone who has a bath-attached room, can opt to go for home quarantine. Now, most of those remaining are at the quarantine centre in Mar Ivanios college,” said an official. The government had on Sunday night issued the order changing the quarantine norms, based on the recommendations of an expert committee headed by B. Ekbal, which said home quarantine could be effectively implemented with the help of the local bodies. In the city, ward-level committees, volunteers and health staff will track the movements of those who have opted for home quarantine, ensuring that they do not move outside their rooms. The Corporation has arranged 9,100 rooms across 330 buildings for Non-resident Keralites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/many-leave-corporation-quarantine-centres-for-home/article31562446.ece
12 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RERA gives developers more time to register projects||The Kerala Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA) has given developers more time to register projects, given the COVID-19-related restrictions in the State. As per a new directive from K-RERA, developers can apply for registration of ongoing real estate projects without penalty till August 31 this year. Originally, all ongoing projects were to have been registered by March 31. The deadline had been extended to May 15 earlier. Resubmission Developers who have been asked to rectify errors and resubmit applications also have been given an extension. They should do so within three weeks of the date of resumption of public transport in the State. The extension has been provided on the basis of various representations filed by bodies including the Builders Association of India and the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), a K-RERA official said. Although quite a few developers had applied for registration since January, K-RERA, the State-level regulator for real estate activities, had detected several anomalies in the applications. Developers had been given an opportunity to rectify the errors and submit their applications again. In a May 8 order, the regulator noted that real estate operations are yet to achieve normalcy in the State due to the lockdown restrictions and suspension of public transport. The pandemic and the consequent lockdown have taken a heavy toll on the real estate sector. Halt in work Following the lockdown, construction activities had ground to a halt on account of problems on the labour front and the disruption of the supply chain caused by the interstate travel restrictions. Under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, passed by the Centre, all real estate projects and real estate agents are required to register with the State-level regulator concerned. So far, in Kerala, 45 ongoing and new real estate projects have been registered. More than 30 real estate agents also have registered with it since January.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rera-gives-developers-more-time-to-register-projects/article31562526.ece
12 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SPC directive||State Police Chief (SPC) Loknath Behera has asked his counterparts in other States not to allow the passage of persons proceeding to Kerala without the e-jagratha pass issued by the Department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/spc-directive/article31562429.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Solo trip||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/solo-trip/article31562404.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Steel will against corona||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/steel-will-against-corona/article31562421.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Sending loud alerts||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sending-loud-alerts/article31562440.ece
12 May 2020||ADILABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Violence in Telangana town, one injured||An incident of violence late on Sunday night resulted in head injury to one person in the communally sensitive town of Bhainsa in Nirmal district. The police reacted quickly and controlled the situation from going out of hand as groups from two communities indulged in stone pelting one after the other, said Bhainsa DSP Narsing Rao. Trouble broke out when a youth belonging to one community barged into the place of worship of another community in AP Nagar locality in an inebriated condition. There were about 7 persons present in the worship house, who roughed up the intruder and chased him away. This was followed by stone pelting by a group of people belonging to the community whose place of worship was allegedly ‘violated’. After they withdrew, members of the other community indulged in stone pelting which caused head injury to one person who was rushed to Nizamabad for treatment. Additional force for maintenance of peace was rushed to the town from Gudipeta and Dichpally battalions. While SP C. Shashidhar Raju reached Bhainsa to take control within half an hour of the incident, Inspector General of Police P. Promod Kumar arrived at Bhainsa on Monday morning. A motorcycle was also damaged in the violent incident for which 25 persons were taken into custody. In a statement, Mr. Raj said prohibitory orders were imposed in Bhainsa town and lockdown will be enforced stringently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/violence-in-telangana-town-one-injured/article31562070.ece
12 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur officials on lookout for traders with Koyambedu link||Traders of sweet lime, bananas, eggplants and grapes from Anantapur who have had connection with Koyambedu market in Chennai has the district administration in jitters as the number of cases from the market are rising by the day. With a woman from Jharkhand testing positive in Puttaparthi, one from Rahamat Nagar in Anantapur city and six others from Hindupur, the tally in the district has increased to 143 (28 of them shown in Others category). While seven patients died, 45 of them were being treated in hospitals. “So far, we have contacted 310 persons, who had travelled sometime in April and May to Chennai. One of them, from Tanakallu mandal, tested positive on Sunday and his primary contacts and other van drivers, traders, cashiers, are being brought to quarantine centres and tested,” said Deputy Director of Horticulture Subbarayudu, who has been entrusted with the job to trace persons with Koyambedu link in Anantapur district. Focus on Tadipatri A majority of those with Koyambedu connections (104 out of 310) hail from Tadipatri mandal, ferrying bananas and sweet lime. The district administration has asked them not to visit Koyambedu and divert their stocks to other towns and villages in Tamil Nadu or Karnataka. Onions, grapes and vegetables are sent from Dharmavaram, Mudigubba, Anantapur Rural mandal, Putlur and Yellanur and brinjal from Tanakallu mandal to the market in Chennai. Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav, along with District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, on Monday visited Hindupur red zones and the government hospital block which is being converted as the district’s COVID-19 hospital. The work is progressing and the officials expect the hospital to be functional by the weekend. The MP, Collector along with Penukonda Sub-Collector T. Nishanthi and Assistant Collector M. Jahnavi interacted with people in the containment zones of Mukkidipeta in Hindupur and listened to their grievances. Meanwhile, arrangements are being made to house people returning from foreign countries through Bengaluru airport in government and paid quarantine centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-officials-on-lookout-for-traders-with-koyambedu-link/article31562553.ece
12 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State failed in handling migrant labourers’ issue: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party has criticised the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government accusing it of failing in handling the migrant labourers’ issue in Andhra Pradesh and asked it to send funds to the grassroots level from the ‘labour cess’ so that welfare of the migrants can be taken care of. Party State vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy, expressing shock at the Anantapur - Ongole migrant labourers’ transport fiasco on Sunday night and the waste of public money in bringing them back to Anantapur on Monday, alleged that the district administration had thrown the Central government directives to the wind. Mr. Reddy said thousands of migrant labourers were walking on the National Highway to reach far-off places such as Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, which showed the State government was not taking care of them and washed its hands off by just creating a Spandana website for them to register. “It is foolish to expect those non-literates to register themselves on the website,” he said. Meanwhile, Human Rights Forum district president A. Chadnrasekhar has held the Anantapur district administration totally responsible for the thousands of migrant labourers walking on the NH-44, and warned it against playing with the lives of the poor people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-failed-in-handling-migrant-labourers-issue-bjp/article31562549.ece
12 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGOs reach out to migrant labourers||Several voluntary organisations have set up food relief camps all along National Highway No. 44 in Anantapur district to servethousands of migrant labourers walking from Bengaluru to several destinations in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. Praja Science Vedika State president M. Suresh Babu and 100 TMC Sadhana Samithi of Anantapur convener G. Ramanjaneyulu along with several civil organisations set up the camps at several places on both sides of Anantapur and Penukonda. Those arriving in the morning are given tea and biscuits, and meal during lunch time.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngos-reach-out-to-migrant-labourers/article31562551.ece
12 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘People in quarantine charged for transport’||The Bharatiya Janata Party vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy quoting the video statement of a person from Tamil Nadu, alleged on Monday that the officer in-charge of sending 20 persons from a quarantine centre in Kadiri town to their native villages in T.N. asked them to deposit Rs. 20,000 as no government transport was available. He said at a time when the State government should have given them Rs. 2,000 each while sending them off from a quarantine centre, they had been charged Rs. 1,000 each for 20 persons as a private bus was arranged for them instead of an APSRTC bus.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/people-in-quarantine-charged-for-transport/article31562548.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||In a first, Karnataka reports COVID-19 ‘relapse’||Karnataka reported its first ‘relapse’ for COVID-19 on Monday with a 50-year-old Tablighi Jamaat delegate who had recovered testing positive a second time. Health officials said the patient from Kudachi, who had been discharged, suffered a relapse. He was re-admitted to hospital in Belagavi. The patient was initially admitted on April 15 and had recovered and tested negative twice on April 30 and May 1. The tests were done at NIV, Bengaluru and National Institute of Traditional Medicine (NITM) in Belagavi. Even after recovery, his treatment continued in the ICU for co-morbidities, especially cardiac issues. He was discharged on May 4 and quarantined at an institutional facility in Kudachi. However, he developed symptoms again and a repeat test on May 5 at NITM showed he was positive. On May 6, a second test was done at Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences and he tested positive again. Meanwhile, 14 new cases were reported on Monday, taking the total to 862. These included 31 COVID-19 deaths, one non-COVID death and 426 discharged persons. The 14 new cases included three from Davangere, two each from Bagalkote and Bidar and one each from Kalaburgi, Haveri, Vijayapura, Ananthpur in Andhra Pradesh, Hassan and Mandya. Except for four, the rest were primary or secondary contacts of previous positive patients. A 20-year-old man from Banahatti in Bagalkote, who travelled to Ahmedabad and a 26-year-old man from Haveri, with travel history to Mumbai and Bhatkal tested positive. A 30-year-old woman from Hassan and a 38-year-old man from Mandya, both with travel history to Mumbai tested positive. They were hospitalised in Mandya. A 55-year-old woman from Ananthpur in Andhra Pradesh, a contact of a 60-year-old patient with Influenza-Like Illness from Bengaluru, was infected. Andhra Pradesh, meanwhile, recorded 38 new cases and the total went up to 2,018. The death toll was 45. For the first time, the number of discharged cases surpassed active ones, at 998 to 975. Of the 38 cases, Kurnool and Chittoor districts had nine each, Anantapur eight, Guntur five, Krishna and Visakhapatnam three each and Nellore one. Kerala reported seven more cases, six of which were expatriates or people who had returned from other parts of the country. Four cases were from Kasaragod and one each from Palakkad, Malappuram and Wayanad. All cases in Kasaragod were people who returned from Maharashtra. The positive case in Palakkad came from Chennai, while the person in Malappuram had returned from Kuwait. The case in Wayanad was linked to a known/unknown source. Of 519 cases, 489 had recovered, and 27 persons were under treatment. A total of 1,307 expatriates had returned to Kerala in the past week, of whom 650 were on home quarantine, 641 on quarantine in care centres and 16 in isolation in hospitals. Meanwhile, six persons, including two women in their 30s, died due to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu taking the total number of deaths in the State to 53. The fatalities came on a day when the State’s total number of cases crossed the 8,000-mark, with another 798 persons testing positive on Monday.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/in-a-first-karnataka-reports-covid-19-relapse/article31562077.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka sets up investment task force to attract MNCs||With India anticipating a shift of industries out of China in the post COVID-19 world, Karnataka on Monday constituted a special investment promotion task force to attract investments from “disenchanted multinational companies [MNCs].” The 15-member task force, headed by the Chief Secretary, will also have one representative each from companies from Japan, Singapore, the U.S., South Korea, Taiwan, France, and Germany that are currently operating in the State. The task force will identify sectors in which Karnataka can attract investments owing to relocation from other countries post COVID-19 and will formulate special incentive packages and facilitation to attract investments. Infrastructure projects It will also identify key infrastructure projects, including dedicated industrial townships, that need to be undertaken or expedited and will identify the measures to fast-track clearances to promote these investments. It will also recommend brand-building measures for the State. A note on the constitution of the task force said there is now a pushback against China from several countries and China may not be able to retain its position as the world’s largest factory in the post COVID-19 world order. Alternative hub “The Japanese government is paying Japanese companies to shutter their manufacturing plants in China. American companies are also planning shutdown. So are other countries such as South Korea, Taiwan, and Singapore. They are planning to shutdown their facilities in China and see India as an alternative manufacturing hub,” it said. The task force will also have representatives from Indo-French, Indo-American, and Indo-German chambers of commerce.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/karnataka-sets-up-investment-task-force-to-attract-mncs/article31562065.ece
12 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 new positive cases push tally in Chittoor district to 122||Chittoor district registered 11 new positive COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total to 122. The new cases emerged from Tirupati Urban, Srikalahasti, Pichatur, Nagalapuram, V. Kota, Baireddipalle and Ramasamudram mandals, all linked to the Koyambedu market contacts. According to medical and health officials, in the last five days, the number of positive cases took an alarming increase at 40. Using cellphone towers for tracking and in coordination with the Tamil Nadu police, the Chittoor police had so far identified close to 1,000 persons who had visited the Koyambedu market in the last fortnight for transportation of vegetables and other essential commodities. Tests were conducted for about 300 persons, while the remaining would be covered in a couple of days on a war-footing, said a police officer. Several mandals, which remained untouched by the virus for more than 45 days during the lockdown, had all of a sudden turned into red zones, which included Nagalapuram, Satyavedu, Pichatur, V. Kota, Ramasamudram, Mulakalacheruvu and Madanapalle. This development had brought almost all the prime mandals with inter-State business activities into red zones.  Masks distributed Meanwhile, COVID-19 Special Officer (Nagari Assembly Constituency) P. Ravi Raju on Monday arranged distribution of N95 masks and face protectoin gear to about 70 paramedical staff and ASHA workers at the primary health centre at Narayanavanam, the mandal that has not recorded any positive case so far. “With the help of a voluntary organisation, we could procure the N95 masks for the field staff in the constituency, as they are more vulnerable to contracting the virus. It is the ASHA workers and paramedical staff who are now actively involved in the door-to-door survey to samples and identification of suspect cases,” Dr. Ravi Raju said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/11-new-positive-cases-push-tally-in-chittoor-district-to-122/article31562556.ece
12 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for adulteration of milk||The Punganur Rural police on Monday arrested a milk trader on charges of supplying adulterated milk to local dairies. The police and the officials of the food department raided the residence of Ashok Kumar (30) at Biyyapupalle village of Chowdepalle mandal. The officials seized some chemicals and milk powder from the spot. Circle Inspector Madhusudhan Reddy said the accused used to allegedly mix certain chemicals and sunflower oil with milk powder, and later mix it with the regular milk procured from the farmers. The stocks were supplied to local dairy farms. This used to reportedly fetch about Rs. 20,000 a month to the accused.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-held-for-adulteration-of-milk/article31562557.ece
12 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tenali records first COVID-19 case||Tenali, till recently in green zone, has recorded its first Covid-19 positive case. A man who came to the town recently from Koyambedu in Chennai has tested positive sending the local administration into a tizzy. The man is a chef and works in Chennai. He is from Ithanagar in the town and is said to have returned from Koyambedu on May 4. DSP, Tenali, Srilakshmi said that the 33-year-old man returned to his home town in a lorry which was coming from Koyambedu. His father reportedly asked the lorry driver to pick his son at the market and bring him to his house at Ithanagar. A local ANM sensed his arrival and alerted the police, who in turn got the man tested and the results came positive. The man has been shifted to GGH, Guntur, and his condition is stable. All his family members and the lorry driver have been tested and their results proved negative. All entry and exit points have been sealed, and with the town connected to many villages, there could be severe disruptions to public life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tenali-records-first-covid-19-case/article31562098.ece
12 May 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health officials fear spike in COVID cases after gas leak||Will the city witness a gradual spike in the COVID-19 positive cases in the next couple of weeks? Health Department officials fear the worst because of large-scale violation of lockdown norms post the gas leak tragedy at the LG Polymers factory on Thursday last, which claimed 12 lives and left many hospitalised. After the incident, panic-struck residents had rushed out of their houses and headed to the residences of their relatives, unmindful of the red, orange or green zones they were in. This led to congregation of people at various places. Many people in the urban limits of Gopalapatnam, NAD Junction, and Madhavadhara had rushed out of the containments zones believing in the rumours that there was a gas leak in the factory for the second time, the officials said, and added that the unavoidable circumstances might turn out to be a bane of the city. “Public cooperation has been excellent ever since the lockdown came into force. But on the night after the accident, there was large-scale movement of people. This may prove costly in the days to come. Immediately after the incident, many people from Gopalapatnam shifted to other places. A few colonies in Gopalapatnam, Vepagunta, and Madhavadhara are under the containment zone,” said a senior police officer.  ‘Panic situation’ There was a panic situation as people saw persons dying in front of their eyes and many falling unconscious on road after inhaling the poisonous gas, said an official from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). “People of various areas panicked after receiving messages that there would be an explosion in the factory. It led to mass gathering. We will have see what it will lead to,” he added. On April 30, the number of cases in Visakhapatnam district was 23, of which active ones were just three. Nine days later, the number increased to 62 with 38 active cases and one death. ‘Cause for concern’ “The rate at which the cases have been multiplying is causing concern. The situation changed after the government reopened the liquor outlets. Social distancing went for a toss as hundreds thronged the wine shops. Though use of umbrella was made mandatory to ensure social distancing, the damage has already been done,” said a health official. “The lockdown is being strictly enforced in the containment zones. But if anybody broke the rule, then it is a threat,” he said. By April 29, almost 75 % of cases in the State were asymptomatic. “The only way to detect such cases is to conduct rapid tests,” said a doctor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/health-officials-fear-spike-in-covid-cases-after-gas-leak/article31562581.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 more flights bring back stranded NRIs from abroad||The Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) here handled two more flights as part of the ‘Vande Bharat’ plan to bring Indians home from abroad — one from the US in the morning and another from the UAE on Monday night. Air India flight AI 1617 from San Francisco arrived via Mumbai at 9.22 a.m., carrying 118 Indian citizens. Another batch from Abu Dhabi arrived by Air India flight AI 1920 around 9.30 p.m. The airport has kept international arrivals and the entire stretch right from the aerobridge to the arrivals ramp fully sanitised and fumigated, including sanitisation of every nook and corner of building like washrooms, chairs, counters, trolleys, railings, doors, lifts, escalators etc. Social distancing was also enforced among passengers right from the aerobridge till across the terminal. All arriving passengers and aircraft crew were brought out of the aircraft in a batch of 20-25 persons each. Each passenger/crew was screened by thermal cameras positioned at the aerobridge exit under supervision of the Airport Health officials as per the directives of Ministry of Health & Family Welfare prior to immigration formalities. After the health screening, CISF personnel in their protective gears escorted the group of passengers to immigration clearance. Glass shields were provided at each manned immigration counter to avoid any personal contact between the passengers and immigration officers. Each counter had specified social distancing norms in place. The airline, ground handling staff and airport personnel concerned were available to guide the passengers. Every baggage was sanitised through the disinfection tunnel integrated to the baggage belt as arranged by the airport. Baggage trolleys were kept fully sanitised for use by passengers, who were also provided food. As per the government’s norms, the passengers were sent for the mandatory 14-day quarantine at designated locations in the city. Two days ago, the airport received the first ‘Vande Bharat’ evacuation flight (AI 988) from Kuwait, in which 163 Indian citizens arrived at 9.51 p.m. and were quarantined. RGIA has handled 12 evacuation flights serving over 900 foreign nationals who were repatriated by various special relief flights from here to UK, UAE, US, Kenya and Germany, an official spokesman said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-more-flights-bring-back-stranded-nris/article31562385.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students stuck in Delhi pay Rs. 2 lakh to travel to Hyderabad||Fortyseven days of endless waiting with no relief in sight due to lockdown amid COVD-19 pandemic, desperate students and UPSC civil services aspirants were forced to shell out anywhere between Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 10,000 per head to move out of Delhi and reach their native places in Telangana. Close to 200 students from Telangana studying in various educational institutions and some others preparing for civils made a last ditch effort to hire buses and cabs to get out of the containment zones in the National Capital Region. One such air conditioned sleeper bus left Karolbagh on Saturday evening with 27 students. They paid a whopping Rs. 2.06 lakh to hire the bus. The 53-seater bus was allowed to carry half of its capacity duly following the Centre’s direction on social distancing and other precautions. The 1600 km journey would take close to 40-hours. Two more buses are bound for Hyderabad from Noida. Nightmarish days Ranadeep Reddy, a civil’s aspirant and native of Mancherial district said: “We decided on road travel after we, nearly 200 students, were told it was not possible to arrange special trains. We found a travel bus ready to take us to Hyderabad and we informed the Toll Free number of the Telangana government the bus number and other details and got vehicle pass.” B. Shravya, another civil’s aspirant, who is travelling in one of the bus said the Whatsapp group created by the TS students helped them to coordinate and plan their travel to Hyderabad. “Although the thought of road journey is scary, but we have no other option,” she said. Lucky students Ashfaq and 12 other students were lucky as they managed to get seats in an Innova and a Tempo Traveller which came to New Delhi to drop teachers from different Kendriya Vidyalayas working in Hyderabad. “All 13 of us paid Rs. 10,000 each to get a seat in the two vehicles,” Ashfaq said adding that they had to take the risk of travelling such long distance to reach their families in Hyderabad. The students had a tough time finding food. Mercifully, a dhaba owner near Nagpur pitied them and cooked food after the cooks were given mask, sanitiser and gloves. For D. Venu, driver of the SUV it was a memorable experience on his maiden trip to Delhi. “I had driven long distance carrying the Ayyappa devotees umpteen number of times. But, this was altogether different experience. We did not get even a cup of tea for almost 200 kms after crossing Nagpur. We managed with biscuits and fruits,” he said expressing satisfaction at ensuring safe journey for the passengers.  Awaiting vehicle Atram Sayudha of Utnoor in K.B Asifabad district, who is still stuck in New Delhi said they were in all six students from Old Adilabad district. “We are confident of hiring a four-wheeler in the next two days to reach our native places,” he added. All those entering Telangana at Adilabad border check post had to undergo thermal screening. Medical teams put home quarantine stamp for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-stuck-in-delhi-pay-rs-2-lakh-to-travel-to-hyderabad/article31562379.ece
12 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man on the run after ‘sexually assaulting’ minor||A seven-year-old girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by a 22-year-old youth under the Seethanagaram police limits in East Godavari district on Sunday. The girl’s mother lodged a complaint with the police late on Sunday night. According to the police. the youth allegedly committed the crime after inviting he girl to his house when the girl’s mother went for work. The accused is absconded and the search is on to nab him. The police have registered cases against the accused under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. “A case under the SC and ST Atrocities Act has also been registered against the accused,” said DSP North Zone P. Satyanarayana Rao.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-on-the-run-after-sexually-assaulting-minor/article31562066.ece
12 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||A sweet treetop harvest for Vazhachal tribesmen||It was bumper harvest time in Kerala’s Vazhachal forest during the lockdown, as tribesmen brought home record quantities of wild honey. Around 300 tribesmen, confined to their hamlets, harvested 1,800 kg of wild honey, which is double of what they collected last year. In 2018, they could collect only 670 kg. The harvest season, from April to May, saw them traverse the deep forest in batches of six or seven people. “It is on tall trees in the deep forest that bees usually form hives. We enter the forest in the morning hours to spot beehives and return home in the evening. The harvest, a tedious process, starts only the next evening,” said Kochugovindan of Vazhachal colony. Armed with torches and plastic ropes, the groups approach trees by sunset when the worker bees return. Steps are made on trees by driving bamboo spikes into the wood, to climb up. The expert members of the groups who get close to the beehive scare the worker bees away using torches and collect the honeycombs in containers. Honey collectors are paid Rs. 450 a kg at the processing centre run by the Vana Samrakshana Samiti. After processing and packing, the Samiti sells the product at Rs. 650 a kg. The profit from the retail sale is given to the collectors as bonus during Onam, said S.V. Vinod, Divisional Forest Officer, Vazhachal. Honeybees usually form hives on tall trees like Thanni and Ilavu , which grow to 30 metres, said Nithin Lal, Range Officer, Sholayar. “When the harvest takes long, the groups stay in the forest till dawn. One needs to be cautious while venturing into the deep forest and staying there due to the risk of wild animal attacks,” said Mr. Kochugovindan. Men from nine tribal settlements went for honey harvesting as the lockdown denied them other employment. The Samiti has made arrangements for home delivery of honey for residents’ associations and similar groups, said Mr. Vinod. Orders can be placed at 8547601861.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/a-sweet-treetop-harvest-for-vazhachal-tribesmen/article31562072.ece
12 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relief as 14 patients get discharged in Kurnool||The number of COVID-19 patients getting discharged from hospitals in Kurnool district has been overtaking the number of new cases for the past several days and with 14 persons leaving hospitals on Monday, the district administration is hopeful that the number of active cases will soon be lower than the number of persons discharged. Kurnool on Monday recorded nine new cases, and the cumulative total reached 575, with 281 persons getting discharged and one death getting added to take the total to 16. The number of active cases in hospitals remained at 294, District Collector G. Veerapandian said. All the new cases came from Kurnool city. Central team surveys the scene Government Medical College principal P. Chandrasekhar said the plasmapheresis machine was ready at the blood bank at the GGH here for taking up convalescent plasma therapy for the patients. The facility was likely to be commissioned within four days. The district administration has appealed to the patients, who got discharged recently, to donate their plasma for the benefit of the new ones. Central team members Madhumita Dobe and S.K. Sadhukhan, accompanied by Mr. Veerapandian, saw for themselves the methods being adopted by the police in containment zones in the city. COVID-19 Special Officer Ajay Jain and Superintendent of Police Fakkerappa Kaginelli saw the Falcon Hawk drone in operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/relief-as-14-patients-get-discharged-in-kurnool/article31562558.ece
12 May 2020||NARSAPURAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||ONGC team rises to occasion during crisis||The Regional Crisis Management Team (RCMT) of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) Krishna-Godavari Basin (KG Basin) has provided drinking water supply to the villages which are facing acute shortage of potable water in Mogaltur and Narsapuram mandals in the district. The team came forward to help the villagers in providing water supply during the pandemic. They helped the local officials in supplying drinking water to nine villages in the two mandals.  Lockdown affects works Following the requisition by the Narsapuram Sub-Collector, to help them in lifting drinking water from Mogaltur main canals to the water tanks of KP Palem, the RCMT crew pumped water from main canal to smaller canal which passes through the villages. In Mogaltur mandal, MP Palem South, KP Palem North, Perupalem South and North, Mutyalapalli, Varatitippa, Modi and Pasaladeevi and Samakurrupalem villages in Narsapuram mandals have been provided drinking water, according to ONGC ED Asset Manager R.P. Patel. The task has been made difficult because of the lockdown and restriction on movement of vehicles. The crew wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), sanitizers and gloves completed the first phase of the lifting operations a few days ago, says the ONGC official. “As drinking water is essential during the pandemic to sanitise, clean hands and for drinking, ONGC has taken up the task immediately and carried out the works in 14 days. Water is being pumped into the tanks of the respective villages with motors and potable water is being supplied to the colonies,” says RCMT head G. Srihari. Acute shortage Two high discharge fire engine pumps with combined pumping capacities of 5000 GPM with necessary crew have been mobilised to complete the operation, the asset manager says and complimented Mr. Srihari and GGM-HDS Bishan Singh for completing the works during the crisis period. The villages in Mogalturu and Narsapuram mandals reel under severe drinking water problem during summer as the main canal dries up every year, according to government officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ongc-team-rises-to-occasion-during-crisis/article31562563.ece
12 May 2020||PALAKKAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keralites without passes turned back||A few dozen Keralites who reached the Walayar check-post at the district border without valid passes were sent back by the authorities on Monday. However, there was a fall in the number of people who returned to Kerala from other States. District Collector D. Balamurali said only those with valid passes issued by the district administration could be allowed entry. Otherwise, the effectiveness of the COVID-19 monitoring system being followed in the State could be compromised. He said all people who reached the border without passes until Sunday were cleared. The Tamil Nadu Police too sent back several Keralites returning home without passes issued by the Palakkad district authority. An understanding has been reached between the Kerala and Tamil Nadu authorities on permitting the movement of Keralites returning home. Only those with passes issued by the State authorities are being allowed to proceed to the Kerala border. Until 4 p.m. on Monday, 1,345 Keralites returned home through the Walayar border. Deputy Superintendent R. Manoj Kumar said they included 454 women and 128 children. He said 480 vehicles were permitted to cross the border. From the Talapady check-post, 285 Keralites entered the State on Monday. The Kasaragod district administration had issued 642 passes. Around 15 persons arrived at the check-post without passes. Most of them had applied, but were yet to receive confirmation. While a few of the family members received the pass, others were left out. The district administration accepted the applications and issued passes to a few people. District Collector D. Sajith Babu has asked the District police chief to stop those trying to enter Kerala illegally. He said certain groups were helping people sneak in through the border areas in Karnataka. Such action would have serious consequences, he warned. 44 from Red zone The inter-State border at Inchivila witnessed the entry of 211 Keralites, including 113 women, on Monday. These included 200 people from Tamil Nadu, eight from Karnataka, two from Maharashtra and one from Puducherry. While 44 people came from Red zone areas, all except one person were sent home where they will be required to quarantine themselves. One person was sent to the corona care centre in Mar Ivanios College hostel after he told the authorities that there were no facilities for self-isolation at his house.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/keralites-without-passes-turned-back/article31562074.ece
12 May 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant workers desperate to leave for their native places in Odisha, West Bengal||"H amara bachi ro rahahai, Jaldi gao ko bijado (Our children are crying, please send us home)," the workers engaged for work at the Polavaram project have pleaded the officials. When the officials visited Polavaram and asked the labour there whether the facilities were good and assured them of providing food and accommodation, hundreds of labourers waved their hands saying that they don’t want anything and just want to go to their hometowns. “You have to suffer without work in your villages. We will give good food, accommodation and medical facilities. Please understand the situation and stay back,” an officer appealed to the migrant workers. Immediately, the workers shouted that they want to go back and see their family members. As the workers stick to their demand to go back, officers said they would make arrangements for their transportation and asked them to be patient. Finally, a few migrant labourers of Polavaram and engaged for work at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Mangalagiri, were sent to Bihar on Sunday. The police and the officials had a tough time to control the workers at Jayanthipuram in Jaggaiahpet in Krishna district. Labourers of Odisha, West Bengal, Jharkhand and other States were working in a cement factory. They staged a dharna for about four hours asking officials to send them back to their native places. At Kovvur in West Godavari district, police resorted to lathi-charge when hundreds came on to the road and set off to go on walk. More than 2,000 workers of different States were engaged in sand reaches on Godavari bund in the district, said DSP K. Rajeswar Reddy. “We came in search of some work here, but not to receive the lathi blows of the police. When hundreds of labourers demanded arrangements for transportation to home States, the government had neglected us. Though thousands of migrant labourers are walking on the highways in different States, Centre has ignored the problems of workers,” said a labourer, Siva Yadav of Bihar. Torture alleged “Many workers are desperate and are feeling homesick. We are unable to bear the torture of the managements on the sites. How can we work in such horrible conditions,” a woman worker, Sahani of Odisha, questioned. Meanwhile, hundreds of migrant labourers were seen trekking on Chennai and Visakhapatnam National Highway carrying huge luggage and their children on the shoulders on Monday. “I came for labour work to AP, but there was no work for the last 45 days due to lockdown. There is no money. How many days, shall I stay here without work. I don’t have money to travel by a special train. So I decided to walk,” said another labourer Bhandya of Jharkhand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/migrant-workers-desperate-to-leave-for-their-native-places-in-odisha-west-bengal/article31562106.ece
12 May 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police, Excise staff crack the whip on liquor smugglers||The Krishna and the West Godavari district police and the Excise personnel cracked the whip on liquor smugglers on Andhra Pradesh-Telangana borders after permission was given for sale of liquor during the lockdown period. After a gap of 40 dry days, both AP and Telangana governments allowed the sale of liquor on some conditions, including maintenance of social distance, wearing of masks and avoidance of rush at the outlets. However, with the spread of rumours that liquor sales may be closed due to violation of COVID protocol and heavy rush, tipplers are resorting to panic purchasing. There are also rumours on limitations and shortage of stocks. The police seized over 2,700 bottles of liquor in the last three days in Krishna district and about 100 bottles were seized on West Godavari borders. Speaking to The Hindu on Monday, Krishna district Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu said 52 border check-posts were set up on the borders in Gampalagudem, Tiruvuru, Nandigama, Mylavaram and other police station limits to check sand and liquor smuggling. Besides, a mobile police party was also moving on the borders. “On Monday, the police seized about 430 liquor bottles on Telangana borders. Instructions have been given to the Deputy SP, CIs and SIs to be alert on the border check-posts and pickets,” the SP said adding that stern action would be taken against the officers who are found negligent in taking action against the smugglers. Mr. Ravindranath Babu said that raids were conducted on belt shops in the limits of Veerulapadu and Chandarlapadu police stations and seized huge quantity of liquor. About 50 smugglers were arrested and nearly 20 vehicles were seized, the SP said. At Jeelugumilli in West Godavari district, the police seized 82 bottles of liquor being smuggled into AP from Aswaraopeta of Telangana, and arrested four persons. Besides, the police conducted raids on arrack manufacturing units on the borders and seized huge quantity of ID liquor and destroyed jaggery wash, the police said.  Price variation “As there was limit for each person in AP, tipplers are smuggling liquor from Telangana. We will act tough against liquor smuggling,” an Excise officer of West Godavari district said. In AP, the government has recently increased the liquor prices by 75%, but the Telangana government has increased the rates by 13 to 16 %. Some brands, which are available in Telangana, are not found in the market in AP, according to villagers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-excise-staff-crack-the-whip-on-liquor-smugglers/article31562101.ece
12 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Inspect industries in Srikakulam’||In the backdrop of a major gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam district administration has begun inspecting the major industries and the security measures in place at these units. Following the directive of Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas, a high-level committee consisting of Industries General Manager B. Gopala Krishna, Srikakulam district In-charge Fire Officer B.J.D. Prasanna Kumar, environmental engineer S. Sankara Nayak inspected various factories including Dr. Reddy’s Laboratory, Aurobindo Pharma, Andhra Organics, Nagarjuna Agrichem Limited, United Breweries. The team has been directed to submit a detailed report immediately. Mr. Nivas is expected to hold a meeting with representatives of industries for implementation of the government guidelines and recommendations of the committee. Many trade unions have demanded for regular inspections and a compulsory No Objection Certificate from Fire Safety department for resuming operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/inspect-industries-in-srikakulam/article31562559.ece
12 May 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fast depleting cash reserves worry TTD||The fast depleting cash reserves have become a cause of concern for the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) which manages the temple of Lord Venkateswara, among the the richest shrines in the country. Even as the financial situation of the TTD is satisfactory at present, uncertainty looms large on its future with all its major revenue earning sources such as income from hundi, sale of laddus, darshan tickets, accommodation and etc have been chocked for the 53-day closure of the temple for devotees in the wake of the lockdown imposed to check COVID-19 pandemic. The TTD is burdened with a sharp decline in its revenues. On the other hand, it is spending hundreds of crores every month on mandatory expenditures such as salaries and pensions of staff, maintenance, electricity and etc. ‘Hundi income nil’ With a budgetary outlay of about Rs. 3,310 crore for 2020-21 fiscal, the TTD expects a major chunk of its income from the temple hundi, which is put at a little over Rs. 1,350 crore and earmarked Rs. 1,385 crore towards human resource payments. At present, the income from hundi has recorded almost ‘nil’ during the 53-day closure. According to sources, the TTD is comfortably positioned to pay salaries to all its 21,500 employees, of whom 7,200 are on regular pay roll while the rest are out-sourced or hired on contract for May, besides meeting other expenses. Cost cutting measures The TTD has imposed a cut by 50% on the salaries of its employees (excluding health, medical, police and class IV workers) and 10% that of the outsourced employees in accordance to a government order. If at all there is anything to be worried about it is only after first week of June, the sources say. However, sources sound optimistic over a comprehensive plan to be worked out by the TTD after May 17 . The board of trustees is liklely to meet by the month end .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fast-depleting-cash-reserves-worry-ttd/article31562569.ece
12 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Process refunds for Arjitha Seva tickets’||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal has instructed the officials to speed up processing the refunds sought by the devotees who cancelled their Arjitha Seva tickets between March 14 and May 31 owing to the lockdown. Of the 2.50 lakh devotees who have sought refunds so far, constituting 45% of the total bookings, the amounts have been credited to the bank accounts of 1.93 lakh devotees. During the maiden video-conference meeting with the TTD senior officials on Monday, Mr. Singhal asked the latter to clear the pending payment at the earliest. Srivari darshan “There will be a high-level meeting with the Additional Executive Officer to discuss the modalities on the process of resuming Srivari darshan in the event of lockdown relaxation,” said Mr. Singhal. The TTD EO also reviewed the advanced mobile app for ‘SRIVANI’ trust, paperless audit, PR management system, vigilance complaints and tracking system, e-payments integration, students’ admission management system, lease rental system among others during the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/process-refunds-for-arjitha-seva-tickets/article31562064.ece
12 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||AGS renders help to 700 families in Tirupati||The Tirupati-based Academy of Gandhian Studies (AGS), in association with Azim Premji Philanthropic Initiatives (APPI), distributed essentials worth Rs. 1,500 to nearly 700 families from the lower and lower middle income groups. AGS Executive Director and Member-Secretary G. Gopalakrishna Murthy, Junior Chamber International (JCI) Foundation Director G.L. Manohar and Koundinya Enterprises Director G. Srinivasa Murthy gave away the essential commodities to working sections that have been rendered jobless now, such as cooks, domestic maids, craftsmen, apart from sanitary workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ags-renders-help-to-700-families-in-tirupati/article31562560.ece
12 May 2020||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police crack the whip on lockdown violators||The police cracked the whip on motorcyclists and autorickshaw drivers for moving around the town in droves, in violation of the norms in vogue during the lockdown period. In view of the COVID-19 situation, traffic regulations are in place from March 23 till May 17, during which period, special rules are introduced such as no pillion riding, only two passengers per auto rickshaw, three in a four-wheeler (only driver in front row) etc. In Kadapa, 714 cases have been slapped on 5758 persons so far under Sec 188 of IPC for violation of lockdown. These apart, 31,569 cases were booked under Motor Vehicle Act, from which the department earned Rs. 1.51 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-crack-the-whip-on-lockdown-violators/article31562561.ece
12 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tally touches 2,018 as 38 new cases surface in State||The State has registered 38 new COVID-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours and the total number has gone up to 2,018. The death toll stands at 45. For the first time since the outbreak, the number of discharged cases surpassed the active ones: 998 and 975 respectively. Of the 38 new cases, Kurnool and Chittoor districts had nine each, Anantapur eight, Guntur five, Krishna and Visakhapatnam three each and Nellore one.  Koyambedu link Of the nine new cases in Chittoor, eight have originated at Koyambedu in Chennai. With total 575 cases, including 292 active ones, Kurnool led the table and it is followed by Guntur 387 (181 active cases), Krishna 342 (187), Chittoor 121 (47), Anantapur 115 (66), Nellore 102 (23), Kadapa 97 (52), West Godavari 68 (35), Visakhapatnam 66 (40), Prakasam 63 (3), East Godavari 46 (15), Srikakulam 5 (3) and Vizianagaram 4 (4). There are 27 cases in the ‘others’ category (Gujarat 26 and Karnataka one). About 7,409 samples were tested in the last 24 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tally-touches-2018-as-38-new-cases-surface-in-state/article31562567.ece
12 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hike in power bill irrational, says Kala||TDP State president K. Kala Venkat Rao on Monday said it was unfortunate that the government has burdened the people by hiking power tariff at a time when they were reeling under the coronavirus crisis. In a statement, he termed the decision to fix the category of power consumption by taking average of March and April “illogical.’’ For a lower middle class family, the bill used to come to Rs. 100 per month, including user charges, but now it had shot up to Rs. 600 per month. The government should have bifurcated the units consumed in two months and decided the slab, he said. The YSRCP, which promised that it would not hike power tariff if voted to power, had revised it two times in a year, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hike-in-power-bill-irrational-says-kala/article31562571.ece
12 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP sends queries to govt. over gas leak||The environmental wing of the Jana Sena Party has prepared a set of technical queries on the circumstances that led to the leakage of styrene vapour at LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam, claiming 12 lives and making hundreds sick. Party general secretary (environment) Bolisetty Satyanarayan told The Hindu that a set of 52 technical queries has been sent to the State government. The questions were prepared in consultation with K.V. Rao, an expert on the subject and a former professor of Andhra University. He has worked as a faculty member of the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, Dehradun, and JNTU college of Engineering, Kakinada. Listing out various aspects of the tragedy what he termed as ‘glaring lapses’, prof. Rao said that the tank from which styrene vapour leaked was not built for the purpose. ‘Tank not built for the purpose’ “It is an old storage tank which was latter converted into a styrene storage unit. Styrene storage tanks should have refrigeration facilities and also safety features such as recycling systems,” he claimed. Prof. Rao alleged that the rise in temperature of styrene was not monitored because the plant was closed owing to the lockdown. Styrene is prone to get polymerised and it needs to be monitored continuously. As the compound gets polymerised the temperature rises. Reaching the boiling point of 145 degrees Celsius, styrene turns into vapour and the pressure in the tank increases, he explained. ‘No monitoring’ “A fail-safe refrigeration system and safety measures such as recycling system that condenses the evaporated styrene were not available at the factory,” prof. Rao pointed out. The questionnaire seeks to know why the tank of 2400 MT capacity filled with styrene monomer was not monitored during lock down, said Mr. Satyanarayana. “People working at the LG Polymers had a four-hour window to inform the authorities about the possible gas leak and initiate evacuation as a precautionary measure, but unfortunately it was not done,” prof. Rao said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-sends-queries-to-govt-over-gas-leak/article31562570.ece
12 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bring those responsible for gas tragedy to book’||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana demanded that stringent action should be taken against LG Polymers and government officials responsible for the gas leak in Visakhapatnam. Mr. Lakshminarayana alleged that the ‘blatant violations’ of safety and environmental norms by the company and the gross negligence of the A.P. Pollution Control Board (APPCB), the factories and other government departments led to the tragic incident . Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should, therefore, initiate penal action against all those responsible, he demanded. In a letter to the Chief Minister on Monday, Mr. Lakshminarayana said the release of styrene vapours was due to the failure of government officials in inspecting and enforcing safety standards and negligence of LG Polymers. He said the company could not be expected to be unaware of the fact that styrene has a tendency to self-polymerise at temperatures exceeding 20 degrees Celsius, whereas the temperature peaked to 153 degrees Celsius just short of the flashpoint of 154 degrees Celsius. ‘Serious lapses’ The BJP leader alleged that the company had never conducted mock safety drills and took the necessary protection measures. He said the APPCB had permitted expansion of the factory in spite of several litigations involving the land allotment. Besides, the National Green Tribunal observed that Rule 2 (e) read with entry 583 of Schedule I to the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989 was not complied with.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bring-those-responsible-for-gas-tragedy-to-book/article31562572.ece
12 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power sector staff oppose proposed electricity Bill||The Andhra Pradesh Power Employees’ Joint Action Committee (JAC) and APSEB Engineers’ Association (APSEBEA) are opposing the Centre’s proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, alleging that its very purpose is to change the basic objective from ‘public service’ to ‘private profits’ and will result in private monopolies. Besides, the employees are apprehensive that the States will be dependent on the Central government for subsidies and no longer have a role in the appointment of State Electricity Regulatory Commissions. The employees state that the Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority proposed in the said Bill is intended to protect commercial interests of the private investors and it leaves little scope for State governments to renegotiate and bring down the cost of electricity. JAC Chairman P. Chandrasekhar and APSEBEA president M. Vedyavyasa Rao told The Hindu that the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020 also contemplated privatising the distribution and transmission companies through the franchise route to the detriment of consumers, especially farmers and marginal sections for whom electricity would become unaffordable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/power-sector-staff-oppose-proposed-electricity-bill/article31562095.ece
12 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to launch Rythu Bharosa Kendralu on May 30||The Agriculture, AP Agros and AP Seeds will launch 10,641 Rythu Bharosa Kendralu (RBKs) in the State to help farmers in kharif season. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy would inaugurate the RBKs on May 30. Each centre would have a digital kiosk, said Special Commissioner (Agriculture) H. Arun Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cm-to-launch-rythu-bharosa-kendralu-on-may-30/article31562102.ece
12 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Spare power consumers’||The Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) demanded that the government exempt power consumers from payment of bills during the lockdown. In a press release here on Monday, PCC president Sake Sailajanath said that there were allegations that hefty amounts were being collected from the consumers. The inflated power bills were another blow to the people who were already hit badly by the lockdown. Attempts were being made to cash in on the lockdown. While hefty amounts were being collected to provide power, money was being collected even from migrant workers, Dr. Sailajanth alleged. People cooperated with the government for the past 50 days though they went through several difficulties. Though the cost of crude oil crashed in the international market, the Central government was hiking the duty, he pointed out. The State government had now joined the Centre in putting additional burden on the people, the Congress leader said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/spare-power-consumers/article31562099.ece
12 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Students stuck in Dhaka to return home||BJP Member of Parliament G.V.L. Narasimha Rao on Monday tweeted that 12 students pursuing medicine courses, including 11 girls, from Andhra Pradesh were stranded in Bangladesh. They were in distress, said the MP. He spoke to External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Indian High Commissioner in Dhaka and got tickets for them on a Dhaka-Chennai flight.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/students-stuck-in-dhaka-to-return-home/article31562573.ece
12 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak evacuees tread back to their houses with caution||After Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed the authorities concerned to ensure that the evacuees of the LG Polymers gas leak moved back to their residences, people were seen returning to their homes, here on Monday. Life is limping back to normalcy in the affected areas, after the officials declared that it was safe to return home.   Police who had locked the houses to prevent thefts were unlocking them in various areas. Autorickshaws mounted with loud speakers were moving around making announcements on cleaning the houses properly, before settling down. The Chief Minister had also asked the Group of Ministers to stay in the villages on Monday night, to instil confidence among the residents. Lack of essentials The family of Y. Mahalakshmi of the SC Colony who had moved to their relatives house after the vapour leak in the early hours of Thursday returned to their home on Monday morning. “On May 7, at around 3.30 am, we ran to save our lives. We stayed in our in-laws house for the past few days. After coming to know that the air quality has improved, we came back today morning,” said Mahalakshmi. Families were seen cleaning their houses, utensils, clothes and other things in the house. “We can sense pungent smell from the rice. We do not have vegetables, milk and proper drinking water. Officials should provide us these essentials. As of now, we have brought some bottles of water from the shelter home where we stayed,” said A. Ramana, a resident of RR Venkatapuram. Precautions GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, who visited the areas on Monday morning, said that the civic body had been cleaning the area including roads and bylanes and drains. Bleaching powder was being sprinkled. “Internal cleaning like draining of overhead tanks, mopping with disinfectants, disposing vegetables and food items which were exposed to the vapour leak are being advised,” she told The Hindu . Ms. Srijana said villagers need not worry as the GVMC would be provide drinking water and food to the villagers once they are back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/gas-leak-evacuees-tread-back-to-their-houses-with-caution/article31562576.ece
12 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Emission levels near zero in villages around plant: Kannababu||Cheques of Rs. 1 crore each were handed over to the legal heirs of eight persons, who died in the styrene vapour leak at the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram, by district in-charge Minister Kurasala Kannababu and Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao and Dharmana Krishna Das at the King George Hospital (KGH) here on Monday. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had announced an ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore to the dependants of each of those died in the gas tragedy during his visit to the disaster site on the day of the mishap on Thursday. The Ministers visited the KGH and interacted with the gas leak victims, who are undergoing treatment there on Monday. Mr. Kannababu said that the legal heirs of eight victims were finalised and the cheques were handed over to them. The remaining four cheques would be handed over to the legal heirs, as soon as they were finalised. He said the emission levels were nearly zero and residents of the four villages, surrounding the plant, would be allowed to go back to their homes after sanitation of lanes and bylanes was completed by Monday evening. He said they (the Ministers) would stay in the affected villages on Monday night. Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that styrene vapour was under total control and appealed to the public not to believe rumours in the social media. He asked the adults to return around 4 p.m. and ensure proper sanitisation of their homes after which children and senior citizens could go home. Medical camps would also be conducted in the affected villages from Tuesday. Refuting allegations being made in a section of the media, Mr. Satyanarayana said the government was only concerned about the welfare of the affected people and has no sympathy for the company management. To a question, he said that permission for expansion of plant were given during the tenure of former Chief Minister Chandrababu Naidu. No new permissions were given by the present government, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/emission-levels-near-zero-in-villages-around-plant-kannababu/article31562583.ece
12 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three more cases emerge in the district||The COVID-19 cases in the district has risen to 66, with the admission of three more positive cases, on Monday. The State health bulletin has officially recorded the three cases showing a total count of 66 cases. Of the three cases, one is a home guard and resident of Kobbarithota, a 70-year-old woman from Akkayyaplem and one from Gajuwaka area, said Principal of Andhra Medicac College P.V. Sudhakar. In the last 10 days, there has been a spike in cases, with over 40 cases being recorded. The containment zones have also gone up from 15 to 20. On the person who turned positive second time, GVMC, CMO, K.S.L.G. Sastry, said that four members of the family were tested positive in phases. Probably, he could have been infected by one of them again, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/three-more-cases-emerge-in-the-district/article31562590.ece
12 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT team visits accident site||Three members of a committee set up by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) made a preliminary visit to LG Polymers’ plant at R.R. Venkatapuram in the city on Monday to probe the circumstances which led to the leakage of styrene in vapour form from a tank on May 7. The panel members elicited the views of the officials of the AP Pollution Control Board and the plant. The team consisted of P.J. Rao, Ch. Ramachandra Murthy and Dr. Basha from the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI). Panel chairman B. Seshasayana Reddy is scheduled to visit the plant on May 14. They are expected to interact with the stakeholders on Tuesday. While the committee members refused to interact with the media at the plant site where the vapour leaked killing 12 persons and hospitalising over 300, they said they had been asked by NGT to submit the report by May 18. email ID The NGT, taking suo motu notice of the ghastly incident, imposed an initial penalty of Rs. 50 crore on the company for the damage caused to the people living in the area and questioned how it sought post facto approval of the plant’s expansion. One of the members of the panel said NGOs interested in expressing their views could mail topjencon@gmail.comby May 15. Panel meets experts Meanwhile, the high-power committee set up by the State government under the chairmanship of senior IAS officer Neerabh Kumar Prasad to probe into various aspects of the gas leak at the LG Polymers, met the experts from National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) on Monday. The panel members interacted with the environmental and science experts, and met NGOs, the representatives from trade unions and the officials of fire, revenue, factory and other departments on Sunday. Before their departure, the team met Abani Ray, Director of Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun and Shantanu Geete, styrene expert from Supreme Industries, Mumbai, who were appointed by the Union Cabinet Secretary to submit preliminary findings on the incident, sought their views on the accident and remedial measures to prevent such tragedies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngt-team-visits-accident-site/article31562578.ece
12 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Residents of five villages near plant are in grip of fear: TDP||Ministers sleeping in villages hit by Styrene leak from LG Polymers for one night was a superfluous gesture and the residents of the five villages were in the grip of fear, Telugu Mahila president and former MLA Vangalapudi Anitha said. Addressing a candlelight vigil organised by women cadres to mourn those killed in the leak and in solidarity with the hundreds affected at the TDP office on Monday evening, she said while the Ministers would sleep in arranged comfort, the residents had to continue living there and alleged till now there was no official announcement on safety. She demanded that the company be shifted and its valuable land protected expressing apprehension over it being grabbed by an influential section. Ms. Anitha said that people were not happy with the announcement of the Rs. 1 crore compensation alone was evident from the protest at the LG Polymers' Gate on Saturday. She said no action had so far been taken against the management. On other hand, cases were booked against protesters, including those who lost their dear ones, she alleged. MLC Duvvarapu Rama Rao and former MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao participated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/residents-of-five-villages-near-plant-are-in-grip-of-fear-tdp/article31562586.ece
12 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VPT sets up quarantine facility||Visakhapatnam Port Trust has established a quarantine facility at Sports Stadium Complex and an isolation ward for suspected COVID-19 patients at Golden Jubilee Hospital with 10 beds. VPT Chairman K. Rama Mohana Rao said on Monday that for observation and quarantining of ship crew who are signing off/signing on and for the suspected contacts of COVID-19 patients the quarantine facility had been established with 20 beds. As on date, 22 ship crew members reported to the quarantine centre and all of them tested negative. Mr. Rama Mohana Rao said they had taken all precautionary measures as per the guidelines of the Ministry of Shipping.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/vpt-sets-up-quarantine-facility/article31562591.ece
12 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Affected areas sanitised||Hundreds of GVMC workers on Monday undertook cleaning, clearing and sanitising operations in the five villages hit by styrene gas leak from the LG Polymers. Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana and heads of various departments supervised the exercise undertaken at RR Venkatapuram, Nandamurinagar, Kamparapalem, Padmanabhanagar and SC, BC Colony. In total, 700 workers were involved in the exercise. The roads were cleaned with five specialised ‘BHELMIST’ and six other vehicles spraying water. Houses and premises were also cleaned. Sodium hypochlorite solution was sprayed and bleaching powder sprinkled. Plants that were withered under the impact of the gas were also removed. Masks distributed Drinking water was supplied by 30 tankers and 20,000 masks were distributed among the residents. Arrangements were also made to supply food to to the residents. Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao, Chief Medical Officer (Health) K.S.L.G. Sastry, Superintendent Engineer (Water Supply) K. Venugopal, Executive Engineer Muralikrishna, Zone Commissioner Venkataramana, Assistant Medical Officer Lakshmi Tulasi, seven assistant engineers of Water Supply, 30 sanitary inspectors and 60 supervisors participated in the massive exercise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/affected-areas-sanitised/article31562577.ece
12 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shramik Special train leaves for Jharkhand||The second Shramik Special train left the Visakhapatnam railway station, carrying stranded migrant workers to Dalton Gunj, in Jharkhand, on Monday. A Shramik Special was earlier operated from Visakhapatnam to Bihar. Before entering the railway station premises, the workers were checked for their health condition with a thermal gun. Their aadhaar card and travel order copy were verified. The workers, whose names were cleared by the authorities, were allowed to board the train. Scores of workers from Jharkhand, who came to board the train, were turned away. They were asked to go to the Collector’s Office and get clearance letters. These workers offer their services at various ‘labour points’ in the city. “We have registered our names with the local authorities several days ago but our names have not been cleared so far. We have to go to Hatia,” said Md. Alam, who works from the labour point at Seethammapeta in the city The operation of these Shramik Special trains is monitored by the Railway Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shramik-special-train-leaves-for-jharkhand/article31562584.ece
12 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plant didn’t have eco clearance, alleges HRF||The LG Polymers India did not have the mandatory environment clearance from the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) from 1997 to 2019, said member of the Human Rights Forum (HRF), here on Monday.  Citing documents from the official website of the MoEF, V.S. Krishna, coordination committee member of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana of HRF, said that the company in a signed affidavit submitted to the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) on May 10, 2019, had admitted that the unit did not have ‘environment clearance substantiating the produced quantity issued by the competent authority for continuing operations.’ In effect, this means that the company had admitted that it was running operations that were patently illegal, the HRF functionary said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/plant-didnt-have-eco-clearance-alleges-hrf/article31562587.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||No respite||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-respite/article31562108.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Whither lockdown!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/whither-lockdown/article31562565.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||State needs Rs. 16,000 crore||He said a comprehensive survey was conducted thrice and the protocols were being strictly complied with, and insisted that confidence should be created among people that winning the battle against COVID was not impossible. Mr. Jagan said people infected by coronavirus were being discriminated against in spite of the awareness being created about it. Because of the social stigma that came to be associated with COVID, many people were not forthcoming on their health condition. ‘Major impediment’ This was a major impediment in the fight against COVID, the Chief Minister observed. He underlined the fact that 98% of the cases were curable and in 85%, there were mild symptoms. He stressed the need to keep social distance, wear masks while going out and maintain personal hygiene.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/state-needs-rs-16000-crore/article31562574.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Long trek||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/long-trek/article31562580.ece
12 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Woman lugs dead son in rickshaw to burial ground||In a heart-rending incident, a poor woman carried the body of her 13 year old son, who reportedly died of cardiac arrest in Bhadrachalam on Sunday evening, in a cycle rickshaw to the burial ground in the temple town on Monday, where she buried it with the help of her father-in-law. The deceased was identified as Sk. Sadiq, 13, of Sundaraiahnagar. He had been suffering from heart ailment for the last two years. Sadiq had lost his father when he was two years old and met an untimely death due to heart disease, amid the coronavirus forced lockdown, sources said. Sources close to the family of the deceased said Farida, the poverty stricken mother of Sadiq, tried to ensure medical treatment for her ailing son, but in vain. Though she alerted her close relatives about the sudden death of her son due to cardiac arrest on Sunday evening, none of them turned up, sources added. She carried the body of her son in a cycle-rickshaw pulled by her father-in-law along the main streets of Bhadrachalam before burying the body in the local burial ground on Monday afternoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-lugs-dead-son-in-rickshaw-to-burial-ground/article31562376.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Dialysis wards are latest source of COVID-19 spread||Dialysis patients getting treated at two renowned corporate hospitals in the city have been the latest source of COVID-19 infection in the L.B. Nagar zone, which has of late become the hotspot for the virus spread in city and Telangana. The primary source of infection for at least 40 COVID-19 patients in LB Nagar zone are dialysis wards of the two hospitals, one located in Malakpet and another in Musheerabad. Kidney patients need dialysis at regular intervals for blood purification, for which they need to visit hospitals even during COVID-19 lockdown.  Officials under the condition of anonymity informed that over 10 persons undergoing dialysis at the two hospitals have tested positive for COVID-19 and one of them died of the complications. The patients are all from Kapra and Saroornagar circles. Thirty of their family members and close contacts contracted the infection, which was revealed only during aggressive testing, a circle level official informed. Though the patients were diagnosed a while ago, the primary contacts were not tested immediately, as they did not show any symptoms. The decision to test all primary contacts was taken recently, following which there was a spurt in the number of positive cases. “The elderly dialysis patient, who died recently, had 13 members in his family, of whom 10 tested positive. We have exhausted all primary contacts, and hopefully, there won’t be any spurt in the coming days,” said the official. The number of cases from L.B. Nagar has spiralled recently, even as the cases from almost all the other areas in the city are showing downward trend. Total cases from five circles of the zone — L.B. Nagar, Saroornagar, Hayatnagar, Uppal and Kapra — stand at 74 as on Monday, of which 61 are active cases. Seven persons died and six have been discharged. Before the spurt caused by the dialysis units of the corporate hospitals, the source of infection was a single person — a groundnut trader in Malakpet. He is surmised to have contracted it from a Suryapet contact. The trader got himself admitted in a private hospital near Vanasthalipuram with complaints of bodyache and fever, but was offered wrong treatment for dengue. Many visitors “While he was in hospital, several members of his family and extended family visited him, which resulted in the disease spreading far and wide,” an official informed. The hospital has now been closed, and all the staff have been quarantined. When a few members of the trader’s extended family attended a birthday party, the infection spread even wider. As per official information, the number of his primary and secondary contacts who contracted the infection stood at 22. The trader’s aged father, and his brother with other co-morbidities, died of the COVID-19 complications. The trader, however, is on the path to recovery and may soon be discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dialysis-wards-are-latest-source-of-covid-19-spread/article31562360.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR carries more than 50,000 migrant workers in last 11 days||South Central Railway (SCR) has carried little more than 50,000 migrant labour towards up north — 50,822, to be more precise — in the last 11 days since the first ‘Shramik Special’ began its journey from Lingampalli towards Hatia in Bihar on the May Day. Altogether, it has run 45 such special sleeper class trains, including 27 from various suburban stations in Telangana, carrying 30,976 passengers and 14 trains from Andhra Pradesh carrying 15,372 passengers, in all, earning about Rs. 3.4 crore. Besides, another 4,474 passengers were carried from Maharastra in four trains from different stations with respective State governments paying the fares. In Telangana, eight trains were started from Lingampally, seven from Ghatkesar, five from Bibinagar, two each from Bollarum, Cherlapally and Nagulapalli and one from Medchal stations — from outskirts of the twin cities. SCR also operated Shramik Special trains from the two other States that under its jurisdiction. From AP, the trains began their journey beginning from five starting in Rayanapadu, three from Kurnool, two each from Kovvur and Nellore and one each from Chittoor and Nidadavolu. Four trains were also run from Maharashtra, including three from Aurangabad and one from Jalna. “We are changing stations frequently and starting special trains in the suburbs to prevent overcrowding. State governments have been registering workers and bringing them to the stations in buses after health checks. Mandatory quarantine of 14 days depends on the protocol in the receiving States,” informed senior railway officials, on condition of anonymity. Most trains had 24 coaches had transported the labour running non-stop save for crew changeovers towards Bihar – 19 trains and 11 stations, Uttar Pradesh – eight trains and seven stations, Madhya Pradesh – eight trains and seven stations, Jharkhand – five trains and five stations, Odisha – one train and one station, Rajasthan – one train and one station. Return trains Incidentally, only two trains, returning to the Telugu States carried migrant labour, like the one which went to Khazaria brought 220 passengers back to work in Telangana to Lingampalli Station on the outskirts of Hyderabad after which they were moved to different parts of the State. Similarly, another special train brought labour passengers from Kalyan in Maharashtra to Anantapur in AP. Return direction fares too were paid by the respective State governments, senior railway officials added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-carries-more-than-50000-migrant-workers-in-last-11-days/article31562383.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||It’s dull business at liquor outlets across the city||The salesmen at liquor shops were whiling away their time and staring at their handsets on and off on Monday in complete contrast to brisk business that they did six days ago when they could hardly take their eyes off customers who had formed long queues across the counters. The customers were a trickle at the outlets which left the painted circles and squares in front of the premises of no use. The policemen who stood guard at the shops on day one to regulate the queues were nowhere to be seen. The turnaround in the scenes was attributed to initial craving for liquor dying down among the haves and depletion of cash in the hands of have-nots. The homeward journey of migrant workers was also cited as one of the reasons. Home delivery option After unprecedented crowds at shops on Wednesday, which was day one after 45 dry days due to lockdown, the business saw a lower trend next day and going down further on Friday afternoon and Saturday due to panic buying on Supreme Court's orders asking State governments to explore home delivery of liquor. The panic, however, subsided on Sunday. The beverages corporation, which is the nodal agency for supplying stocks to the shops, reported sales of Rs. 190.5 crore on Friday, up from Rs. 73 crore on first day, and going down to Rs. 148 crore on Saturday and just Rs. 37 crore on Sunday. The steep decline in off take from depots of the corporation on Sunday was also attributed to bank holiday because the owners had to issue DDs for purchases. They were generally ready with the DDs a day in advance but they were weary of going ahead on Saturday because of the judgment, said a corporation official. Savings run out He added that the corporation sales picked up beyond Rs. 100 crore on Monday but the picture at shops itself was dismal. Sakollu Ashok Kumar of Ashoknagar in Hyderabad summed up the mood as he turned up at a shop near Indira Park. As one who washed utensils at restaurants in day and worked as night watchman at an apartments complex nearby, he said he spent all his savings out of not drinking in 45 days in the last five days. Having exhausted his money, he pleaded his son who was standing beside him to buy him a drink which he would repay on getting his next salary. This version that people had run out of money was corroborated by a salesman at a shop near Kachiguda railway station, Sunil Yadav. A shop owner said his daily sales turnover was to the tune of Rs. 3 lakh but he was not sure whether he will get even half of it if the trend continued. He added that it was a huge drain on their revenue as they will not be able to recover their daily licence fee of Rs. 35,000 in GHMC limits and establishment charges of Rs. 5,000.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/its-dull-business-at-liquor-outlets-across-the-city/article31562370.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||After a spike, domestic LPG usage flattens||A spike in liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) consumption by households that Telangana saw in the days prior to as well as in the first few weeks of lockdown is subsiding. Fuelled by a necessity to cook at home with restaurants and food delivery app suspending operations, the demand, however, was met by national oil marketing companies. They ensured bottling operations continued, product availability to distributors and safe handling and delivery plan was in place. Panic booking An essential service and thereby exempt from restrictions imposed to check COVID-19 spread, it still was not easy to accomplish the task. Panic booking of the 14.2 kg domestic refills by customers who wanted to ensure that they have a spare filled cylinder – though the one in use was yet to get over – compounded matters. As a senior official of Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) explained, it was not about putting in place an action plan as much as efforts of those in the supply chain, particularly last mile, delivery boys who rose to the occasion. Data on domestic cylinder sales by Indian Oil Corporation, BPCL and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited show that nearly 51.34 lakh domestic refills were sold in Telangana during March. Compared to the 46.83 lakh of March 2019, this was an increase of almost 10%. The year-on-year sales in April was 29% more at almost 50.53 lakh refills. In April 2019, the companies had sold 39.16 lakh refills. Offtake in March usually is subdued for many customers who exhaust their quota of 12 subsidised cylinders (in a financial year) and prefer to book again in April. The numbers include supplies made under the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana – as part of COVID-19 relief measures, the government had announced free supply of a cylinder a month to these customers for three months beginning April. ‘Delivery boys did well’ “We motivated the [delivery] boys that we have to prove ourselves… they did well,” Telangana LPG Distributor’s Association general secretary K. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, citing the challenges they faced initially while reporting to work. They were also instructed on the protocols to be followed — ensuring distancing norms; leaving cylinders at the main gate; no kitchen delivery unless customers are old and not in a position to lift the cylinders; and supplies in containment areas. Aarogya Setu The delivery staff also played a role in creating awareness of Aarogya Setu app. Some even shared pictures of customers whom they convinced to download the app, an official said. On their part, some officials of the companies preferred to be on the field. Sales officers frequented LPG godowns, while a few senior officials stationed themselves at bottling plants. The BPCL official and Mr. Reddy also pointed to how a control room set up by the government helped address issues expeditiously. In Telangana, the three oil marketing companies cater to around 1.7 crore LPG households through over 700 distributors, who in turn have around 12,000 delivery and auxiliary staff. According to Mr. Reddy, LPG demand this month is stabilising and the wait time for customers to get a refill is 24 hours.  LPG demand this month is stabilising and the wait time for customers to get a refill is 24 hours. K. Jagan Mohan Reddy, General secretary, Telangana LPG Distributor’s Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/after-a-spike-domestic-lpg-usage-flattens/article31562349.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Migrants returning to State under scanner as cases spike||Visibly worried at the sudden spike in COVID-19 positive cases which saw a single day increase of 79 on Monday alone, the State Government is closely watching the influx of migrants to Telangana, from other places apart from zeroing on the secondary contacts of the positive cases in twin cities. Not taking any chances, health department officials have directed the para medical staff at the village level to keep a tab on the migrants returning to villages and towns. “Instructions have been issued to village level staff that the migrants coming back from other States are strictly home-quarantined for 14 days,” a senior official told The Hindu . Five migrants back in Telangana tested positive, forcing officials to keep tabs on movement of such returnees. Alarm bells have already started ringing among health officials at the sudden rise in the cases in twin cities as well among migrant workers. Official sources said all secondary contacts of the 79 COVID-positive cases from GHMC limits would be taken for further tests. “Certain pockets of the city are witnessing spike in cases and our attention now will be to cap further spread,” an official monitoring the cases remarked. What is causing concern is the spread of cases from a single source. Panel to declare deaths Meanwhile, officials maintained that the government is adopting a very cautious approach while announcing COVID-19 deaths. “There is criticism that deaths are not being announced immediately,” said an official pointing out that a team of doctors comprising a pulmonologist, cardiologist, general physician and superintendent of Gandhi General Hospital studied each death case. “Once a patient dies in COVID-designated hospital, the team of doctors hold consultations with those who treated the patient. The case sheet along with further interaction with the bereaved family members with past medical records is done to arrive at a firm conclusion on the exact cause of death,” the official said. This is leading to delay in announcement but last rites of the patient is conducted the same day as per COVID-19 protocol, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/migrants-returning-to-state-under-scanner-as-cases-spike/article31562354.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All set for randomised trials of plasma therapy||ESIC Medical College has received permission from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct randomised controlled trials to assess the safety and efficacy of the convalescent plasma for treatment of COVID-19. The college, which received best medical college hospital and best super speciality hospital awards from the ESI Corporation recently, will be the second one after Gandhi Hospital to take up the trials. “We have got the necessary infrastructure ready for taking up the treatment and have also confabulated with the Gandhi Hospital health authorities. We are ready to take this up whenever we are required to do so. The ICMR has permitted 10 patients each to be given this treatment,” said ESIC College dean M. Srinivas. The college has also set up the first-of-its-kind mobile virology diagnostic and research laboratory in collaborating with the Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) too. These details were provided to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan by Dr. Srinivas when she visited the campus at Erragadda early in the day. She was told that the institute is also actively involved in research and development of indigenous and innovative techniques to fight the novel coronavirus by collaborating with institutes like IITs, TIFR, NIPER, UoH, etc. They are also supporting the Telangana government by providing isolation wards, COVID-19 OPD, ICUs and ICMR-approved virus testing laboratories. Ms. Soundararajan felicitated doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, house-keeping staff and security personnel for their contribution, calling them ‘COVID warriors’. She had a special word of praise for DRDO director-general (Missiles and Strategic Systems) M.S.R. Prasad and acknowledged the efforts of their scientists in providing indigenous, innovative and cost-effective equipment being tested at the medical college.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-set-for-randomised-trials-of-plasma-therapy/article31562357.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Three special trains to run in SCR jurisdiction||One pair of 15 special trains to be run by the Ministry of Railways is Secunderabad-New Delhi one which will originate on South Central Railway while two pairs of other special trains — KSR Bengaluru – New Delhi and Chennai Central – New Delhi will pass through as per the following schedule: Train No. 02437 Secunderabad-New Delhi AC Superfast Special Train will depart Secunderabad on Wednesdays commencing from May 20 at 1.15 p.m. and arrive New Delhi at 10.40 a.m. on the next day. In the opposite direction, Train No. 02438 New Delhi-Secunderabad AC Superfast Special Train will depart New Delhi on Sundays commencing from May 17 at 4 p.m. and arrive Secunderabad at 2 p.m. on the next day. Enroute, the train will stop at Nagpur, Bhopal and Jhansi stations in both directions. Train No. 02691 KSR Bengaluru–New Delhi AC Superfast Special Train will depart KSR Bengaluru commencing from May 12 at 8.30 p.m. arrive / depart Secunderabad at 7.55/08.05 a.m. on the next day and arrive New Delhi at 5.55 a.m. on the second day. In the opposite direction, Train No. 02692 New Delhi- KSR Bengaluru AC Superfast Special Train will depart New Delhi commencing from May 12 at 9.15 p.m. arrive/depart Secunderabad at 6.20/6.30 p.m. on the next day and arrive KSR Bengaluru at 6.40 a.m. on the second day. It will stop at Anantapur, Guntakal, Secunderabad, Nagpur, Bhopal and Jhansi stations in both directions. Train No. 02433 Chennai Central-New Delhi AC Superfast Special Train will depart Chennai Central on Friday and Sunday commencing from May 15 at 6.35 a.m. and arrive New Delhi at 10.30 a.m. on the second day. In the opposite direction, Train No. 02434 New Delhi- Chennai Central AC Superfast Special Train will depart New Delhi on Wednesday and Friday commencing from May 13 at 4 p.m. and arrive Chennai Central at 8.40 p.m. on the second day. Enroute, the train will stop at Vijayawada, Warangal, Nagpur, Bhopal, Jhansi and Agra stations in both directions. These special trains will have only AC coaches — first, second and third AC — with Rajdhani fares. Passengers are encouraged to carry their own food and drinking water. Dry, ready to eat food and bottled water will be provided on demand inside on payment basis. No stalls on the platforms will be open and no train side vending is permitted. Tickets can be booked only online (www.irctc.co.in) or through mobile app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-special-trains-to-run-in-scr-jurisdiction/article31562386.ece
12 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM calls for strategy to restore ‘normalcy’ amid pandemic||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked officials to prepare an effective strategy to ensure that public health is protected and people live without fear in spite of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the same time, steps should be taken to contain the spread of the virus. “Since there is no clarity as to how long it (coronavirus) will continue, a perfect strategy should be evolved to see that people live a normal life,” he said. The Chief Minister reviewed the measures taken to contain the virus as well as the enforcement of lockdown with senior officials at Pragati Bhavan on Monday. He wanted the officials concerned to take foolproof steps to check the spread of the virus and best services should be provided to patients affected with the virus. Tests should be conducted on those who came in contact with virus-positive patients and quarantine system should be effectively implemented to check person-to-person spread. There is no dearth of equipment, medicines or facilities in the State, which is geared up to meet the situation. Even as the combat with the pandemic was continuing, there is a need to address other aspects too, he said. Steps should be taken to allow economic activities as relaxations have been announced for green and orange zones. The officials concerned should at the same time study in-depth about the relaxations that would be necessary in future as also the strategies required for the respective zones. There should be a clear way forward as to what should be allowed and what should not be. “What steps should be taken in Hyderabad and what should be the course of action in the districts?” he said, asking the officials to prepare a report on the sectors where relaxations should be observed and the precautions that should be taken.  Since there is no clarity as to how long coronavirus will continue, a perfect strategy should be evolved to see that people live a normal life. K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Chief Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cm-calls-for-strategy-to-restore-normalcy-amid-pandemic/article31562351.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Liquor shop cash deposits leave bankers in a tizzy||The reopening of liquor shops seems to have added to the cup of woes for bankers as they remain apprehensive of handling large volume of currency that passes through several hands. Though a number of precautionary measures are in place, from maintaining physical distancing to provision of protective equipment such as gloves and visors as well as hand sanitisers, the sheer volume of cash that has started flowing since the outlets re-opened is a matter of worry. It is an issue, particularly for those handling cash deposits, says R. Sriram, convenor for Telangana of the United Forum of Bank Unions. Until the liquor shops re-opened a few days ago, the cash handling at banks was largely restricted to managing the receipts from petrol bunks and the limited commercial establishments that functioned. With regard to those withdrawing cash, it was mostly the beneficiaries of the COVID-19 ex-gratia. But all that changed once the liquor shops started depositing the daily sale receipts at the branches. He says the cash remitted by the outlets range from Rs. 5 lakh to upwards of even Rs. 1 crore. A good chunk of the cash being brought to the banks for depositing in the accounts daily is from the liquor sales. The next highest comes from petrol bunks, but those numbers are relatively less considering that the fuel outlets business has been hit following the restrictions on vehicle movement. Mr. Sriram said those handling cash are being advised to sanitise their hands after every transaction. There is little else that can be done, he adds, pointing out that the cash deposits by liquor shops are more in other parts than in the twin cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/liquor-shop-cash-deposits-leave-bankers-in-a-tizzy/article31562355.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police warned against mentioning names of sexual offence victims||Telangana High Court has dismissed a writ petition filed by a suspended school principal, who was accused of sexually harassing a girl student of the school, seeking to set aside and quash the disciplinary proceedings initiated against him. Justice P. Naveen Rao, pronouncing the judgement, said mentioning name of the victim by the police in the case records showed their insensibility and blatant violation of law. Police mentioned names of the victim and her parents in the First Information Report, Remand Report and charge-sheet in the case. Referring to Supreme Court rulings on the matter, the judge directed the DGP to ensure names of victims and their family members in sexual offences were not mentioned by police in records. Justice P. Naveen Rao requested the Chief Secretary to take note of Supreme Court observations on the matter, formulate guidelines and pass on them to managements of all schools, colleges along with print and electronic media to comply with the same. Expressing displeasure over names of the victim and her parents being disclosed by the school management in the counter affidavit and other records, the judge warned it to be careful in future. Personal details of the student should be kept in a sealed cover, the judge said. Delivering the verdict, the judge noted that it was neither advisable nor desirable to defer disciplinary proceedings, which got stalled as the petition was pending for more than two years, in the case. The petitioner Kedarnath Mahapatra, who got released on bail after being arrested by Rachakonda police in November, 2017, has liberty to defend himself as per law in the domestic inquiry, the judgement said. As per police records, the principal called the 14-year-old ninth standard student into his cabin and made sexual advances towards her on October 28, 2017. While police arrested him and sent him to judicial remand, the school authorities suspended him and instituted an inquiry. Citing different verdicts of Supreme Court, the petitioner’s counsel contended that conducting disciplinary proceedings before finalisation of criminal case would cause prejudice to the petitioner. The respondent’s counsel, citing various apex court judgements, argued that disciplinary action and criminal proceedings can be initiated simultaneously.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-warned-against-mentioning-names-of-sexual-offence-victims/article31562362.ece
12 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for ‘stoning’ news channel office||A 32-year-old welder with Telugu film industry, who hurled stones at the security cabin of a vernacular news channel, was arrested by Jubilee Hills police on Monday. The accused, T Chiranjeevi, a resident of Krishna Nagar, hails from Itchapuram in Srikakulam district of AP. Joint Commissioner of Police (West Zone) A.R. Srinivas said that the accused trespassed into the office of TV5 on Friday and hurled stones at the security cabin. Based on the complaint, a case was registered, and Chiranjeevi was arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-stoning-news-channel-office/article31562366.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Liquor rates spike further||Liquor buyers beware that you are not just paying the 16% hike in prices announced by the State government, but much more in the range of 20 to 24%. When the shops were reopened on Wednesday, the buyers bought their favourite Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) brands at Rs. 20 hike for a quarter bottle, Rs. 40 for half and Rs. 80 for full bottle at 16% hike for ‘A’ and ‘A plus’ medium range brands. Revised list A revised price list circulated to the shops by the Excise Department on Saturday hiked the prices to Rs. 30, Rs. 60 and Rs. 120 respectively. The price increase was Rs. 30 per bottle over the rate prior to lockdown on both lager and strong beer (Rs. 10 hike after Wednesday). Significantly, the new labels with enhanced rates have not been pasted on the bottles. The shops continue to sell at old MRP until stocks at depots of Bewerages Corporation exhausted. However, a scan of the hologram on bottles by mobile phones will reveal the present rate by downloading the app of the Excise Department, an official said. D. Venkateswara Rao, president, Telangana Wine Dealers Association, said there was no margin for shop owners as the entire hike would go to government as special excise tax. When the shops were reopened on Wednesday, he said a bunch of brands in cheap, ‘A’, ‘A plus’, ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘D’ categories were clubbed for hike. While the hike was Rs. 10 a quarter bottle for cheap brands, it was Rs. 20 for ‘A’ and ‘A plus’, Rs. 30 for ‘C’ and Rs. 160 on ‘D’ - which is premium brand selling only in full bottles. But, the latest price list further hiked rates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/liquor-rates-spike-further/article31562371.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Why is KCR silent on AP’s plans for Krishna’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) has faulted the silence of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Andhra Pradesh plans to increase the capacity of Pothireddypadu head regulator along with another pumping station to be based on the foreshores of Srisailam to draw 6 to 8 tmc ft of Krishna water every day. Former minister Marri Shashidhar pointed out on Monday that KCR had strongly criticised then Chief Minister of AP Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, when he took up the capacity expansion of Pothireddypadu. However, he was keeping quiet even as present Chief Minister of AP Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy had got a GO issued for the purpose. Mr. Reddy alleged that the Telangana Government was acting like a mute spectator although the AP Government was going ahead with its plans to divert huge quantity of Krishna water. Along with the present capacity, the water diversion with the proposed plan would be more than one lakh cusecs which would enable AP to divert about 10 tmc ft water every day. He, however, reiterated that diversion of flood water would not have any impact on Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/why-is-kcr-silent-on-aps-plans-for-krishna/article31562377.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ginning mills appeal to govt. for support||The Telangana Cotton Miller’s and Traders Welfare Association has appealed to the State government to waive fixed electricity charges of the ginning mills for the entire lockdown period as well as release pending subsidies. In a letter to Industries Minister K.T.Rama Rao, the Association said ginning mills were going through an extremely difficult financial situation ever since the lockdown began. With no revenue, delayed receivables and piling up financial costs “we are not in a position to procure cotton from farmers and pay them timely,” president Bommineni Ravinder Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ginning-mills-appeal-to-govt-for-support/article31562380.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RCI develops new devices to combat virus||Research Centre Imarat (RCI), a premier Defence Research and Development Organisation institution here, has developed an automated contactless UVC sanitisation cabinet called DRUVS (Defence Research Ultraviolet Sanitiser). The cabinet has been designed to sanitise mobile phones, iPads, laptops, currency notes, cheque leaves, challans, passbooks, paper, envelopes and others. A press release said the DRUVS cabinet has contactless operation, helping contain the spread of coronavirus. It provides 360-degree exposure of UVC to objects placed inside the cabinet. The RCI has also developed an automated UVC currency sanitising device called NOTESCLEAN. A sanitising technique has been developed, wherein one has to just place the loose currency notes at the input slot of the device. It picks notes one by one and makes them pass through a series of UVC lamps for disinfection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rci-develops-new-devices-to-combat-virus/article31562347.ece
12 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Murder accused killed||A 28-year-old youth was bludgeoned to death by the four men over previous enmity in Jagadgirigutta area on Monday, the police said. The victim, Mohammed Fayaz, a resident of Chintal, was a chain-snatcher and was involved in a murder case reported in Raidurgam police station area. According to Jagadgirigutta inspector A Ganga Reddy, at around 2 p.m. when Fayaz came out of his alleged girlfriend’s house, his friend Prashanth and three others waylaid, and the former and picked up an argument. “Soon, the suspects picked up a boulder and smashed Fayaz’s head, which resulted in his instantaneous death,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/murder-accused-killed/article31562367.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC nets Rs. 167.52 crore||The GHMC has shored a total of Rs. 167.52 crore up to Monday, under the Early Bird scheme for property tax payment. The GHMC’s annual demand for property tax for the year 2020-21 is Rs. 1456.58 crore, from a total of 16.23 lakh properties. Under the Early Bird scheme, property owners are given a concession of 5% in property tax, if paid during the first two months. Earlier limited to the residential properties with tax liability up to Rs. 30,000, the concession has now been extended to all properties, residential and non-residential. Deadline for the Early Bird scheme is May 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ghmc-nets-rs-16752-crore/article31562372.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jiyaguda alone accounts for 25 cases in a day||Authorities of different wings in Jiyaguda of Kulsumpura on western part of Hyderabad were put on high alert as 25 COVID positive cases were reported from that area on Monday. These cases were among the 79 fresh cases recorded on Monday. A septuagenarian from Kulsumpura police station area died of the virus on Sunday. “He was a retired employee. Four of his family members too were diagnosed with COVID,” officials said. The 25 new cases are among members of four to five families. Most of them are from Durganagar, Sai Durganagar, Venkateswaranagar and Indiranagar of Kulsumpura. In the septuagenarian’s case, officials believe four of his family members contracted the virus through him. When a woman from Kulsumpura died of the virus over 10 days ago, officials considered it an isolated instance. A few days later, authorities shut the sabjimandi in that locality. Subsequently, the slaughter house was also shut. Authorities are verifying reports that those who tested positive on Monday went to local shops for buying essentials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/jiyaguda-alone-accounts-for-25-cases-in-a-day/article31562352.ece
12 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Realtor held for sending obscene videos to woman||A 50-year-old realtor from Kukatpally was booked by the Punjagutta police on Monday for sending obsence videos to a woman though WhatsApp. The accused, Ravi Prasad, last week sent two adult video clippings to a 40-year-old woman after getting her number from Facebook, police said. On Wednesday evening, the woman approached police and lodged a complaint. “When she called the accused and confronted about his mischievous act, he couldn't explain his actions. He was unable to justify and asked us to proceed in whatever way we can,” she told the police in her complainant copy. A case was registered and Prasad was brought to the police station. “Minutes after sending the videos, he deleted them, but by then she took the screen shots,” the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/realtor-held-for-sending-obscene-videos-to-woman/article31562368.ece
12 May 2020||KHAMMAM/BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||BTPS work, industry hit by exodus of migrant workers||Many industries, including the granite and allied units, besides the ongoing power and other major projects are staring at labour shortage as the stranded migrant workers have started returning to their native States following relaxation of lockdown. As the industry is bracing for the ripple effects of the coronavirus lockdown, the exodus of the migrant labourers particularly the skilled and semi-skilled workers has become a major cause of concern for resuming production in the weeks ahead. A little over 30,000 migrant workers of the total estimated 42,581 stranded migrant workforce comprising industrial, construction and farm workers in Khammam district had already returned to their home States over the last couple of days, according to official estimates. Most of the remaining displaced migrant workers have registered their names with the officials to go back to their native States. The granite units, including the small-scale polishing, slab and tiles factories, are among the most affected by the lockdown as they engage skilled manpower, mostly from other States and who are desperately trying to go back to their homes. Coronavirus lockdown has also affected construction work of the 4 x 270 MW (1,080) Bhadradri Thermal Power Station (BTPS) near Manuguru in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. Of the total around 2,500 migrant workforce, nearly 500 migrant workers have already gone back to their native States, sources said. The need of the hour is to mitigate the woes of the stranded migrant workers to instill confidence in them, said CITU Khammam district general secretary K. Venkateshwara Rao. The government must take urgent steps to uphold the constitutional safeguards of the migrant workers as enshrined in the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979, he said. An immediate financial relief of Rs. 7,500 be disbursed to each migrant worker, Mr. Rao demanded. When contacted, BTPS Chief Engineer Balaraju said about 1,500 labourers are presently working at the BTPS construction site. The civil, mechanical and other works have restarted a few days ago as per the relaxation of lockdown norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/btps-work-industry-hit-by-exodus-of-migrant-workers/article31562390.ece
12 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Nizamabad limping back to normalcy||Life is limping back to normalcy after 50 days of lockdown, thanks to relaxation of restrictions in the erstwhile undivided district, which has by and large been an orange zone and struggling to be categorised as green zone. Construction activity has started and workers are back at work sites. Trucks are moving with building material such as sand, steel and metal. Roads which wore a deserted look in the last seven weeks are seen with a number of vehicles and people. The busy Khaleelwadi, known as Doctors’ Street with a number of private hospitals regained its busy look. The district which had seen a rapid hike in coronavirus positive cases in the beginning with great efforts controlled the spread and as of now only five persons are undergoing treatment in Gandhi Hospital. According to the authorities, there are no new cases and if those five are discharged, the district is likely to be declared as green zone. All those 5,000 people who were in self-quarantine were declared hale and healthy and allowed to come out of homes. As shops and establishments were permitted to open 50:50 per cent on alternate day in a rotation mode, their business also reasonably started. “However, there is problem of workers as many of them went back to their homes in different States. Workers from neighbouring Maharashtra and also Andhra Pradesh left home, hitting hard the construction activity,” said K. Srinivas, a builder. With the police strictly imposing hefty fines on those who are not wearing face masks, many people are wearing them. However, some are not following physical distancing, which is all the more important. A majority of private hospitals have been opened and outpatient number has fallen down to 50 per cent compared to normal days in pre-COVID period, says Dr. B. Kesavulu, a senior neuro-psychiatrist. The visiting patients are sitting closely in hospitals where there is no sufficient space and in at distance of 3 feet in big hospitals. “As there are a number of asymptomatic cases it will certainly be a danger in coming days,” says another doctor in Khaleelwadi area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/nizamabad-limping-back-to-normalcy/article31562365.ece
12 May 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Weavers’ lives have changed in Telangana: KTR||Minister for IT and Municipal Administration K. Taraka Rama Rao claimed that the lives of weavers, including powerloom weavers, have changed in the separate Telangana State. The government’s initiative in the new State has economically empowered the weavers, especially for the powerloom weavers. The government has been placing bulk orders for weaving Bathukamma sarees, school uniforms and others to ensure round-the-year employment for the powerloom weavers, he stated.  Textile park The Minister participated in various development programmes taken up at a cost of Rs. 14.5 crore in the Textile Park in Sircilla on Monday. On this occasion, he also handed over groceries to 275 powerloom weavers of Thangallapalli mandal. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rama Rao said that the State government would extend all support to weavers following the crisis prevailing due to the lockdown. He also called upon the owners (of companies) who had set up units at Textile Park to provide decent salaries to the powerloom weavers to help them lead a respectable life.  Biggest park Stating that the government was setting up the country’s biggest Kakatiya Textile Park in Warangal and another textile park to provide employment to weavers, he said special training would be provided to women on Juki machines to help them secure employment. Director Handlooms and Textiles Shailaja Ramayyar, Collector D Krishna Bhaskar, ZP chairperson N Aruna were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/weavers-lives-have-changed-in-telangana-ktr/article31562388.ece
12 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Infant killed, four injured in road accident||A girl, Jayie, 2, was killed on the spot while four others were injured in a road accident that took place at Kodakandla on Monday. According to ASP Akhil Mahajan, a car driver lost control of the vehicle and it overturned. All the injured were shifted to Hyderabad. The condition of three people is stated to be serious. Kuknoorpally police registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/infant-killed-four-injured-in-road-accident/article31562373.ece
12 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||As cases rise, Ghaziabad authorities seal Khoda||After a sudden spike in the number of COVID-19 cases, the Ghaziabad administration has sealed Khoda and implemented a sector scheme on Monday. Five sector magistrates and two zonal magistrates have been put on duty in the densely populated area that shares boundaries with Delhi and Noida. More than 15 cases have been reported in the area in the last week. District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said except in special circumstances, residents of Khoda working in Noida and Delhi should make arrangements to stay there. Chief Medical Officer N.K. Gupta said that two COVID-19 cases were found during random sampling in the area on Sunday. “We cannot say whether it was community spread but it was worrying,” he added. Mr. Pandey also directed Loni Sub-Divisional Magistrate to work out a sector scheme for the area. Loni shares borders with Delhi and a number of people who work in the national Capital reside in the area. The district reported four new cases on Monday, taking the tally to 141. Out of these, 56 are active cases. Gautam Buddh Nagar reported six new cases on Monday, taking the total number to 224. Notice to RWAs A second Residents’ welfare Association in Ghaziabad has crafted its own rule during the lockdown. The RWA of River Heights Phase 1 issued a notice that residents who bring an outsider into the society will be fined Rs. 11,000 and their power and water supply will be cut till the penalty is paid. The fine will be deposited into the PM Cares Fund, it added. Taking cognisance of the matter, the district administration issued notices to the RWAs of River Heights Phase 1 and Neel Padam Kunj asking them to explain why they had made rules on subjects that were beyond their authority.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/as-cases-rise-ghaziabad-authorities-seal-khoda/article31562305.ece
12 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||SIT to probe Gurugram teen’s death||A Special Investigation Team has been constituted by the Gurugram Police to probe the death of a teenager in DLF Phase-V here a week ago. The 17-year-old was found dead after a girl made a social media post accusing him of molestation three years ago. Headed by an Assistant Commissioner of Police-level officer, the SIT comprises an Inspector and a Sub-Inspector. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Chander Mohan said the SIT would probe the “scientific” and “cyber” aspects of the case. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has directed the police to render counselling to the girl and the friends of the deceased and record their statements. The Commission has also directed them to remove the posts still circulating on the Internet. The teenager’s aunt said the police had already recorded the statements of two of the boy’s friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/sit-to-probe-gurugram-teens-death/article31562304.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||Capital reports 310 new cases, no deaths||The Capital on Monday reported 310 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total to 7,233. No deaths were reported and the toll remains at 73, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin. Of the 7,233 cases, 2,129 people have recovered and there are 5,031 active cases. The total number of cases in the city have doubled in just 11 days, from 3,515 on April 30 to 7,233 on Monday. Of the total number of deaths, 48.53% were people above 60 years of age though they account for only 14.86% of the total cases, read an official statement. A total of 97,678 COVID-19 tests have been done till now in Delhi. Earlier in the day, a family member of a COVID-19 patient who had gone to Lok Nayak Hospital said there was a delay of nearly one hour in admitting the patient. Yogita Bhayana, an activist, said the issue was resolved after she contacted the Delhi government. “I had tagged the Delhi government on social media and they resolved the issue. Still, it took about 45 minutes. But this should have happened without anyone interfering,” she said. She added that there is a shortage of ambulances for patients suffering from other diseases in the city. “People having non-COVID-19 emergencies are suffering because of this,” she further said. One more area was delisted as a containment zone on Monday. There are 81 such zones in Delhi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-reports-310-new-cases-no-deaths/article31562313.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||Coronavirus | From care to crisis, how a Delhi government hospital lost the plot||Two-and-a-half-year-old Devan (name changed) is one of the youngest COVID-19 patients in Delhi. His father too has tested positive, as has his three-month pregnant mother who works as a healthcare worker at the Delhi government-run Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital. A total of 106 employees of the hospital, including doctors and nurses, have tested positive for the virus. This is the highest number of COVID-19 infection among healthcare staff in any hospital in Delhi. While the hospital claims to have taken all precautions to avoid the spread of the virus, its healthcare workers claim it failed to “properly isolate” suspected cases and strictly follow standard protocol. The Medical Director of the hospital, M.M. Kohli, did not respond to multiple calls and text messages. A senior hospital official, however, said: “Not all of these cases are hospital-acquired. Many of the employees come from hotspots and they could have been infected there.” The official said the hospital is now taking “extra care”. The infection ‘source’ In the second week of April, the hospital announced that cubicle 1 of the Medicine Emergency Ward 1 will be kept for patients suspected of COVID-19 infection, said sources. In the next one week, more than three patients died in cubicle 1 and at least one of them, a 40-year-old woman, tested positive for COVID-19. Since then, the infection has spread among the hospital employees, said the sources.  The Hindu spoke to six healthcare workers, including doctors, who worked in Ward 1, and all of them said that cubicle 1, which is separated from cubicle 2 only by a shoulder-high wall, did not provide “proper isolation”. They also claimed “lapses” on the part of the hospital and said the spread could have been avoided to a “large extent”. The hospital’s Head of Department (medicine) Harender Kumar told The Hindu , “It was very difficult to separate suspected and non-suspected COVID cases as the hospital was not built that way. The problems began when our hospital was turned from a COVID hospital to a non-COVID one. When it was a COVID hospital, we had all the facilities. Most of the healthcare workers who have tested positive in Delhi [over 375] are employed in non-COVID hospitals.” On May 3, the president of Federation of Delhi Government Nurses, Jagdish Kulhari, wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and the Health Secretary complaining about the “mismanagement” at Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital. He said that no action has been taken so far. Families allowed Patients with issues such as diabetes and high blood pressure are admitted to Medical Emergency Ward 1, which has at least 36 beds and six cubicles. Though isolation was mandatory for suspected patients, the healthcare workers said families were allowed to visit cubicle 1. In fact, the patients in cubicle 1, their attendants and others admitted to Ward 1 used the same toilets. “Her [the woman who died] sister was sitting on her bed and holding her hand,” said a doctor. The patient’s husband also confirmed that her sister was with her the whole time and she did not wear PPE. “There were not enough PPE for us, how could we give them to family members?” asked a healthcare worker. All the six workers agreed  that cubicle 1 was ill-equipped to handle suspected COVID-19 cases. It did not even have a separate set of workers to attend to the patients. Worried about the spread of virus, several doctors and nurses met the HoD (medicine) and complained about the problems with cubicle 1 Around  April 20, after the issue was raised multiple times, the hospital shifted the patients from cubicle 1 to ‘Ward 2A’, an isolation facility earmarked only for suspected cases. The new ward has a separate set of healthcare workers, said hospital officials. Delay in results Several healthcare workers said their samples were taken on April 23, but the report did not come till May 1. A second sample was taken on May 1 and the reports came on May 3, in which many tested positive. “In these 10 days, we were under home quarantine and risked infecting our families,” a worker said. The 40-year-old woman died on April 18 and her report came out on April 20. The nurses and doctors who attended to her met the HoD on April 21, but their quarantine order was issued on April 22. “If they had quarantined suspected cases on time, less number of people would have been infected,” a worker said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/from-care-to-crisis-how-a-delhi-government-hospital-lost-the-plot/article31562320.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||For some Tablighis, it is going to be a long wait to get back home||While the government has ordered the release of Tablighi Jamaat members from various quarantine centres across the Capital, those from Andaman and Nicobar Islands will have to wait for long to reach home. Abdul Ishaq (63), a retired government employee from Port Blair, received a call from the authorities on Sunday telling him to “pack your bags and go home”. Mr. Ishaq, who was brought here in April, was initially elated. However, when he informed the person calling him that he can only travel home by air, he didn’t get any response. He said he hasn’t heard from the authorities ever since. “The Delhi government has ordered the release. While people from all other States can travel either by bus or train, we can’t. We have not been told how we will be sent home and when. We have heard that arrangements are being made for people from other States but have not heard anything concrete for us. Just that authorities are still figuring out,” he said. Sharfuddin (49), a technician from Port Blair, is in Sultanpuri. He said he hasn’t received a call to prepare to leave but he knows he will be discharged because his COVID-19 test has come negative twice. “There are over 20 of us in Sultanpuri, Narela and Okhla centres. We all had come together in February. There are more from Port Blair who are in Bijnor and Muzaffarnagar as well,” he said, adding that they are all connected with each other over phones. Mr. Ishaq said others from Port Blair who are lodged at different centres have told him that that the next time he gets a call from the authorities, he should tell them about a place that has been set up for them by their acquaintances. “When they called, they asked me if I have a relative here or I have my own setup and I denied. Our friends in other centres told us that after we are released from here, a place has been set up for us in Delhi till arrangements for our travel back home are made,” he said, adding that all those from Port Blair believe that they will be released from the centres within two or three days, but are still unsure. A Delhi government spokesperson said: “We informed the respective state governments and they have to get back to us. Only three states have successfully completed it. Others are in the process.” The Delhi government, in its order dated May 9, stated that officials should seek mode of transport details from all those who can be released and are from other states. It also said that passes should be issued according to guidelines and that no person should be allowed to stay in any other place. “It should be ensured by the Nodal Officer and the area ACPs that the persons reach their place of residence,” the order read. For Sharfuddin, this is the first time that he has been away from home during Ramzan. “It’s been more than 40 days. I am missing home. I am missing my family. Just praying that I get to be with them soon,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/for-some-tablighis-it-is-going-to-be-a-long-wait-to-get-back-home/article31562318.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||3 Tihar inmates under quarantine||Three inmates of Tihar Jail have been quarantined after one of them, who was lodged in a rape case, was suspected to have come into contact with a COVID-19 infected person, jail officials said on Monday. The man, who was lodged in Central Jail no.2 of Tihar, was kept in a separate cell along with two other inmates since he did not show any symptoms. However, the woman, who is a complainant in the rape case, was tested positive for COVID-19 on May 9 following which police informed the Tihar Jail authorities, they said.  “The accused was tested on Sunday morning along with two other inmates. None of them showed any symptoms but their samples were sent for testing as a precautionary measure. We have received their reports on Monday according to which all three have been tested negative. But they have been quarantined for 14 days as a precaution,” said Sandeep Goel, Director General (Prisons). Precautionary measures In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the prison authorities said they have taken several precautionary measures which include creation of isolation wards in each jail for suspect cases, restricting entry of new inmates only to two jails — one for juveniles and another for female inmates to segregate them for 14 days. According to jail officials, medical screening of everyone entering the jails including inmates, staff, security and medical staff are being conducted. Repeated screening of inmates is also being carried out regularly. Besides this, producing inmates at courts and meeting with family members have also been stopped.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/3-tihar-inmates-under-quarantine/article31562314.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man strangles pregnant wife following quarrel||A 33-year-old man allegedly strangulated his five-month pregnant wife to death at their house in south Delhi’s Dakshinpuri, following a heated argument and surrendered before the police on Monday. The incident took place late on Sunday night, the police said. According to police, Vijay Kumar, an autorickshaw driver found his house locked when he returned home. He went to his in-laws house in the vicinity to check if his wife was there. Later, he was annoyed to find her talking to someone else in the street. This led to a heated argument between the couple. Kumar, came to the Ambedkar Nagar police station around 12.30 a.m. and surrendered, the police said. “On visiting his house, the woman’s body was found lying on a bed. Strangulation mark was found on her neck,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur. A murder case has been registered against him, Mr. Thakur added. The accused said that he had a quarrel with his wife and the two got into a scuffle, after which he strangulated her, Mr. Thakur said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-strangles-pregnant-wife-following-quarrel/article31562303.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Oppn. parties demand govt. release ‘actual data’||The Congress and the BJP on Monday accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of hiding the actual COVID-19 data (number of deaths and cases) from the public. DPCC chief Ch. Anil Kumar asked the Delhi government to make public the death figures recorded at crematoriums and burial grounds where the last rites are conducted according to COVID-19 protocol. Mr. Kumar alleged that the government was hiding the figures as it did not want to comply with the law that provides for ex-gratia to the affected people. The Congress also criticised the policy of allowing those with mild symptoms or asymptomatic patients to be isolated at home, sayingit will worsen the situation. It further slammed the Centre for making arrangements only for travel of rich people by AC trains from May 12 and ignoring poor migrant workers who wanted to go home. BJP MLAs submitted a memorandum to Mr. Kejriwal urging him to ensure that the Delhi government gave the exact COVID-19 data, and advised him to set up temporary hospitals at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Ambedkar Stadium and Chhatrasal Stadium. The MLAs further alleged that people were not getting ration at PDS shops, and demanded the withdrawal of the decision to increase VAT on petrol and diesel.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/oppn-parties-demand-govt-release-actual-data/article31562308.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. to give Rs. 5,000 each to 40,000 workers||The government on Monday said they will provide Rs. 5,000 to construction workers here again this month in the wake of the extended lockdown. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Construction Workers’ Welfare Board chaired by Labour Minister Gopal Rai. There are around 40,000 construction workers registered with the board. Registration dates The government has also decided to launch an online portal where these workers can register themselves from May 15-25. “...The lockdown was extended, therefore, we have decided to give Rs. 5,000 again to them,” Mr. Rai said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-to-give-rs-5000-each-to-40000-workers/article31562307.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC declines plea seeking basic needs for sex workers, LGBT community||The Delhi High Court on Monday declined to entertain a petition seeking direction to the Centre and the city government to take steps to protect and provide welfare measures such as food, accommodation and medicines, to sex workers and the LGBT community during the lockdown. A Bench of Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Justice Sangita Dhingra Sehgal rejected the plea, by advocate Anurag Chauhan, who had sought financial aid, food, shelter and medicines to sex workers and LGBT community members in Delhi to ensure their survival during the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-declines-plea-seeking-basic-needs-for-sex-workers-lgbt-community/article31562302.ece
12 May 2020||Noida,||Boy killed as under-construction wall collapses during dust storm in Gr Noida||A five-year-old boy died in Greater Noida allegedly after an under-construction wall collapsed over him during a dust storm, the police said on Monday. The incident took place on Sunday at Chuhadpur village in Dankaur area, the officials said. The boy was taken to a nearby hospital where doctors declared him dead, according to the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/boy-killed-as-under-construction-wall-collapses-during-dust-storm-in-gr-noida/article31562309.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||NDMC takes measures to curb dengue||The New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Monday said that they are strengthening anti-larval measures and action to contain vector-borne diseases such as malaria, dengue and chikungunya. Till April, the number of dengue and chikungunya cases in the corporation’s limits were 2.5 times more compared to last year, but no case of dengue or chikungunya has been reported, according to the municipal council.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ndmc-takes-measures-to-curb-dengue/article31562310.ece
12 May 2020||Allahabad,||‘No renaming of Allahabad University’||The Allahabad University’s executive council has decided against changing the name of the Centre-run institution following renaming of the district to Prayagraj, officials said on Monday. A university spokesperson said the executive council could not meet because of the coronavirus lockdown. So the opinion of its 15 members was sought through email. Three members did not respond, while the remaining 12 responded in the negative and a resolution has been passed against changing the name, the spokesperson said. The members wanted the name retained, he added. The Yogi Adityanath government in Uttar Pradesh had renamed the district to Prayagraj in 2018, a decision later approved by the Centre. The Union Ministry of Human Resource Development and the university, founded in 1887, then corresponded over the suggestion to rename the institution as well, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/no-renaming-of-allahabad-university/article31562300.ece
12 May 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Major haul of marijuana in Malkangiri||Over 2,000 kilograms of marijuana, worth over Rs. 1 crore, was seized by the police from a van at Orkel in Odisha’s Malkangiri district on Sunday night. Despite the continuing lockdown for COVID-19, the contraband was being smuggled to Chhattisgarh. Four persons from Malkangiri have been arrested. The seized drug was packed in 66 plastic gunny bags. The seized drug weighed 2,004 kg.  Vehicle intercepted According to Malkangiri Superintendent of Police Khilari Rishikesh Dnyandeo, a police team from Orkel during regular checking at Surlokonda market square intercepted the vehicle transporting the contraband to Chhattisgarh. Thus year, a total of over 8,018 kg of marijuana has been seized in Malkangiri district while being smuggled out. Fifty-eight persons have been arrested for their involvement in the illegal trade and 24 vehicles seized, police sources said. Marijuana is illegally cultivated in remote Maoist-infested regions of Malkangiri district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/major-haul-of-marijuana-in-malkangiri/article31562290.ece
12 May 2020||BHUBANESAR,||Migrants workers try to escape from running train in Odisha||Seven persons have been booked while trying to escape from the Shramik Special train in Odisha’s Angul district. The incident took place at Majhia, 10 km away from the district headquarters town of Angul on Sunday. Locals caught hold of seven persons and handed them over to the police. A few more have not been traced, they said. The migrant workers were coming from Ahmedabad to the Khurda road station. According to government protocol, all returnees from the different States are to be directly taken to the quarantine centres where they have to spend the mandatory 21 days before undergoing home quarantine for another week. People who got down in Angul were apparently trying to evade the mandatory quarantine period.  Deboard train “When the train slowed down, seven persons belonging to the neighbouring Deogarh district deboarded and tried to flee,” said Jagmohan Meena, Angul Superintendent of Police. Following the Aurangabad train accident, trains are being slowed down ahead of human habitations during their journeys. Mr. Meena said all seven were sent to a nearby quarantine centre and they would be treated as arrested. The police said they would be tried once normalcy is restored. Meanwhile, several reports of returnees roaming in the open are coming from different districts. About 15 persons reportedly got down from a bus, which came from Tamil Nadu, at Cuttack on Monday and walked towards Jagatsinghpur district. They accused the government machinery of not responding to their request of taking them to the quarantine centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/migrants-workers-try-to-escape-from-running-train-in-odisha/article31562301.ece
12 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha modifies policy on discharge of COVID-19 patients||The Odisha government on Monday modified its policy for discharge of COVID-19 patients from hospitals by increasing subsequent home quarantine period for them from seven to 14 days. The modified rule regarding home quarantine will be applicable to patients having separate room and separate toilets in urban areas only, said Additional Chief Secretary Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra. Those hailing from rural areas will not be allowed to undergo this home quarantine, he added. Home quarantine Mr. Mohapatra said COVID-19 positive cases with symptoms of the disease will be allowed home quarantine for three days after they stop showing any symptom. Those with mild or no symptoms will be discharged 10 days after testing positive or not having fever for three consecutive days, he added. During their home quarantine period, people will be stamped with indelible ink on their right hand and wear a wrist band. Neither the discharged person nor his family members will be allowed to venture outside their homes. Every such home will have a quarantine sticker at the entrance and treated as a containment zone. Meanwhile, 37 new COVID-19 positive cases were detected, including 29 in Ganjam district, taking the State’s total to 414 on Monday. While the number of active cases increased to 326, the number of those recovered increased to 85 with discharge of 17 persons from hospitals during the day. Three persons have died in the State so far. The State government’s chief spokesperson for COVID-19, Subroto Bagchi, however, said that there was no need for people to worry about the increase in number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State.  ‘Cases to increase’ Stating that the positive cases would further increase in the coming days, Mr. Bagchi urged people to ensure quarantine of all returnees instead of blaming the Odia migrant workers for spreading the virus. The State is keeping a close watch on the emerging situation and changing its strategy accordingly to tackle the pandemic, said Mr. Bagchi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/odisha-modifies-policy-on-discharge-of-covid-19-patients/article31562298.ece
12 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab Cabinet to boycott meetings attended by CS||The impasse between Punjab Ministers and the State’s Chief Secretary Karan Avtar Singh on Monday escalated after the Cabinet “unanimously” declared not to attend any meetings in which he participates. On May 9, Ministers had walked out of a pre-Cabinet meeting on excise policy over the Chief Secretary’s alleged “unacceptable behaviour” with Cabinet Minister Charanjit Singh Channi. The Cabinet also authorised Chief Minister Amarinder Singh to act on the issue of amendments to the State’s excise policy in the light of the impact of COVID-19 and the prolonged lockdown on the liquor business.  Liquor decision soon At the Monday meeting, the issue of home delivery of liquor was also discussed but no final decision taken due to apprehensions expressed by some Ministers. The Chief Minister is likely to decide on the issue in the next couple of days, said an official statement. Earlier, at the start of the meeting, the Chief Minister told the Cabinet that he had taken note of the complaint against the Chief Secretary by some Ministers. Raising the issue, Finance Minister Manpreet Badal and Mr. Channi, the Technical Education Minister, expressed unhappiness over the Chief Secretary’s conduct during the May 9 meeting, describing it as “totally incorrect and unacceptable”. The Chief Secretary did not attended the Cabinet meeting on Monday as he had taken half day’s leave, said the statement. It was attended by Home Secretary Satish Chandra in his absence. “I gave a proposal today during the [Cabinet] meeting that if the Chief Secretary continues, then it would be impossible for me to attend any such meeting in which he is present. Charanjit Channi also clearly stated that he will not attend such meetings. The Chief Minister then asked us to record our decision. Thereafter, the Cabinet ‘unanimously’ recorded the decision,” Mr. Badal later told reporters. The Opposition hit out at the Congress government over the issue. The Shiromani Akali Dal urged Punjab Governor V.P. Singh Badnore to dismiss the State government on grounds of breakdown of the constitutional machinery. Former Minister Bikram Singh Majithia said the Cabinet should resign on moral grounds or be dismissed for refusing to acknowledge the head of civil service appointed by the Chief Minister. Aam Aadmi Party MLA and Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema said the Chief Minister has failed to maintain equilibrium between the executive arm and the administration.  Chief Secretary’s conduct during the May 9 meeting was totally incorrect and unacceptable Charanjit Singh ChanniPunjab Cabinet Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-cabinet-to-boycott-meetings-attended-by-cs/article31562299.ece
12 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana govt. anti-farmer, says Hooda||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Monday said the anti-farmer stance of the ruling BJP-JJP government has once again been exposed with its decision to restrict paddy cultivation in the State. Opposing the State government’s decision to restrict paddy sowing in 19 blocks, Mr. Hooda said the decision should be withdrawn immediately. “It is important to worry about groundwater, but this is not the time to put restrictions on farmers, instead the government should provide whatever relief it can to farmers. The government should take effective steps to solve the groundwater problem, for which it should restart the Dadupur Nalvi water recharge canal project ,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/haryana-govt-anti-farmer-says-hooda/article31562295.ece
12 May 2020||CHANDIGARH/JAIPUR,||Amarinder calls for defined exit strategy, favours curbs extension||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday pitched for an extension of the lockdown, but with a carefully crafted strategy backed by fiscal and economic empowerment of the States to save lives and secure livelihoods. Clearly favouring continuation of a strict lockdown in view of the escalating cases of COVID-19 nationwide, the Chief Minister said at the videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi that States needed to be given greater flexibility in micro-planning. He called for an exit strategy encompassing both COVID-19 containment and a defined path of economic revival. The exit strategy should focus on fiscal and economic empowerment of the States, which are responsible for the real action directly impinging upon the livelihood and social health of the common man, said the Chief Minister. Capt. Amarinder suggested that MSMEs should to be allowed to function in red zone districts with proper safeguards. The decision on designating the red, orange-yellow and green zones should also be left to the States, which were more cognisant of the ground realities, he said. The Punjab Chief Minister demanded urgent financial assistance to States to meet at least 33% of their committed liabilities, along with revenue grants to the States for three months to meet shortfall in revenue and to fund expenditure on COVID-19. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot suggested launching an employment guarantee scheme for urban areas on the lines of the MGNREGA. He said the lockdown has badly affected daily wagers due to which the Centre should come up with an employment generation scheme for the urban poor. Echoing Capt. Amarinder, Mr. Gehlot said States should be given powers to decide novel coronavirus zones. Locust menace The Rajasthan Chief Minister also drew Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s attention to the massive attack of locusts, starting from India-Pakistan border, in several districts of the State and sought the Centre’s assistance in dealing with the menace. Mr. Gehlot said that the locust attack which had started in the Thar desert in May 2019 had extensively damaged crops and vegetation in as many as 12 districts. “The locusts have reached up to Ajmer in central Rajasthan,” Mr. Gehlot said. Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik urged Mr. Modi to involve panchayats in the fight against COVID-19, saying the battle is going to be long. Emphasising on the need for adopting a “decentralised mechanism” to strengthen the process of containing the spread of novel coronavirus, the Odisha Chief Minister said a smaller area instead of an entire district should be classified as a red, orange or green zone on the basis of the severity of the disease.  SOP suggested To revive economic activities, the Centre may come up with a standard operating procedure (SOP), Mr. Patnaik said. Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu requested Mr. Modi for TrueNat machines for quick COVID-19 testing as a large number of stranded people have begun returning to the north-eastern State.  (With inputs from PTI)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amarinder-calls-for-defined-exit-strategy-favours-curbs-extension/article31562297.ece
12 May 2020||Gurugram,||Maruti to resume operations||More than seven weeks after Maruti Suzuki suspended its operations in Haryana due to COVID-19-induced lockdown, the country’s biggest car manufacturer will resume production at its Manesar plant on Tuesday. More than 1,300 industrial units have also been granted permission to resume operations in Gurugram with over 1 lakh workers, besides 96 construction activities employing 20,000 labourers. The Maruti’s Manesar plant has been allowed to work with over 4,000 workers. Maruti Suzuki Workers’ Union joint-secretary Vikas Kumar said though the supervisors and other staff had been going to work since the permission was granted last month, around a hundred workers from different departments with one of the three plants are expected to join work on Tuesday. Mr. Kumar said though it would be difficult to resume production on the first day, but around a dozen cars left mid-way on the assembly line could be manufactured. “As of now, the management has called the workers from the orange and green zones only. Since it would be difficult for the workers to come from far-flung areas, the staff from Gurugram district alone would come tomorrow [Tuesday],” said Mr. Kumar. He said the company had decided to double the lunch timings to three hours and have four tea-breaks instead of the two earlier to maintain social distancing, besides fewer workers would be allowed in the buses and rest areas.  Gurugram plant The company has also received permission to resume operations at its Gurugram plant with more than 10,000 workers. Meanwhile, the district public relations department, in a press release, claimed that 1,330 industrial units, manufacturing both essential and non-essential items, were given conditional permission to resume operations with the total strength of 1,06,751 workers. Besides, 20,228 workers would be benefited by permission to 96 construction activities. Seven brick kilns employing 568 workers have also been granted permission to resume their activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/maruti-to-resume-operations/article31562292.ece
12 May 2020||Jaipur,||3.62 lakh migrant workers arrive in Rajasthan||Over 3.62 lakh migrant workers deprived of their livelihood in the nationwide lockdown have returned to their home towns in Rajasthan from States such as Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh by trains and buses. After the State's borders were sealed on Friday following a spike in the COVID-19 cases, a large numbers of migrants got stuck at the checkpoints. The Rajasthan government has since revised the guidelines for entry of those coming from other States by treating the passes issued there as valid. A committee headed by Additional Chief Secretary (Industries) Subodh Agarwal is keeping a tab on the movements and is in touch with other States to ensure ease of travel for the stranded labourers. Mr. Agarwal said on Monday that the highest number of 2.20 lakh workers had so far returned from neighbouring Gujarat, followed by 21,400 from M.P., while 43,320 students at the coaching hub of Kota and 3,900 pilgrims at the Ajmer dargah had been sent back by special trains. Twenty-three trains have left the State for different places in the country since May 1. Through the online platforms, 19.84 lakh stranded people, including 11.14 lakh inward and 8.69 lakh outward, have got themselves registered for the journey. “In the coming days, lakhs of labourers will be sent to their home States and will be brought back to Rajasthan. We hope that things go hassle-free and as we planned,” Mr. Agarwal said. The Additional Chief Secretary said the State government had taken strict measures to ensure the safety of stranded labourers after the Aurangabad train accident in which 16 migrant workers were run over by a freight train. Over 1.06 lakh workers have so far travelled out of Rajasthan. Amid reports that the migrant labourers have set off on foot to their home States, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has issued an appeal to them not to walk on roads, as arrangements were being made for their transport. He said buses were being arranged for short distances, while a request had been made to the railways to increase the number of special trains. Clash at border While the reports of migrants gathering at Ratanpur checkpoint on Rajasthan-Gujarat border came in before they were allowed on Monday, the police personnel of Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh clashed over the homeward journey of workers at the inter-State border adjoining Bharatpur district on Sunday. The U.P. police did not allow the labourers belonging to Bihar and Jharkhand to enter the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/362-lakh-migrant-workers-arrive-in-rajasthan/article31562294.ece
12 May 2020||Paris,||Europe emerges from curbs, but Asia fears a second wave||Swathes of Europe began the long process of reopening from coronavirus lockdowns on Monday, but the first new infections in weeks at China’s ground zero offered a sobering reminder of the dangers of a second wave of cases. The mixed fortunes illustrate the high-wire act governments face across the globe as they try to get economies moving while keeping in check a pandemic that has now killed more than 2,80,000 people and infected over four million. As France and Spain basked in a relaxation of restrictions and Britain plotted a path to normality, the Chinese city of Wuhan where the pandemic was born reported a second day of new cases after a month without a sign of the virus. And neighbouring South Korea announced its highest number of infections for more than a month driven by a cluster in a Seoul nightlife district. With millions out of work and economies shattered, governments are desperate to hit the accelerator, but most are choosing a gradual approach as fears about a resurgence of the virus linger. Declining death rates In parts of Europe, officials have been emboldened by declining death rates, with France’s toll dropping to 70 on Sunday — its lowest since early April — and Spain’s daily fatalities falling below 200. The French were able to walk outside without filling in a permit for the first time in nearly eight weeks on Monday, while teachers began returning to primary schools and some shops were set to reopen, causing a surge in the numbers using the Paris metro. Many Spaniards revelled in being able to visit outdoor terraces and cafes again after months under one of the world’s toughest lockdowns, although virus hotspots such as Madrid and Barcelona remain under wraps. Shopping boulevards were once again populated with pedestrians in Greece, while other parts of Europe from the Netherlands to Switzerland and Croatia youngsters headed back to the classroom after weeks at home. Germany too has set in motion the reopening of shops, eateries, schools and gyms, but the process was thrown in doubt on Sunday by official data indicating the virus appears to be picking up speed again. Chancellor Angela Merkel had days ago declared the country could gradually return to normal. Conditional plan In Britain, meanwhile, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said it was too soon for the country to lift its lockdown but he offered hope by unveiling a “conditional plan” to ease curbs in England during the months ahead. Mr. Johnson said the restrictions had brought “a colossal cost to our way of life” but it would be “madness” to squander the nation’s progress by moving too early. With governments across the world trying to avoid a second wave, Asian nations that have brought the virus to heel are being keenly watched. Much of China has begun to get back to a form of normality, and on Monday Shanghai Disneyland threw open its gates. But enthusiasm in China was tempered by news on Sunday that one person had tested positive for the virus in Wuhan. There were five more cases on Monday. Local health officials said the new infections were all from the same residential compound in the city and were mostly older people. New Zealand, meanwhile, will phase out its lockdown over the next 10 days, although some restrictions will remain. Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern warned “none of us can assume COVID is not with us”, but said the country had only 90 active cases after a seven-week lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/europe-emerges-from-curbs-but-asia-fears-a-second-wave/article31561999.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||With oil price crash and COVID-19, Saudi Arabia confronts double crisis||Saudi Arabia, which under Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman has been trying to diversify its economy away from oil and expand its regional influence through aggressive foreign policy posturing, has run into trouble with the economy hit by the double crisis of COVID-19 pandemic and oil price crash. The kingdom, 87% of whose budget revenues come from the petroleum sector, has already announced some “painful” economic decisions and signalled a rare readiness to scale back its regional operations to lift itself out of the “worst crisis in decades”. Increase in VAT On Monday, the official Saudi Press Agency reported that the kingdom decided to take a slew of austerity measures, including raising value-added tax (VAT) and cutting a cost of living allowance for government employees. The allowance, which was introduced in 2018 to help workers tide over the effects of austerity measures taken during the last oil crash, will be suspended as of June 1, and the VAT, which was also rolled out in 2018, will be increased to 15% from 5% as of July 1, SPA reported, citing a statement of the Ministry of Finance. Last month, the kingdom announced a unilateral ceasefire in Yemen after five years of war in the clearest signal that Riyadh seeks to depart from its expensive military intervention. When Saudi officials announced the kingdom’s budget in December 2019, crude oil prices were over $60 a barrel. To balance its budget this year, Saudi Arabia requires oil prices to be around $76 a barrel, according to the International Monetary Fund (IMF). But price of Brent crude, the international benchmark, crashed by 50% in March. Brent crude price was at $26.31 on May 11 afternoon in London. Amid the deteriorating situation, the Saudi government dipped its hands into the foreign reserves for meeting expenditures. The kingdom saw a record $24 billion drop monthly drop in its reserves in March to $479 million. It is also raising billions in debt from the bond market. The pandemic has aggravated the crisis with most economic activities suspended under a curfew. Despite these actions, the virus continued to spread across the country. As of May 11 evening, the kingdom has reported over 39,000 infections and 246 deaths, according to the Johns Hopkins Coronavirus Resource Centre. On top of it, it has also aggravated the economic woes. The IMF now forecasts the country’s GDP will fall 2.3% this year. “The situation in Saudi Arabia has been deteriorating well before the pandemic. Economic pressures were already building up on the kingdom. Coupled with this, we have the war against Yemen. On top of this, while the Crown Prince has projected himself as the fountainhead of liberalism, in actual fact, he’s emerged as a very authoritarian and harsh ruler, who can be extremely impulsive in decision making,” said Talmiz Ahmad, India’s former Ambassador to Saudi Arabia, adding that the oil crash and the pandemic made the situation worse. “The recent oil problem is almost entirely self-inflicted. Instead of engaging with Russia to discuss how they could consider new policies with regard to the OPEC-plus partnership, the Crown Prince very impulsively rejected Russia and started a completely unwinnable oil war, which has wounded not just Saudi Arabia, but also a very large number of countries in the region who are dependent on their oil revenues,” Mr. Ahmad told The Hindu . A new normal Saudi officials agree that they are facing a history-changing crisis. “I do not think the world or the Kingdom will go back to the way things were before coronavirus,” Finance Minister Mohammed Al-Jadaan said earlier this month. “Oil prices are unlikely to swing back to the pre-crisis levels any time soon as the world economy remains in doldrums. So the kingdom has to look for fresh policy decisions,” said Mr. Ahmad. He added that his prognosis of the condition of the kingdom is “negative”. But Prince Mohammed could undertake a slew of radical domestic and foreign policy measures to reboot the country. “Domestically, the kingdom has to cut expenditure, train its youth for new jobs, build a more accountable and responsive political order which the Crown Prince has promised and there has to be a healing touch in the royal family... The royal family can legitimately rule the nation only if it’s a united family,” he said. “With regard to the foreign policy, the first step should be the engagement with Iran.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/with-oil-price-crash-and-covid-19-saudi-arabia-confronts-double-crisis/article31561994.ece
12 May 2020||London,||Lower-skilled workers at greater risk of dying due to virus: study||Lower skilled workers in parts of Britain appear at greater risk of dying from coronavirus than white collar employees, according to an analysis of official figures published on Monday. The finding by the Office for National Statistics (ONS) came after Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Sunday that construction and manufacturing workers could return to work but recommended office staff still work from home. The move is the first change to a seven-week-old nationwide lockdown, which the government hopes to introduce in phases. But Opposition parties, unions and business leaders said there was a lack of clarity about the new recommendations — and voiced concerns about the safety of people returning to work. The devolved governments in Scotland and Wales have also said they would keep the lockdown in force. At least 32,000 deaths Britain has been one of the worst-hit countries in the global pandemic, with the government officially recording nearly 32,000 deaths of people who had tested positive for COVID-19. The actual number of deaths from the virus is far higher, with the ONS finding that the 32,000 toll was reached in late April. The ONS reviewed nearly 2,500 deaths in England and Wales linked to COVID-19 up to April 20 and discovered “men working in the lowest skilled occupations had the highest rate of death”. The assessment indicated taxi drivers and chauffeurs, bus and coach drivers, chefs, and sales and retail assistants had died in greater proportions. Men and women working in social care, which includes care workers and home carers, both had “significantly raised rates of death”. But healthcare workers such as doctors and nurses were not found to have higher death rates. The ONS cautioned that the study was too small to draw any definite conclusions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/lower-skilled-workers-at-greater-risk-of-dying-due-to-virus-study/article31562004.ece
12 May 2020||Beijing,||China warns of retaliation over new U.S. visa rule||China on Monday threatened to retaliate against a U.S. rule that tightening visa restrictions on Chinese journalists, in an escalating row after Beijing expelled more than a dozen American reporters. Citing China’s treatment of the reporters, the U.S. Homeland Security Department issued new regulations on Friday limiting visas for Chinese journalists to a maximum 90-day stay, with the possibility to request an extension. Until now, visas for Chinese journalists lasted for the duration of their employment in the U.S. “We express our strong dissatisfaction and firm opposition to this wrong action by the U.S. side, which is an escalation of the political crackdown on Chinese media,” said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian. “We ask the U.S to correct its mistake immediately, otherwise China will have no other option but to take countermeasures,” Mr. Zhao said. Diplomatic tensions The tit-for-tat actions have added to searing diplomatic tensions.  Foreign journalists working in China receive one-year visas that must be renewed every year. But in an annual report, the Foreign Correspondents’ Club of China said at least a dozen correspondents were issued press credentials valid for half a year or less. The report said Chinese authorities were “using visas as weapons against the foreign press like never before.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-warns-of-retaliation-over-new-us-visa-rule/article31561996.ece
12 May 2020||Moscow,||Putin announces end to non-working period||President Vladimir Putin on Monday said Russia’s non-working period imposed to contain the spread of the coronavirus will be lifted from Tuesday. “Starting from tomorrow, May 12, the national period of non-working days will be over for all sectors of the economy,” he said, adding that Russia’s regions will be able to keep in place anti-virus measures. The announcement came after Russia registered a record number of daily cases on Monday, with more than 11,000 people testing positive over the last 24 hours. Health officials have recorded a total of 2,21,344 infections and 2,009 deaths. Mr. Putin said that Russia had used the self-isolation period to prepare its healthcare system, increasing the number of hospital beds and saving “many thousands of lives.” Construction, agriculture and energy should be restarted first, he added. “The epidemic and associated restrictions have had a strong impact on the economy and hurt millions of our citizens,” he said. As people begin going back to work, mass events are still suspended and “strict sanitation demands” must be observed, Mr. Putin said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/putin-announces-end-to-non-working-period/article31562003.ece
12 May 2020||Kabul,||Kabul, May 11, 2020 (AFP) -||Four roadside bombs detonated in less than 90 minutes on Monday in a northern district of Afghanistan’s capital, wounding four civilians including a child, police said. Kabul police spokesman Ferdaws Faramarz said a clearance team was at the site of the blasts, which was claimed by any group.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/kabul-may-11-2020-afp/article31561995.ece
12 May 2020||Jerusalem,||Jerusalem, May 11, 2020 (AFP) -||The swearing-in of Israel’s new unity government has been postponed by one day to Thursday due to the upcoming visit of U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, officials said. A Parliament spokesman said the joint administration of Premier Benjamin Netanyahu and Benny Gantz would be inaugurated on Thursday instead of Wednesday.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/jerusalem-may-11-2020-afp/article31562001.ece
12 May 2020||Aden,||Aden, May 11, 2020 (AFP) -||Fighting broke out on Monday between government troops and separatists in southern Yemen, officials said, in the first major clash since the Southern Transitional Council (STC) declared self-rule over the region. The two sides fought for control of Zinjibar, the capital of Abyan province, the separatist STC said.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/aden-may-11-2020-afp/article31562005.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Equal freedom and forced labour||Soon after Independence, while the Constitution of a free India was being drafted, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, the chairperson of the Drafting Committee, was asked to prepare a note on the idea of Fundamental Rights. In a terse document, B.R. Ambedkar observed that thus far, the purpose of Constitutions had been to limit state power, in order to preserve the freedom of the individual. But this was too narrow an understanding of freedom, because it ignored the fact that often, it was private parties — individuals and corporations — that exercised great sway over the economic and social life of the nation. B.R. Ambedkar therefore argued that fundamental rights must also “eliminate the possibility of the more powerful having the power to impose arbitrary restraints on the less powerful by withdrawing from the control he has over the economic life of the people” — or, more euphemistically, to tackle the “the dictatorship of the private employer”. Labour rights B.R. Ambedkar, a long-time advocate for the rights of labour, and who had been instrumental in the passage of an eight-hour working day a few years before, was writing as part of a long-standing intellectual and political tradition. Labour movements had been key to the successful freedom struggle, and indeed, the 1931 Karachi Declaration and Bill of Rights — a fore-runner to the Constitution — expressly placed labour rights on a par with ordinary civil rights such as the freedom of speech and expression. In its Preamble, it declared that “political freedom must include... real economic freedom of the... millions”. These principles eventually found their way into the Indian Constitution in the form of “Directive Principles of State Policy”, while a few of them were retained as fundamental rights. Prominent among these was the right against forced labour, guaranteed by Article 23 of the Constitution. How do we understand the concepts of “force” and “freedom” in the backdrop of this history? A certain narrow understanding would have it that I am only “forced” to do something if there is a gun to my head or a knife at my throat. In all other circumstances, I remain “free”. As we all know, however, that is a very impoverished understanding of freedom. It ignores the compulsion that is exerted by serious and enduring differences of power, compulsion that may not take a physical form, but instead, have a social or economic character that is nonetheless as severe. In such circumstances, people can be placed in positions where they have no genuine choices left. As K.T. Shah, another member of the Constituent Assembly, famously wrote, “necessitous men are not free men”. Judicial stand In 1983, the Supreme Court understood this point. The Court was called upon to address the exploitation of migrant and contract labourers, who had been put to work constructing the Asian Games Village. In a landmark judgment, PUDR vs. Union of India , the Court held that the right against forced labour included the right to a minimum wage. It noted that often, migrant and contract labourers had “no choice but to accept any work that came [their] way, even if the remuneration offered... is less than the minimum wage”. Consequently, the Court held that “the compulsion of economic circumstance which leaves no choice of alternatives to a person in want and compels him to provide labour or service” was no less a form of forced labour than any other, and its remedy lay in a constitutional guarantee of the minimum wage. The judgment of the Supreme Court in PUDR vs. Union of India , and the constitutional history that it drew upon, provides us with an important perspective from which to understand basic ideas of freedom, especially in our present context. A market economy is sustained by a set of laws — the laws of contract, of property, and so on. This legal structure ensures that capital and labour do not face each other as equals across a mythical bargaining table. There is a structural inequality that enables the former, going back once more to B.R. Ambedkar’s language, to “make the rules” for the latter. This amounts to a form of “private government”, a situation in which there exists democracy in the political sphere, but unilateral term-setting in the context of the workplace. Of late, with the rise of the platform or gig economy, the rise of casualisation and precarious employment, and further fractures within the workforce, this inequality of power has only grown starker. The purpose of labour laws, which arose out of a long period of struggle (often accompanied by state-sanctioned violence against workers), has always been to mitigate this imbalance of power. The shape and form of these laws has, of course, varied over time and in different countries, but the basic impulse has always remained the same: in B.R. Ambedkar’s words, to secure the “rights to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness”, in both the public and the private spheres. In some countries, the path chosen has been to give workers a stake in private governance, through strong trade union laws and mandatory seats for labour in the governing boards of firms (“co-determination”). In other countries (such as India), the path has been to create a detailed set of laws, covering different aspects of the workplace, and depend upon State agencies for their enforcement. The Indian situation To be sure, India’s labour law structure has been criticised on multiple counts. It is argued that it sets up a labour bureaucracy that is prone to corruption; that the adjudicatory mechanisms are inefficient; the rights that labour laws grant are effectively submerged in a creaking judicial system, thus providing no real relief; that the system creates an unconscionable tiered structure where a majority of the workforce, engaged in contract labour or informal employment, has very few rights, while those in formal employment have greater security, at least in theory; in a recent interview, it was even pointed out that many prominent labour unions prefer to arrive at an accommodation with the management, rather than represent the interests of their constituents. These problems certainly call for a debate on the future of labour rights, especially in a world where the rapidly changing nature of work is already rendering old concepts of jobs and employments obsolete (courts around the world, for example, are struggling with how to classify platform workers such as Uber drivers). But this debate must be guided by B.R. Ambedkar’s insights that remain relevant even today, the Constitutional guarantee against forced labour, and the understanding of force and freedom that takes into account differences in power. What is very clear, however, is that the steps being taken by various State governments, ostensibly under cover of the COVID-19 pandemic, are grossly unconstitutional: various State governments are in the process of removing labour laws altogether (for a set period of time). What this means, in practice, is that the economic power exercised by capital will be left unchecked. In his Note on Fundamental Rights, B.R. Ambedkar pointed out that this would be nothing other than the freedom to “increase hours of work and reduce rates of wages”. Ironically, an increase in working hours and a removal of minimum wages are two proposals strongly under discussion. If the Constitution is to remain a charter of freedom, however, it must be equal freedom — and that must be the yardstick from which we measure proposed legal changes in the shadow of COVID-19. Gautam Bhatia is a Delhi-based lawyer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/equal-freedom-and-forced-labour/article31561981.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The need for a second chamber||The Rajya Sabha came into being on April 3, 1952 and held its first session on May 13 the same year. The second chamber underwent severe prenatal scrutiny in the Constituent Assembly. The proposal for a bicameral central legislature for the country was discussed at length, with deep divisions between the proponents and opponents. From this churning that went on for eight days with the participation of leading members of the Constituent Assembly finally emerged the Council of States and its mandate. After 68 years, it is instructive to revisit the debates on the need for a Council of States and its performance since then. The central legislature that came into being under the Government of India Act, 1919 was bicameral with a Council of States comprising 60 members and a Legislative Assembly comprising 145 members. The membership and voting norms for the Council of States were so restrictive that only wealthy land owners, merchants and those with legislative experience could enter it. Women could neither vote nor seek membership. The Government of India Act, 1935 proposed an elaborate and improved version of the second chamber, but this never materialised. The Constituent Assembly, which was formed in 1947, after adoption of the Constitution became the Provisional Parliament and made laws till 1952. Bicameralism and federalism Bicameralism is a principle that requires the consent of two differently constituted chambers of Parliament for making or changing laws. This principle came into operation in 1787 with the adoption of the U.S. Constitution. Its appeal grew in strength from time to time. At present, 79 Parliaments of the world (41% of the total number) are bicameral. Federalism has been in vogue since ancient times when some states got together to confer the power of law-making on a central authority. But modern federalism is entirely different given the complexity of geographical, regional, social and economic diversities marking the constituent units of a federation or a union. It is more so in India. The U.S. is a union of constituent states and so is India — each unit has a set of unique features. In The Federalist , the famous essays written in 1787-88 by James Madison, Alexander Hamilton and John Jay to explain the U.S. Constitution, it was stated that the second chamber enables a second and reflective expression of representative opinion besides checking the propensity to yield to the impulse of sudden and violent passions. The U.S. Constitution-makers were influenced by the proposition of the renowned French philosopher Montesquieu who said, “The legislative body being composed of two parts, they check one another by the mutual privilege of rejecting”. Walter Bagehot later noted that the retarding chamber will impede minor instances of parliamentary tyranny, though it will not prevent or really impede revolution. Federalism and bicameralism are linked because the federal character of a nation comprising constituent units can be reflected in, and secured by, a bicameral legislature. Despite being conscious of the huge degree of diversities and attendant inequalities that marked British India, and aware of the emergence of independent India as a Union of States, the proposal for the Rajya Sabha as a second chamber had no easy sailing in the Constituent Assembly. It was subjected to serious argumentation and had a narrow escape. Constituent Assembly debates As an illustration, a member of the Constituent Assembly, Mohd. Tahir, asserted that an Upper House was not essential and viewed it as a creation of imperialism. Professor Shibban Lal Saksena went further and warned that such a chamber would only prove to be a “clog in the wheel of progress” of the nation. The need of the hour was quick law-making, he said, which the second chamber would obstruct. He was perhaps referring to the role of the House of Lords in the British Parliament whose powers to veto the expenditure proposed was removed, and its ability to obstruct the laws made by the House of Commons was later severely curtailed in the early 20th century. Lokanath Misra vehemently opposed parity of powers in law-making for the Upper House. Proponents of the second chamber such as Naziruddin Ahmad felt that it would introduce an element of sobriety and second thought besides lending voice to the constituent units in the legislative scheme of things. M. Ananthasayanam Ayyangar argued that a second chamber would enable the genius of the people to have full play besides checking hasty legislation. It fell upon N. Gopalaswami Ayyangar to make a strong case for the second chamber. Replying to the debate on the motion, he argued that “the most that we expect the Second Chamber to do is perhaps to hold dignified debates on important issues and to delay legislations which might be the outcome of passions of the moment until the passions have subsided and calm consideration could be bestowed on the measures which will be before the Legislature.” As the differences over the need for a second chamber persisted even after adoption of the Constitution of India in 1950, Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, the first Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, while replying to the felicitations on becoming the Chairman, said that Parliament is not only a legislative body but also a deliberative one which enables the members to debate major issues of public importance. He echoed what James Madison, one of the authors of The Federalist, said about 165 years earlier in an essay: that the role of the Upper House is to be a deliberative body besides balancing the “fickleness and passion” of the elected House. So, what follows from the above discussion is that the House elected directly by the people is susceptible to passions of the moment and electoral considerations. Their imprint on legislation needs to be checked by the second chamber whose members are expected to be sober, wise and well-informed with domain knowledge. The mandate of the Rajya Sabha, as can be gleaned from the Constituent Assembly debates and the experiences of other Parliaments, is legislation — to revise or delay legislation without proving a clog in the wheel of progress; to represent the interests of the States as a federal chamber; and be a deliberative body holding high-quality debates on important issues. Against this mandate of 1949, it is in order to examine the functioning of the Rajya Sabha since its first sitting on May 13, 1952; assess whether it is either obstructionist or disruptive with governments of the day not having the required numbers; and assess its evolving nature. (This will be in the next part, which will be published tomorrow.)  M. Venkaiah Naidu is the Vice-President of India||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-need-for-a-second-chamber/article31561991.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Playing out live, a narrative of discrimination||The tragedy of Jamlo Makdam, 12, a migrant Adivasi girl who died of hunger and dehydration just a few kilometres away from her village in Chhattisgarh, while walking back from Telangana, symbolises what Adivasi communities are facing during this period of the national lockdown. The Modi government’s declared war on the novel coronavirus is turning out to be an undeclared war against the workers of India, treating them as non-citizens. Among them are workers from Adivasi communities. Key insights into migration This March, in answer to a question by CPI(M) MP P.R. Natarajan, the government gave a tentative estimate of there being 10 crore migrant workers in India but admitted to many being largely undocumented and unregistered as workers. The government has no clue as to the social composition of this large labour force. The last National Sample Survey Office migration survey, which was published more than two decades ago, showed that between 1992-93 to 2007–08, the proportion of migrant households among Scheduled Tribes (STs) was higher than among all other communities. The same data showed that STs were the single largest group among female migrants. Since then, the number of Adivasis dependent on wage labour has increased in comparison to those dependent on cultivation. With 45.5% of rural Adivasis below the poverty line, Adivasis usually do multiple kinds of work through the year; as a cultivator, an agricultural worker, a labourer in non-agricultural work, including migrating in search of work. In the name of ease of business, the last several years have seen an accelerated process of displacement and dispossession of Adivasi communities and a takeover of their land and forest-based resources, increasing the numbers of migrant workers from Adivasi communities. The patterns of Adivasi migration are somewhat different than those of other workers — they are short term, often seasonal, and circulatory in nature both within the State and inter-State. Adivasi migration is mainly for seasonal agricultural and construction work, work in brick kilns or as manual workers in urban areas. In Maharashtra, large numbers of Adivasis migrate for fishing work. This is apart from young Adivasi women who migrate to urban areas as domestic workers. The role of labour contractors is more pronounced too. The pattern of migration is through hiring of groups of Adivasi workers by contractors who take them to the designated workplace. Contractors often advance payments and the workers are then treated as bonded to the contractor. Migrations had already started when the national lockdown was suddenly imposed. In State after State, Adivasis are reporting that work has stopped, contractors often snubbed by the principal employer, have run away leaving Adivasis stranded. Adivasi migrants, since they are not part of the so-called mainstream cultures, are even more vulnerable to the general hostility towards the poor displayed by state agencies, particularly the police. During the lockdown, unable to get assistance and despairing of any free travel home, Adivasi migrants across India have started the long and painful march back often avoiding highways, travelling through forests and side roads to avoid the police. Law and rights The Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979, the only law for migrant workers, is on the way to being scrapped by the Modi government as part of its agenda of labour reform. It is to be merged with the Labour Code, which is an instrument to destroy the hard-won rights of the working class. Although the 1979 law is inadequate since it deals only with those migrant workers in the contractor system and excludes workers who migrate on their own, for Adivasi migrant workers employed through contractors, its implementation would have ensured payment as well as free travel back home. In fact according to the law, the Central government is legally liable to ensure free travel home since it is responsible for the termination of the work because of the lockdown. Cause of suffering Having suffered two months of the lockdown without work, Adivasi migrant workers will return home penniless. But they are totally ‘invisibilised’ in the government policies in the package announced. The functioning of Public Distribution System in Adivasi areas, particularly in the hilly regions, is generally irregular. Now, at the time of lockdown, ground reports point to a looming emergency of hunger and starvation in many Adivasi areas. The Central government gave permission for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme work only from April 20. At present, there are hardly any MGNREGA works in Adivasi areas, except to some extent in Chhattisgarh. It is critical to start projects in a mission mode if communities are to be saved from destitution. The MGNREGA projects can and should be linked not only to agricultural operations but also for the collection of minor forest produce. This will be a labour subsidy for Adivasi women who mainly do this work and can help relieve the acute distress. Even though the government did announce revised rates for minor forest produce, in the absence of purchasing centres, the distress sales to middlemen have meant little or no income. The lockdown has caused more suffering to Adivasis than the virus. Most Adivasi habitats have so far been free of the virus. But what happens to Adivasi migrants when they get home is a major concern as the health infrastructure in these areas is extremely poor. The annual report from the Tribal Affairs Ministry has data on the shortfall in Adivasi areas as: 20.7% for sub-centres, 26% for primary health centres and 23% for community health centres. The shortfall in the number of doctors is as high as 27%. Many of these areas are mineral rich. The District Mineral Fund which is meant for the development of mining affected people had a total of Rs. 35,925 crore. Till January this year only 35% had been spent and that too only on infrastructure which would help mining companies. The Modi government had arbitrarily permitted use of this fund for COVID-19 control-related expenditures. But in these two months, not a single rupee has been spent on strengthening the health infrastructure in Adivasi areas. Instead of tackling the grave situation prevalent in Adivasi areas, the Modi government has used the lockdown to further its pro-corporate agenda including in spheres which directly dilute the constitutional and legal rights of Adivasis. It is also in this period that the Supreme Court gave its highly questionable judgment against prevailing reservations in schoolteachers posts for only Adivasis in Fifth Schedule areas in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Many aspects of the judgment will have a negative impact on special constitutional provisions for Adivasis under the Fifth Schedule beyond the issue of reservations. The lack of protests because of the lockdown does not mean that Adivasis will remain silent on all these issues. Brinda Karat is a member of the CPI(M) Polit Bureau and a former Rajya Sabha MP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/playing-out-live-a-narrative-of-discrimination/article31561984.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Legal but not appropriate||Over the last few days, many States have made changes to their labour laws. Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan and Punjab have extended the maximum daily hours of work in a factory from eight/nine to 12, and allowed up to 72 hours a week in overtime. The provision of paying overtime wages at twice the normal rate would apply for working beyond these limits. Gujarat has made a similar change but the wages for overtime will be at the same rate (not double). Uttarakhand has increased the daily limit to 11 hours with overtime limited to 18 hours a week. Haryana has allowed work for 12 hours a day, and up to 60 hours a week, with overtime pay. Madhya Pradesh has made similar changes. These changes have been made through notifications issued by the State governments, and will be applicable for the next three months. M.P. has also suspended most provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1946 (except those related to retrenchment and layoffs) for 1,000 days for State undertakings. In addition, M.P. issued an ordinance to amend two laws. The M.P. Industrial Employment Standing Orders Act will apply to establishments with more than 100 workmen (up from the existing threshold of 50), in line with the Central Act. The ordinance also enables the government to exempt establishments from the provision of another Act that provided for a labour welfare fund. The Uttar Pradesh government has approved an ordinance that exempts establishments from all labour laws for three years with some exceptions (safety and security of workers, provisions related to employing women and children, payment of wages on time and above prescribed minimum wages, and no bonded labour). As this will override provisions of some Central laws, it will require the assent of the President or, in effect, the assent of the Central government. The question is, was there sufficient consultation before all these changes were made? Lawful changes As per the Constitution, legislature has the authority to make laws. Such laws could delegate powers to the government which are in the nature of detailing some requirements. For example, the Factories Act allows State governments to exempt factories from the provisions of the Act during public emergencies for a maximum period of three months. A public emergency is defined as a grave emergency whereby the security of India or any part is threatened by war, external aggression or internal disturbance. Most States have used this provision, presumably interpreting the current situation as an ‘internal disturbance’. Haryana has used a provision that allows relaxation of work hours “to deal with an exceptional press of work”. The Constitution also permits Central and State governments to make laws through the issuance of an ordinance when the legislature is not in session. Such a law needs to be ratified by the legislature within six weeks of the beginning of the next session. M.P. and U.P. are using this procedure. The importance of consultation While the changes made are lawful, we need to see whether it is appropriate to make such far-reaching provisions without scrutiny by the legislature. Usually, any change in an Act follows a rigorous process of public consultation, scrutiny by committees of Parliament, and debates in the House before being approved. The changes described here have not gone through such a process. However, most of these have a three-month time limit, and any extension would need to be approved by the legislature. Interestingly, Parliament is consolidating 29 existing laws into four codes dealing with wages, occupational safety and health, industrial relations and social security. The first of these has been enacted, the Standing Committee on Labour has submitted the report on the next two, and is examining the last. The Code on Occupational Safety and Health does not specify the maximum hours of work but empowers the government to do so. The Standing Committee report states that the government agreed to incorporate a provision of maximum eight hours per day with overtime permitted for certain types of industry. Several regulations have been formulated to tackle COVID-19. There have been over 4,300 notifications by the Central and State governments since the beginning of March. Given the emergency, the government has to take quick action and change the response as the situation evolves. However, that should not be a reason to exclude the processes of consultation with and scrutiny by elected representatives. The legitimacy of state action in a parliamentary democracy comes from the fact that there is constant oversight and check by elected representatives. Parliament and State legislatures should find ways to meet and examine the measures taken by Central and State governments. M.R. Madhavan is the President and co-founder of PRS Legislative Research||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/legal-but-not-appropriate/article31561988.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Time for EU fiscal stimulus||Germany’s highest court ruled last week that the European Central Bank (ECB) exceeded its mandate in pursuing Quantitative Easing (QE) to rescue the eurozone from the sovereign debt crisis. The verdict is the culmination of fresh hearings that commenced in the country last year to apply the 2018 European Court of Justice (ECJ) decision to uphold the controversial programme. QE refers to the unconventional monetary tool of public sector asset purchases the ECB has deployed to stimulate economic demand and stoke inflation in the eurozone. The court in Karlsruhe has asked the Frankfurt-based institution to justify its huge purchases of government bonds. Failure to furnish proof within three months that these purchases have not had a disproportionate impact on other economic policies risks jeopardising Berlin’s participation in QE, the court observed. Claims and counterclaims The ECB’s bond-buying under QE, of over €2.2 trillion since 2014, in order to raise eurozone inflation close to its 2% target, has long proved contentious in the eurozone’s affluent northern states. Critics in Germany and the Netherlands argue that public debt purchases by the central banks of eurozone member states with ECB funding amounted to monetary financing of government spending by the ECB. This  has been barred under EU law, so as to insulate the institution from political pressures. QE advocates refute the claim, insisting that the ECB was buying bonds from investors in secondary markets, not directly from governments. They also point to the self-imposed cap on its holdings of up to one-third of the debt of any country and to acquire sovereign assets in proportion to the size of the economy, as measured by the share of ECB capital. These constraints are intended as safeguards against potential defaults by member states. Significantly, the Karlsruhe court last week did not think the ECB debt purchases amounted to direct financing of governments. This is a setback for the plaintiffs, who include Berlin’s conservative academics, lawyers and the populist Alternative for Germany (AfD) party. But crucially, they were not deterred by an earlier defeat over the legality of the Outright Monetary Transactions, the 2012 predecessor to QE that was never availed. Indeed, they would regard the court’s recent insistence of a justification of QE as marking a relative success over its 2017 refusal of a temporary halt to the programme, out of concern that Germany’s withdrawal would hurt the ECB policy goals. Squabbling over rescue package Germany’s monetary hawks moreover have their eyes set on the distorted real estate prices from the prolonged negative interest rates in the eurozone and the impact on lenders and pension funds to continue their assault on QE. The Karlsruhe decision is believed to have no direct bearing on the ECB’s expansion of asset purchases by another €750 billion of bonds under the so-called pandemic emergency purchase programme until the year-end in response to COVID-19. But the removal of the ceiling to acquire no more than one-third of a country’s debt could potentially expose the institution to fresh legal challenges. The sustained attacks on the lender of last resort should serve as a wake-up call for eurozone leaders who are squabbling over the bloc’s rescue package for the post-pandemic recovery. Moves to mutualise the bloc’s debt acquire greater urgency than ever, as also calls for governments to infuse a bold fiscal stimulus. The ECB has said it will continue its bond-buying programme, regardless of the implications arising from the Karlsruhe court ruling for the principle of central bank independence. The decision also raises fundamental issues concerning the primacy of common EU laws at a juncture when the bloc is beset with eurosceptic and populist challenges from member states. In the wake of the decision in Germany, the ECJ has emphasised its authority as the ultimate arbiter in all EU disputes. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/time-for-eu-fiscal-stimulus/article31561985.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||A welcome change||With the ethics committee approval in hand on May 8, the ICMR cleared the last hurdle to conduct a multicentric phase-2 trial using convalescent plasma on COVID-19 patients with moderate illness. Its three feasibility studies in about 20 severely ill patients found the therapy to be safe and able to resolve illness or improve the clinical symptoms. Since safety of convalescent plasma from people who have recovered from COVID-19 illness is not a huge concern, the first stage of the human clinical trial has been skipped; the ICMR will instead study plasma safety and efficacy in a phase-2 trial with 452 patients. The patients with moderate COVID-19 illness will be randomly assigned to receive either convalescent plasma (226 participants) or only standard of care (control group). The primary outcomes of the trial in 21 hospitals that will be studied include prevention of illness from progressing to a severe form, and avoidance of deaths from all causes at 28 days after plasma infusion. And key secondary outcomes will include resolution of symptoms, reduction in hospital stay and respiratory support. Plasma will be collected from donors 28 days after they make a complete recovery from illness or are symptom-free and have more than the required level of antibodies against the novel coronavirus. Molecular and also other routine tests will be done before plasma use. Convalescent plasma therapy, about a century old, has shown some benefit in treating measles, chickenpox and rabies. Small studies have shown faster clearance of virus in the case of MERS and SARS if given early in the course of the disease but no randomised controlled studies have been carried out. However, no benefit was seen in 2015 on some Ebola patients treated with convalescent plasma in Guinea. Only three small studies involving 21 COVID-19 patients have been carried out but not in trials where the participants were randomised with a control arm. Till date, there is a dearth of randomised controlled trials that clearly demonstrate the efficacy of convalescent plasma therapy for any infectious disease, including COVID-19. Even in the absence of any effective treatment or a vaccine, the pandemic provides an opportunity to ascertain the clinical benefits of plasma therapy through randomised controlled trials. The U.S. FDA and India have thus approved the use of plasma from recovered COVID-19 patients only for trial purposes. The ICMR’s insistence on an evidence-based approach to plasma therapy is in contrast to the cavalier manner in which it approved the anti-malarial hydroxychloroquine, as a prophylaxis for coronavirus without carrying out any trial and relying on evidence that was slim and intended only for treatment, and also when the risks were unknown. If the trial outcomes are overwhelmingly positive, the agency would be ethically obliged to recommend plasma therapy as a standard of care for COVID-19 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-welcome-change/article31561976.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||Consensus, not confusion||The Centre’s move to run 15 pairs of trains between New Delhi and major cities will serve as a trial for further relaxation of lockdown travel restrictions. The new trains are a lifeline for stranded citizens, although the scheme has been designed as a limited air-conditioned service for higher fare paying travellers. Thousands of migrant workers will continue to look for Shramik Special trains to get home. There are multiple challenges to operating trains when the transmission of the novel coronavirus is rising. Many States have severely restricted the arrival of domestic travellers, but their attempts at regulating entry by road through passes issued online have been overwhelmed, and the pass system is becoming dysfunctional; quarantine facilities have come under strain and cases of expatriates testing positive, as in Kerala, have added to their worries. Telangana does not favour resumption of passenger trains. Karnataka wants a compulsory 14-day institutional quarantine for travellers. While this underscores the high degree of caution that many States want to adopt, it severely restricts inter-State movement. Kerala, more reasonably, is asking those coming from other States by road, with permission, to home quarantine themselves, after initially considering institutional monitoring. The Centre has left such dilemmas to be resolved by the States, and the Home Ministry’s Standard Operating Protocol for the relief train services merely orders passengers to adhere to health protocols prescribed by the destination State or Union Territory. As India moves into the last week of the extended lockdown, it is important for States to agree on a standard protocol on how to deal with travellers, whose numbers are bound to grow. Experience in the U.S., Europe and Asia shows that with the relaxation of lockdown curbs, many tend to lower their guard. India’s peculiar circumstances, including the difficulty of maintaining physical distancing and low compliance with rules, could increase infections rapidly. Yet, a system for orderly movement is necessary to relieve the social and economic pressures since the national lockdown began. Trains and buses are the most affordable ways for those stranded to return home, and such travel can be facilitated with a safety protocol in place: physical distancing, use of masks and hand washing. Citizens can be persuaded to comply with this if governments have clarity on how they will facilitate train and road travel. At the destination, unless medically warranted, passengers can self-quarantine at home. This is something that the Centre has prescribed even for very mild, pre-symptomatic patients. A patchwork of rules and regulations among States will only confuse travellers and generate needless anxiety.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/consensus-not-confusion/article31561977.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 00:00 IST,||The Supreme Court’s verdict (From an editorial)||The unanimous verdict of a Special Bench of five judges of the Supreme Court, dismissing all the petitions challenging the election of Mr. V. V. Giri as President of India, ends months of nation-wide suspense. The judgment will be widely welcomed, not only for clearing the holder of the highest office in the country of charges of electoral irregularities and corrupt practices, but also for the resounding re-assertion that it implies of the supremacy of the rule of law. Both the petitioners’ challenge and the Court’s order, as well as the entire hearing during which many of the top leaders, including President Giri himself, took the witness stand, should have served to reassure the people that no one is immune from the due processes of the law and the humblest in the land may seek justice from the courts. As such, it has been a historic case in many respects and has established some legal precedents too, as, for instance, the admission of tape-recorded evidence in courts, not to speak of the Supreme Court deciding to hear oral witnesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/the-supreme-courts-verdict-from-an-editorial/article31561986.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Mandis linked to e-platform see 65% rise in count post-lockdown||COVID-19 has given a boost to e-NAM, the national digital platform for agricultural trade, with the number of connected mandis, or wholesale markets, up 65% since the lockdown, according to Agriculture Ministry data. On Monday, 177 more mandis joined the platform, taking the total to 962 nationwide, giving farmers and traders another option at a time when transport disruptions and social distancing requirements have made physical mandi trade more difficult. The National Agricultural Market (e-NAM) is a pan-India electronic trading portal which networks the almost 7,000 existing mandis run by Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC) to create a unified national market for agricultural commodities, with a promise to promote real-time price discovery based on actual supply and demand. It was launched in April 2016 but progress was slow, especially as many States did not amend their APMC Acts; most farmers were not part of the cooperatives that would help aggregate the bulk quantity of produce needed to interest online buyers and most mandis did not possess the infrastructure to make the most of the platform. By January 2019, when the first inter-State trade took place, there were only 585 mandis connected to the platform, although the Agriculture Ministry promised to integrate 415 more mandis by March 2020. At the end of March 2020, however, the number of markets connected to e-NAM still remained stagnant at 585, even as the nation went into lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic and hundreds of mandis shut their physical gates. The Centre recognised the potential of e-NAM in overcoming some of the hurdles of the lockdown, and introduced some important new features in April: a trading module allowing Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) to trade produce directly from their collection centres without bringing it to mandis, a warehouse-based trading module and a logistics module offering users trackable transport facilities through aggregators with access to 11 lakh trucks. On May 1, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar integrated 200 new mandis with the platform. On May 11, another 177 mandis were integrated. As of May 9, 150 commodities with produce collectively worth more than Rs. 1 lakh crore had been traded on the e-NAM platform, according to an official statement, although 236 mandis have actually participated in inter-mandi trade across 12 States. The user base remains at a nascent stage, with 1.66 crore farmers, 1.3 lakh traders and 71,911 commission agents registered on the platform. There are more than 13 crore farmers in India. However, an encouraging sign is the more than 1,000 FPOs which are registered on the platform, providing access to their members.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/mandis-linked-to-e-platform-see-65-rise-in-count-post-lockdown/article31561968.ece
12 May 2020||Mumbai,||Bond yields rise as govt. expands borrowing plan||The yield on the most-traded 10-year government bond spiked 20 bps (basis points) on Monday after the government announced it would increase its market borrowings by more than Rs. 4 lakh crore for FY21, post market hours on Friday. The yield stood at 6.17% at the close of trading hours on Monday, up 20 bps from the previous close. Intraday, yield rose 27 bps, the sharpest intraday surge since February 2017. “The estimated gross market borrowing in the financial year 2020-21 will be Rs. 12 lakh crore in the place of Rs. 7.80 lakh crore as per BE (budgeted estimates) for 2020-21. The above revision in borrowings has been necessitated on account of the COVID-19 pandemic,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement on Friday. As per the new revised FY21 borrowing calendar, the central government will now borrow Rs. 6 lakh crore in the first half of the current financial year against the Rs. 4.88 lakh crore budgeted initially. The nationwide economic lockdown imposed by the government to curb the spread of the pandemic had resulted in a lower tax revenue for the government. Dealers said till such time the Reserve Bank of India announces open market operations (OMO) to purchase government securities to address the supply glut, there would be pressure on yields. “Markets would closely watch the RBI’s stance on fiscal funding, possibly in the form of OMO purchase calendar,” said Madhavi Arora, lead economist, Edelweiss Securities. “We note that in April, the Reserve Bank has estimated to have done secondary OMOs to the tune of Rs. 750 billion [Rs. 75,000 crore] already. Nonetheless, unless there are more assertive actions by the RBI on funding of the government’s market loans, there will remain an overhang on the G-sec market, with more pressure on the longer end of the curve,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/bond-yields-rise-as-govt-expands-borrowing-plan/article31561966.ece
12 May 2020||MUMBAI,||IPPs seek liquidity window to clear dues||Reeling under a liquidity crunch, independent power producers (IPPs) in the country are seeking liquidity window through a special line of credit by the Power Finance Corporation to power distribution companies (discoms) to clear their outstanding power bills of Rs. 50,000 crore up to March 31, 2020. This, since the IPPs do not have funds to buy coal or pay freight charges. Once the coal stocks at the plants deplete, they may have no other option but to shut down the plant till their liquidity situation improves. The Association of Power Producers (APP) has written to the government seeking the liquidity window through a special line of credit by PFC/REC for discoms to clear their outstanding power bills of around Rs. 50,000 crore up to March 3, 2020. APP’s letter to Raj Kumar Singh, the Minister for Power, New & Renewable Energy, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, has also sought to request the Coal Ministry and Railways for deferment of advance payment for coal and railway freight by way of suppliers’ credit. This comes at a time when the revenue collection by discoms has fallen by as much as 80%, and payments to generators have also crashed correspondingly due to the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Virus relentless Seeking special dispensation for the power sector, APP director general Ashok Khurana said, “With the lockdown restrictions continuing in many parts of the country and virus infections still on the rise, it is apprehended that revenue collection figures of May may be worse than in April. Many generators have now reached a stage where they do not have money to buy coal, or pay salaries or pay for transport and LTA charges.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/ipps-seek-liquidity-window-to-clear-dues/article31561956.ece
12 May 2020||Kolkata,||Supreme Court dismisses appeal on Harsh Lodha||The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed three special leave petitions and upheld last week’s division bench verdict of the Calcutta High Court, clearing the decks for three companies headed by Harsh Vardhan Lodha — Birla Corporation Ltd., Vindhya Telelinks Ltd. and Birla Cable Ltd. — to declare and give effect to resolutions passed at their annual general meetings last year. “This verdict marks a major victory — the second one in a week — in the sustained efforts of these companies to thwart attempts to disrupt their functioning, typically made ahead of their annual general meetings,” said Debanjan Mandal, legal counsel to Mr. Lodha and partner at solicitor firm, Fox & Mandal. The Birlas, through the defendants in the suit for probate of the last Will of the late Priyamvada Devi Birla, had last year moved the Calcutta High Court and obtained an injunction on declaration of results of polls taken at the annual general meetings of these three companies. The resolutions that were disputed included the reappointment of Mr. Lodha as a director in Vindhya Telelinks and Birla Cable, and even held up the payment of dividend to shareholders of Birla Corporation, a Birla Group release noted. Determining jurisdiction A two-judge division bench of the Calcutta High Court had on May 4 ruled that the probate court hearing the dispute over Priyamvada Devi Birla’s will should have first determined if it had the jurisdiction to impose restrictions on the operations of these companies, and set aside the injunctions passed by the High Court’s single judge. On Monday, Supreme Court judges D.Y. Chandrachud and M.R. Shah said there was no reason to interfere with the division bench’s verdict, while reiterating that the single-judge probate court must determine if it has jurisdiction in the first place.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/supreme-court-dismisses-appeal-on-harsh-lodha/article31561970.ece
12 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Indian Oil’s refineries to operate at 80% capacity||With demand for petroleum products gradually picking up, India’s largest petroleum retailer Indian Oil Corporation (IndianOil) has re-started several process units at its refineries that were down due to the lockdown. “With throughputs gradually picking up pace, the refineries are currently operating at about 60% of their design capacities with plans to scale up to 80% of the design levels by the end of the month,” said Indian Oil in a statement. IndianOil has resumed manufacture of petrochemical intermediates like HDPE (high-density polyethylene) and polypropylene at its Panipat complex. Naptha cracker unit With the demand for these grades likely to increase even further in the coming days, the naphtha cracker as well as the MEG (Mono-ethylene-glycol) plants at Panipat are back in operation. The polypropylene plant at Paradip too will resume operations in a couple of days. The other polymer units are being readied to go online this month. The revival of the Panipat naphtha cracker unit will also facilitate further increase in refinery crude oil throughputs, according to the company.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/indian-oils-refineries-to-operate-at-80-capacity/article31561958.ece
12 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Rescue package sought for tobacco farmers||The Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) has appealed to the Union Government to save the livelihood of tobacco farmers as the demand for the crop has weakened due to declining volumes of cigarettes and other tobacco products due to the lockdown. It said nearly 130 million kg of Flue Cured Tobacco worth over Rs. 1,700 crore is stuck as the tobacco auctions are moving at a snail’s pace. In Gujarat, farmers, whose tobacco produce is used in the making of beedis and other tobacco products, are also struggling for livelihood, FAIFA said. “More than 330 million kg of tobacco worth Rs. 2,700 crore is lying in open fields as the traders are not ready to pick up the produce because government has banned tobacco products,” it said. Rains are expected in the coming days and if the government does not start the sale of tobacco products, both traders and farmers will go bankrupt, it added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rescue-package-sought-for-tobacco-farmers/article31561963.ece
12 May 2020||Chennai,||Time ripe for India to attract FDI, says Sondhi||The current situation presents an opportunity for India to attract foreign direct investment (FDI) from corporations in the fields of engineering, automotive, textile, pharma and electrical hardware, said a top executive of Ashok Leyland Ltd.  “Over the next 18-24 months, we, as a nation, would do well to focus on developing state-of-the-art technology-enabled industrial parks owned by the State Industrial Development Corporations or co-owned through public-private partnerships or through 100% private investments,” Vipin Sondhi, MD & CEO, Ashok Leyland, said in a statement. Infra support According to Mr. Sondhi, these initiatives must be supported with proper infrastructure, including electricity, water, manpower availability, land availability, etc., which would go on to improve the ease of doing business.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/time-ripe-for-india-to-attract-fdi-says-sondhi/article31561972.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||TRAI advisory on online platform tariff||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on Monday issued an advisory asking the public to exercise caution and check charges for online conferencing platforms beforehand to avoid ‘bill shocks’. “It has been brought to the notice of TRAI that a few consumers have experienced bill shocks when they joined online conferencing platforms inadvertently dialing international numbers,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/trai-advisory-on-online-platform-tariff/article31561961.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,||No increase in lease rental for SEZs||The Union Ministry of Commerce and Industry has directed that there shall be no increase in lease rentals for Special Economic Zone units for FY2020-21, on account of the COVID-19 outbreak. Payment of lease rent for the first quarter is to be deferred up to July 31, 2020 for all SEZ units and the deferment may not invite any interest thereof, it said in a circular. The Development Commissioners of SEZs are requested to advise developers of State government and private SEZs to consider similar relief measures in their zones, it added. According to data presented in Parliament in July 2019, there are a total of 232 operational SEZ units across the country, with Tamil Nadu topping with 40 units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-increase-in-lease-rental-for-sezs/article31561971.ece
12 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Non-essentials demand to rise, says Walmart||Walmart India on Monday reported a ‘steadying of consumption’ across several essential categories in the last few weeks. The e-tailer, which operates 28 Best Price stores across nine States, now expects some pent-up demand for non-essentials. As per Anuj Singh, chief merchandising officer, Best Price, Walmart India, a couple of weeks into the lockdown, supply pipelines had depleted across consumption categories while the demand from kiranas for items such as tea and biscuits continued to be strong. “We see a steadying of consumption level across these categories. Now with non-essential categories also opening up, we expect some pent up demand in small kitchen and home appliances,’’ he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/non-essentials-demand-to-rise-says-walmart/article31561962.ece
12 May 2020||mumbai,||Tata firm inks Rs. 1,200-cr. defence contract||Tata Power Strategic Engineering Division (Tata Power SED) has signed a Rs. 1,200-crore contract with the Ministry of Defence for modernising infrastructure of 37 airfields of Indian Air Force, Indian Navy and Indian Coast Guard. Tata Power SED is a division of Tata Power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/tata-firm-inks-rs-1200-cr-defence-contract/article31561960.ece
12 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Amazon starts store for COVID-19 supplies||Amazon Business has introduced a ‘COVID-19 Supplies Store’ to provide easy access to related supplies. Frontline organisations such as those in healthcare and the government can purchase COVID-19 related essentials in bulk from the store to effectively fight the virus, the company said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-starts-store-for-covid-19-supplies/article31561964.ece
12 May 2020||Chennai,||Nissan starts dispatches||Nissan India started dispatching BS-VI vehicles from its alliance facility in Chennai to its dealerships in green and orange zones across the country. Besides, Nissan Motor India Pvt. Ltd (NMIPL), the marketing and sales organisation, opened its office in Gurugram as per local government guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/nissan-starts-dispatches/article31561973.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Recognition still eludes rowing and archery||Archery and rowing continue to remain de-recognised by the sports ministry despite holding much-delayed elections earlier this year, while the equestrian federation continues to enjoy recognition despite not adhering to the Sports Code. Also not recognised by the ministry are golf, para-sports and School Games, the first for not following the Code and the other two for mismanagement. Carrom is back as a recognised federation after being kept out last year. The Archery Association of India held its long-delayed elections in January 2020 and is headed by union minister Arjun Munda. The elections paved the way for World Archery to revoke its suspension of AAI and also ended years of ad-hocism, legal struggles and electoral tussles. The ministry reportedly is waiting for formal clearance from the Delhi High Court. The Rowing Federation of India also finds itself out of favour despite holding elections in February this year, in the presence of an Indian Olympic Association observer, after complying with the ministry and IOA’s directives to amend its constitution. Gymnastics still excluded Another federation that seemingly managed to have put its house together finally, and was hoping to get government recognition, was gymnastics but that has not happened. In its case, however, the government has at least mentioned reasons for not granting recognition — questioning the elections of S. Shantikumar Singh as secretary and Parmeshwar Prajapat as executive member — citing the National Sports Development Code 2011. However, while the elections were held in November 2019, the objections were raised only towards the end of April 2020. Equestrian, meanwhile, continues to be a priority sport for the ministry despite not bothering to amend its constitution in line with the NSDC even after repeated extensions and reminders from both the IOA and the government. Interesting scenario Interestingly, the annual recognition is normally for the calendar year. However, while the ministry delayed the process by almost half a year, it has also specified the recognition only till September 2020. Given that most sports would only have restarted activities around that time and the entire domestic and international calendar likely to be packed post-September, one wonders how the latest recognition list would help NSFs that largely depend on government funding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/recognition-still-eludes-rowing-and-archery/article31562124.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Karman shines bright in Purav’s show||Karman Kaur Thandi could not play the Fed Cup qualification to the World Group play-off in Dubai due to injury, but she was at her brightest in emerging the champion in the Instagram show ‘Chai with Raja’. Unique chance It was a unique opportunity for the entire Fed Cup team, including Sania Mirza, to put Indian women’s tennis in the limelight. Top doubles star Purav Raja hosted the six players in a 50-minute show. The general questions, labelled Raja’s Wisdom, caught the girls on the wrong foot, but they were sporting and composed. Sania was at ease and readily offered to donate the proceedings to the Chief Minister’s Fund if she won the Fed Cup Heart Award. Sania said that she would seek about 1-1/2 weeks preparation in Latvia for the Fed Cup play-off tie, and said that it would be a 50-50 chance for both the teams. Sania was the judge but left it to Purav by naming Sowjanya Bavisetti and Karman. Since Karman had answered most of the 15 questions, Purav had no hesitation in declaring her the winner. Quite smart Though she could not remember the other top-200 ranked players of the country, apart from Sania and Ankita, Karman, herself a member of that elite league, was quite smart otherwise. Karman said that she was reading Sania’s biography and found it interesting. She gave eight out of 10 points for Mahesh Bhupathi in shaping her career in the professional circuit. Sowjanya spoke about the tricky experience of competing in Nigeria immediately after winning the national women’s title last year. Rutuja Bhosale said that it depended on the person to capitalise on college tennis in the US. Quite nervous She said she was quite nervous during the Fed Cup, despite having been part of the team since 2011. Rutuja hoped to be in the top-200 by 2022, a sentiment echoed by Riya Bhatia also. Ankita Raina gave seven out of 10 for Sania’s role in helping India qualify in the Fed Cup, even though she herself had won the singles and doubles matches to steer the team.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/karman-shines-bright-in-puravs-show/article31562131.ece
12 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Adequate sleep essential for fencers: Bhavani||C.A. Bhavani, the 26-year-old from Chennai, has given fencing, one of the oldest disciplines in Olympics, an identity in India and has ignited the minds of youngsters, who are keen to take up the sport as a profession. It was all evident during a webinar organised by the Fencing Association of India and Sports Authority of India on Monday. Young fencers aged between 10 and 15 years and some coaches asked questions to Bhavani, who is pretty close to making the 2021 Tokyo Olympics cut. While a few wanted to know the number of hours to practice, others were keen to know the difference in the system in India and Italy, where she has been training for the last three years. In the lockdown period, Bhavani said she trains for nearly three hours every day focusing on footwork and mental training. According to her, sleep is very essential for a sport that places importance to mind over body. “We [fencers] need to sleep eight to nine hours a day,” she said. Bhavani said shifting to SAI (Thalassery, Kerala) from Tamil Nadu was a major decision that changed her career for the good. “It was a big decision and probably the best. Staying away from home changed me a lot. It helped when I was training in Italy,” she said. “Training with coach Sagar Lagu [in Kerala] was a big boost.” Biggest difference In Italy, Bhavani said most fencers decide when to train [and not their coaches largely]. “That’s the biggest difference,” she said. In Livorno (Italy), the eight-time National champion trains five days a week, with focus on footwork followed by technical and tactical workouts in the morning and evening sessions with her coach Nicola Zanotti. “Italian fencers don’t do much weight training and their fitness program is different. They tend to do more agility exercises and give importance to concentration,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adequate-sleep-essential-for-fencers-bhavani/article31562175.ece
12 May 2020||Chennai,||Akbar Ebrahim — one who never stopped giving||They don’t make men like Akbar Ebrahim any more. Someone who gives, gives and gives without expecting anything in return. He said to The Hindu on Monday, “If you help somebody expecting something back from him some day, the entire purpose is lost.” Akbar was a bit like Santa Claus during his school days where he would turn out for Don Bosco. He would bring with him 10 to 12 spare kits including bats, which he would distribute to his opponents, cricketers from less fortunate schools. “God put me in a good situation financially and I saw it as an opportunity to help the less privileged.” Later on, when Akbar played with great passion for the MCC in the TNCA first division league, he would provide opportunities to those without teams whom he felt were deserving.  An aggressive opening batsmen, he often used to target the roof of the stadium. His onslaughts were brutal. His career for Tamil Nadu, for someone so talented, was brief. He played for the State in the Ranji Trophy, Subbiah Pillai and graduated to Wills Trophy, all in the mid-80s. Akbar said, “I was never a yes man. There is a difference between confidence and arrogance. I was always confident, never arrogant.” He did have his mentors — T.E. Srinivasan, M.L. Jaisimha and G.R. Vishwanath. Bond with cricket Despite disappointments, his bond with cricket continued. Former celebrated England captain Nasser Hussain’s father Jawad worked for Akbar’s father as works manager before emigrating to England. The two families continued to stay in touch. Akbar stayed for two years in Jawad’s English home where he would watch the young Nasser bowl leg-spin and bat in the back-yard. That was the period where Akbar played for Ilford in Essex county, and among his teammates was Steve Waugh. “He was a quiet person and an intense competitor.” Then Nasser himself travelled to India for two years to play in the TNCA first division league under Akbar.  Meanwhile Akbar continued to influence people around him. While in the West Indies with the Hyderabad Blues team, he convinced Robin Singh to pursue his cricketing dreams in India. And for his first five years in India, Robin stayed in Akbar’s — the man with the golden heart — house. Just one half Cricket was just one half of Akbar’s persona. He made it to Formula-2 — a feat emulated by his son Armaan Ebrahim — and could only not progress further because of lack of sponsorship. Now, Armaan, busy with his Lamborghini, is keeping the family flag high in motor racing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/akbar-ebrahim-one-who-never-stopped-giving/article31562177.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||I’ve retired from active sports: Deepa Malik||Deepa Malik, the first Indian woman to claim a medal in the Paralympic Games, has retired from active sports, a decision she took before becoming the Paralympic Committee of India president earlier this year but revealed only on Monday. The 49-year-old, who won a silver in shot put F53 category in the 2016 Rio Paralympics, was elected PCI president in the elections held in February under the directives of Delhi High Court. PCI has been denied recognition by the sports ministry. “Who said I announced my retirement today? I have already retired in September last year before filing my nomination paper though I did not make a public announcement,” Malik said. “I submitted my letter of retirement to the PCI in September last year when the election process began. Only after that I was able to stand for PCI president’s post and I won the election and became president,” she said. Malik was bestowed the country’s highest sporting honour — the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna — last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ive-retired-from-active-sports-deepa-malik/article31562114.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sania wins Fed Cup Heart Award||Tennis star Sania Mirza on Monday became the first Indian to win the Fed Cup Heart Award for her successful return to the court post-motherhood. Overwhelming favourite Sania won the award for Asia/Oceania zone after securing more than 10,000 votes out of the total 16,985 online votes cast for this year’s three regional Group I nominees. After giving birth to her son, Izhaan, in October 2018, Sania returned to the court in January this year and instantly achieved success by clinching the women’s doubles title at Hobart International alongside Nadiia Kichenok. Sania, who made a comeback to Fed Cup after four years and helped India qualify for the play-offs for the first time in history, has decided to donate the $2000 prize money to the Telangana Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. “It’s an honour to win the Fed Cup Heart Award as the first Indian. I dedicate this award to the entire country and to all my fans and thank everyone for voting for me. “I hope to bring more laurels to the country in the future,” she said in a statement. The award is an International Tennis Federation initiative to recognise those Fed Cup players who represent their countries with distinction, show exceptional courage on court and demonstrate outstanding commitment to the ideals of the competition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/sania-wins-fed-cup-heart-award/article31562118.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||HCA starts functioning||The Hyderabad Cricket Association began functioning in a formal way at Rajiv Gandhi Stadium here on Monday by taking advantage of the relaxation in the lockdown guidelines. “After 50 days of lockdown, we have invited 30% of the staff who can play a significant role in charting out the future course of action for the coming season ahead,” HCA secretary R. Vijayanand told The Hindu . Apart from the secretary, vice-president K. John Manoj and treasurer Surender Agarwal also attented office. The curator Y.L. Chandrasekhar and a few administrative staff members were also there to kickstart the crucial works for the season ahead. “Tentatively, we have decided to hire the services of qualified coaches online for the benefit of the cricketers during the remaining phase of the lockdown and, if necessary, for a longer duration. The modalities will be finalised soon with the apex council taking a final call,” said Vijayanand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-starts-functioning/article31562335.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Shivlal Yadav bats for old zonal format||Former BCCI president N. Shivlal Yadav has appealed to the current chief Sourav Ganguly to seriously consider reviving the old zonal format for the Ranji Trophy in view of the whole calendar likely to be affected because of COVID-19 lockdown. “With cricketers, like all other athletes, uncertain about their immediate feature because of the current global crisis, it may not be a bad idea to have the old zonal format in which the top two or three teams from each zone make it to the knock-out phase of the Ranji Trophy,” Shivlal told The Hindu . “This will serve the dual purpose of saving money and also avoid the risk of a lot of travelling, which is the case in the existing format. This will also ensure that at least the national championship is completed even if the domestic season is off to a delayed start,” he said. Logistics “The zonal format would be ideal since it also means far less number of matches and consequently the logistics involved will be less complicated. “By restricting teams to their zone, safety measures during travel will not be an issue if the association’s prefer to have their own buses to travel for matches,” the former India off-spinner said. “Crowd is no more a factor when it comes to Ranji Trophy as fans are not showing the same interest as they did till the 90s. The players are used to playing in front of empty stands,” he said. Word of caution Shivlal also had a word of caution to when the season actually resumes. “Since, there is no guarantee of no one being affected with the virus even after the lockdown is lifted, each and every aspect, as per the health guidelines, has to be implemented including ensuring that all staff who deal with players directly and indirectly have no symptoms,” he said. “We are facing a unique crisis which demands practical solutions within the limitations with emphasis on safety of everyone involved in the game,” he said.  By restricting teams to their zone, safety measures during travel will not be an issue if the association’s prefer to have their own buses to travel for matches||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/shivlal-yadav-bats-for-old-zonal-format/article31562340.ece
12 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Aware primed to make the most of the situation||World championships medal-winning wrestler Rahul Aware feels the postponement of the Olympics has come as a godsend him. Aware, who claimed a gold medal in 57kg in the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games and a bronze medal in 61kg in the World championships in Nur-Sultan last year, saw the possibility of him returning to 57kg to stake claim for the Olympic quota place.  “The World championships (where Ravi Dahiya bagged the quota place in 57kg) happened in September last year. Now, there is a huge gap between the qualifying event and the Olympics. There is no guarantee that the wrestler who got India the slot would be in good form in future. “I think the Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) will go for selection trials. In such a scenario, I will give my 100%,” Aware, also a two-time Asian championships medallist, told The Hindu . Aware, who is undergoing training at the Maharashtra Police Academy in Nasik after being recruited as a Deputy Superintendent of Police, is keeping fit during the lockdown. “I used to go out into the city and train in a (wrestling) club. I had a couple of sparring partners there. After the lockdown, I am not able to leave the campus and [so] training on my own. Once the lockdown gets over, I will resume my normal training.” Hectic schedule For 28-year-old Aware, life is hectic in Nasik. “Our online classes are going on. I prepare and attend those classes, complete assignments, study 30 to 40 books on law and other related topics and do my daily training. I hardly get any time.” Aware fondly remembered his mother (Sharda), who stays in his village in Patoda, on Mother’s Day. “My mother never used to hide my mistakes from my father (Balasaheb) who was a top wrestler and a strict coach. She used to report if I went to play cricket or did not have proper diet. Because of their guidance, I could achieve something. “Now, my colleagues here in the academy are like my family members. They respect me for what I have achieved,” said Aware.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/aware-primed-to-make-the-most-of-the-situation/article31562261.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian Chess.com’s league from May 15||The inaugural Sukooon Resorts Indian Chess.com League (ICL), scheduled from May 15 to 17, brings together several young Grandmasters knocking on the doors of the National team. The 10-team online round-robin competition has attracted 25 GMs. As per ICL regulations, each team includes a woman player and an under-16 talent. The time-control will be 10 minutes plus two-second increment per move. Two leading teams from the league stage will clash in the superfinal. From the prize-fund of Rs. 1 lakh, Rs. 35,000 will go to the winner and Rs. 20,000 to the runner-up.  The teams: Chess Gurukul (average rating 2537): Aravindh Chithambaram, R. Praggnanandhaa, M. Karthikeyan, Aditya Mittal, R. Vaishali and R.B. Ramesh (non-playing Capt.).   Superkids (2514): N. Srinath (Capt.), Nihal Sarin, Arjun Ergaisi, Raunak Sadhwani and Divya Deshmukh.   Desi Boys (2498): Abhijeet Gupta, Vaibhav Suri, Debashis Das, Tania Sachdev, Raahil Mullick and Vishal Sareen (non-playing Capt.)   Five Fighters (2495): Vishnu Prasanna (Capt.), Surya Shekhar Ganguly, D. Gukesh, Luke Mendonca and Soumya Swaminathan.   United India (2742): Mohammad Nubairshah Shaikh (Capt.), Diptayan Ghosh, Harsha Bharathakoti, Prithu Gupta and Bhakti Kulkarni.   Chess Thulir (2467): M. Shyam Sundar (Capt.), G.A. Stany, N.R. Visakh, L.R. Srihari and P.V. Nandhidhaa.   Chess Gyaan (2459): M.R. Venkatesh (Capt.), Aryan Chopra, G. Akash, Aronyak Ghosh and Vantika Agarwal.   Chess Pathshala (2447): Swapnil Dhopade (Capt.), S.P. Sethuraman, Sankalp Gupta, Krishnater Kushager and Mrudul Dehankar.   Cheeky Cheetahs (2432): Abhimanyu Puranik, Raja Harshit, Rahul Srivatshav, Raja Rithvik, Aakanksha Hagawane and Atharva Godbole (non-playing Capt.).   Undercover Agents (2418): Padmini Rout (Capt.), Arjun Kalyan, Girish Kaushik, Koustav Chatterjee and Ajay Karthikeyan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-chesscoms-league-from-may-15/article31562265.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Something radical needs to be done’||India’s badminton coach P. Gopi Chand wants BWF to come up with “radical” solutions to restart the sport smoothly post COVID-19, suggesting that conducting more tournaments at a single venue could be the way forward. The coronavirus outbreak forced the Badminton World Federation (BWF) to suspend all events, including the Olympic qualifiers, till end of July. “BWF should talk to health staff and revise the format, the tournament structure itself and do whatever is required,” Gopi said. “My view is if something radical needs to be done, then let’s do it and go ahead with the sport,” he said. In a bid to salvage the international circuit, the governing body had postponed important events such as the Thomas and Uber Cup Final (October 3-11), besides asking for fresh slots from respective countries, including India, to conduct the suspended Olympic qualifiers. “My concern is that, you are trying to shift the dates, probably there needs to be a change in thinking. If the same thing continues, and the whole entourage is travelling again to different countries then it is again a risk for the players,” Gopi said. Shuttlers travel almost every week to a new tournament during the badminton season. Gopi said this should change.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/something-radical-needs-to-be-done/article31562112.ece
12 May 2020||Mumbai,||India should tour Australia: Gambhir||Former India opener Gautam Gambhir, MP, feels the BCCI should behave like a statesman in the current crisis and go ahead with India’s tour of Australia later this year. Gambhir was reacting to BCCI treasurer Arun Dhumal’s statement that if required, the Indian team could go into quarantine upon arrival for the scheduled tour in the Australian summer. However, the need for quarantine will arise only if the preceding T20 World Cup doesn’t take place. “Good on BCCI, fabulous. Good on them. This is a very very positive sign, because I think they are looking at a far bigger picture, that it will change the mood of the entire country as well. India is scheduled to play four Tests and if the tour doesn’t take place, Cricket Australia could lose as much as A$300 million. Gambhir said on Star Sports show ‘Cricket Connected’, the BCCI, being probably the richest and most powerful Board in the world, should look at the bigger picture. He would respect the BCCI a lot more if the tour took place, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-should-tour-australia-gambhir/article31562120.ece
12 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||KFA cancels unfinished DFA leagues||The Kerala Football Association (KFA) has decided to cancel all the pending district league matches for the 2019-20 season. The decision was taken at the emergency committee meeting of KFA last week. The members attended the meeting through teleconference and the decisions were communicated to all District Football Associations. The COVID-19 pandemic had forced many district football associations to suspend the leagues midway. The KFA has now asked the DFAs which completed their leagues to declare the positions of the clubs as per their standings in the league. The DFAs which were unable to complete their leagues were asked to cancel the remaining matches and maintain status quo. No promotion/relegation There will be no promotion or relegation for teams in the unfinished leagues. The KFA also deferred its decision to restructure the district leagues this season. It had wanted all district leagues to be held in a single group single division format from 2020-21 season. However, the restructured format shall be implemented from the 2021/22 season onwards in all districts. The meeting also decided to commence the player registration for the 2020-21 season from June 10. The DFAs have been asked to collect and remit annual membership fees to KFA at the earliest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kfa-cancels-unfinished-dfa-leagues/article31562393.ece
12 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Laxman bags title||GM R.R. Laxman emerged champion in main category of the Play2Help online chess tournament being organised by international player V. Laxman clinched the honours in a field of 41 players including four GMs, two WGMS, five IMS and one IWM. Details on the next edition interested may be accessed at play2help64.blogspot.com or over mobile number 8187093036.  Final placings:   Main category: 1. R.R. Laxman, 2. Mitrabha Guha, 3. Aravind Chithambaram, 4. G.A. Stany, 5. M.G. Gahan.   Best players: Women: Srreezza. Boys: U-15: Jubin Jimmy.   Girls: U-15: Vyshnavi .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/laxman-bags-title/article31562334.ece
12 May 2020||Dublin,||Balbirnie unsure about T20 WC||Ireland captain Andrew Balbirnie has a strong “gut feeling” that this year’s T20 World Cup in Australia will not take place due to the global COVID-19 crisis.  The ICC is still confident of hosting the event slated to be held in Australia in October-November. Speaking to IANS, an ICC official said that no meeting has taken place between the ICC and Cricket Australia over the last week and contingency planning continues.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/balbirnie-unsure-about-t20-wc/article31562127.ece
12 May 2020||London,||Premier League likely from June||Premier League clubs received a boost to their hopes of completing the season on Monday as the government published a “roadmap” that could see the return of elite sport in England from June 1. Under step two of that process, which cannot begin any earlier than June 1, sporting events would be allowed “to take place behind closed doors for broadcast, while avoiding the risk of large-scale social contact”. Such events will only be allowed if sufficient progress is made in limiting the spread of the virus. Premier League clubs had been planning for a return to action no earlier than the week beginning June 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/premier-league-likely-from-june/article31562129.ece
12 May 2020||NEW YORK,||Jerry Stiller, comedian and ‘Seinfeld’ actor, passes away at 92||Jerry Stiller, who for decades teamed with wife Anne Meara in a beloved comedy duo and then reached new heights in his senior years as the high-strung Frank Costanza on the classic sitcom ‘Seinfeld’ and the basement-dwelling father-in-law on ‘The King of Queens,’ died at 92, his son Ben Stiller said on Monday. “I’m sad to say that my father, Jerry Stiller, passed away from natural causes,” he said in a tweet. “He was a great dad and grandfather and the most dedicated husband to Anne for about 62 years. He will be greatly missed. Love you Dad,” wrote Ben, who followed in his father’s comedic footsteps and became an A-list box office star with movies like ‘Tropic Thunder’, ‘Dodgeball’ and ‘Something About Mary.’ Jerry Stiller was a multi-talented performer who appeared in an assortment of movies playing Walter Matthau’s police sidekick in the thriller ‘The Taking of Pelham One Two Three’ and Divine’s husband Wilbur Turnblad in John Waters’ twisted comedy ‘Hairspray.’ Stiller, though a supporting player on ‘Seinfeld’ created some of the Emmy-winning show’s most enduring moments- co-creator and model for the “bro,” a brassiere for men; a Korean War cook who inflicted food poisoning on his entire unit; an ever-simmering salesman controlling his explosive temper with the shouted mantra, “Serenity now!” Stiller earned an 1997 Emmy nomination for his indelible ‘Seinfeld’ performance. In a 2005 Esquire interview, he recalled that he was out of work and not the first choice for the role of Frank Costanza, father to Jason Alexander’s neurotic George. “My manager had retired,” he said. “I was close to 70 years old, and had nowhere to go.” It jump-started the septuagenarian’s career, landing him a spot playing Vince Lombardi in a Nike commercial and the role of another over-the-top dad on the long-running sitcom ‘King of Queens.’ While he was known as a nut-job father on the small screen, Stiller and wife Meara raised two children in their longtime home on Manhattan’s Upper West Side- daughter Amy, who became an actress, and son Ben, who would become perhaps the most famous Stiller as a writer, director and actor. Stiller was considerably quieter and reflective in person than in character - though just as funny. The son of a bus driver and a housewife, Stiller grew up in Depression-era Brooklyn. His inspiration to enter show business came at age 8, when his father took him to see the Marx Brothers in the comedy classic ‘A Night at the Opera.’ Years later, Stiller met Groucho Marx and thanked him. Stiller earned a drama degree at Syracuse University after serving in World War II, and then headed to New York City to launch his career. There was a brief involvement in Shakespearean theatre including a $55 a week job with Jack Klugman in ‘Coriolanus.’ But his life and career took off after he met Meara in spring 1953. They were married that fall. The seemingly mismatched pair — he a short, stocky Jewish guy from Brooklyn, she a tall, Irish Catholic from the Long Island suburbs — shared an immediate onstage chemistry, too. They were soon appearing on ‘The Ed Sullivan Show’ and working nightclubs nationwide. The pair also wrote and performed radio commercials, most memorably a series of bits for a little-known wine called Blue Nun. The duo’s ads boosted sales by 500%. Ben Stiller recalled trips with his sister to California when his parents would head west to do television appearances. The couple went on to appear as a team in dozens of film, stage and television productions. One of them was ‘After-Play,’ a 1995 off-Broadway show written by Meara. Stiller joined ‘Seinfeld’ in 1993 and moved on to ‘King of Queens’ when the other Jerry & company went off the air in 1998. He also appeared in Ben Stiller’s spoof on modelling ‘Zoolander,’ released in 2001.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/jerry-stiller-comedian-and-seinfeld-actor-passes-away-at-92/article31562110.ece
12 May 2020||May 12 2020 09:04 IST,||Sudoku - May 12, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-12-2020/article31562919.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||Help us return home, workers in Shahpur Jat appeal to W.B. govt.||Nearly 700 embroidery workers in Shahpur Jat have appealed to the West Bengal government to make arrangements for them to return to their home towns. With boutique owners refusing to provide monetary relief over the last two months due to lack of business, the workers said the authorities had not stepped forth to help. Hailing from Bengal’s Paschim Medinipur district, S.K. Riyazul Hossain said, “My entire family is back in Bengal. This time, due to the storms, our crops got damaged. The people who we used to work for have refused to pay us, barring a couple of them, who at times gave Rs. 500. But what will we do with it? Some of them have refused to take our calls and said that exports are not happening so they cannot pay. On an average my income was around Rs. 13,000. But in the last two months, it has been left to almost nothing.” No response “Times of crisis like this showed how people don’t really care about the poor like us, the worst-affected in this situation. Even the Bengal government has not said anything yet despite us appealing to them,” lamented Hossain, who has been an embroidery worker for over a decade now. With no response yet from the State government, the group of workers stated that taking the special trains, scheduled to start from Tuesday, was out of bounds for them as they would not be able to “afford the tickets”. “What are we going to do with the special trains? We are in the category of people who buy tickets for Rs. 600. How are we supposed to buy AC two-tier tickets and go home?” Mr. Hossain said. Shafiqual Islam, another worker added, “We have run out of our earnings and are borrowing money and grains to sustain ourselves. While a handful of landlords are good, some have gone to the extent of asking the tenants to leave the accommodation as they could not pay the rent. Where will we get the money to buy tickets for these special trains?” Lack of options Amid lack of options to make their journey back home, the workers said that they wanted the government to arrange for buses and were even ready to pay “whatever money that can be collected” for the tickets. “Buses are the best option as trains will only take us till Howrah. Our homes are another 3-4 hours from there and we do not want to get stranded at the station. So we want the government to arrange for a direct bus to our villages,” said S.K. Abdul Didar, another embroidery worker.  Buses are the best option as trains will only take us till Howrah. So we want the government to arrange for a direct bus to our villages  S.K. Abdul Didar  Embroidery worker||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/help-us-return-home-workers-in-shahpur-jat-appeal-to-wb-govt/article31562278.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||Sharjeel Imam moves HC against order granting more time to police||Former JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested for alleged inflammatory speeches during anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) protest, approached the Delhi High Court on Monday challenging a trial court order granting more time to Delhi Police to conclude investigation. Mr. Imam, in his plea, challenged the April 25 order of the trial court which granted three more months, beyond the statutory 90 days, to the police to complete the probe into the case filed under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Mr. Imam was arrested on January 28 from Bihar’s Jehanabad district in connection with the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act near Jamia Millia Islamia University in December last year which turned violent. Default bail He has sought default bail in the case on the ground that the investigation was not concluded within the statutory period of 90 days, which concluded on April 27. Mr. Imam complained that he was not even produced before the court for subsequent remands, every 15 days as per the mandate of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). The trial court had granted more time to the police after the investigating agency had submitted that due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the country and the ongoing lockdown, the pace of investigation was seriously disrupted. Delhi Police had registered a case against Mr. Imam under IPC Sections 124A (an offence by words, either spoken or written causes disaffection against government established by law), 153A (promoting enmity between different religious groups with an intent to create disharmony) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief). A case of sedition was also lodged against Mr. Imam for a speech he delivered at Aligarh Muslim University on January 16. Besides this, Assam Police had filed an FIR under the anti-terror law against him for his speech.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/sharjeel-imam-moves-hc-against-order-granting-more-time-to-police/article31562271.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Decide on action to be taken against DMC chief’||The Delhi High Court on Monday directed authorities here to take a call on action to be initiated against Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) chief Zafarul Islam Khan in a reasonable time while disposing of a petition seeking his removal from the post. A Bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Sangita Dhingra Sehgal, conducting the hearing through videoconferencing, was informed by the Delhi government’s counsel that the L-G had written a letter on April 30 to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for initiating action against Mr. Khan as per the provisions of Section 4 of the DMC Act, which provides for removal of a person from the post of chairperson or member. The High Court was informed that the L-G has also issued a show-cause notice to Mr. Khan on May 8 as to why action be not initiated against him. Following the submission, the court disposed of the petition seeking removal of the 72-year-old, who has been serving as the Chairperson of DMC since July 2017, over his controversial social media post.  Delhi Police, meanwhile, said Mr. Khan submitted his laptop to the police. An officer said that Mr. Khan was served a notice to provide the device that was used to post the message on social media. Responding to the notice, he had provided the laptop to the police. It has been sent to the FSL.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/decide-on-action-to-be-taken-against-dmc-chief/article31562273.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||Plea challenges decision to freeze DA of govt. staff||A petition before the Delhi High Court has challenged the Centre and the AAP government’s decision to freeze dearness allowance (DA) of public servants and pensioners in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The plea contended that there is no financial emergency to take such a step as Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) has around Rs. 3,800 crore corpus and according to news reports, PM CARES Fund has received Rs. 6,500 crore donation. The plea also contended that the decision to freeze DA of government employees has been taken at a time of rising inflation, especially in Delhi, where there has been an increase in price of fuel, liquor and essential commodities. It said the decision to freeze DA is in violation of constitutional provisions and the Disaster Management Act does not give the government any power to withhold salary as it also includes dearness allowance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/plea-challenges-decision-to-freeze-da-of-govt-staff/article31562275.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU to develop device for COVID-19 tests||JNU Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar on Monday said that the university has been given approval to carry out a project on COVID-19 testing that will be an alternative to RT-PCR test. Mr. Kumar said that Biotechnology Industry Research Assistance Council, a public sector enterprise set up by Department of Biotechnology, has given its nod to JNU under diagnostics category to develop a low-cost portable device for large-scale screening of the viral infections. The V-C said that currently, the detection of COVID-19 infection is being mostly done by reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) by using a real-time PCR machine, a very accurate lab test for detecting, tracking and studying the virus. However, this technology is expensive, requires high-end laboratory-based equipment and is time-consuming. He added that there is also a need of expert personnel to operate the instrument and perform the testing at the laboratory reducing its capacity of sample handling per day. “To overcome the cost and other disadvantages of the conventional methods, a team from the School of Biotechnology, JNU, has designed a chip-based low-cost portable spatial RT-PCR where the PCR has been integrated with an in-built detection system containing LED and diode detector enabling us to perform a point-of-care measurement,” the V-C said. He added that JNU has already filed an Indian Patent application on this technology that can complete the testing in about 50 minutes as compared to 120-180 minutes required for conventional real-time PCR. The V-C added that the university was targeting to demonstrate the first prototype testing device in about four months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jnu-to-develop-device-for-covid-19-tests/article31562283.ece
12 May 2020||New Delhi,||Baijal meets directors, V-Cs of universities||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on Monday held a meeting through videoconference with the Vice-Chancellors of universities and Director, IIITD, to review preparedness for online learning, pending examinations, internships, placements and admissions for the forthcoming sessions. All V-Cs and Directors of universities, Mr. Baijal said, should emphasise on the use of technology for teaching-learning, admission processes and examinations. He told them to ensure continuity of educational activities along with the safety of students, faculty members and staff.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/baijal-meets-directors-v-cs-of-universities/article31562279.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. plans to develop protocol for schools||Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday announced that the Delhi government was initiating a dialogue with students, parents, teachers and principals of schools to take suggestion on how to resume school education post the lockdown. The government said that key stakeholders from all over Delhi will be able to give their suggestions and inputs that the Delhi government should implement once the schools reopen. An online suggestion form has been put up on the website of the Directorate of Education, the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/govt-plans-to-develop-protocol-for-schools/article31562284.ece
12 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Notice to DU over harassment complaints||The Delhi Commission for Women (DCW) on Monday issued a notice to DU over reports of harassment to students residing in the North East Students’ House for Women. The DCW in its letter said: “Students were allegedly asked to vacate the hostel, which appears to have been withdrawn. Further, they have alleged being subjected to harassment.” DU has been asked to respond by May 15.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/notice-to-du-over-harassment-complaints/article31562276.ece
