18 May 2020||New Delhi,||Lockdown extended; States will take a call on infection zones||The Centre on Sunday extended the nationwide lockdown, first imposed on March 24, for the fourth time till May 31 while giving considerable flexibility to the States in deciding red, green and orange zones of COVID-19 intensity. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), in its fresh guidelines for Lockdown 4.0, eased restrictions considerably by allowing inter-State movement of buses and cars, opening of all shops, except those in malls and containment zones, and the delivery of non-essential items through online shopping platforms. Barber shops and salons can also open. The 33% restriction on workforce in offices has also been done away with. The decision to extend the lockdown was taken after the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) directed the Centre and the State governments to continue the lockdown measures to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The National Executive Committee (NEC), chaired by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, was directed to modify the lockdown guidelines keeping in view the need to restart economic activities. While metro systems, domestic and international air travel continue to remain suspended, the new guidelines allow plying of auto-rickshaws, cab aggregators and private taxis, subject to permission by local authorities. Special train services will continue to operate on limited routes. The National Directives for COVID-19 Management said that the practice of work from home should be followed to the extent possible and staggered work hours should be adopted in respect of all offices and other establishments. “There should be provision for thermal scanning, hand wash and sanitisers at all entry and exit points and common areas; and all work places and other sensitive locations are to be sanitised regularly. In work places, social distancing would also need to be ensured through adequate distance between workers, adequate gaps between shifts, staggering the lunch break of staff and so on,” the guidelines said. The MHA said the Aarogya Setu mobile app is a powerful tool “to facilitate quick identification of persons infected by COVID-19 or at risk of being infected, thus acting as a shield for individuals and the community.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-extended-states-will-take-a-call-on-infection-zones/article31611090.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre throws open all sectors to private players||The Centre has agreed to demands from States to hike their borrowing limits from 3% to 5% of their GDP in light of the COVID-19 crisis, but on the condition that they implement specific reforms. The fifth and final tranche of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan stimulus package, announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday, also included an additional Rs. 40,000 crore allocation for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), and a new policy welcoming private companies into every sector of industry, while limiting public sector enterprises to strategic sectors only. Corporate enterprises were also offered some relief via changes to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) and the Companies Act. The total package amounts to almost Rs. 21 lakh crore by the Centre’s accounting, but is heavy on credit-related measures, including Rs. 8 lakh crore worth of liquidity enhancing measures by the RBI. Some analysts felt that this amounted to double counting as the credit guarantee schemes to support small companies and non-banking finance companies would also tap into the RBI’s measures. “The final picture shows that of the Rs. 20.97 lakh crore stimulus package — which amounts to 9.8% of GDP — only Rs. 2.2 lakh crore can be traced as direct additional budgetary cost to the Central exchequer, while another Rs. 1.55 lakh crore relates to already budgeted expenditures,” said Ernst and Young chief policy adviser D.K. Srivastava, who is also on the Advisory Council for the 15th Finance Commission. “The remaining 85% comes from the RBI’s liquidity announcements, credit guarantee schemes and insurance schemes, apart from the structural reforms which are not really stimulus or relief measures.” The decision to allocate Rs. 40,000 crore to the MGNREGA scheme in addition to the Rs. 61,000 crore allocated in the Budget was widely welcomed, as a measure that will support rural livelihoods at a time when returning migrants swell unemployment in the villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-throws-open-all-sectors-to-private-players/article31611087.ece
18 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Cabinet meeting today on lockdown||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has convened a meeting of his Cabinet on Monday to discuss the fourth phase of lockdown announced by the Central government and steps to be taken by the State government in that context. The meeting has been scheduled for Monday as the government has reportedly decided to wait for finer details relating to the relaxations announced by the Centre as part of Lockdown 4.0. The Centre decided to extend the ongoing lockdown till May 31 while the State had already extended it till May 29. Following the Centre’s decision to extend the lockdown, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba had convened a video conference with chief secretaries, DGPs and senior officials of various departments late Sunday evening to discuss about the finer details of the fresh restrictions. The proceedings of the video conference are expected to give clarity about the measures announced by the Centre and would enable the State to chart out its course of action accordingly. In view of this, the Chief Minister had convened the meeting of the Cabinet to evolve a State specific action plan that would include the relaxations that should be given and the stringency with which the ongoing lockdown especially in the containment zones should be implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cabinet-meeting-today-on-lockdown/article31611352.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Decision on bus services likely today||A decision on the resumption of public transport in the State is likely to be taken on Monday. The State government is holding a meeting to decide the fate of operations of the four State Transport Undertakings (STUs)- the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), the North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), the North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), and the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC). As Lockdown 3.0 ended on Sunday, people were expecting a decision on resumption of public transport in the State. The Ministry of Home Affairs’ order on Sunday has left the decision on operation of buses to the discretion of the States. Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi will meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday to discuss the issue. The four STUs together have about 24,000 buses, including 1,520 AC buses. According to a letter by Mr. Savadi to Nitin Gadkari, Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways, operations of STU buses will resume in a phased manner. The letter also states that full occupancy up to seating capacity, without anyone standing, should be allowed to meet minimal demand. “…with social distancing norm of reduced seating capacity in public transport, it will not be possible to provide transport facility to all the daily passengers. This will create demand for more buses, which cannot be met,” the letter added. Sources said only non-AC buses are likely to be operated once the government gives the green signal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/decision-on-bus-services-likely-today/article31611128.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Lockdown relaxed in 25 districts in T.N.||As many as 25 districts in Tamil Nadu have been granted fresh relaxations, including limited operation of bus transport, while the existing restrictions will continue in Chennai and 11 other districts during the lockdown that has been extended till May 31. On Sunday, when the State witnessed 639 COVID-19 cases, taking its tally past 11,000, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced that no relaxation in lockdown conditions would be applicable in containment zones across Tamil Nadu. The relaxations for 25 districts were announced following recommendations by the Expert Committee constituted to shape the exit strategy from the lockdown. A senior official part of the Expert Committee told The Hindu that the districts were classified based on the medical bulletins on COVID-19 released over the past few days. A Government Order on the subject, in line with Sunday’s notification of the Union Home Ministry, was issued later. Following the relaxations, vehicle passes will not be required for travel within the districts of Coimbatore, Salem, Erode, Tiruppur, Namakkal, Karur, Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi, Kanniyakumari, Theni, Madurai, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Dindigul, Pudukkottai, Tiruchi, Tiruvarur, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Vellore and the Nilgiris. An e-pass will be required only for inter-district travel. In these districts, government and private buses permitted to operate for government duty and approved private industries can carry a maximum of 20 passengers. Vans and SUVs can carry a maximum of seven and three passengers respectively. Two passengers, excluding the driver, can travel in hatchbacks. While taxis, autorickshaws, Metro Rail and EMUs are not allowed to resume operations, rental vehicles and taxis can be used in the 25 districts for essential work, such as agriculture, business, medical reasons and work-related travel. Nonetheless, the Chief Minister appealed to the public to avoid stepping out of homes unnecessarily and travel within a district only for essential needs. Tourists to the Nilgiris, Kodaikanal and Yelagiri hill stations will not be permitted. Asked why the State government had not allowed household help to resume work, a senior official pointed out, “Even the notification issued by the Centre has not mentioned anything about allowing them.”  Restrictions in 12 districts  Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Kallakurichi, Tiruvannamalai, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts will see no change in the existing lockdown conditions. However, “taxis and autorickshaws with TN e-pass can be used only for going out for medical treatment.” In Municipal Corporations, Municipalities and town panchayats, excluding areas under Chennai City Police limits, permitted private firms employing less than 100 persons, can use 100% of its workforce. Companies employing over 100 persons can function with 50% of them or a minimum of 100 employees would be allowed to work. The government also allowed carrying out of essential maintenance work in private and commercial establishments that have remained temporarily closed. Evaluation of Class XII public exam answer sheets would also be allowed. Sports coaching with coaches for national and international events would be allowed provided permission was obtained from District Collector or Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation, as the case may be. The government also allowed 100% workforce for MGNREGS, as opposed to the existing 50% norm. Mr. Palaniswami added the decision to extend the lockdown was taken after considering inputs from District Collectors, public health and medical experts and senior Ministers. “Tamil Nadu government has been watching the spread COVID-19 and would announce more relaxations as and when there is a decrease in the spread of the disease,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Palaniswami added that steps would be taken to operate two trains a week with permission from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-relaxed-in-25-districts-in-tn/article31611191.ece
18 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pvt. doctors seek access to clinical registry||With the return of expatriates and Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) from other parts of the country, Kerala has moved into the next phase of COVID-19 containment, when an exponential increase in the number of cases could overwhelm the public health system. In the earlier phases of containment, an aggressive quarantining and contact-tracing exercise had ensured that almost all of the COVID-19 cases were picked up early and case fatality kept at a low. Ironically, this triumph in the earlier phases could actually turn out to be a handicap in the current containment phase when hospitalisations spike and the proportion of serious cases may go up, clinicians fear. Previous experience “Our experience in the previous phases has largely been restricted to the management of mild cases. But moving into the next phase, this “inexperience” in the management of serious cases could be a major disadvantage resulting in increased case fatality,” a senior clinician says. Public health experts point out that dengue mortality used to be quite high in the initial years, stabilised only in recent years as doctors became more experienced in dengue management. In fact, Kerala has only had a handful — may be six or seven — severe cases of COVID-19 which required ICU care and three of whom had died. “How many clinicians in the State are aware of the critical care protocols involved in managing a serious COVID-19 patient? The lockdown period before expatriates started coming should have been better utilised in preparing the medical fraternity in managing emergencies,” he adds. It is becoming more evident that the situation now is not something that the health system can handle on its own and that private health sector would soon have to step in to provide care. “Most clinicians in the private sector have had little exposure to the clinical features or course of disease progression of COVID-19. We have had nearly 600 cases but the government is yet to share any of the details with the State’s medical fraternity,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pvt-doctors-seek-access-to-clinical-registry/article31611416.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 5,000 cases recorded on Sunday||Maharashtra registered its highest single-day increase of 2,347 COVID-19 cases to take its overall tally to 33,053 and 1,198 deaths. With 34 new deaths, Gujarat’s toll increased to 659. Tamil Nadu registered 639 more cases, and its death toll rose by four to take the tally to 79. Reports from the State Health Departments put the nationwide tally at 95,622 cases and the death toll at 3,021. With an increase of 5,034 cases on Sunday, infections are now doubling every 13.8 days if data of past seven days are considered. This is among the fastest in the list of countries with the highest number of infections. The average number of new cases per day from May 10-16 has risen to 3,989, compared to a daily average of 3,675 from May 8-14. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday that the country’s fatality rate had fallen to 3.1% and the recovery rate had improved to 37.5%. He added that there were 3.1% patients in ICU, 0.45% on ventilators and 2.7% on oxygen support. India’s testing capacity had increased to 1,00,000 tests per day through 373 government laboratories and 152 private laboratories, the government said. Cumulatively, 22,79,324 tests have been done so far for COVID-19. India had 916 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,80,473 beds (Isolation beds- 1,61,169 and ICU beds- 19,304) and 2,044 dedicated COVID Health Centres with 1,28,304 beds (Isolation beds- 1,17,775).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/over-5000-cases-recorded-on-sunday/article31611085.ece
18 May 2020||Shivpuri,||On unforgiving road, till death did them apart||Reaching home a couple of days late was all right for Yaqoob Mohammad but not returning to his village alone, without his friend Amrit Ramcharan. “Both our parents are waiting. We had left home together to work in Surat and decided to return together,” said Mr. Yaqoob. When his febrile friend was dumped along the highway in Kolaras of Shivpuri district in Madhya Pradesh on Friday by a truck headed for Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Yaqoob disembarked, too. “I couldn’t leave him alone in that condition. Other workers in the truck felt he carried the coronavirus, but he was my friend. They refused to call for medical help,” he recalled. Alongside the Mumbai-Agra highway, before the ambulance arrived, Mr. Yaqoob cushioned his friend’s head on his lap and sprinkled water to keep him from sinking. The same night, Ramcharan’s temperature shot up to 105 degrees and he was put on a ventilator, but could not survive. Travelling some 850 km, huddled up in an open truck in searing heat, he had suffered a heat stroke and dehydration. “Their repeated appeals to stop the truck at a water point went in vain,” said A. L. Sharma, Shivpuri Chief Medical and Health Officer. Mr. Yaqoob was Ramcharan’s roommate for three ye-ars. He is now at an isolation facility at the district hospital. Their samples have been collected for COVID-19 test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/on-unforgiving-road-till-death-did-them-apart/article31611485.ece
18 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Health-care worker among 14 new cases||The number of COVID-19 cases continued to spiral up in the State, with 14 more testing positive for the disease on Sunday. While 12 of these are imported cases of infection, two cases, including that of a health care worker, were picked up from the community. Malappuram accounted for four of the cases, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kannur had two cases each, while Kollam, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kasaragod reported one case each. Of the 14 new cases, two had returned from the Gulf and 10 had come from Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. The case in Kollam is that of a health worker and the one in Ernakulam is a Uttar Pradesh native, who had returned from Maldives. 101 active cases A total of 101 COVID-19 patients are currently undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the State. So far, the State has reported 601 cases of COVID-19, of which 497 cases have already recovered. Since May 7, when expatriates began to be allowed into the country, Kerala has received 60,612 of Non-Resident Keralites, of whom 3,467 had come through various airports, 1,033 through sea ports, 55,086 through border check-posts and 1,026 by trains. The number of persons under surveillance in the State jumped from 48,825 to 62,529 overnight, of whom, 61,855 are quarantined in homes and 674 are in isolation in hospitals. Till date, the State has tested samples from 45,027 persons, of which 43,200 have returned a negative result. As part of sentinel surveillance, another 5,009 samples from the community have also been tested, of which 4,764 have been negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/health-care-worker-among-14-new-cases/article31611421.ece
18 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Go the whole hog to help migrants: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked officials to extend all help to the migrant workers on humanitarian grounds. Speaking to the officials over telephone on Sunday, he said, “There should not be any dearth of facilities and food to the workers. This is the time to show sympathy and help them generously. Don’t step back on expenditure involved.” Relief centres He asked officials to arrange buses for the workers walking on the highway and shift them to the nearest relief centre. Responding, the officials told Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy that 4,661 workers were stopped at various check-posts and shifted to 62 relief centres in the last three days. Of them, 485 were heading to various districts in the State, and the remaining were from States such as Odisha, Bihar, U.P., Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney spoke to her Odisha counterpart on the issue, following which the neighbouring State agreed to receive the migrant workers from that State at Ganjam. Following the agreement, 902 Odisha workers – 470 from Prakasam, 410 from Krishna and 22 from Srikakulam districts were sent to that State on Saturday night. Another 450 workers from Guntur district would be sent on Sunday. The officials said that all the police check-posts were provided with staff from the Revenue Department to counsel the workers to visit the relief centres with a promise to send them by the special trains. Meanwhile, DGP D. Gautam Sawang, Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, Krishna Collector A.Md. Imtiaz bid farewell to the 1,500 workers from Manipur and Assam, at Rayanapadu railway station, said Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha. Similarly, 96 workers were sent to their respective States from Kovvur in West Godavari district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/reach-out-to-migrants-says-jagan/article31611061.ece
18 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State registers one death, 25 new cases||The State has reported one more COVID-19 death and only 25 new cases during the last 24 hours, which is the lowest daily tally in the past one month that witnessed 1,846 cases. Until now, the lowest daily tally in the past one month was 31 reported on April 18. According to the bulletin by the Health Department, the tally has risen to 2,380, including 150 migrant ones, while the toll reached 50. With 103 fresh recoveries, active cases came down to 874, while a total of 1,456 patients recovered. The recovery rate is 61% and the mortality rate is 2.1%. Among the migrant cases, 23 patients recovered in Anantapur. The new cases were detected in Srikakulam (7), Chittoor (4), Guntur (4), Kurnool (3), Prakasam (3), Visakhapatnam (3) and Nellore (1). All the new cases in Prakasam and one case each in Chittoor and Kurnool are linked to the Koyambedu market. The new death was reported in Krishna district, which has so far registered a toll of 15, the second-highest in the State after Kurnool, which saw 19 deaths. Meanwhile, the consistent recoveries continue to bring down the number of active patients by the day. Even Kurnool, with the highest number of cases, has a recovery rate of 66%.  Positive trend In the past 24 hours, 9,880 tests were conducted, and so far 2.38 lakh samples had been tested. The overall positivity rate is 0.99%. District-wise tally is as follows: Kurnool (611), Guntur (417), Krishna (367), Chittoor (177), Nellore (150), Anantapur (122), Kadapa (102), Visakhapatnam (75), West Godavari (70), Prakasam (66), East Godavari (52), Srikakulam (14), Vizianagaram (7) and migrant cases (150).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-registers-one-death-25-new-cases/article31611083.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,||State to decide today on nature of Lockdown 4.0||The State government will decide on the nature of implementation of phase four of the lockdown on Monday, with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa scheduled to chair a high-level meeting of senior Ministers and officials, following the Ministry of Home Affairs issuing a notification on fresh guidelines on Sunday night. “The steps to be taken and the guidelines to be issued for the State will be discussed and finalised in the meeting,” a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office said on Sunday. Sources in the CMO also said that the State was unlikely to deviate much from the Centre’s guidelines. Meanwhile, as phase three of the lockdown ended on Sunday night, the State government issued an order to extend the current guidelines to be implemented till the midnight of May 19. Sources said that this was done since the State was yet to decide on the relaxation to be given in phase four that will now be in place till May 31. Another suggestion by the State to do away with the colour zones to demarcate districts, a point that Mr. Yediyurappa also raised during the videoconferencing with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seems to have been accepted, with States now being able to decide the delineation of red, green, and orange zones. These issues will figure during the Chief Minister’s meeting on Monday. It may be noted that the State government too had favoured the guideline regarding the protection of vulnerable sections, like those above 65 years and those below 10 years, by making them remain at home and to travel only for essential reasons. These issues have found a mention in the MHA guidelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-to-decide-today-on-nature-of-lockdown-40/article31611129.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Discontinue free power for farmers, says Centre||Tamil Nadu and other States have been advised by the Central government to discontinue their schemes of free electricity for farmers and instead adopt direct benefit transfer (DBT). This is one of the conditions attached to the permission given to the States to increase their borrowing limit. The States have been given time till March 2021 to rollout the DBT. By December 31, 2020, each State should implement it at least in one district, according to a communication sent by the Department of Expenditure in the Union Ministry of Finance to the State governments on Sunday. The genesis of the free power scheme for farmers in Tamil Nadu can be traced to the AIADMK government’s decision to cover small and marginal farmers in September 1984. Six years later, the DMK government extended it to “big farmers too.” Only twice in all these years did the State attempt to change it, but the bid met with failure. A total of 21.4 lakh farm connections are enjoying free power. Although the Centre permitted States to hike borrowing limit by 2% in the fiscal deficit-Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) ratio, they enjoy the benefit only if they implement the reforms recommended by the Centre, at least in three out of four areas. There is also an untied component – 0.5%. If the State governments do not follow the Centre’s prescription on the DBT for the farm sector, they would not be eligible to raise the borrowing limit by 0.15%, which forms part of the overall figure of 0.25% for the power sector reforms. There are three other areas — “one nation, one ration card,” ease of doing business and reforms in urban local bodies/utilities. Each of the four areas carries a weight of 0.25% each. If a State implements the Centre’s stipulations in the three out of the four areas, it will get 0.5% additionally. There are two other components in the power sector reforms — reduction in aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses and narrowing the gap between the Average Cost of Supply (ACS) and the Average Revenue Realisation (ARR), which is Rs. 2.21 per unit in the case of Tamil Nadu. The additional borrowing limit of 0.1% has been earmarked for the two components. Besides, the reforms in urban local governance include revision of property tax rates and user charges for water and sewer connections. The deadline for the revision is January 15, 2021. This is another area that is regarded by those in power, regardless of the party, as a “hot stove.” For years together, the rates and user charges have remained untouched in the State, despite recommendations of the successive State Finance Commissions in this effect. The State government has no problem in dealing with “one nation, one ration card” (ONOR) and the ease of business doing. As a matter of principle, it decided to implement the ONOR, which was, on an experimental basis, launched in two districts in January. As for the other, the State has a law which can be strengthened to cater to the Centre’s stipulations. If Tamil Nadu is able to make use of the additional limit fully, it can go up to about Rs. 1.04 lakh crore at the fiscal deficit-GSDP ratio of 5%. For the current year, the State government’s plan for net borrowing is about Rs. 62,000 crore at the ratio of 2.84%. There is an indication that it may borrow Rs. 25,000 crore - Rs. 30,000 crore more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/discontinue-free-power-for-farmers-says-centre/article31611185.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||42 new COVID cases in TS||The run of stepped up COVID-19 cases in the State continued with 42 more being reported on Sunday, taking the total number to 1,551, so far. Of the new cases, 37 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, two from Rangareddy and three are migrants. Till date, a total of 57 migrants tested positive for coronavirus. Besides, 21 people were discharged on Sunday. Among the 1,551 cases are 525 active cases, 992 persons who were discharged and 34 people who died during treatment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/42-new-covid-cases-in-ts/article31611350.ece
18 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha braces for Amphan impact||Odisha is bracing for heavy rain under the influence of severe cyclonic storm Amphan, which is set to skirt away from the State’s northern coast to make landfall between West Bengal and Bangladesh. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Sunday: “The severe cyclonic storm ‘AMPHAN’ over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood slightly moved and lay centred over central parts of South Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood about 980 km south of Paradip (Odisha), 1,130 km south-southwest of Digha (West Bengal) and 1,250 km south-southwest of Khepupara (Bangladesh).” Rain will commence in Odisha from May 18 with heavy rainfall likely at isolated places over Gajapati, Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/odisha-braces-for-amphan-impact/article31611486.ece
18 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Jharkhand CM lashes out at U.P. govt.||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Sunday lashed out at his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath for the ‘inhuman treatment’ meted out to migrant workers who died in a road accident in U.P.’s Auraiya district on Saturday. Taking strong exception to the migrant workers’ bodies being transported by trucks, Mr. Soren tweeted, “Heartless to see @UPGovt led by @myogiadityanath ji could not even arrange for ambulance to transport the bodies of migrant workers to their families. I request @NitishKumarji to arrange ambulance for remaining journey to Bokaro and accord them some dignity in death.” However, he deleted it later and tweeted again. He also announced Rs. 4 lakh ex gratia to the next of kin of all the 11 people killed and Rs. 50,000 to those injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jharkhand-cm-lashes-out-at-up-govt/article31611487.ece
18 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Inhuman to send bodies by trucks, says Soren||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Sunday lashed out at his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath on Twitter for the ‘inhuman treatment’ meted out to migrant workers who died in a road accident in U.P.’s Auraiya district on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/inhuman-to-send-bodies-by-trucks-says-soren/article31611294.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre’s guidelines in line with Delhi proposal: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the Centre’s guidelines for the fourth phase of lockdown are largely in line with the proposal sent by the Delhi government. The proposal, he said, was based on suggestions of lakhs of Delhiites.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centres-guidelines-in-line-with-delhi-proposal-cm/article31611293.ece
18 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. withdraws order on increased working hours||The Uttar Pradesh government has withdrawn its order increasing daily work shifts in manufacturing units from 8 hours to 12 hours. The Yogi Adityanath-led government had on May 8 passed a notification diluting the provisions of the Factories Act, 1948.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-withdraws-order-on-increased-working-hours/article31611295.ece
18 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||COVID-19 cases see sudden jump in NE||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in the Northeast has almost quadrupled in a little more than a fortnight since May 2. What has intrigued doctors is that many of the new cases do not have any travel history besides maintaining minimum or no contact with people who had tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-cases-see-sudden-jump-in-ne/article31611488.ece
18 May 2020||Hyderabad,||17-Page-1-Nearby-1||All forms of medical services, including elective surgeries, will resume in government hospitals under the purview of DME. Orders to stop elective surgeries were issued on March 17 in view of COVID-19. However, Gandhi Hospital and Government Chest Hospital will continue to function as ‘nodal COVID-19 centres’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/17-page-1-nearby-1/article31611348.ece
18 May 2020||Hyderabad,||17-Page-1-Nearby-2||For the first time in many years due to the lockdown, the annual Youm-ul-Quran public meeting will not be organised at Mecca Masjid. The meeting witnesses large crowds on Jumatul Vida, the last Friday before Eid. This year, Youm-ul-Quran speeches will be streamed on social media, including Facebook and Twitter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/17-page-1-nearby-2/article31611349.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,||HC rejects pleas of Premji, others||The High Court of Karnataka has rejected the petitions filed by Azim H. Premji, former Chairman and Managing Director of Wipro, his wife, and three others, questioning the summons issued by a city court.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-rejects-pleas-of-premji-others/article31611133.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,||40 Maharashtra returnees test positive in State||COVID-19 cases linked to Maharashtra continued to haunt several districts in Karnataka on Sunday. Forty returnees from Mumbai and Kolhapur — 18 of whom are in Mandya and the rest in Hassan, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, and Shivamogga — tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/40-maharashtra-returnees-test-positive-in-state/article31611131.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Shooting for serials set to resume from May 25||Your favourite television serials, presently off air due to lockdown, are likely to resume mid-June. After a break of over a month, shooting is set resume from May 25. The Kannada Television Association (KTVA) has secured permission from the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/shooting-for-serials-set-to-resume-from-may-25/article31611132.ece
18 May 2020||KALABURAGI,||‘Release insurance relief to dead worker’s family’||The Kalaburagi District Health and Family Welfare Department has urged the State government to release Rs. 50 lakh medical insurance compensation under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Scheme to the family of health worker Sharda Ningappa who died on May 15. In a release here on Sunday, the District Health and Family Welfare Officer said that the district administration has urged the government to settle the insurance cover in favour of the deceased Sharada (42) , who fell off from a vehicle near Kallur Cross while travelling from Magangera to the Jewargi Taluk Health Office. The health worker was on duty spreading awareness about COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/release-insurance-relief-to-dead-workers-family/article31611326.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Airports to adopt new security protocol||As airlines prepare to resume domestic operations after the lockdown, the security protocol has been redefined at airports across the country. According to sources in the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security, body frisking and pat-down search of passengers will be dispensed with till further notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/airports-to-adopt-new-security-protocol/article31611189.ece
18 May 2020||ERODE,||Teachers at exam centres to get PPEs||The State government will provide personal protective equipment (PPEs) to teachers on duty for the Class 10 board exams at centres located in COVID-19 containment zones, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan, said on Sunday. The School Education Department had ascertained that no student appearing for the exams was infected by the novel coronavirus and added that all precautionary measures were being taken at the centres, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/teachers-at-exam-centres-to-get-ppes/article31611187.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Corpn. reactivates camps for migrant workers||With the cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ centred over the same region at 5.30 p.m. on Saturday, cyclone warning signal two was hoisted by port officials here on Sunday. The storm was 1,040 km south of Paradip (Odisha) and 1,200 km south-southwest of Digha (West Bengal) and 1,300 km south-southwest of Khepupara (Bangladesh).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/corpn-reactivates-camps-for-migrant-workers/article31611188.ece
18 May 2020||New Delhi,||It’s a Rs. 3.22 lakh crore package: Congress||The actual quantum of the Atmanirbhar stimulus package announced by the government is not Rs. 20 lakh crore or 10% of the country’s GDP as claimed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi but merely Rs. 3.22 lakh crore, which is 1.6% of the GDP, the Congress said on Sunday, hours after Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the final tranche. Addressing an online press conference, Congress spokesperson and Rajya Sabha member Anand Sharma said while the Congress welcomed the additional allocation of Rs. 40,000 crore for the Mahatama Gandhi Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, all the announcements put together add up to a fraction of what the government had promised. “It all adds up to Rs. 3.22 lakh crore, beginning from the first announcement of Rs. 1.76 lakh crore, which is 1.6% of the GDP. This is not a time for political one-upmanship, but, I would like to debate this with the Finance Minister, let her contradict what I am saying that what you have given does not total up even to 2% of the GDP,” Mr. Sharma said. Loan route The Congress has been criticising the government of taking the loan route instead of extending immediate help with cash transfers. “We want to convey that there is a huge difference between what is wage support, income support, financial support and stimulus to the economy as compared to the borrowing, credit and additional loan,” he added. Because of the extended lockdown, which was extended for the fourth time on Sunday, the country had lost more than 7% of the GDP, which amounted to Rs. 18 lakh crore, he said. The party also criticised the opening up of sensitive sectors, including nuclear energy, to the private sector.  “Corona pandemic and the National Disaster Management Act have not empowered the government to embark upon a grand clearance sale, as I said yesterday [on Saturday] of India’s national assets. These issues will have to be discussed, revisited and corrected,” he added. Parliaments of nearly 23 countries had met virtually, but “we continue to dither even to hold meetings of standing committees of Parliament. What is happening in India? We are the largest democracy. We are taking the ordinance route arbitrarily,” Mr. Sharma said.  The Congress also criticised Ms. Sitharaman’s claim of adequate support to the State governments. “Modi govt. acting as a ‘mai-baap’ sarkar to state govts. Tax devolution and statutory grants to state governments is now passed of as “generous support”. It’s your primary Constitutional obligation, Finance Minister, and comes before Centre’s own expenditure,” Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/its-a-rs-322-lakh-crore-package-congress/article31611026.ece
18 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Pandemic brings Uttarakhand’s ‘ghost’ hamlets to life||“ Aapada main avsar (opportunity in disaster)”— Tribhuvan Oniyal has latched on to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s phrase to turn the pandemic into a possibility to inject life into the ghost villages of Pauri Garhwal in Uttarkhand. Every day, the social activist and journalist gets calls from people who have left the villages in Pauri Garhwal for a better life in the cities. “Every day, I get five-six calls from residents who migrated many years back for better prospects. These are not exactly from abandoned villages but those which still have half a dozen families,” says Mr. Oniyal, who lives in Sangaura village with his father Vidyadutt Sharma. Mr. Sharma incidentally is the protagonist of Nirmal Chander’s documentary Moti Bagh , which was nominated for the 92nd Academy Awards and captures life in the hills of Pauri Garhwal, the district with the highest number of abandoned villages in the State. Harsh life “I know it won’t be easy. Out of 10 families returning, only two or three will stay back. Some of them who settled in western Uttar Pradesh decades back are for a picnic; some will not be able to cope with the harsh life of hills and return once the pandemic subsides,” he says. Rajendra Singh, who was in a marketing job in Delhi, returned to his village, Thampla, in mid-March to make arrangements for his mother’s barsi (a ritual performed a year after the death of a person). “After the lockdown, my family somehow reached here a few days back and are quarantined in our four-room house,” Mr. Singh said. The two months have given him an opportunity to return to farming. “I grew vegetables and chaulai (Himalayan Amaranth), enough to feed a few families. So hunger will not be an issue. As for education, I can send my daughter to Pauri, 18 km away. If government provides some support, I won’t return,” he says. In Pabau, the young block development officer Praveen Bhatt is optimistic. “These are early days, but yes, there are stories of families returning after eight years to the same house they padlocked, to be quarantined,” he says. But returning to abandoned houses is not always a pleasant experience. “In Asnoli village, a family returned after five years to find that their house was not habitable. So we had to quarantine them in a school,” says Mohd Mujtaba Khan, district information officer. A total of 23,423 migrants had reached 1,121 gram panchayats of Pauri till May 16, according to the District Information Office. Dhiraj Singh, district magistrate, Pauri Garhwal, says many returning workers would be engaged in horticulture, poultry and apiculture activities. “The government wants them to stay back and is making efforts to that end.” Mr. Oniyal says he is trying to train people in the cultivation of cash crops, pisciculture and poultry farming. D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pandemic-brings-uttarakhands-ghost-hamlets-to-life/article31611035.ece
18 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha braces for Amphan impact||Odisha is bracing for heavy rain under the influence of severe cyclonic storm Amphan, which is set to skirt away from the State’s northern coast to make landfall between West Bengal and Bangladesh. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said in its bulletin on Sunday: “The severe cyclonic storm ‘AMPHAN’ over southeast Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood slightly moved and lay centred over central parts of South Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood about 980 km south of Paradip (Odisha), 1,130 km south-southwest of Digha (West Bengal) and 1,250 km south-southwest of Khepupara (Bangladesh).” It added: “It is very likely to move nearly northwards slowly during next 24 hours and then re-curve north-northeastwards and move fast across northwest Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal — Bangladesh coasts between Digha (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) during the afternoon or evening of May 20.”  Rainfall will commence in Odisha from May 18 with heavy rainfall likely to occur at isolated places over the district of Gajapati, Ganjam, Puri, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara. The IMD has issued an ‘orange alert’ for May 19 and 20 when heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to take place in coastal districts. Twelve districts remain on alert. “We have kept infrastructure ready for people to be evacuated from vulnerable areas. We will issue a clear instruction for evacuation after receiving detailed information about the severe cyclone,” said Special Relief Commissioner Pradeep Jena. Red zones The State government is concerned about evacuation since the cyclone is expected to have the maximum impact on Balasore and Bhadrak districts, which are marked as red zones in containing the COVID-19 pandemic, and have reported 119 and 74 COVID-19 positive cases, respectively. It will be a difficult task to maintain social distancing while evacuating and sheltering the affected population. Three units of the National Disaster Response Force and the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force have already reached Bhadrak district. Ten units of the NDRF will be deployed, while another 10 are on standby.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-braces-for-amphan-impact/article31611052.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. indulging in theatrics: FM||Lashing out at the Congress’s criticism of the government over the plight of migrant workers, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday accused the party of indulging in dramebaazi or theatrics by sitting with workers on the roads rather than directing the State governments to work with the Centre to send more migrants home by train. On Saturday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had been filmed sitting on the pavement and talking to migrant workers returning to their home States as they passed through a south Delhi neighbourhood. “It would have been better if he had walked with them while carrying their children and luggage,” Ms. Sitharaman said in response to a question at a press conference on the stimulus package. ‘Wasting time’ “Was it not dramebaazi to sit and waste the time of migrants who were walking on the roads?” Instead of playing politics, the Congress leadership should direct its State governments and those led by its allies to work together with the Centre,” she said. “The States led by the Congress governments should be asking for more trains to send migrants back to their homes,” said the Finance Minister. “I fold my hands in front of Congress president Sonia Gandhi and request her to deal with these issues in a responsible way.” Congress’s poser The Congress reacted sharply to Ms. Sitharaman’s outburst, accusing her of not offering any solace in the form of cash transfers and instead labelling them as dramebaazi . “Do you find the helplessness of the migrant workers dramebaazi ? Are the blisters on their feet theatrics,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala asked the Finance Minister in a video message. He pointed out that 135 labourers had died during the lockdown. “Rahul Gandhi had gone to share the pain of the migrant workers. If doing that is a crime, then we will continue it. If trying to shake a deaf and blind government out of a reverie is a crime, then we shall continue doing it,” he said. Mr. Surjewala added that the Congress asked the BJP government to apologise to the migrant workers for causing them endless suffering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cong-indulging-in-theatrics-fm/article31611023.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Case surge disproves prediction of decline||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in India nearing the six-digit mark has disproved an assessment by V.K. Paul, NITI Aayog member and head of a government-empowered committee on medical management. On April 24, Mr. Paul, an internationally acclaimed paediatrician, made a detailed presentation at the daily Health Ministry briefing, detailing how the lockdown helped to curtail the spread of the novel coronavirus. His presentation suggested that the first lockdown had prevented India from seeing a 1,00,000 cases in April. It had also slowed the rate of transmission and increased the doubling time, the period it took for cases to double, to about 10 days. However, included in this was a PowerPoint slide that projected the benefits from “extending the lockdown” beyond April 15. This had a curve showing the number of active cases plummeting to zero by May 16. From May 3, India would hit its peak in adding daily new cases at a little above 1,500, and this would drop to 1,000 cases by May 12, and down to zero by May 16, this curve showed. The Hindu had reported, on April 25, that members of his own committee didn’t agree with that assessment. While the presentation was made available to the media and heavily criticised on social media, electronic copies of that slide no longer appeared to show the questionable curve in new cases declining to zero. Mr. Paul was since quoted by The Caravan as saying that the curve was only meant to show a “trend”, but he has never explained the rationale behind the assessment. He has not responded to repeated requests by The Hindu for comment. For a decline in the national average, experts have said, there will have to be a flattening in new cases that lasted over two weeks in key States such as Gujarat, Maharashtra and West Bengal that were fuelling the rise in numbers. “So far, there is no such evidence of a decline. So I don’t know the basis of that forecast. We are planning, in terms of keeping ventilators, beds, ICU facilities ready on the assumption that this will last much longer,” a member had then told The Hindu . Steady increase Since April 27, there has not been a day when India has posted fewer than 1,500 cases, and the number has steadily increased to over 3,000 a day. On Sunday, India reported nearly 5,000 cases over a 24-hour period. To be sure, doubling time has improved and testing rates, too, have significantly increased, with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan claiming that India is now testing nearly 1,00,000 samples a day. India’s test positivity rate remains at around 4%, meaning 4 of 100 samples are turning up positive. However, this varies within the States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/case-surge-disproves-prediction-of-decline/article31611038.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘India must not give Taliban legitimacy until it joins intra-Afghan talks’||Saying that the U.S. is trying to salvage its deal with the Taliban, despite rising violence in Afghanistan, National Security Advisory Board (NSAB) member and former envoy to Kabul Amar Sinha stressed it would be pointless for India to engage with the group till it joins the intra-Afghan dialogue.  After a bitter electoral battle, the top leadership in Kabul has reached a settlement that will bring Abdullah Abdullah into the government with President Ghani as the President of the High Council for peace and national reconciliation, expected to lead the intra-Afghan dialogue with the Taliban. How do you see this development? Despite all the fighting and the rival factions, the Afghan leadership has shown once again its ability to come together when that is needed the most. We saw this in 2009, and again in 2014 after elections brought fractured mandates. And this time, too, it is heartening to see the efforts of Mr. Ghani, Mr. Abdullah, and other leaders to effect a compromise. One shouldn’t overlook this development. It is a positive development, certainly. This week has also seen some of the worst possible attacks in Kabul, including at a hospital maternity ward. Has the situation there worsened since the U.S.-Taliban agreement? Unfortunately, the U.S.-Taliban deal has a tolerance for violence written into it. It contains no commitment to stopping attacks against Afghan forces, only those against American soldiers and NATO forces. According to intelligence reports, the Taliban has decided to not to claim attacks on civilians. Those are left to ISIS-KP. The U.S. statement also puts the blame for the attacks on ISIS, not Taliban. How should India see this U.S. position? The U.S. is trying to salvage their deal with the Taliban, especially with elections ahead. They must have their own sources, but it is strange to absolve the Taliban of guilt while investigations are still under way. The real question is that if the Taliban says that ISIS-KP is their enemy, should they not join hands with the U.S. and Afghan government to go after ISIS-KP? At the moment, the Taliban are not even willing to announce a ceasefire, amidst the coronavirus crisis, amidst these brutal attacks, and not even during the month of Ramzan. They mustn’t get a ‘free pass’ from America. What is your reaction to U.S. special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad’s suggestion — in an interview to The Hindu — that India should talk directly to the Taliban? I think everyone here realises that if the Taliban comes back to power, joins the mainstream, then India will engage with them as we do any political force in Afghanistan. But they need to become a political force first. What is of concern is Mr. Khalilzad saying that India needs to speak to the Taliban directly to discuss security concerns. This reminds one of the situation before 2001, before the global war on terror, when each country was on its own. At present, the Taliban is a destructive force. It will become a political force only when it joins the intra-Afghan talks. Otherwise, at best the Taliban can pretend to be some sort of a government in exile based in Doha, conducting negotiations with other players, but not with people in Afghanistan. Why should India give legitimacy to this kind of force in its own neighbourhood? Yet, you have yourself taken part in talks in Moscow in 2018, which included the Taliban…. Yes, Russia convened an intra-Afghan meet, where regional countries were invited, and Taliban representatives were present. We attended it as a “non-official” presence. Talking directly to the Taliban is different, and should be done only once we know what we want. It’s clear that what the Taliban wants is recognition. India should have a wish list of its own. Some have suggested that India’s wish list should include commitments on security, safety of minorities, and infrastructure projects… Would you agree? For me there is only one real expectation we should have: that the Taliban should deal with India as an independent entity, as a nationalist Afghan entity, and not a proxy for other countries. Bilateral ties between New Delhi and Kabul remain strong, but there is a sense India is being sidelined in the regional talks on Afghanistan… No doubt, our bilateral ties are very good, and we must be engaged in the regional process for peace in Afghanistan. We deal with Afghanistan’s neighbours at many regional fora: SCO, RIC, SAARC etc. However, we should not feel bad if India is not at every table. The truth is, when it comes to Afghanistan’s future, India cannot be ignored.  I think everyone here realises that if the Taliban comes back to power, joins the mainstream, then India will engage with them as we do any political force in Afghanistan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-must-not-give-taliban-legitimacy-until-it-joins-intra-afghan-talks/article31611058.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Commercial sex work may spike cases’||Allowing commercial sex work to commence immediately after lockdown in India’s red light areas could lead to a rapid rise in cases that could overwhelm hospitals, says a modelling study from researchers at the Yale School of Medicine and Harvard Medical School. Though these findings have been “shared” with the State governments, these are still being peer-reviewed. As per the study, if red light areas are kept closed following the lifting of lockdown, there can be a delay in the peak of COVID-19 cases by up to 12 days in Mumbai, 17 days in New Delhi, 29 days in Pune, 30 days in Nagpur, and 36 days in Kolkata. For the purposes of the study, the lockdown period was considered from March 24 to May 3.  The closure can reduce COVID-19 cases by 21% in Mumbai, 27% in Pune, 31% in New Delhi, 56% in Nagpur, and 66% in Kolkata in a 45-day period, the study finds. Deaths can be reduced by 63% in India, 28% in Mumbai, 38% in New Delhi, 43% in Pune, 61% in Nagpur and 66% in Kolkata in the first 60 days, it says. These numbers are based on the prevalent reproduction number (R0) of 2.0, meaning that every infected person spreads the disease to two others. Experts say that an epidemic starts to cease when the R0 dips below 1. There are close to 6,37,500 sex workers in India as per the National AIDS Control Organisation (NACO), and over 5 lakh customers visit red light areas. The study relied on data from Census figures on sex worker populations and interviews in red light areas.  “Our study findings show there is a strong effect of the red light area closures, especially immediately following the lockdown,” study co-author Dr. Jefferey Townsend, Professor of Biostatistics, Yale School of Medicine, said in a statement. The other authors are Alison Galvani, Director, Center for Infectious Disease Modelling & Analysis, Yale University; and Dr. Sudhakar Nuti, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/commercial-sex-work-may-spike-cases/article31611040.ece
18 May 2020||New Delhi,||Rampukar’s tears shock humanity||Rampukar Pandit, who became a snapshot of India’s migrant tragedy with his photograph sobbing by a road in Delhi, is back in Bihar, broken at not being able to see his son before he died. “We labourers have no life, we are just a cog in the wheel, spinning continuously until we run out of life,” the 38-year-old said. The construction labourer, who worked at a cinema hall site in Delhi, was spotted weeping as he talked on the phone by the side of the Nizamuddin Bridge in Delhi by PTI photographer Atul Yadav on May 11. The powerful image of the distraught man, struggling to reach home in Begusarai, almost 1,200 km away during the lockdown, was widely shared across all media. Mr. Pandit had been stuck there for three days before help arrived.  When the photograph was taken, he said he was anguished at the thought that he might not get home on time to see his baby. Shortly after the photo was taken, his son, who had not yet turned one, died. “I pleaded to the police to let me go home but none helped,” he told PTI over the phone. “One policeman even said, ‘Will your son become alive if you go back home. This is lockdown, you can’t move.’” A woman in Delhi and a photographer — he did not know Mr. Yadav’s name — were his saviours, he said. “A journalist asked why I was so upset and tried to help me by taking me in his car, but the police did not allow him. The woman gave me food, Rs. 5,500 and booked my ticket in the special train, and that’s how I reached home.” Mr. Pandit is now at a quarantine centre on the outskirts of Begusarai. “My wife, who is unwell, and my three daughters, are waiting for me. The wait just doesn’t seem to end,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rampukars-tears-shock-humanity/article31611044.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Multiple conditions on discoms||The Central authorities have imposed a number of conditions on State governments and their power distribution companies (discoms) to avail themselves of benefits from the Rs. 90,000-crore package. Called the ‘Special Long Term Transition Loan to Discoms for COVID-19’, the financial assistance is meant to help the discoms clear their dues to power producers, both belonging to the Central public sector undertakings (PSUs) and the private sector, and transmission companies. To be paid in two tranches, the loan will have a tenure of up to 10 years, including moratorium of not more than 3 years. The conditions have been stipulated at each stage, according to letters sent by the Central agencies, the Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC), on Saturday to heads of the State utilities. The discoms should submit an “unconditional and irrevocable” guarantee from the respective State governments with due approval from the State Finance Departments before the first disbursement.  Officials of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) say they are awaiting information on the State-wise breakup of the overall amount, even though the communication of the REC & PFC refers to the amount outstanding as on March 31, 2020. In respect of the Tangedco, the figure is around Rs. 16,000 crore, of which approximately three-fourths are due to the Central PSUs. As part of “pre-commitment conditions,” the discoms should have arrangements for self-assessment by end consumers and digital payment of the bills, apart from installation of “smart” or pre-paid meters at the premises of the government departments and attached offices. If a State fails to pay the power bill and subsidy within 60 days of the due date, it will be charged with an additional interest of 0.25% on the outstanding loan amount. The insistence on “smart” or pre-paid meters is being made so that the discoms get their dues regularly.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/multiple-conditions-on-discoms/article31611050.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 42,000 undertrials released||Legal services institutions have intervened to release 42,529 undertrial prisoners as well as 16,391 convicts on parole to de-congest prisons during the COVID-19 pandemic, a report from the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) said. The NALSA, a statutory body to provide free legal services to the weaker sections, said 243 undertrial prisoners had been granted bail and 9,558 persons in remand had been given legal representation across the country. The report was prepared under the aegis of NALSA Executive Chairman and Supreme Court judge N.V. Ramana. It said the highest number of undertrial prisoners released was 9,977 in Uttar Pradesh, followed by 5,460 in Rajasthan and 4,547 in Tamil Nadu, 3,698 in Punjab and 3,400 in Maharashtra. The Supreme Court observed in March that physical distancing, an effective measure to check the spread of the novel coronavirus, would be difficult in prisons. There are 1,339 prisons with approximately 4,66,084 inmates. The court said the National Crime Records Bureau put the rate of occupancy at Indian prisons at 117.6%. The court issued guidelines, formed committees and asked the legal services authorities to work together and release undertrial prisoners and those on bail and parole to bring the prison population down. Legal assistance was provided in 658 cases of domestic violence during the lockdown. A total of 727 cases was reported to State legal services authorities, including 144 in Uttarakhand — which is the highest — 79 in Haryana, 63 in Delhi, 48 in Tamil Nadu and 18 in Kerala. “The NALSA, in coordination with the Ministry of Women and Child Development, has issued directions to the State legal services authorities to collaborate with One Stop Centres (OSCs) established in each State for providing legal assistance to women facing domestic violence. The focus has been to provide legal assistance as well counselling services to victims and the needy,” the report said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/over-42000-undertrials-released/article31611054.ece
18 May 2020||MUMBAI,||GA to invest Rs. 6,598.38 cr. for 1.34% stake in Jio Platforms||General Atlantic, a leading global growth equity firm, has agreed to invest Rs. 6598.38 crore in Jio Platforms Ltd., a wholly owned digital services firm of Reliance Industries Ltd., for a 1.34% stake, valuing the company at Rs. 5.16 lakh crore. With this investment, Jio Platforms raised Rs. 67,194.75 crore from leading technology investors, including Facebook, Silver Lake, Vista Equity Partners and General Atlantic, in less than four weeks.  Mukesh Ambani, chairman and managing director of RIL, said, “I am thrilled to welcome General Atlantic, a marquee global investor, as a valued partner. I have known General Atlantic for several decades and greatly admired it for its belief in India’s huge growth potential. General Atlantic shares our vision of a digital society for India and strongly believes in the transformative power of digitisation in enriching the lives of 1.3 billion Indians. We are excited to leverage General Atlantic’s proven global expertise and strategic insights across 40 years of technology investing for the benefit of Jio.” Jio Platforms is a next generation technology platform with more than 388 million subscribers. Bill Ford, CEO of General Atlantic, said, “As long-term backers of global technology leaders and visionary entrepreneurs, we could not be more excited about investing in Jio. We share Mukesh’s conviction that digital connectivity has the potential to significantly accelerate the Indian economy and drive growth across the country. General Atlantic has a long track record working alongside founders to scale disruptive businesses, as Jio is doing at the forefront of the digital revolution in India.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ga-to-invest-rs-659838-cr-for-134-stake-in-jio-platforms/article31611056.ece
18 May 2020||New Delhi,||CPI to hold nationwide protest||The Communist Party of India (CPI) will hold a nationwide protest on Tuesday against the Narendra Modi government for the “unprecedented hardships imposed on the working class” due to loss of livelihood, lack of food and finance to reach their homes. The party accused the government of ignoring their plight and miseries. The CPI has demanded that the government give Rs. 10,000 to all migrant workers as travel allowance. The party has also demanded an increase in man-days under the MGNREGA. CPI general secretary D. Raja said the government’s stimulus package was a political rhetoric. “Indian economy has been sick and sinking because of the disastrous neo-liberal policies being pursued by the Modi government for the past six years. COVID-19 added to the crisis,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cpi-to-hold-nationwide-protest/article31611027.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Halt Central Vista project, say ex-officials||Sixty former bureaucrats on Sunday wrote an open letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri asking them to stop the proposed redevelopment of the Central Vista and construction of a new Parliament. Going ahead with the project at this point of time, when the country is facing the COVID-19 pandemic, would be akin to “Nero fiddling while Rome burns”, the former officials, including retired IAS, IFS, IPS and IRS officers, said. “In the post COVID-19 scenario, when enormous funds are required for strengthening the public health system, to provide sustenance to people and to rebuild the economy, taking up a proposal to redesign the entire Central Vista at a cost of at least Rs. 20,000 crore, a figure likely to escalate significantly, seems particularly irresponsible. It seems like Nero fiddling while Rome burns,” they wrote. The letter comes as the Central Public Works Department is working on floating the tender for the project and has received key approvals, including from the Environment Ministry and the Central Vista Committee, during the ongoing lockdown.  “This precinct ... acts as the lungs of the city, with its dense mature tree canopies serving as a repository of bio diversity and the vast lawns of the Vista as a watershed for the city between the Ridge and the Yamuna. Constructing a large number of multi-storeyed office buildings, with basements, will... irreversibly change and damage the environment,” they wrote.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/halt-central-vista-project-say-ex-officials/article31611032.ece
18 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Inhuman to send bodies by trucks, Soren tells Yogi||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren slammed his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath for the “inhuman treatment” meted out to migrant workers who died in an accident in Auraiya on Saturday by transporting their bodies in trucks. Mr. Soren tweeted: “Heartless to see @UPGovt led by @myogiadityanath ji could not even arrange for ambulance...” However, he deleted the tweet later and toned down his criticism.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inhuman-to-send-bodies-by-trucks-soren-tells-yogi/article31611020.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Maharashtra cases surge by 2,347||A statement from the Press Information Bureau said cumulatively, 22,79,324 tests have been done so far for COVID-19. India had 916 dedicated COVID-19 hospitals with 1,80,473 beds (with 1,61,169 isolation beds and 19,304 ICU beds) and 2,044 dedicated COVID-19 Health Centres with 1,28,304 beds ( 1,17,775 isolation beds and 10,529 ICU beds), along with 9,536 quarantine centres. As many as 6,309 COVID Care Centres with 5,64,632 beds are now available to combat COVID-19 in the country. The Centre has provided 90.22 lakh N95 masks and 53.98 lakh Personal Protective Equipments (PPEs) to the States, Union Territories, and Central Institutions, the release added. Having crossed China last week, India is only behind Iran in the number of confirmed COVID-19 cases, at 120,198, according to tracking site Worldometer. Globally, there are now 4.5 million confirmed COVID-19 infections, with the U.S. accounting for nearly a third of them at about 1.5 million. At least 213 countries have been affected by the pandemic, with 3,13,000 patients having succumbed to the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-cases-surge-by-2347/article31611021.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. hikes borrowing limits for States by 5%||Some analysts felt that this amounted to double counting as the credit guarantee schemes to support small companies and non-banking finance companies would also tap into the RBI’s measures. “The final picture shows that of the Rs. 20.97 lakh crore stimulus package — which amounts to 9.8% of GDP — only Rs. 2.2 lakh crore can be traced as direct additional budgetary cost to the Central exchequer, while another Rs. 1.55 lakh crore relates to already budgeted expenditures,” said Ernst and Young chief policy adviser D.K. Srivastava, who is also on the Advisory Council for the 15th Finance Commission. “The remaining 85% comes from the RBI’s liquidity announcements, credit guarantee schemes and insurance schemes, apart from the structural reforms which are not really stimulus or relief measures.” The decision to allocate Rs. 40,000 crore to the MGNREGA scheme in addition to the Rs. 61,000 crore allocated in the Budget was widely welcomed, as a measure that will support rural livelihoods at a time when returning migrants swell unemployment in the villages. However, given that States account for 40% of MGNREGA expenditure, including most upfront costs, they will also have to be willing to spend on the scheme. State governments have been given more fiscal room in the current crisis with the hiking of their borrowing limits from 3% to 5% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), which is particularly important as GSDPs are likely to contract, further shrinking possible borrowing at a time when States are at the frontline of containment and relief operations. However, the hiked limits will be conditional on States implementing reforms related to ration portability, ease of doing business, power distribution, and urban local bodies. The Finance Minister, said both Central and State finances were stressed, which is why GST compensation has not been paid to any States since December, and estimated that the increase in borrowing limits would make extra resources worth Rs. 4.28 lakh crore available to States. While she noted that the States have so far only borrowed 14% of their already authorised limits, analysts pointed out that this limit is meant for the entire year, and nine States have already advanced their borrowing calendars even at a time when the interest on their bonds has shot up to 9%. “States are paying a high cost for market borrowings, while the Centre’s cost is lower at about 6%. It would have been better for the Centre to borrow from the market and transfer to the States,” said economist Pronab Sen, who is also a former Chief Statistician of India. He was also critical of the new Public Sector Enterprise Policy as part of a stimulus package, noting that privatising PSUs would find fewer buyers at a time of global recession, while any potential buyer would be spending money which could have gone into fresh investment on a financial transfer instead, effectively contracting demand. Announcing far-reaching changes, Ms. Sitharaman had said the new policy will notify specific strategic sectors in which at least one PSU will remain, although private companies will also be allowed. PSUs in all other sectors will be privatised. Even in the strategic sectors, no more than four PSUs will be allowed, with the rest being privatised, merged or brought under holding companies. For the health sector, the Finance Minister promised increased public expenditure including infectious disease hospital blocks in every district and public laboratories in every block, without mentioning any specific financial outlay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-hikes-borrowing-limits-for-states-by-5/article31611024.ece
18 May 2020||Srinagar,||One militant, soldier killed in gunfight in J&K||One militant and a soldier were killed in an operation by the security forces in Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. A police spokesman said the militant, identified as Tahir Ahmed Bhat, was encircled during a search operation launched on Saturday night at Khotra in the Chenab Valley. A police spokesman said Bhat was a close associate of the slain Hizbul Mujahideen commander Riyaz Naikoo. He hailed from Pulwama in south Kashmir and joined militancy last year. He was also a confidante of the current Hizbul Mujahideen commander Saifullah. The police said Bhat’s name came up during the investigation into the fabrication of an IED, which was detonated near a CRPF convoy at Banihal in March 2019. “Bhat had visited the Chenab Valley and was given the task of recruiting youth and reviving the Hizb activities in the region, where militancy was stamped out in late 1990s,” said the police. The police said Bhat was part of a group of terrorists that killed RSS activist Chanderkant Sharma and his personal security officer in April 2019. With his killing, the police said, the security forces were able to create a deterrence to the revival of militancy in the Chenab Valley.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/one-militant-soldier-killed-in-gunfight-in-jk/article31611030.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||States to decide on infection zones||“With a view to ensure safety in offices and work places, employers on best effort basis should ensure that the application is installed by all employees having compatible mobile phones. District authorities have been asked to advise individuals to install the Aarogya Setu application on compatible mobile phones and regularly update their health status on the App. This will facilitate timely provision of medical attention to those individuals who are at risk,” MHA said. The MHA guidelines said inter-State movement of vehicles and buses has been allowed with mutual consent of the concerned States and Union Territories. States could decide on movement of vehicles within its boundaries. The guidelines said, “local authorities should ensure that shops and markets open with staggered timings, so as to ensure social distancing. All shops shall also have to ensure six feet distance among customers and also not allow more than five persons at one time.” MHA said the fresh guidelines allow States to delineate Red, Green and Orange zones following the parameters set by the Health Ministry. MHA said only essential activities shall be allowed in the containment zones. “Strict perimeter control shall be maintained, and no movement of persons would be allowed across the zones, except for medical emergencies and for maintaining supply of essential goods and services. Buffer zones are areas adjoining the containment zones, where new cases are more likely to appear. In the buffer zones, more caution needs to be exercised,” MHA said. Schools, colleges, educational institutions, hotels, restaurants except canteens at bus depots, railway stations and airports will remain shut. Places of large public gatherings such as cinemas, shopping malls, gymnasiums, entertainment parks and all kinds of social, political, cultural and religious congregations remain prohibited. Restaurants will be allowed to operate kitchens for home delivery of food items. “Sports complexes and stadia will be permitted to open only for sports activities. However, spectators will not be allowed in these complexes,” the MHA said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/states-to-decide-on-infection-zones/article31611033.ece
18 May 2020||Shivpuri,||On unforgiving road, till death did them part||Reaching home a couple of days late was all right for Yaqoob Mohammad but not returning to his village alone, without his friend Amrit Ramcharan. “Both our parents are waiting. We had left home together to work in Surat and decided to return together,” said Mr. Mohammed. When his febrile friend was dumped along the highway in Kolaras of Shivpuri district in Madhya Pradesh on Friday by a truck headed for Uttar Pradesh, Mr. Mohammed disembarked, too. “I couldn’t leave him alone in that condition. Other workers in the truck felt he carried the coronavirus, but he was my friend. They refused to call for medical help,” he recalled. Alongside the Mumbai-Agra highway, before the ambulance arrived, Mr. Mohammad cushioned his friend’s head on his lap and sprinkled water to keep him from sinking. The same night, Ramcharan’s temperature shot up to 105 degrees and he was put on a ventilator, but could not survive. Travelling some 850 km, huddled up in an open truck in searing heat, he had suffered a heat stroke and dehydration. “Their repeated appeals to stop the truck at a water point went in vain,” said A. L. Sharma, Shivpuri Chief Medical and Health Officer. Mr. Mohammed was Ramcharan’s roommate for three years. Mr. Mohammed is now at an isolation facility at the district hospital. Their samples have been collected for COVID-19 test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/on-unforgiving-road-till-death-did-them-part/article31611049.ece
18 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||1,750 such villages in State||Sharad Singh Negi, vice-chairman, the Uttarakhand Rural and Migration Commission, said there are around 1,750 ‘ghost villages’, about 10% of total revenue villages, in the State. “Unlike Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, those who are returning to Uttarakhand are not construction labourers; they are largely blue-collar workers who work in the service industry or factories in different parts of the country. Even before the first lockdown, 60,000 workers had returned. There were cooks, drivers, waiters, reception-ists among them. After the first lockdown, two lakh workers have registered on the State portal and are being brought back,” Mr. Negi said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/1750-such-villages-in-state/article31611036.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Brahma Jnana for liberation||Prakarana granthas are aids to help beginners get initiated into Vedanta study which alone can equip one with the drive, means and practices to attain Brahma Jnana, said Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. This is the final goal that liberates one from the cycle of samsara, say the scriptures. They also show the difficulties in knowing/ realising/ attaining Brahman though He is all pervading, all knowing and all powerful. When caught in this world, the jivatma is mired in ignorance of the true values. Just as it is difficult to try to identify objects in dim light, the jivatma gropes to seek the eternal truth in this immediate world of change and sense perceptions which he considers as the reality. But even in this context, there is no guarantee that his observations and conclusions are true and valid since he has to deal with layers of misconceptions that can easily distort his opinion and judgment. For instance, it is possible for one to mistake a rope for a snake in inadequate light and then experience fear and confusion about its presence until such time when with the help of light only the rope is seen. All along, there was no snake at all. This is the analogy quoted in scriptures to show that this universe and creation is the superimposition on Brahman. Lack of knowledge or partial knowledge makes one think of this world as the reality. But it is Brahman who has created this entire universe and is also present in each and every aspect of it. Brahman supports all of this and is the cause for its dissolution as well. Brahman alone is the eternal Truth and the jagat is a superimposition. The inner self in each being is of the nature of this Brahman. This is the Brahma Jnana that dispels ignorance and thereby gradually leads one into the path of liberation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brahma-jnana-for-liberation/article31611053.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Traders unhappy with stimulus plan||Expressing “deep disappointment” with the government’s Rs. 20 lakh crore economic package, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Sunday said traders across the country had been completely sidelined and the group would now seek the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for support.  CAIT national president B.C. Bhartia and secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said in a statement, “The traders will be landing into a great financial crisis on lifting of lockdown as they will have to pay salary, interest, bank loans, taxes and various other financial obligations ... nearly 20% traders will have to wind up their business and another 10% traders dependent on these 20% traders will have to close their business.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/traders-unhappy-with-stimulus-plan/article31611019.ece
18 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘FM’s claim of helping States is misleading’||The Opposition parties criticised Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for claiming to have given the State governments adequate help during the lockdown and the COVID-19 pandemic. Announcing the fifth and the final tranche of the Aatmanirbhar stimulus package, Ms. Sitharaman said the Centre has paid States Rs. 46,038 crore tax dues. She also said the States, while demanding an increase in the borrowing limit, had only borrowed 14% of their existing authorised limit. CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said this is a ‘misleading’ claim. “All funds that the Centre has to statutorily transfer to the States and the decision of the RBI to increase ways and means advances is now being claimed as Modi government’s ‘support for the States’,” he said in a tweet. “FM mocked at States saying they have so far used only 14% of their borrowing entitlement. Why? When they go to the market in the current situation, interest rates rise sharply increasing their debt burden,” he said. RJD MP Manoj K. Jha said Shakespeare’s lines fromMacbeth, “False face must hide what the false heart doth know” , aptly describe the five-day-long affair of announcements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/fms-claim-of-helping-states-is-misleading/article31611028.ece
18 May 2020||Ahmedabad,||Body of a COVID-19 patient found at bus stand in Gujarat||The body of a 67-year-old COVID-19 patient was found at a bus stand here in Gujarat on Friday, a day after he was discharged from the Civil Hospital. The incident caused outrage prompting Chief Minister Vijay Rupani to order a probe. “He was discharged since he had mild symptoms and was asked to be under home quarantine,” said Dr. M.M. Prabhakar, OSD at the hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/body-of-a-covid-19-patient-found-at-bus-stand-in-gujarat/article31611042.ece
18 May 2020||Ahmedabad,||34 deaths and 391 new cases in Gujarat||Gujarat’s COVID-19 curve continues to see a sharp rise with 391 new infections and 34 deaths occurring on Sunday, increasing the State’s cumulative figures to 11,380 and 659. Gujarat has the second largest number of fatalities after Maharashtra. Ahmedabad remains the main cluster with 31 deaths and 276 cases on Sunday. The city’s tally for both cases and fatalities has climbed — to 8,420 cases and 524 deaths.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/34-deaths-and-391-new-cases-in-gujarat/article31611041.ece
18 May 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra, Mumbai report highest single-day surges||Maharashtra reported its highest single-day surge yet on Sunday, with 2,347 new COVID-19 cases, as the total tally breached the 33,000-mark to soar to 33,053 cases. With 63 new fatalities, the death toll shot up to 1,198.  Mumbai city, which recorded a staggering 1,595 of these new cases to post its highest day-surge as well, breached the 20,000-case mark to rise to 20,150 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/maharashtra-mumbai-report-highest-single-day-surges/article31611046.ece
18 May 2020||Berhampur,||Odia migrant worker returning from A.P. dies of exhaustion||A 28-year-old migrant worker, who had returned from Andhra Pradesh, died in Odisha’s Ganjam district on Saturday, just a few hours away from home, owing to exhaustion and summer heat. Bimal Sahu, 28, who hails from Nayagarh district, used to work at a dhaba in A.P. After the lockdown was announced, he initially started walking and then managed to board a truck.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odia-migrant-worker-returning-from-ap-dies-of-exhaustion/article31611047.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Television serials set to resume production from May 25||Your favourite television serials, presently off air due to lockdown, are likely to resume mid-June. After a break of over a month, shooting is set resume from May 25. However, though the Kannada Television Association (KTVA) has secured permission from the State government and is gearing up for this, a section of veteran television producers are wary of the move and are unlikely to resume production anytime soon. S.V. Shivakumar, president, KTVA, said the industry directly employs over 6,000 people, and had to resume work to ensure their lives are back on track. “We have decided to take all necessary precautions to ensure protection from COVID-19,” he said. A maximum of 20 persons on the shooting set, only indoor shoots, mandatory masks, gloves, packed food for everyone and all actors to bring their own make-up material are some of the precautionary measures being instituted. Beyond these, the KTVA has now mandated all producers to cover those working on the production under group medical insurance that covers treatment of COVID-19. But not all seem to agree with the action plan KTVA has laid out. Sihi Kahi Chandru, a veteran serial producer, said he was still wary of restarting production. “Shooting has not resumed in any language yet, even in Kerala, where the pandemic is best managed. The channels have not pressurised us to begin production. I don’t understand why there is a hurry,” he said. He raised several concerns. “Is it safe for a make-up artiste to apply make-up touching the face of an actor? The producer is responsible for his team and as one, I am not yet confident of the risk. Be it with group medical insurance or other measures, our costs are going to shoot up. Moreover, if there is even one case, I will be held responsible and the entire team will go into quarantine bringing the production to a grinding halt,” he said, adding that resuming productions without giving the matter careful thought was not advisable. Meanwhile, there has been no road map for resumption of film shoots. D.R. Jairaj, chairman, Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce, said pre-production and post-productions of films has begun, but there is no clarity as to when they could resume film shoots. “On an average, there are nearly 35 people working on a serial shooting set. With the new guidelines there will be job loss of about 50%,” he said.  Is it safe for a make-up artiste to work on an actor? The producer is responsible for his team and as one, I am not yet confident of the risk. Be it with group medical insurance or other measures, our costs are going to shoot up. Moreover, if there is even one case, the entire team will go into quarantine bringing the production to a grinding halt.  Sihi Kahi Chandru  TV serial producer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/television-serials-set-to-resume-production-from-may-25/article31611063.ece
18 May 2020||Bodi,TAMIL NADU||Man ends life||A 20-year-old youth from Andipatti, who had been to Maharashtra on work, committed suicide at an isolation centre on Sunday. About 75 returnees were kept in quarantine at Government Engineering College campus. While initial screening indicated that they tested negative, they were advised to stay on the campus, police said. Officials provided food and water to the inmates. On Sunday, a youth was found hanging in a room. Other occupants resorted to sit-in protest urging officials to let them go home.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-ends-life/article31611217.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anxious migrant workers hit the road in city||Sunday saw hundreds of migrants wait in a long queue near the Central Railway Station in the city to get a place in a train that may take days or even weeks to arrive even as the State government extended the lockdown till May 31. While the government has facilitated the return of 55,000 migrant workers to their homes in special trains from various cities, over 15,000 were sent to their native places from Chennai alone. And, the number of migrant workers on the city's roads swelled after the extension of lockdown on Sunday. There were protests by migrant workers at three places in the city. As the Greater Chennai Corporation officials expect to send about 50,000 more from the city in the coming months, the civic body may find itself in a tight spot in the coming weeks as over a lakh of them could come from neighbouring districts as well in search of the train back home. At present, only the Corporation has access to trains leaving the city and has been sending those sheltered in its camps in batches to various States. Without this knowledge, migrants keep swamping the railway station. On Sunday, thousands of workers from various sectors, mainly the construction industry, hit the streets either on their own, mostly without wages and food. There were three protests in the city with migrant workers from Assam demanding that they be sent home at the earliest. Vigil stepped up The police increased the security to prevent any untoward incident given the volatile situation and top police officers held talks with those from Assam. According to the migrants, they were jobless and evicted from rented houses as they could not pay due to lockdown. Already 1,500 labourers, who were staying in Guru Nanak College, have been sent to Assam by train on Friday night. The others in Dr. Ambedkar Law University, Taramani; Asan Memorial College, Medavakkam; and other places protested and shouted slogans on Sunday, the police said. Tension prevailed as many attempted to walk out of the campus. More police personnel deployed to keep the situation under control. N. Anand, Joint Resident Commissioner, Assam Bhavan in Chennai, and other senior officials reached the spot and held talks with the workers. “Either arrange trains today or allow us to reach Assam by walk,” the protesters told him. Plea for refreshments The group at Dr. Ambedkar Law University demanded that it be allowed to go out for refreshments. After assurance from senior officers, the migrant workers gave up their protest. Mr. Anand told The Hindu : “We have given them shelter and food. We are in constant touch with Railways and will transport them in the earliest train to Assam.” About, 2,700 migrant labourers from Assam still are staying in the city.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/anxious-migrant-workers-hit-the-road-in-city/article31611201.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu sees fresh spike in cases as tally tops 11,000||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 case tally crossed 11,000 on Sunday, with the State reporting 639 new infections, thereby exceeding the 500-mark after three days. The fresh cases included 81 returnees from other parts of the country. While four patients died, the overall case count reached 11,224, of which 6,971* were active cases. Of the 639 fresh cases, 558 were people from within the State, 73 from Maharashtra, three from Telangana, two each from Karnataka and Rajasthan, and one from Andhra Pradesh. The returnees from other States were intercepted at checkposts in various districts. In Chennai, only the one person from Andhra Pradesh and one returnee from Karnataka tested positive. Most of the returnees from Maharashtra who tested positive for the disease were intercepted at checkposts in Karur, Kallakurichi, Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli districts. Eleven districts saw new patients on Sunday, including Chennai, which accounted for 480 positive cases. While its neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur accounted for 28 and 18 patients, respectively, Madurai recorded 10 cases. In the remaining districts, the number of new cases was in single digits. Four deaths The State recorded four deaths, taking the overall toll to 78. The patients had been undergoing treatment in the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and the Stanley Medical College Hospital. Three of the patients who died had underlying ailments. A 63-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who had systemic hypertension/chronic kidney disease, and had been admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, died around 9.15 a.m. on Saturday. The cause of his death was due to respiratory failure/acute pulmonary edema, according to the Health Department. A 40-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who had been admitted to the same hospital on May 12, died around 3.30 a.m. on Sunday due to acute respiratory distress syndrome/respiratory failure. A 44-year-old resident of Chennai who had rheumatoid arthritis, died within 40 minutes of admission at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on Saturday. She had been admitted at 11.10 a.m. and died at 11.50 a.m. due to sepsis/septic shock, according to hospital authorities. In the same hospital, a 45-year-old woman, who was admitted on May 7, had other health conditions, including diabetes, hypertension and bronchial asthma. She died around 7.30 p.m. on Saturday due to chronic bronchial asthma with respiratory failure. The health bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine said 634 persons were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of discharged persons to 4,172. Besides, 4,366 persons suspected to have the infection had been admitted to isolation wards. The airport screening conducted from May 9 till date, covering 1,777 persons, had helped detect 13 COVID-19 patients, all of whom were among the arrivals in Chennai. All the 184 persons who had arrived at Tiruchi airport had tested negative. The samples of 1,696 persons who had arrived by train from Delhi have been lifted for testing so far. Of the 849 persons from Delhi who were tested on arrival at the Central Railway Station on Thursday, two tested positive and have been quarantined at the railway hospital. The samples of 847 persons who had arrived from Delhi on Friday are being processed, officials said. (* The death of two persons were cross-notified to other States. One patient died after turning negative for the infection )||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-sees-fresh-spike-in-cases-as-tally-tops-11000/article31611242.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation revives camps||The Greater Chennai Corporation has reactivated its camps in the city to accommodate migrant workers till they return to their home State. During the weekend, long queues were seen at Ripon Buildings, Chennai Central Railway Station and parts of Central Square. “More migrants have started coming to us seeking help. So, we have reactivated our camps,” said Meghanath Reddy, Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance). “Once they come to our camps, we enumerate them. We have access to book trains to their States. We will take them to the railway station at the right time and help them reach home,” he said. “We have 98 camps where we are holding close to 1,100 migrants from other States. We are receiving more migrants since morning. We have requested all of them to go to the nearest camp and stay there till their train is ready. We will take care of them,” said Mr. Reddy. Fiat to officials The Corporation has been taking migrant workers to community halls and centres set up in the Corporation buildings. All zonal officers and the three Regional Deputy Commissioners have been asked to set up camps for migrants and open call centres to facilitate their travel. “All expenses will be officially covered and officials have been directed to keep a record of all such camps,” said Mr. Reddy. “We have installed television sets in relief centres to ensure some entertainment to those put up there. We have also held positivity and wellness classes and dance classes,” he said. On Saturday, stranded migrant workers from Bihar were rescued from Adyar and Besant Nagar by officials and put up at the Tamil Nadu Housing Board hall at Thiruvanmiyur. In Manali, migrant workers from Sholavaram check-post were accommodated at B.V.K. Kalyana Mandapam in Puzhal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-revives-camps/article31611196.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online meat sales soar during lockdown||Startups in the organised fish, meat and poultry space have witnessed a 300% growth in sales during lockdown. They expect the trend to continue even after the lockdown is lifted. While the unorganised markets remained closed during the initial few days, many online startups in this space operated with home delivery options. Sushil Kanugolu, Managing Director and CEO of Fipola Retail India, said that during the lockdown his business had grown three-fold. “People from all age categories started buying meat from online. We expected a shift in trend after unorganised butcher shops opened shops during the first week of May but our sales were positive. People have understood the need for buying meat at safe and hygienic places,” he said. Fipola serves over 4,00,000 customers in Chennai alone. Positive movement Nishanth Chandran, Founder and CEO, Tendercuts. said, “COVID-19 has created a positive movement for the company. The customers would have taken several years to switch to hygienic chicken, mutton and seafood brands. We feel that consumer behaviour is happening at a much rapid pace. We generally used to see more sales on weekends, especially on Sunday before the lockdown. But, after the lockdown came into effect, the sales have been spread evenly across weekdays which is a new trend observed by us.” The company currently serves around 5,00,000 customers across Chennai and Hyderabad. Since most of these outlets were spacious, it was convenient for customers to maintain physical distancing. Also, the knives were sterilised. The butchers too wear gloves and masks. Bengaluru-based FreshToHome witnessed good growth in the Chennai market. Its CEO Shan Kadavil said, “Sales went up by 30-50% in the areas which were not sealed.” Consumers who purchased only on weekends purchased during weekdays too. Malini S. who regularly purchases meat from the neighbourhood shops, said, “Placed an order for meat online for the first time after lockdown. I was initially wondering how it would be but the meat was good and fresh. I'm now visiting the store and found it more comfortable than the unorganised shops,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/online-meat-sales-soar-during-lockdown/article31611206.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Migrants working for IIT-M projects yet to receive wages||A total of 552 migrant workers employed in construction projects at IIT-Madras and living in makeshift shelters outside the campus in Taramani are yet to be paid wages for nearly two months, including the COVID-19 lockdown period. On a complaint filed by ChintaBar, a students collective in IIT-Madras, office of the Deputy Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) in Chennai has sought a reply from the Director of IIT-Madras. A visit to one of the shelters revealed that the workers were accommodated in makeshift tin sheds that are divided into cabins of roughly ten feet by six feet in size, where at least ten workers have to cook and sleep. Four toilets are provided for more than 100 workers. “In this summer, it becomes really hot to stay inside the cabins with tin roofs and no fans,” said Afzal*, a worker from West Bengal. Afzal and his coworkers said that their wages have been withheld since the beginning of March, at least two weeks before the lockdown began. Ram*, another worker, said that though they were assured a payment of Rs. 500 per week after the lockdown began for sustenance, the payment was not paid fully. ChintaBar, in its petition to the Labour department after enquiring with workers, said that rice and rations provided by the department was distributed by the contractor after considerable delay and interventions by the student body. The workers alleged that there was pressure from the contractor to return to work for settlement of pending wages. Officials said that more than 350 workers have left and only close to 200 workers remained in the shelters now. The construction work is being carried out by the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) through DEC Infrastructure and Projects (Private) Limited. When contacted, IIT-Madras Director’s office denied responsibility as the construction was handled by the CPWD. On the Labour department’s e-mail holding IIT-Madras as the ‘Principal Employer,’ the Director’s office said that the principal employer was the CPWD. An official from the CPWD acknowledged that wages were pending for the lockdown period. “We are awaiting clarifications from IIT-Madras, who is our client, and the CPWD headquarters. Once they are received, the wages will be credited into the bank accounts of workers,” he said. On other allegations, the official said that he personally visited the camps after some complaints in the beginning of April and ensured that there was no shortage of food supplies. “We directed the contractor to provide allowance every week and supply masks and sanitisers as well. We were given proof that these were done,” he said. Denying allegations, a supervisor from DEC Infrastructure and Projects (Private) Limited, working at the site, assured to get back with detailed response from the company, but did not.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrants-working-for-iit-m-projects-not-paid/article31611224.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airports to introduce new security protocol||As airlines prepare to resume domestic flight operations after the COVID-19 lockdown, the security protocol has been redefined at airports across the country. According to the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security sources, frisking and pat-down search of passengers will be stopped till further notice. In case of any unresolved alarm triggered by Hand Held Metal Detectors (HHMDs) even after repeated attempts, passengers will be denied entry into aircraft and security personnel will be helped by their supervisors for appropriate action. Since physical distancing is the most important feature of the standard operating procedure to prevent the spread of COVID-19, security personnel will not get in close proximity to the passengers even while frisking. Steps are being taken to enhance the length of the HHMD handles with fibre, wooden or metal rods to ensure safe distance between the two parties, sources said.  Quoting new the guidelines, an airport official said, “All staff entering the aircraft shall be subject to frisking by HHMD only. While doing this, staff [must] ensure enough social distance between himself and the person being searched.” While revised guidelines were issued on the processing/handling of tickets and baggage, airline staff at the boarding point would not use scanners to check the boarding card of passengers as part of a no-contact protocol. Instead, they would examine the boarding card by requesting the passengers to display it from a distance. The staff would also take a head count for reconciling the number of passengers with the boarding gate count before releasing the flight. Other safety guidelines issued to the staff on duty included the use of digital currency instead of cash transactions to the extent possible, avoiding face-to-face contact with passengers, sanitising computers and keyboards, tables, chairs, handrails and baggage trolleys as many times as possible and minimise the use of mobile phones, diaries and stationery items. Passengers may have to report well in advance since the new guidelines will be time-consuming. Security personnel have been told that there could be a risk of errors due to distractions, stress, fatigue, self-sickness or sickness of a family member. They have been asked to keep themselves engaged and not to pay attention to rumours and negative thoughts, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/airports-to-introduce-new-security-protocol/article31611219.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Soldiers on leave join relief efforts in Kanniyakumari||Despite being on leave, a few members of the armed forces have dedicated themselves to providing relief to the poor in Kanniyakumari district, who have been hit hard by the COVID-19 lockdown. “We are members of the Kanyakumari Jawans, an organisation that was set up in 2019. Now, those who have returned to their native places on leave are engaged in the work being done by the organisation,” Chelladurai, a member of the group, said. His friend M. Thiagarajan said the organisation had 4,000 members, including a few retired service personnel. “We have distributed essential commodities and food packets to 1,300 persons across the district. We have selected those who really deserve help,” C. Franklin, an organiser of the group, said. Contributing funds The jawans have also been distributing masks to the public. “Our members contribute money for purchasing food, rice and vegetables,” they said, adding that the organisation had repaired traffic umbrellas, planted trees, cleaned libraries and organised sports events.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/soldiers-on-leave-join-relief-efforts-in-kanniyakumari/article31611227.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. launches transparent mask to help persons with hearing, speech impairments||The State Commissionerate for the Welfare of Persons with Disabilities has launched transparent face masks to ensure that persons with hearing and speech impairments are able to communicate with ease. Johny Tom Varghese, Director for the Welfare of Persons with Disabilities, said, “We contacted a manufacturer in Tiruppur to make the masks as part of a pilot project. We then worked with associations for the disabled, as well as students and teachers from government schools for the deaf. Based on their feedback, we came up with this model.” The Social Welfare Department had drawn inspiration from similar masks being manufactured elsewhere, he said. The mask has been designed in such a way that it is not bulky, and could be used for a long period of time. A large, transparent patch on the portion that covers the mouth makes it possible for the hearing impaired to engage in lip-reading, which they won’t be able to do with regular masks. As part of the pilot project, 81,000 masks will be distributed to nearly 13,500 persons with disabilities, as well as their parents, other close family members, caregivers, classmates and teachers. “For barrier-free communication, we want to ensure that persons surrounding those with hearing and speech difficulties have these masks as well,” Mr. Varghese said.  The masks have been designed in such a way that they are not bulky, and could be used for a long period of time||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-launches-transparent-mask-to-help-persons-with-hearing-speech-impairments/article31611229.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors shake a leg to beat the pandemic blues||While healthcare workers continue to battle it out on the front lines through the COVID-19 pandemic, 100 doctors from Chennai and Vellore have come together to remind the medical fraternity of something important — keeping their spirits and morale high. In a music video titled Tamil Nadu doctors beat COVID-19 Blues, which was released as a part of the “Be the Hope” initiative, several healthcare professionals can be seen breaking into a jig and shaking a leg as they sing along with All is Well and Don’t Worry Be Happy , and a mash-up of songs. “This was something we thought was the need of the hour — to create awareness and ensure that healthcare workers should look after their mental health and remain strong through this crisis. The last few months have been challenging for all of us and we wanted the medical fraternity here to come together and present this message,” said Sai Surendar, head of the Department of Emergency Medicine, Rela Institute and Medical Centre. Dr. Surendar, along with T. Deepashree, Head of Department, Interventional Radiology, Rela Institute; and K. Meena, Senior Consultant, Emergency Medicine, Gleangales Global Health City; reached out to healthcare professionals in the city and asked them to send short videos of themselves dancing to the music. The idea to come up with a music video, they said, was because they believed that music could help bring about unity, happiness and hope. “We have juniors, senior consultants and hospital directors featured in the video. There have been increasing concerns among doctors who have been stressed and worried about how the pandemic might impact their family, and our collective focus is now on remaining motivated and strong to serve the public and assist the government,” said Dr. Meena. The video, which was uploaded on the “Be The Hope Youtube Channel” on Saturday, and has since then received over 11,000 views. As a next step. Dr. Deepashree said that on their Facebook page of the same name, they were hoping to host live online interactions with doctors from different specialities. “At a time like this, when the public is generally worried , we want them to know that our first priority is to help them and to allay their fears. This is a step towards being more accessible and addressing their concerns,” she added. The team behind the video also said that they want the public to be aware of how they should follow precautions and support doctors. “We want everyone to wear masks as well as strictly follow physical distancing norms. Through all this, we also want to remind them to respect doctors who are working on the frontlines, and not ostracise them or ask them to vacate houses,” Dr. Sai Surendar added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/doctors-shake-a-leg-to-beat-the-pandemic-blues/article31611193.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||FASTag soon at OMR, ECR plazas||Trial is under way for launching FASTag facility at toll plazas on the East Coast Road (ECR) and on Rajiv Gandhi Salai (Old Mahabalipuram Road). Over one lakh vehicles use OMR daily and the ECR sees 10,000 vehicles everyday. FASTag, an e-payment mode where card readers scan cards stuck on vehicles crossing toll plazas and deduct the fee, has been implemented by the National Highways Authority of India at 48 plazas in the State. These radio frequency identification tags, introduced across the country, help reduce waiting time at the plazas. The Tamil Nadu Road Development Company, which maintains the ECR and OMR toll plazas, has tied up with the NHAI. “This makes it convenient for motorists to use the system at all plazas. We have tied up with a bank to sell the tags at major plazas,” said an official source. The company is sprucing up toll plazas and improving markings and signages. “If it reduces wait timing at the toll plazas during rush hour, it would be great, said Swami Mani, a resident of Thoraipakkam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fastag-soon-at-omr-ecr-plazas/article31611203.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Forum wants Class 10 exam to be postponed||The State Platform for Common School System Tamil Nadu has submitted a memorandum to the School Education secretary seeking the withdrawal of the time table issued for Class 10 public examinations, which are scheduled to begin on June 1. In a statement, Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary of the organisation, questioned the urgency of the government in announcing the exam time table even before the guidelines for the fourth extension of the lockdown had been issued by the Centre. While officials called for collection of data regarding students staying away from home, and those living in containment zones for their travel arrangements by May 19, the forum said this was done after the time table has been announced. Stating that public exams were stressful,the memorandum said the socio-economic and psychological conditions of students during the pandemic could not be ignored. “Lockdown has disrupted life and children cannot be seen in isolation. During a pandemic, students cannot isolate themselves from society and concentrate on studies,” the memorandum said calling for holding exams after schools reopen.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forum-wants-class-10-exam-to-be-postponed/article31611207.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4.83 lakh booked in T.N.||As many as 4,83,501 persons have been arrested so far across the State for venturing out without a valid reason and violating prohibitory orders promulgated from March 24. They were released on bail immediately after collecting the fine amount and their vehicles were seized, according to the police. The State police were enforcing prohibitory orders by restricting movement of people on road and prohibiting the unlawful assembly of more than five persons in public places. According to sources in the police headquarters, over 4,55,946 violations had been reported until Sunday morning and 3,97,692 vehicles were seized. A total fine of Rs. 5.91 crore was collected from the violators.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/483-lakh-booked-in-tn-for-lockdown-violation/article31611211.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Irulas duped by man who posed as bank manager||A group of 45 members of Irula community in Chengalpattu are the latest victims of the vishing scam related to COVID -19. They lost over Rs. 1 lakh, their lifetime savings, to a man who called posing as an SBI branch manager and emptied their bank accounts after collecting their debit card details and OTP under the pretext of disbursing COVID-19 compensation. According to Selvam, Village Administrative Officer of Chenneri village in Chengalpattu, around 6.30 a.m Saturday, Selvi, who heads the women’s self-help group in the village, received a phone call. After collecting her bank details, the conman asked her to get the bank details of other SHG members. “She called 44 of the 80-odd families in the village and everyone shared the details. It was later that they realised they had been conned. The fraudster even stole Rs. 100 bank balance of some residents,” added Mr. Selvam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/irulas-duped-by-man-who-posed-as-bank-manager/article31611204.ece
18 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Collect parking fee for one day’||The Chennai Metropolitan Development Agency (CMDA) has directed the parking contractor at Koyambedu bus terminus to collect fees for only one day and not for the entire lockdown period. In a circular issued to the parking contractor, Sri Mangalam Agencies, the CMDA member-secretary said: “It is understood that you are collecting the parking fee for the entire lockdown period.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/collect-parking-fee-for-one-day/article31611208.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘How much of Rs. 20 lakh crore will benefit T.N.?’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Sunday asked how much of the Rs. 20 lakh crore relief package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan would be set aside for Tamil Nadu. In a tweet, Mr. Haasan said, “How much of the Rs. 20-lakh crore will directly benefit Tamil Nadu?” He said the State government was scared to ask its ‘boss’ for funds that should have already been provided to it. “Afraid that seeking what rightfully belongs to the State would anger its boss, the Tamil Nadu government has decided to open Tasmac shops,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/how-much-of-rs-20-lakh-crore-will-benefit-tn/article31611233.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Varsity donates surgical hoods to city police||Over 5,000 surgical hoods with face shields were handed over to Chennai Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan on Sunday. N.M. Veeraiyan, Chancellor of Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences (SIMATS), who gave the surgical hoods, said they acted as a second layer of protection for the police personnel to the exposed portions of the face. The cost-effective surgical hoods made of 90 GSM unwoven polypropylene provides effective protection from droplets infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsity-donates-surgical-hoods-to-city-police/article31611194.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||10 arrested for making, selling manja thread||The Thiru.Vi. Ka. Nagar police on Sunday arrested 10 persons for manufacturing and selling prohibited manja thread for flying kites. On Saturday night, Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar police inspector received information about storage of manja thread and kites. A special team raided a house on Thiruvallur Street, Perambur, and found a group making manja thread and kites for selling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-arrested-for-making-selling-manja-thread/article31611209.ece
18 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Goldsmiths seek support to restart production||Goldsmiths in Coimbatore district, mainly the small-scale operators, have urged the government to support them with funds to restart jewellery production. S.M. Kamalhasan, president of Coimbatore Goldsmith Association, told The Hindu on Sunday that many of the goldsmiths have small-scale units with hand operated machinery to cut gold wires, make plates, solder, melt gold, etc and they take up job works. Nearly 60,000 such units here, employing 1.5 lakh workers, are unable to function fully because the machines need repairing. “Not even 10 % of these machines are operated now. With more than a month of lockdown, the machinery remained unused and are not functioning properly now, and the wirings are also damaged. In the case of expensive machinery, service personnel from the manufacturing company should come and have a look. The tools used by the gold smiths have rusted and they need to buy new ones. Hence, though the government has permitted operation of the gold smithies, very few units are functioning,” he said. Further, Coimbatore being the third largest gold jewellery making hub in the country, most of the jewellery are sold in other cities and States. With inter-district movement of people restricted and without public transport system, the goldsmiths will not be able to sell the jewellery outside Coimbatore. “We have appealed to the jewellery traders to support us by extending advance amount. We also want the government to assist us,” Mr. Kamalhasan said. The goldsmiths are unable to benefit from MUDRA loan and hence the government should take steps to ensure the jewellery sector gets the MUDRA loans. “We do not need capital to invest in machinery. We need working capital,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/goldsmiths-seek-support-to-restart-production/article31611250.ece
18 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Heavy wind, rain lash Coimbatore city||With heavy winds and rain lashing the city on Sunday afternoon, tree branches fell down in several areas, blocking roads and electricity poles were damaged leading to power disruptions. The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) was clearing branches, working on damaged electricity poles, and had restored supply in all the affected areas by late Sunday evening. One of the Swachh Bharat Ambassadors for ward 54 (Ramnagar) S. Natarajan says that huge branches of at least seven trees, which are several years old, had fallen on the roads in Ramnagar and in a couple of locations the entire road was blocked. The fire service personnel, police, and Coimbatore Corporation officials inspected the area and cleared the branches and the debris. There was no damage to power lines in Ramnagar. Electricity supply was cut for about three hours and restored, he said. An official of Tangedco said there were reports of damages to electricity infrastructure mainly in Tatabad and Vadavalli. Tangedco will know the number of poles damaged only on Monday. But its personnel had started clearing the branches that had fallen on the lines and poles, repairing the damages and had restored supply by evening in all the areas.  Staff Reporter adds from Erode: Many parts of the district received widespread rainfall while heavy rains accompanied by gusty winds lashed a few places leading to power disruption here on Sunday evening. Many villages in Modakurichi and Kodumudi blocks received good rainfall that lasted for over an hour as strong winds disrupted power supply that was restored after an hour. The city received less rainfall while places in Sathyamangalam and Gobichettipalayam blocks also received less rainfall in the evening. However, farmers fear that strong winds could have damaged their standing banana plantations which they will know only on Monday morning. Revenue officials said that rainfall was moderate and any damage to property would be known only later.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/heavy-wind-rain-lash-coimbatore-city/article31611261.ece
18 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Forest department continues to monitor injured elephant||The Forest Department continues to monitor a male elephant that was found unwell last week within the limits of Mettupalayam forest range. The elephant with a swollen leg was given medicines, antibiotics and other supplements in fruits as direct treatment was not possible. The tusker, aged around 40, was found struggling to move in a forest area at Nellithurai near Kallar last week. Forest veterinary officer Sugumar observed the elephant and recommended combinations of drugs which were given to the animal after stuffing them inside water melon and jackfruit. According to the forest veterinary officer, the animal was expected to recover from the swelling after a few weeks. The veterinarian will conduct a review this week to check the improvement of treatment, said S. Selvaraj, forest range officer of Mettupalayam range. The officer said that the elephant was taking natural forest fodder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-department-continues-to-monitor-injured-elephant/article31611256.ece
18 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Additional rice for PDS card holders||Public distribution system card holders will get additional rice under the Central gvernment’s Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna , as a part of its efforts to mitigate the impact of the lockdown, says a release from the district administration. The additional allocation of rice will be in addition to the usual quota of rice the State government gives to priority household cards, non-priority household cards, State Special Rice cards and Antyodaya Anna Yojna cards. The additional allotment will be five kg rice per person in the priority household cards, a maximum for 20kg rice for each non-priority household cards, and for Antyodaya Anna Yojna cards, the additional allotment will be five kg per person, the release also says. This district administration will give the additional allotment along with the goods for the month of May. And, to create awareness among the beneficiary card holders, it has asked officials concerned to place the information on boards in front of all fair price shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/additional-rice-for-pds-card-holders/article31611246.ece
18 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Seven held for wildlife offences||Forest Department staff on Sunday arrested seven persons in connection with three wildlife offences. In the first case, the staff attached to Mettupalayam range nabbed five persons, who procured the meat of a sambar deer, carcass of which they found as leftover prey of a carnivore in Nellithurai reserve forest area. D. Krishnan and P. Selvaraj from Nellithurai village procured around 5 kg meat from the leftover carcass and took to their homes. Later, they shared the venison with three relatives K. Ramasamy, R. Selvam and Thangamuthu Chinnamani, also hailing from the same village. The Department imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000 on each person for the offence. In another case, the Forest Department apprehended two persons who trapped heron from a place at Somaiyampalayam within the limits of Coimbatore forest range. A fine of Rs. 2,000 was imposed on B. Selvam and K. Chakrapani, both belonging to a nomadic group.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seven-held-for-wildlife-offences/article31611257.ece
18 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||SDPI members booked||The Coimbatore city police on Saturday booked 35 members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) for staging protests holding umbrellas, under the slogan ‘lockdown politics’, at two places. While Ukkadam police booked 15 persons, including V.M. Abuthahir, State treasurer, for staging protest on NH Road, Kuniyamuthur police registered a case against 20 persons at Athupalam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sdpi-members-booked/article31611273.ece
18 May 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Varsity staff told not to attend office||Annamalai University on Sunday asked its teaching and non-teaching staff not to attend office from May 18, in the wake of Cuddalore district being classified as a red zone and the Tamil Nadu government extending the lockdown till May 31. The university had, on Saturday, issued guidelines to its staff, stating that all departments and offices would start functioning from Monday, with curtailed staff and strict physical distancing norms. Registrar (in-charge) N. Krishnamohan said teaching and non-teaching staff had been advised not to report for duty on Monday. A fresh advisory would be issued after obtaining permission from the Department of Higher Education, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/varsity-staff-told-not-to-attend-office/article31611243.ece
18 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Teachers on exam duty in containment zones will be given PPE, says Minister||The State government will provide personal protective equipment (PPE) to teachers on duty for the Class X board examinations held at centres situated in COVID-19 containment zones, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan has said. Addressing the media at Gobichettipalayam in Erode district on Sunday, he said separate examination centres would be established for students in containment zones. According to him, the School Education Department had, through the Chief Educational Officers, ascertained that no student appearing for the exams was infected by COVID-19, and added that precautionary measures were being taken in the exam centres. He said students would be provided with e-passes if they were currently staying in other districts or States. Either the pupil’s father or mother would be allowed to accompany them to their home towns to take the test, he added. Reach 3 days early Mr. Sengottaiyan said students staying in hostels should reach their respective schools three days before the date of the exam, and the respective school administrations should take necessary steps to bring them there. Steps were being taken to ensure that the exam schedule and other details reached students in hill areas, Mr. Sengottaiyan said.  Students staying in other districts or States would be provided with e-passes to reach the exam centres||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-on-exam-duty-in-containment-zones-will-be-given-ppe-says-minister/article31611240.ece
18 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Fruit sellers feel the heat of lockdown in Erode||With the nationwide lockdown being extended till May 31, sellers of seasonal fruits and drinks during the summer season feel the heat as their business is yet to gain momentum. During Kathiri Veyil in May every year, the demand for watermelon, mosambi (sweet lime), mulampalam (muskmelon), noongu (Palmyra fruit), buttermilk, sugarcane juice, tender coconut, cucumbers and kamban koozh (pear millet porridge) will be very high. Temporary roadside shops selling these items could be seen in large numbers as fruits and drinks are available at affordable price even for the poor. “But I had never faced this situation”, said Velammal of Moolapalayam, who has been selling watermelon for over 20 years. “Summer is at its peak now and I did not do any business so far in this season”, she said and added that her business was good even during rainy seasons in the past years. A sugarcane juice seller at Solar, who reopened his shop last week, said that business was poor as very few motorists ply on the road. “Usually, about two loads of sugarcane in autorickshaw are needed for a day in summer. But now, I need less than half-load for two days”, he added. Nataraj, who sells muskmelon and watermelon from March to May said that lockdown had kept people indoors and hence he could not do any business. “I am not sure whether business will be back in another one month”, he said. A few roadside shops selling sugarcane juice and watermelon had reopened their business in the past few days. However, their business volume was very low as many avoided consuming juices due to fear.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fruit-sellers-feel-the-heat-of-lockdown-in-erode/article31611248.ece
18 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Around 800 migrant workers quarantined at institutions||Around 800 migrant workers, who have travelled to Madurai from other parts of the country during the lockdown, are quarantined at 13 institutions across the district. M. Kannan, Special District Revenue Officer, National Highways, who takes care of the quarantine centres, says between May 7 and May 17, 913 people have travelled to Madurai from other districts and States. Migrant workers have travelled from States like Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Kerala and Telangana, he adds. On the directive from the State government, the migrant workers are being tested based on the place they come from. All those who travel from other districts are being screened at district borders. Swab tests are conducted for those who display COVID-19 symptoms and samples are sent to Government Rajaji Hospital. If a person tests positive, he is sent to the GRH. Those who test negative are home-quarantined for 14 days. For all those who travel from other States, swab tests are conducted at the 13 institutions, even if they do not display any symptoms. Those who test positive are sent to the GRH. Those who test negative, but have come from hotspot States – Maharashtra, Gujarat and Delhi – are quarantined for seven days. Those who come from non-hotspot States and have tested negative are home-quarantined for 14 days. “So far, 711 people have travelled from Maharashtra and form a major chunk of the total migrants from other States. People from other States are continuing to come here in large numbers,” he adds. He says so far they have made arrangements to accommodate around 2,000 migrant workers at the 13 centre, which include Fatima College, Lady Doak College hostel, Madurai Kamaraj University, Arul Anandhar College and Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College hostel. While food and other facilities are provided for these people at the centres, the delay in meeting their families has made them anxious, says Usilampatti Revenue Divisional Officer K.V. Rajkumar. Pandi Meena, who used to sell idlis at Malad in Mumbai, and travelled with her husband and children, says she fears how her neighbours would react after they arrive at their village. “But one positive aspect is that we are being tested and we know for sure if we are infected or not,” she says. Mr. Rajkumar says counselling and yoga sessions are conducted to help them stay calm during their quarantine period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/around-800-migrant-workers-quarantined-at-institutions/article31611509.ece
18 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two held for female infanticide||Madurai district police on Sunday arrested Dhavamani and his mother Pandiammal on the charge of murdering his four-day-old female infant. The police on Saturday exhumed the body that was stealthily buried along the Vaigai at Sholavandan on Thursday. After local people raised suspicion over the death of the infant, the fourth girl child for Dhavamani and his wife Chithra, the Village Administrative Officer Samayan lodged a complaint. Sholavandan police were investigating the case. Though initially the parents and family members pleaded innocence, after the post-mortem, Dhavamani father spilled the beans during the police enquiry. “We arrested him and his mother. They had administered a herbal juice (usually used for female infanticide) and smothered the infant to death,” Additional Superintendent of Police (Crime Against Women and Children), S. Vanitha, said. When the infant’s mother was away, both the accused, who were irked over the birth of fourth girl child in the family, killed her. “The infant’s mother had no role,” he added. The Sholavandan police altered the charges from suspicious death to murder, causing disappearance of evidence and for secretly burying the body. “This is the second case of female infanticide in the district in three months. Though awareness is being created against female infanticide, such incidents are recurring,” rued B. Pandiarajan, member, District Child Welfare Committee. Only in March, three persons, including the grandfather, were arrested in Chekkanoorani in a similar case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-female-infanticide/article31611213.ece
18 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||A 200-km journey that wasn’t meant to be||A 30-year-old resident of Keelavalavu village, accompanied by her five-year-old daughter and five goats, set off for Erode on Friday, only to be stopped at the Vadipatti checkpost and sent back home. S. Mahalakshmi said she had decided to undertake the 200-km journey to meet her husband Sivakumar, who had a disability and was unable to return home due to the lockdown. “I didn’t have any money left. My child was crying. I had no idea what to do. So, I left [for Erode],” she said. Ms. Mahalakshmi said she had managed to sustain herself for a month by herding goats, but then realised that she would not be able to meet any further expenses. “There is no water supply to my house. I had to wait for two days for a tanker to come by and provide us with a pot [of water] for Rs. 30. I heard that life was much better in Erode. The only way for me to survive was to go to my husband,” she said. She had heard that migrants were walking all the way from Chennai to West Bengal. This made her feel confident about her ability to complete the journey to Erode. She said her aim was to meet her husband since he was the breadwinner of the family. Ms. Mahalakshmi said she first went to Melur on foot to sell her daughter’s silver anklets — her last remaining pieces of jewellery — for Rs. 1,000, which she intended to use for her journey. While in Melur, she thought she could walk to the Arapalayam bus stand to catch a bus to Erode. “I had forgotten that buses were not plying. When I stopped at the Vadipatti checkpost to ask the police personnel for directions, they said I should not be travelling without obtaining permission from the district administration, and redirected me to the Collector’s office,” she said. A few officials at the Collectorate and the district Red Cross team assisted her by providing her with 20 kg rice, pulses and oil, enough to last a month. They also drove her, along with her child and her goats, back home in a car. Madurai Red Cross secretary M. Gopalakrish-nan said the organisation was making arrangements to try and bring Mr. Sivakumar back home in a Red Cross van which regularly travels between the two districts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-200-km-journey-that-wasnt-meant-to-be/article31611232.ece
18 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||DYFI members sweep streets to help workers||Around 120 members of Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) swept the streets at four locations in the city on Sunday to express their gratitude towards conservancy workers whose workload has increased during the lockdown period. The members cleared sand and garbage dumped along roadsides at Palanganatham subway, Jaihindpuram, Goripalayam and Madura Coats bridge. D. Selva, district secretary, DYFI, said that their aim was to reduce the work burden of the conservancy workers.  He said that they all volunteered between 7 a.m. and 11.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dyfi-members-sweep-streets-to-help-workers/article31611508.ece
18 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Textile shops remain closed in Madurai||A week after textile shops in Madurai were allowed to open, those shops remained shut on Sunday as Collector T. G. Vinay ordered their closure on Saturday evening, A press release from the administration said that it was a precautionary measure against COVID-19 as crowding might take place. Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association Secretary Ashraf Tayub said that they anticipated big business on Sunday as it was the last weekend before Eid-ul-Fitr.“When officials from the district administration told us that we could not open because of the crowds, we understood too,” he said. He added that over the last week, business has only been trickling. “Without any movement of public transport, it would be hard for the textile business industry to boom. Usually, people travel from Melur and Tirumangalam to the city to buy clothes for festivals and special occasions. Business in these areas is picking up now as crowds are not travelling. The wholesale market is also doing well,” he said. V. Prakash, Proprietor of Sri Mahalakshmi Textiles, said that only 30% of his staff - five members - are coming to his shops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/textile-shops-remain-closed-in-madurai/article31611513.ece
18 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||People’s Watch flays DMK||People’s Watch, a Madurai-based non-governmental organisation, has condemned the DMK for criticising Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam for allegedly humiliating its MPs when they met him recently to submit petitions received by them from the public on the problems faced during COVID-19 lockdown. In a statement, office-bearers of the NGO said the whole country was facing an extraordinary situation in view of COVID-19 pandemic and the DMK should avoid politicising the issue. It was unfortunate that former Union Ministers T.R. Baalu and Dayanidhi Maran had initiated a privilege motion in the Lok Sabha against the Chief Secretary, they said. There was no necessity to submit petitions in person when they could do so online. When government servants were working under pressure in this extraordinary situation, the opposition parties must refrain from such acts, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/peoples-watch-flays-dmk/article31611510.ece
18 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Three found murdered||Unidentified persons hacked to death a man A. Anbunathan (32) and a woman B. Ayyammal (26) in a secluded place at Therkku Theru under Melur police station limits on Sunday. The police said the unmarried man had an illegal relationship with the woman, mother of three children, who was living separately from her husband. The police said they both had gone near Nallampalathal tank on Aandipatti Road on a motorbike. Both were seen lying dead with multiple cut injuries on their bodies. The police are yet to identify the murderers and the motive. Meanwhile, Sivakumar (52) of S.S. Colony was found murdered and his body partially burnt near Samayanallur on Sunday morning. The police said the body with cut injuries on the neck was found lying behind a mill in Thenur. Upon enquiry, the police identified the deceased. The police suspect that the murder could have happened elsewhere and the accused could have tried to destroy the body at Thenur. Samayanallur police are on the lookout for a suspect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-found-murdered/article31611514.ece
18 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Conservancy workers must be paid daily wage’||Conservancy workers who are working at police stations, armed forces units and police quarters must be paid a daily wage of Rs. 1,500 for the lockdown period. The amount must be credited to their bank accounts, say members of Village Panchayat Sanitary Workers and Water Tank Operators Association. In a press release, they have demanded that all workers who have more than three years of experience must be made permanent employees. Officials must abide by the Minimum Wages Act 1948 and pay a monthly salary of Rs. 18,000 for all the contract workers. A. Kondaivellai, State organiser of the association, said it was decided at a meeting convened at the Collectorate in 2018 that all contract and daily wage conservancy workers must be paid a daily wage of Rs. 500. “However, this has still not been implemented in many parts of the district,” he said. Necessary steps have to be taken to ensure that all conservancy workers are eligible to avail pension after their retirement. All workers must be given their ESI and EPF cards, added the release. The employees must be promoted based on their education qualification. “The authorities must also take steps to provide scholarships for the children of conservancy workers,” said Mr. Kondaivellai. Women workers must be allowed to take their maternity leave. All workers must be given tricycles, face masks, soap, sandals, buckets and broomsticks to help their carry out their duty, added the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservancy-workers-must-be-paid-daily-wage/article31611518.ece
18 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry to decide on lockdown today||The Cabinet will meet on Monday to decide on whether to extend the lockdown till May 31 with further easing of curbs, Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Sunday. Addressing a press conference, he said the Cabinet would also take a call on whether to reopen liquor outlets, which had remained shut since March 24. Liquor outlets The government will be reviewing the substantial loss from one of its chief sources of revenue as well as the fact that liquor outlets had reopened across Tamil Nadu, with which it shares porous borders in Cuddalore and Villupuram. The government was exploring ways to improve the fiscal situation through revenue generation, Mr. Narayanasamy said. Madras School of Economics, which had conducted a comprehensive study into the fiscal status and revenue sources, would soon be submitting its report on revenue generation, he added. The government’s view has been that it was eligible for 41% of its revenue as grants by the Centre, Mr. Narayanasamy said.  Chief Minister lauds Finance Minister The Chief Minister lauded Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s announcement of raising the borrowing limit for the States from the present 3% to 5% of the GDP during 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/puducherry-cabinet-to-decide-on-lockdown-today/article31611225.ece
18 May 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Special financial assistance given to SHG members||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Sunday distributed special financial assistance to the tune of Rs. 1.47 crore to 229 Self Help Groups (SHGs) attached to Ilupur Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Society at a function. The financial assistance has been given under the COVID-19 special support scheme through the Cooperative Department for the SHG members to meet their urgent needs, Minister Vijayabaskar said speaking on the occasion. The Minister said loans to the tune of Rs. 5.47 crore would be disbursed under this scheme to a total number of 827 women SHGs across the district. Of this, financial assistance would be given to 255 SHGs through the District Central Cooperative Bank and for the remaining 572 groups through Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Societies. Every SHG member would receive a minimum assistance of Rs. 5,000 and each SHG would be given a maximum of Rs. one lakh under this special scheme, he said adding that service charge or caution deposit would not be collected from the groups. He called upon the SHG members to make use of the assistance given by the State government to improve their economic condition. The Minister said precautionary measures were being carried out on a war-footing by the district administration to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in Pudukottai district. Later, the Minister distributed 29 farm-related inputs worth Rs. 82.31 lakh to farm groups formed under Collective Farming Scheme at Illupur and Annavasal in the district. Collector P. Uma Maheswari and officials of Cooperative and other departments participated, an official release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-financial-assistance-given-to-shg-members/article31611542.ece
18 May 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Villagers demand shifting of TASMAC shop||A group of villagers staged a protest at Kallupallam near Tiruvarankulam in the district on Sunday demanding the shifting of a TASMAC liquor outlet. Police sources said the villagers sat near the shop without affecting the outlet’s business in support of their demand on the grounds that the outlet's functioning in that place was affecting general public by and large. On receipt of information, police personnel went to the spot and prevailed upon the protesters to give up their stir.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/villagers-demand-shifting-of-tasmac-shop/article31611544.ece
18 May 2020||RAJAPALAYAM,TAMIL NADU||Man trying to retrieve body drowns||A 52-year-old man, Mastan Pandiyan, drowned in a well while trying to retrieve the body of a watchman, S. Murugan, 65, on Sunday. Murugan of Sivagamiyapuram under Rajapalayam North Police Station limits went to the farm well for bathing on Saturday evening, leaving his clothes outside. He drowned in the well. On Sunday morning, locals engaged Mastan Pandiyan to retrieve his body. After more than an hour of diving into the water, Mastan Pandiyan too drowned. Then, the people alerted Rajapalayam Fire and Rescue Station. A team of fire service personnel, led by Station Fire Officer S. Jayaraman, managed to pull out the body of Mastan Pandiyan around 10 a.m. However, they had to struggle for more than 11 hours to retrieve the body of Murugan at 7.40 p.m. Mr. Jeyaraman said that Mastan Pandiyan used to help firemen in fishing out bodies from wells. Instead of contacting the fire station, the local people had engaged Mastan Pandiyan to fish out the body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-trying-to-retrieve-body-drowns/article31611497.ece
18 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Sixteen test positive for COVID-19 in Salem||Sixteen persons who returned to Salem from places such as Maharashtra, Telangana, Rajasthan, Chennai, Chengalpettu and Thiruvallur tested positive for COVID-19 here. They were first quarantined at the government facilities set up near the inter-State border checkposts and later shifted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital for treatment. Discharged Two persons from Thennakarai Kottai near Arur, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Dharmapuri Medical College Hospital, were discharged on Sunday following their recovery. The two had contracted the virus from Koyambedu market. District Collector S. Malarvizhi, Dharmapuri GH Dean Poovathi, Joint Director of Welfare Services Stephenraj, Deputy Director of Health Services P.R. Gemini and other senior officials saw them off. The two persons were provided with vitamin tablets, immunity building concoction, hand sanitisers and masks by the officials. They were advised to be under home quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/sixteen-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-salem/article31611266.ece
18 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Woman creates ruckus at GH||A woman admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here created a panic situation on Sunday morning after she climbed over and sat on a window sill and turned violent. According to the police, a 33-year-old woman, a native of Kolkata was admitted to the hospital on Saturday. On Sunday, she turned violent and sat over a window sill at one of the wards and started yelling at hospital staff and the police. Police said that the woman is a fashion designing student in Bengaluru and reached Tamil Nadu border from where she managed to board a vegetable truck and was dropped near Omalur here. Police officials said that they were informed about a stranded woman and after inquiry, she was put up at a charitable home near Omalur. The woman’s parents in Kolkata were also informed. However, she became restless at the home and was later shifted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. Though police tried to pacify and bring her down, she refused. Later, senior police officials including Assistant Police Commissioner P. Eswaran, personnel from the Tamil Nadu Disaster Response Force, Resident Medical Officer Dr. Rani and hospital authorities managed to pacify the woman and bring her down. She was later sedated and is being observed by doctors from psychiatry and neurology departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-creates-ruckus-at-gh/article31611269.ece
18 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Organisations donate relief materials||Representatives of various organisations handed over relief materials to Collector S.A.Raman recently. According to a release, representatives of Ramco Cements gave grocery kits to 250 differently-abled persons. Sona Education Group handed over 50 thermal scanners worth Rs. 3 lakh to the district administration. Members of Lions Clubs International District donated 300 PPE kits for healthcare workers at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/organisations-donate-relief-materials/article31611254.ece
18 May 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Headmaster’s gesture||K. Jeyakumar Gnanaraj, headmaster of panchayat union elementary school at Padikasuvaithanpatti, on Friday distributed groceries and cash to the families of 26 students of his school. He said he had encouraged his students to contribute to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund after the outbreak of pandemic. Students mobilised Rs. 2,367 which their families had saved for buying new dresses for them in connection with village pongal festival and sent it to the fund on March 31. Subsequently, as members of poor families were rendered jobless, the headmaster surprised them with new dresses for the kids. He distributed groceries, including rice, to each family, along with Rs. 1,000. “It was only to encourage students who had shared whatever little they had for the sake of the most needy people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/headmasters-gesture/article31611501.ece
18 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Theni GH gets three robots||SASTRA Deemed to be University, Thanjavur, has presented three medical robots to Theni Government Medical College Hospital in the wake of COVID-19. At a demonstration held on Saturday in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Theni MP O.P. Raveendranath Kumar, Collector M. Pallavi Baldev and other senior officials, engineers from the university explained the features of the robots. The robots would be put in to action in COVID-19 ward, where it would help prevent medical staff and others from getting in to close contact with patients. Appreciating the efforts of SASTRA University, Mr. Panneerselvam said the State government was receiving wholehearted support from philanthropists, institutions and service organisations. After Chief Minister Edapadi K. Palaniswami’s appeal to the public for contributions, donations in many forms were pouring in. Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Madurai Government Medical College Hospitals received similar robots from the university, which donated Rs. 1.25 crore to the Centre and Rs. 1.25 crore to the State government, an official from SASTRA said. Earlier, at a review meeting held with officials, Mr. Panneerselvam said 815 persons returned to the district from overseas since January 1 and were screened. On April 1, after a group of people returned from New Delhi, 23 persons tested positive. Sustained screening added up 20 more patients, who happened to be close contacts. All except one were discharged after they were found stable. Appreciating frontline staff and officials from various departments, Mr. Panneerselvam said at a time when the district was inching towards green zone from orange zone, the arrival and screening of persons from Maharashtra and Koyambedu led to a rise in positive patients again. However, the district administration’s initiative to go ahead with rapid random sampling was laudable. Out of 9,198 samples, 79 tested positive. The government would extend all support to officials and people must extend their cooperation in fighting the challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/theni-gh-gets-three-robots/article31611503.ece
18 May 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Man killed by gang||A youth was stabbed to death and two others were injured in an attack over theft of a goat in Authoor on Saturday. Rajadurai, 25, son of Thirumani of Mookani, Gandhi Nagar, his elder brother Sermadurai, 26, and their friend, M. Muthu Selvakumar of North Authoor, were seated near a temple roundabout when a 10-member gang led by Manikandan of Pullaveli came to the spot, police said. The gang was annoyed after some people in Mookaani lodged a complaint with the police about missing goats. They were reportedly questioning the identity of the persons, which led to a verbal altercation. The gang members attacked the trio with knives and iron rods, causing multiple injuries. Passersby found them lying unconscious and arranged vehicles to shift them to hospital. While Rajadurai was declared ‘brought dead’, the other two were under treatment. Authoor police are on the look out for the armed gang. A case of murder was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/25-year-old-man-killed-by-gang/article31611493.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,400 migrant labourers leave Tiruchi for Uttar Pradesh||As many as 1,425 migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh who were working in Tiruchi, Perambalur, Karur and Ariyalur districts left by a Shramik special train from Tiruchi to Akbarpur in Uttar Pradesh in the late hours on Sunday. This is the first special train to be operated from Tiruchi for the migrant labourers who had expressed their willingness to return back to their native State in view of the current lockdown. Official sources said the highest number of 984 migrant labourers from Uttar Pradesh out of the total 1,425 were working in various places in Tiruchi district. Migrant labourers numbering 254 from Karur; 120 from Perambalur and 67 from Ariyalur district were sent by special buses from the respective districts to Tiruchi to board the special train. The sources said Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabhaskar flagged off the special buses at the District Collectorate in Karur carrying the migrant labourers by ensuring personal distancing. The labourers were given masks and advised about the precautionary measures to be taken to prevent themselves from getting afflicted with the viral disease. Arrangements were made by the Tiruchi district administration, Southern Railway, City Police, Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police at Tiruchi Junction in view of the movement of the migrant labourers by the special train. City Police sources said around 80 police personnel had been deployed at Tiruchi Junction and its vicinity. Food packets and water bottles were given to the labourers for whom thermal scanning was done and personal distancing ensured before they boarded the respective coaches. Karaikal A Shramik special train with 24 coaches departed from Karaikal with 355 migrant labourers at 6 p.m. on Saturday for Purnia in Bihar, via Puducherry, Bhopal, Jhansi, and Basti. Official sources said 813 more migrant labourers will board the train at Puducherry. Food was arranged for the night by Karaikal administration. The labourers from Karaikal were given a send-off by Puducherry Agrculture Minister Kamalakannan, District Collector Arjun Sharma, Tiruchi Railway Division Asst. Commercial Manager Shajahan, Railway Station Manager Muthukumar, and V. R. Dhanaseelane, president, Karaikal District Rail Users Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-1400-migrant-labourers-leave-tiruchi-for-uttar-pradesh/article31611533.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||All households in city will have UGD||The Tiruchi City Corporation has made an agreement with Larsen & Toubro Limited to make Underground Drainage System (UGD) available in all households in the city, said Tiruchi Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian. The Corporation Commissioner said that the Rs. 335 crore project has commenced and by May 2023, at least 80% of the 20 lakh households in the city will have a fully functional UGD system, as he addressed a webinar titled, ‘Neer Yindri Amayaadhu Ulagu’ organised by the civic body and Citizens For Uyyakondan (CFU), a citizens action group based in the city. A survey of the newly added wards to the corporation limits was also being undertaken as a preparation for the UGD works, he said. Mr. Sivasubramanian also said that an integrated approach to reduce contamination of waterbodies would be discussed with the District Collector soon after the lockdown for COVID-19 is lifted. “A special team including officials of the Tiruchi City Corporation, Public Works Department, Pollution Control Board and citizens must involve in the work to reduce water contamination and increase water conservation,” he said. The webinar hosted about 50 participants and other speakers such as G. Bindhu, Senior Hydrogeologist, Ground Water Department, Government of Kerala, who shared her experience of working with rejuvenating waterbodies in the State while Justin Mohan, former Director, Ground Water Department, Government of Kerala anchored the discussion. J. Soundarapandi, Scientist, National Biodiversity Authority, discussed the correlation between biodiversity and species richness. “In a place like Ooty or Nilgiris, where tea is abundantly grown, it looks like a vast green expanse but that is a monoculture of tea plantations and not too many species of other plants or animals can be found in this man-made greenery,” he said. The programme had been scheduled for March 22, World Water Day and had to be cancelled due to the lockdown as a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19. However, the organisers said that they felt the need to discuss the importance of water, especially since handwashing and hygiene have become important in the light of the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-households-in-city-will-have-ugd/article31611539.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||The potters’ wheel plods wearily||As many as 30 families who depend on making and selling pots for a living have been finding it tough during the lockdown. The potters lament that the government, too, has not extended a helping hand. “It is sad that a vocation extolled by our forefathers does not even help me get one square meal a day,” says M. Inbarasu, a potter living in Thiruvanaikoil. At least 100 potters used to live on the same street but now, the number has reduced to about 30 families, he says. “There are only three or four of us who make pots the traditional way. While some have moved to making earthen lamps for Diwali, most others have shifted to construction work,” he says. At least 30 pots remain unbaked, and two large tandoori ovens stand unused in front of Mr. Inbarasu’s small work shed. “The ovens were to be delivered to a restaurant in Perambalur in March. I did not get the money for it, and now, I think I’ll just have to make rotis in it because nobody will buy it from me,” he rues. Even as he narrates his story, a minivan stops at the end of the street and honks. Ladies step out of their houses with vessels and a man serves them tamarind rice. “We are now fully dependent on donors who bring us food like this. We have no choice, do we?” he asks. Mr. Inbarasu, and some others too, have dropped off their children at relatives’ houses so that they do not starve here. The summer season would usually be a good period of sales for potters as people purchase earthen pots to store water. However, with the lockdown in effect, not even a single pot has been sold since March, Mr. Inbarasu’s wife says. “The government has not even helped us for a single day. When they promote cooking with earthenware, why can’t they help us survive?” she ask. “The government needs to create platforms to showcase our work and create awareness,” said R. Muthu, another potter. “This skill needs to be introduced and promoted in colleges to attract youth.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-potters-wheel-plods-wearily/article31611530.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||They hitchhiked from Ramanathapuram in search of a job||Three men hailing from Ramanathapuram walked and hitched rides to Tiruchi in search of work during the lockdown. The trio, who had lost their jobs in their home town, decided to move to a bigger city. J. P. Raja, a 30-year-old man hailing from Mandapam, in Ramanathapuram, says he was a social worker working with NGOs and other civil society groups. “I had been helping people for over two years and now there is nobody to help me,” he said. He was asked to quit before the lockdown and for the last 50 days, he has no food to eat and nowhere to go. Mr. Raja met two others, M. Akbar and I. Chako, in Ramanathapuram. They were working at restaurants in the district but were rendered jobless as restaurants shut. Together, they decided to walk to some place where they would get a job. “We did not really have a plan as where to go. We just left Ramanathapuram,” Mr. Raja said. Nearly a month ago, they began walking and were stopped by police personnel in Ramanathapuram town. Thermal scanners were used on them to take tests for COVID-19 after which they were admitted to a quarantine facility there. After spending 15 days at the facility, they were discharged and asked to return home. The men, however, had other plans. Mr. Raja said that the authorities told them that if they left the district, they would not be allowed to return. “We did not want to go back as we have nothing left for us there. We wanted jobs.” They hitched a ride on a truck coming towards Tiruchi on Friday and were dropped off near the Tiruchi International Airport on Saturday morning. From Tiruchi airport, they decided to walk to the city in search of work or head towards Villupuram, where they believed they had job opportunities. Onlookers informed the district authorities after which the men were picked up and accommodated at a shelter run by an NGO in the city. “We told them that they will not find any jobs during the lockdown. However, we have asked an NGO to see if they can get them some job at least till the lockdown ends,” a health official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/such-a-long-journey/article31611492.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Deceased VAO’s kin gets govt. job within two days||The State government has appointed K. Divya, daughter of a Village Administrative Officer who was killed in a road accident while on GOVID-19 duty, as a junior assistant in the revenue department on compassionate grounds. Kumar (46), the VAO, died on the spot on Chennai-Madurai Highway on May 13 after taking part in quarantining passengers, who had returned from Malaysia, at Sethupatti Government Engineering College. The accident occurred when he was returning home on a motorbike. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had promised the family members a government job to an eligible person in the family on compassionate grounds, besides sanctioning Rs. 50 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Sibi Aditya Senthilkumar, Sub Collector, Srirangam, handed over the appointment order to Divya on Saturday. She has been appointed within two days of the Chief Minister’s announcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deceased-village-administrative-officers-kin-gets-govt-job-within-two-days/article31611500.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||It is a no-show for event management enterprises||The extended lockdown has dealt a severe blow to wedding and event management industry in Tiruchi. According to a rough estimate, convention centres and marriage halls provide direct and indirect employment opportunities to about a lakh people such as event managers, caterers, cooks, catering employees, stage and floor decorators, orchestra artistes, electricians, “purohidars”, traditional musicians, photographers, videographers, pandal operators, tailors, cab operators, bridal make up artistes, vegetable suppliers and others in the district. There are about 100 standard marriage halls within the city alone. Of them, 20 halls are in the premium category. There are marriage halls that charge rent in terms of lakhs of rupees a day. Additionally, most of the hotels have convention centres. There are people, who book marriage halls even before finalising the marriage plans. Since the lockdown, which began on March 25, all marriage halls and convention centres have been closed. Though there is no bar on marriages, not more than 15 guests including close and blood relatives of bride and bridegroom can attend the marriage functions, thereby forcing them to cancel the bookings at marriage halls or postpone the marriages. According to industry sources, those who had booked the marriage halls between March 25 and June, have cancelled their bookings. In some cases, cancellations have stretched beyond July and August. They have been pressuring the marriage hall owners to refund the advance amount. It has affected almost all stakeholders of wedding and event management industry. “The lockdown has severely hit various people right from flower sellers, hair dressers to marriage hall owners. It has paralysed the industry. We are really clueless about our future,” says Rathish Ravi, proprietor, Tiruchi Wedding Planner. While the owners of marriage halls struggle to pay their bank dues and face other unavoidable expenditure, others face livelihood issues. “So many businesses such as jewellery marts, textile showrooms, hotels, cab operators, event managers, catering, ice cream parlours and others are interlinked to wedding industry. It has to restart immediately,” Mr. Rathish said. On behalf of the marriage hall and event managements associations, petitions have been sent to the State Government and the Tiruchi Collector to take steps to give relief to the wedding industry, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/it-is-a-no-show-for-event-management-enterprises/article31611538.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||22 new positive cases reported in central region||As many as 22 patients tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Sunday. Of them, 16 are natives of Karur who returned from Maharashtra, while five tested positive in Ariyalur district and one in Nagapattinam. Of the 16 travellers who had returned to Karur district from Maharashtra, where they had been working, eight had arrived on a Shramik special train. The other eight returned to the district by road, officials here say. The patients include one 45-year-old female and a nine-year-old boy. The patients have all been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital and are undergoing treatment for the infection. In Ariyalur district, five patients tested positive for COVID-19. All patients are men who were relatives and contacts of the people who returned to the district after working at the Koyambedu market in Chennai. The patients have been admitted to a COVID Care facility on arrival and have now been shifted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital. As on Sunday, the total number of positive cases in the district is 353. Of them, 329 have recovered and have been discharged. Among the active cases, 19 are undergoing treatment at the Ariyalur GH while three are at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Government Memorial Hospital, and two are admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. A total of 128 containment villages have been identified and have been cordoned off. Meanwhile, on Sunday, 13 new samples were lifted from villagers and have been sent to the Tiruchi Medical College Hospital for testing. The sole patient who tested positive in Nagapattinam is a 41-year-old man. The patient is undergoing treatment at the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital while his contacts are being traced by health officials. Meanwhile, a total of 187 passengers, of whom 120 worked in Perambalur and 67 in Ariyalur district have been sent by the respective district administrations to the Tiruchi Junction Railway station to board a special Shramik train to Uttar Pradesh. The workers in Ariyalur had been working at a cement factory while the workers in Perambalur had been employed at various private firms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/22-new-positive-cases-reported-in-central-region/article31611540.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||MLA arrested, released on bail||Manithaneya Jananayaga Katchi general secretary and its MLA Thamimun Ansari was arrested in Tiruvarur district on Sunday after he along with 12 of his partymen assembled to take part in a commemoration in memory of Tamils killed in Mullivaikkal in Sri Lanka. Mr. Thamimun Ansari arrived at Kattimedu village to take part in the event when he and other partymen were arrested as a precautionary measure since prohibitory orders were in place. Police sources said Mr. Ansari and his supporters were kept in a marriage hall and subsequently released on bail later||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mla-arrested-released-on-bail/article31611531.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two held for criticising SC judges||The K.K. Nagar police in Tiruchi on Saturday arrested two persons for Facebook posts maligning the Supreme Court and its judges for clearing the way for reopening of Tasmac outlets. The arrest was made after the post was detected by the social media team of the city police. The police arrested Sadiq Basha, 25, national president of All India Muslim League and the outfit’s spokesman Mohamed Yusuf.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-arrested-for-criticising-sc-judges-for-tasmac-order/article31611214.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered in city||A 31-year-old man was hacked to death at Bharathi Nagar in North Tharanallur here on Saturday. According to sources, a group of two persons, armed with sickle and knife, barged into the house of N. Manikandan, who was said to be working as a reporter in Police Paarvai, a  magazine, and attacked him. He died on the way to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Gandhi Market police have registered a case and are investigating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-murdered-in-city/article31611537.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Youth murdered by gang||A 21-year-old youth was murdered by a four-member gang at Narian Street in Srirangam here in the late hours on Saturday. Police identified the victim as S. Vignesh of Narian Street. Police sources said a wordy quarrel following consumption of liquor that broke out between Vignesh and the gang members ended in the crime. The Srirangam Police registered a case of murder and arrested Vicky, Gokul, Udhayakumar and Mari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-murdered-by-gang/article31611543.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 100.02 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 832 cusecs and the discharge was 496 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mettur-level/article31611546.ece
18 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI/SIVAGANGA/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Spurt in number of positive cases||The number of people from Maharashtra who tested positive for COVID-19 witnessed a sharp increase in southern districts on Sunday. According to State government’s medical bulletin, people who arrived from other States were retained in isolation centres at different check posts by health department officials. Reports revealed that Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts recorded 14 fresh positive cases each, Madurai 13, Sivaganga and Virudhunagar 4 each and Tenkasi 3 on Sunday. According to Deputy Director (Health) in Tenkasi Raja, the fresh cases were reported in a single family and two among them were from Vendrilingapuram and one from Sernthamaram. Sivaganga district, where the number of positive cases was 12 for over 15 days, suddenly witnessed a rise after about 50 people from the district returned from Maharashtra. The number of positive cases rose to 26. In Madurai, 13 people, including three migrants, tested positive, taking the toll to 160. Two of the migrants have returned from Mumbai and one migrant has returned from Bengaluru. Four persons who have returned from Chennai tested positive. A frontline worker at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) also tested positive. According to Collector T.G. Vinay, the migrants were stopped at various check posts and quarantined at Madurai Kamaraj University and Meenakshi Nursing College. People who tested positive in Madurai came from cluster areas – Sellur and Elumalai. They also included people from Vandiyur, Karisalkulam, Villangudi, Avaniyapuram and Karungalakudi. A total of 19 people were discharged from the GRH on Sunday. Virudhunagar Four persons who returned from Maharastra to Virudhunagar district tested positive. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has risen to 51. Sixteen of them are active cases. Thirty five persons have been discharged from the GRH, Madurai. Meanwhile, Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan and other officials saw off 479 migrant workers from Virudhunagar and Sivaganga districts to Bihar on a special train at Virudhunagar railway station. The train that came from Nagercoil had seats reserved for the migrant workers from these two districts. While 294 were from Virudhunagar district, 185 were from Sivaganga. This is the first round of migrant workers being moved from Virudhunagar district through special train. Fireworks, match and printing units and hotels in the district have attracted the workers in large numbers. Besides, a good number of workers from other States were involved in the construction of Virudhunagar Medical College building.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/spurt-in-number-of-positive-cases/article31611506.ece
18 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Groceries distributed||Tiruppur district branches of Bank of Baroda distributed groceries to 330 conservancy workers on Saturday. According to a release, Tiruppur North MLA K.N. Vijeyakumar and A. Natarajan, Palladam MLA, presided over the event. The bank officials distributed grocery items including rice, cooking oil and pulses to the conservancy workers from Tiruppur and Avinashi Blocks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/groceries-distributed/article31611255.ece
18 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Conservationists reiterate call for wildlife veterinarians to be posted in the Nilgiris||The lack of expertise available to the Forest Department to treat an ailing male leopard that was rescued in Udhagamandalam on Saturday has once again thrown into focus the urgent requirement for qualified wildlife veterinarians to be posted in the district to help in wildlife-related emergencies in the Nilgiris Biosphere Reserve (NBR). Despite conservationists’ repeated demands for the wildlife veterinarian post in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) to be filled, the post has remained vacant now for over two years. N. Sadiq Ali, founder of the Wildlife and Nature Conservation Trust (WNCT), said that veterinarians should be posted in both, MTR and in the Nilgiris division. “The number of human-animal interactions have been on the increase over the last two years, leading to many instances which require the intervention of a qualified wildlife veterinarian, both to rescue animals in distress and to also treat sick or injured animals,” said Mr. Sadiq. Recent instances, like when a tiger got trapped in a fence in Kotagiri, as well as Saturday’s incident bring into sharp focus the need for veterinarians to be posted in the district, conservationists said. “In Kotagiri, a tiger was stuck in a fence bordering a farm for an entire day without being rescued as the Department had to wait for a veterinarian to travel to the location from Coimbatore. Meanwhile, the ailing leopard rescued on Saturday is being treated by veterinarians from the animal husbandry department, who have very little experience treating animals like leopards or tigers,” said another local conservationist. One single veterinarian was in-charge of attending to wildlife emergencies in Pollachi, Coimbatore and the Nilgiris, he said. Statistics available with The Hindu show that between April 2018 and November 2019, a total of 96 Gaurs and 13 leopards died in the Nilgiris Forest Division. In many of these cases, death of the animals could have been prevented if there had been timely intervention by qualified wildlife veterinarians, conservationists said. When contacted, District Forest Officer, Nilgiris division, D. Guruswamy, said the ailing leopard that was rescued on Saturday was being treated for convulsions by the Department of Animal Husbandry. “Treatment seems to be yielding some positive results, but the animal continues to be in critical condition,” he said. It seemed that the leopard had contracted some kind of viral infection. “The veterinarians are doing the best job they can,” added the DFO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/conservationists-reiterate-call-for-wildlife-veterinarians-to-be-posted-in-the-nilgiris/article31611253.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||VOC Market traders seek more time for shifting shops||Traders in VOC Market opposed shifting of their shops from the market to Bose Maidan and nearby places here on Sunday. The traders sought more time for shifting the shops. The VOC Market is one of the oldest functioning markets here and the Salem Corporation is planning to renovate it under the Smart Cities Mission. About 230 traders are conducting business here, including vegetable, flowers and meat. The traders here were recently advised by the corporation to shift to alternative places identified by it and the traders opposed the move. The corporation is constructing alternative shops for traders near Bose Maidan. The traders requested the corporation not to shift them immediately and wait until the construction of temporary shops are over. Members of the VOC Market Vyaparikal Sangam alleged that they are being shifted for Smart City works and only a few shops could be operated inside the Nehru Kalairangam, which is one of the alternative places. However, corporation officials said that they are not being shifted for Smart City works but as a precautionary measure against COVID-19. Officials said that thousands would gather at the market and it would be difficult to enforce physical distancing and other norms. According to the officials, four alternative places have been identified for shifting the shops in accordance with the trade and arrangement have been done to ensure physical distancing among consumers and to prevent spread of COVID-19 here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voc-market-traders-seek-more-time-for-shifting-shops/article31611268.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu’s liquor conundrum||The Tamil Nadu government’s decision to reopen Tasmac liquor outlets after obtaining a Supreme Court stay on the Madras High Court’s order to close them, serves as a timely backdrop to recapitulate the State’s tryst with alcohol, which has been a roller-coaster ride. In the pre-independence era, the Madras Abkari Act, 1886, banned the local manufacturing of alcohol and levied excise. In 1937, C. Rajagopalachari’s Congress government imposed India’s first prohibition in Salem district, complemented by a sales tax to make up for the loss of revenue. Prohibition was extended across the State by 1948 and Tamil Nadu’s socio-economic foundations were firmly laid during the Kamaraj era, while the State remained resolutely dry. In 1971, the DMK government lifted prohibition citing the revenue loss in the absence of a countrywide ban, only to reintroduce it in 1974. After mass deaths in the late 1970s, the AIADMK government in 1981 removed the ban, established the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) in 1983 and imposed a State-monopoly over sale of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) in 2003. One of the overarching refrains professed in support of the liquor policy is that revenue receipts are being used for social welfare measures. A brief analysis of the revenue structure of the State is pertinent in understanding its dependence on liquor. Firstly, owing to being a developed State, Tamil Nadu generates over two-thirds (69%) of its revenue from own sources [2018-19 Actuals] and has a strong framework of welfare expenditure. Secondly, taxes from alcohol constitutes around one-fourth (26%) of State’s own revenue [2018-19 Actuals]. Thirdly, T.N. saw a 5% average dip in its revenue collection during 2011-2017. Fourthly, the GST regime has hardly helped, wherein T.N.’s dependence on central transfers has risen. Consequently, Tamil Nadu now has limited control over generating 47% of its own revenue. Fifthly, T.N. records a revenue deficit akin to Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. Therefore, the dependence on revenue sources exclusive to the State has increased significantly. Data suggests that the southern States receive close to 15% of their total revenue from excise duty on alcohol. While hooch deaths are under check, Tasmac shops have become ubiquitous and government data shows a significant spike in the percentage of people consuming alcohol. As of 2017, 47.4% of rural men and 46% of urban men consumed alcohol. There is also evidence of correlation between increased consumption of liquor and domestic violence on women, sexual abuse, crime, suicide, broken families and lessened productivity.  The immediate way forward does not lie between the binary solutions of sanctimonious prohibitionists or the liberal non-prohibitionists, as neither is tenable socially nor economically. Instead, we could traverse a middle way and deploy a multi-pronged approach. Firstly, instead of having fixed sales targets, one could rather focus on revenue through differential taxation. A reduction in the number of shops could be followed by a substantial hike in the prices of alcohol sold in the Tasmac-elite outlets. Further, an Aadhaar-linked cap on quantity of alcohol sold per person could be pondered. The State could accentuate efforts to make further inroads into the intra-country exports and international exports of alcoholic beverages along with online sales. The government should commit a substantial fixed percentage of its liquor revenue to sensitise and impart refusal skills to youngsters and to contain hazardous drinking habits. For a State that has been a pioneer of federal autonomy, the prudent move in the long-term would be to garner support across States and negotiate for more fiscal freedom vis-a-vis the Centre, instead of playing a precarious zero-sum game.  (C.R. Kesavan is a former member of the Prasar Bharati Board   Vignesh Karthik K.R. is a doctoral researcher at the King’s India Institute, King’s College London)   An overarching refrain professed in support of the liquor policy is that revenue receipts are being used for social welfare measures||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadus-liquor-conundrum/article31611221.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers board special train to Bihar||Kanniyakumari Collector Prashant M. Wadanere on Sunday flagged off a special train carrying migrant workers to Bihar. The special train arrived here from Rameswaram on Saturday. According to revenue officials, over 1,000 workers from different States, including Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh, were engaged in brick kilns, railway broad gauge conversion project, hotels and cottage industries. Many were employed in the district for several years and lived with their families. When the national lockdown started on March 25, the migrant labourers lost their jobs. Following appeals from them to facilitate their return to their native States, the district administration issued e-pass to those who requested permission to travel to their destinations. Over the last 50 days, the workers managed to survive with the doles given by the State government. When the government decided to send the migrant workers to their native places, interested persons were directed to submit their names. Along with revenue and police officials, a list was prepared station-wise over the last 10 days. The officials ferried 847 migrant workers from different parts of the district to Nagercoil and saw them off in the special train on Sunday. Superintendent of Police Sreenath was present at the railway junction to oversee security arrangements. According to health officials, all workers were screened in their locations before being brought to Nagercoil to board the train. Thanking the government and officials or making elaborate arrangements, the migrant workers were seen cheerful and waved their hands at the Collector and the SP as the train chugged out of the platform at 1 p.m. The train picked up 1,378 migrant workers including those who boarded at Virudhunagar railway junction. The workers were brought from Virudhunagar and Sivaganga districts. In a brief chat with reporters, the Collector said 304 persons had been home quarantined after they were fiound n contact with persons with COVID-19 symptoms in the district. So far, 8,590 persons had been screened in the district. Out of 37, who were found to be positive, 16 were treated at Asaripallam Government Medical College Hospital and sent home. Police booked 7,701 cases against the curfew violators in the district so far and 5,818 vehicles, including two-wheeler and four-wheelers, were seized.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-board-special-train-to-bihar/article31611496.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable, flower markets shifted in Coimbatore||Coimbatore Corporation had shifted from bus stands the makeshift vegetable markets. A release from the civic body said that the markets that functioned from the Gandhipuram Town and Central bus stands would function near the Prison Ground, on Dr. Nanjappa Road. Vacant plot The market that functioned from the Ukkadam Bus Stand would function on a vacant plot near Lorrypet. Likewise, the market that functioned at the Mettupalayam Road bus stand would henceforth function from the Government College of Technology ground on Thadagam Road. And, the flower market would function from the Devangapet School ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vegetable-flower-markets-shifted-in-coimbatore/article31611274.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Discontinue free power for farmers: Centre||There is also an untied component – 0.5%. If the State governments do not follow the Centre’s prescription on the DBT for the farm sector, they would not be eligible to raise the borrowing limit by 0.15%, which forms part of the overall figure of 0.25% for the power sector reforms. There are three other areas — “one nation, one ration card,” ease of doing business and reforms in urban local bodies/utilities. Each of the four areas carries a weight of 0.25% each. If a State implements the Centre’s stipulations in the three out of the four areas, it will get 0.5% additionally. There are two other components in the power sector reforms — reduction in aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses and narrowing the gap between the Average Cost of Supply (ACS) and the Average Revenue Realisation (ARR), which is Rs. 2.21 per unit in the case of Tamil Nadu. The additional borrowing limit of 0.1% has been earmarked for the two components. Besides, the reforms in urban local governance include revision of property tax rates and user charges for water and sewer connections. Deadline for revision The deadline for the revision is January 15, 2021. This is another area that is regarded by those in power, regardless of the party, as a “hot stove.”  For years together, the rates and user charges have remained untouched in the State, despite recommendations of the successive State Finance Commissions in this effect. The State government has no problem in dealing with “one nation, one ration card” (ONOR) and the ease of business doing. As a matter of principle, it decided to implement the ONOR, which was, on an experimental basis, launched in two districts in January. As for the other, the State has a law which can be strengthened to cater to the Centre’s stipulations. If Tamil Nadu is able to make use of the additional limit fully, it can go up to about Rs. 1.04 lakh crore at the fiscal deficit-GSDP ratio of 5%. For the current year, the State government’s plan for net borrowing is about Rs. 62,000 crore at the ratio of 2.84%. There is an indication that it may borrow Rs. 25,000 crore - Rs. 30,000 crore more.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/discontinue-free-power-for-farmers-says-centre/article31611212.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Kite flying: Tangedco warns of action against those who damage power lines||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) will consider taking action against those who damage electricity infrastructure by flying kites during lockdown period. On Sunday, Tangedco personnel had to take a risk and remove the kite threads at RS Puram sub-station. “We have issued several awareness messages and urged the public to take care so that kites or threads attached to the kites do not get entangled in electricity lines. It leads to power disruptions. If there are complaints of power cuts, our personnel have to check every line and EB post and see where there are threads or kites, remove them and restore supply,” a senior Tangedco official said. The city had three breakdowns on Saturday only because of kites. If the kites or threads are just left to hang on the power lines, it damages the lines or flies away and gets entangled in electricity lines elsewhere, the official said. “It is a risky job for the personnel to go up on towers and remove the kites or threads at sub-stations,” the official added. Since the Tangedco has issued several appeals to the public to be careful while flying kites and the number of breakdowns due to it are still increasing, the Corporation will consider taking action against those who damage power lines and infrastructure by flying kites, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/kite-flying-tangedco-warns-of-action-against-those-who-damage-power-lines/article31611259.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special train for migrant workers leaves Tiruppur||The sixth Shramik special train left Tiruppur Junction with 1,464 migrant workers on Sunday. Railway officials said that the train left for Hajipur in Bihar at around 1.30 p.m. The workers were checked for COVID-19 symptoms and were provided with food packets prior to boarding the train. As of Sunday, 10,808 migrant workers have been sent from Tiruppur to their respective districts. They were sent home in trains and buses, district administration officials said. Among the special trains, four were operated to Bihar and one train was operated to Odisha and Uttar Pradesh each. The special train services for Tiruppur district began on May 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-train-for-migrant-workers-leaves-tiruppur/article31611262.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Second cyclonic warning signal hoisted||With the cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ centred over the same region at 5.30 p.m. on Saturday, cyclone warning signal two was hoisted by port officials here on Sunday. According to officials, the storm was 1,040 km south of Paradip (Odisha) and 1,200 km south-southwest of Digha (West Bengal) and 1,300 km south-southwest of Khepupara (Bangladesh). Fishermen, as a precautionary measure, had been instructed not to venture into sea. Rain likely in some coastal pockets during the next 24 hours, according to an IMD report. The district administration and the Department of Fisheries warned fishers to be careful of the brewing storm during the next 24 hours. In Thoothukudi, port officials hoisted the second warning signal on Sunday after the IMD reports. The first warning was hoisted on Friday. Fishermen were advised to stay away from sea.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/second-cyclonic-warning-signal-hoisted/article31611499.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown curbs relaxed in 25 districts||An e-pass will be required only for inter-district travel. In these districts, government and private buses permitted to operate for government duty and approved private industries can carry a maximum of 20 passengers. Vans and SUVs can carry a maximum of seven and three passengers respectively. Two passengers, excluding the driver, can travel in hatchbacks. While taxis, autorickshaws, Metro Rail and EMUs are not allowed to resume operations, rental vehicles and taxis can be used in the 25 districts for essential work, such as agriculture, business, medical reasons and work-related travel. Nonetheless, the Chief Minister appealed to the public to avoid stepping out of homes unnecessarily and travel within a district only for essential needs. Tourists to the Nilgiris, Kodaikanal and Yelagiri hill stations will not be permitted. Asked why the State government had not allowed household help to resume work, a senior official pointed out, “Even the notification issued by the Centre has not mentioned anything about allowing them.” Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Ranipet, Tirupattur, Kallakurichi, Tiruvannamalai, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts will see no change in the existing lockdown conditions. However, “taxis and autorickshaws with TN e-pass can be used only for going out for medical treatment.” In Municipal Corporations, Municipalities and town panchayats, excluding areas under Chennai City Police limits, permitted private firms employing less than 100 persons, can use 100% of its workforce. Companies employing over 100 persons can function with 50% of them or a minimum of 100 employees would be allowed to work. The government also allowed carrying out of essential maintenance work in private and commercial establishments that have remained temporarily closed. Evaluation of Class XII public exam answer sheets would also be allowed. Sports coaching with coaches for national and international events would be allowed provided permission was obtained from District Collector or Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation, as the case may be. The government also allowed 100% workforce for MGNREGS, as opposed to the existing 50% norm. Mr. Palaniswami added the decision to extend the lockdown was taken after considering inputs from District Collectors, public health and medical experts and senior Ministers. “Tamil Nadu government has been watching the spread COVID-19 and would announce more relaxations as and when there is a decrease in the spread of the disease,” the Chief Minister said. Mr. Palaniswami added that steps would be taken to operate two trains a week with permission from the Centre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-curbs-relaxed-in-25-districts/article31611237.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rain impact||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-impact/article31611272.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Athur Union reels under water crisis||“I walk almost five km from my home to fetch a pot of water,” said Karpagam, 63, of Pithalaipatti in Athur union on Saturday. Her voice is representative. A majority of people here have no choice, but to trek in this scorching sun daily. From the day, the borewells, public tap, hand pumps and village tank dried up, the villagers appealed to the officials at the union office, but to no avail. Last month, a group of villagers went on two-wheelers all the way to Dindigul to submit a memorandum to the Collector for intervention. Though the officers informed that the union office at Athur had been instructed, there has not been any response till date. The lone staff in the office always says that the superiors have gone to Dindigul for meeting to take stock on the COVID-19 pandemic. Not just Pithalaipatti. Many surrounding villages including Pillayarnatham, Vakkampatti, Munnilaikottai union too had been facing similar woes. Anticipating the summer season, the officials should have tested the yield in the borewells and ensured that the upkeep was perfect. The plight of residents in Seevalsaragu, Veerakal and nearby areas were worst as they depended on the leaking pipelines near the Adilakshmipuram Perumal Temple. And some others in Vakkampatti hamlet had to cross a burial ground to fetch water from a leaky pipe, the villagers said. When contacted, an engineer in-charge of the Cauvery Integrated Drinking Water Project for the district said that they faced technical issues in pumping station and distribution. While the supply to the hamlets was ensured, burst due to heavy pressure had resulted in frequent stoppage for repairs. In another two days, the issue would be resolved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/athur-union-reels-under-water-crisis/article31611504.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||ICMR to test 400 serum samples||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) will test 400 serum samples randomly collected from residents of 10 places affected by COVID-19 and their peripheries in Coimbatore district to check community spread of the disease. The serum samples will be subjected to an advanced antibody-based test, according to Health Department. Health Department sources said that the 12-member ICMR team, which is assisted by local healthcare professionals, took serum samples from 200 persons from five places: Avarampalayam, Pollachi, Mettupalayam, Vilankurichi, and Periyanaickenpalayam on Saturday. On Sunday, the team collected another set of 200 samples from five other places: Kuniyamuthur, Ganapathy, R.S. Puram, V. Chandrapuram near Sulthanpet, and Nallattipalayam. Four areas in each place An official from the Health Department said the ICMR team followed the methodology of collecting 40 random samples from four areas of each of the 10 places and that works out to 400 samples in total. The official added that the 400 serum samples will be sent to a laboratory in Chennai where they will be subjected to an advanced antibody-based testing, possibly using Chemiluminescence Immunoassay (CLIA) technology. As on Sunday, Coimbatore district did not have any active case of COVID-19. The last set of COVID-19 cases reported in the district was on May 3 and the last patient left hospital after recovery on May 13. Of the 146 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district, 145 of them recovered from the disease while one person, who was also suffering from advanced stage of cancer, died in a hospital in Chennai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/icmr-to-test-400-serum-samples/article31611238.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Residents of Manalodai,Thonur, Sempulichanpatti, Parthal and Palayam and other small tribal hamlets on Pachamalai hills struggle to reach Sengattupatti, Keerambur and Thuraiyur town market due to the poor condition of the road that comes under the joint control of the Forest Department and the State Highways Department. The eight kilometre-stretch coming under the Forest Department's jurisdiction and which falls between Moolakkadu to Sempulichanpatti Pirivu is in a damaged condition and motorists find it very difficult to navigate. During night hours and rainy season, the stretch turns into a nightmare. The authorities concerned should start off at least with patch work. Saravanan Natesan  Puthanampatti   After Koyambedu Market turned into a hotspot for the sudden spike in coronavirus cases, the focus ought to be on taking necessary precautionary measures to prevent such a spread at Darasuram Market near Kumbakonam where merchants and vendors of vegetables converge in large numbers. Since vendors in Thiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Mayiladudurai and Karaikal depend on the Darasuram Market for their daily supplies, COVID 19 prevention measures must be stepped up. R. Velmurugan  Valangaiman   While resumption of train and flight services look possible as part of the measures to ease COVID-19 restrictions to enable stranded people to reach their destinations, the likelihood of further spread of the virus towards rural parts poses a new threat. At a time when there has been an upswing in the COVID- 19 cases in the country in the recent weeks, the Rs. 20 lakh crore stimulus package of the Central Government to address problems in various sectors will go a long way in safeguarding people and the economy. It is clear that the Koyambedu Market cluster and the crowding at TASMAC outlets have caused the sudden rise in COVID-19 cases. It has become necessary for people to strictly adhere to social distancing measures in the grim battle against the virus. R. Pichumani  Thippirajapuram   Problems being faced by small industries due to extension of the COVID-19 lockdown have be addressed by the government with a special attention. As skilled migrant workers who earlier hoped to tide over the lockdown have decided to go back to their home States, the small industries are bound to face an uphill task in resuming production activities. Delay in resuming production will put investors at risk as they face compulsion of fulfilling orders of customers and clearing the bank loans within deadlines. Kanagaraj Arthur Ramalinganagar South Extension   Migrant workers who are vital for economic development and infrastructure growth have to be provided with social security. Construction and realty sectors and manufacturing companies rely much on migrant workers employed for daily wages or on contract basis. As COVID-19 has caused enormous sufferings to migrant workers, the Central and State governments must frame a policy for their social security. S. Krishnan Thippirajapuram   Folk artistes and artisans are battling poverty during the lockdown period. There is no source of income as temple festivals and other ceremonies are no longer taking place. The government must provide them help to sustain their families at this crucial time. M. Raja  Tiruchi     Masks made of two layers of quality cotton have been found to be more effective in controlling the spread of COVID 19 virus. Heavyweight cotton with thread counts of 180 or more and fabrics with thicker thread and tight weave need to be used for making masks. The cloth masks or face covers must not be shared even with family members. But, wearing of face masks or face covers alone will not work in the absence of social distancing and hand hygiene. M.A. Aleem  Tiruchi   While it is gratifying to note that phase one of underground drainage project is being revived, civic authorities need to focus attention on Crawford, a fast-developing residential area. The storm water drainage is not sufficient for the locality since there are as many as 10 apartment complexes along State Bank Colony Main Road with nearly 450 to 500 dwelling units. The discharge of waste water from a cluster of independent houses into empty plots is the cause for breeding of mosquitoes. Hence, Crawford must also be included in the underground drainage project on a priority basis. M. Nagarajan Crawford   Erratic supply of drinking water supply in Natarajapuram South Colony along Medical College Road by the Thanjavur Municipal Corporation over the last 15 days has caused enormous sufferings to residents. The local body ought to realise that people in the area do not deserve to suffer after paying their water charges promptly. A door-to-door assessment of the situation would be ideal. J. Eden Alexander  Thanjavur    Customers face hitches while making online payment of power bills. The process of registration for online payment itself is a cumbersome process. Customers would be happy if TANGEDCO simplifies the procedure. Introduction of mobile collection units on the lines of mobile ATMs may also be thought of.  S. Kannan Uyyakondan Thirumalai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/readers-mail/article31611528.ece
18 May 2020||Bagalkot,KARNATAKA||Bagalkot sets up lab at district hospital||After Vijayapura, Bagalkot has set up a COVID-19 laboratory at the district hospital. The opening of the lab would help the administration conduct most of the tests locally after collecting swab samples. According to sources, the lab has a capacity to test 100 samples a day. Before the lab was set up, all samples were being sent to Bengaluru, but now most of the samples could be tested locally which will save time and cost of transportation. The authorities could mainly conduct tests for Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and Influenza Like Illness which fall under the emergency category. Those waiting to be discharged from hospital can get their tests conducted before their discharge. It may be noted that recently a similar lab was started in Vijayapura with a testing capacity of 24 samples a day which was later augmented to 50 a day. After the lab was started at the Vijayapura district hospital, several tests are being conducted locally.  One more in Vijayapura Meanwhile, on Sunday, Vijayapura recorded one more positive case. With this, the total number of positive cases has gone up to 54. However, after the discharge of 37 persons, the total number of active cases in the district has come down to 14. Three patients have died.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bagalkot-sets-up-lab-at-district-hospital/article31611329.ece
18 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Workers stopped near Nippani after they try to enter Belagavi||Officials stopped 70 workers who tried to enter Belagavi district through minor village roads, at Murgod village near Nippani on Saturday night. They had passes issued by the Pune City Municipal Corporation and some district officers. But they had not undergone tests for COVID-19. They had come in two buses from Pune and nearby areas. As many as 22 passengers alighted from one bus in Linganur village and 37 got off from another bus near Murgod village. They walked around 10 km to reach Nippani town, after avoiding the inter-State border check-post. When a villager noticed this, he informed the police. The police found out that they had no documents showing that they had undergone COVID-19 test. Officers stationed them in a school in Murgod village and provided them food. Some of the workers are taking shelter under trees on the roadside. They are from Raichur, Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Bagalkot districts. They include women and children. Shankarappa Yamanappa, one of the workers, said that they had been walking from Pune and nearby areas to Karnataka. “Maharashtra officers stopped us near Kagal village. They made us get into buses and dropped us at the border,” he said. He demanded that the Karnataka government help them reach their villages. “We have not committed any mistake. We only demand that we be sent home,” he said. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli said that the workers would be sent home after medical tests and other due procedure. Local officers will conduct their tests and help them register their names on the sevasindhu portal, the Deputy Commissioner said. Buses would be arranged to their villages in a few days, according to him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/workers-stopped-near-nippani-after-they-try-to-enter-belagavi/article31611332.ece
18 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Four children discharged after they test negative||It was a very different day for nurses and other staff of the district designated COVID-19 hospital in Belagavi on Sunday. They were all very happy that four children, one aged 10, the second aged nine and two others aged eight, were discharged after they tested negative for the pandemic twice. They clapped as the children, who had tested positive earlier, walked out with their parents. They had tested positive after they came in contact with their parents and other relatives. All the four children had not shown any symptoms at all. The children are from Sankeshwar, Hire Bagewadi and Kudchi. One of the patients discharged is a woman from Belagavi city. Patient number 298, a 50-year-old male from Kudchi who had been readmitted after doctors suspected relapse of infection, was discharged too, after he tested negative twice. He had tested positive, after testing negative in the fourth week of his isolation period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-children-discharged-after-they-test-negative/article31611330.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro to remain shut, BMTC awaits government nod||The Ministry of Home Affairs’ (MHA) guidelines for the extension of the lockdown till May 31 offers some relaxations to the transport sector, but Namma Metro, like other metro rail services in the country, will remain shut. A decision on Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses, the lifeline of the city’s mass transport system, is likely on Monday. C. Shika, MD, BMTC, told The Hindu that a decision on operations will be taken only after further orders from the State government. “The State government has called for a meeting on Monday. Based on its direction, we will take necessary steps,” she said, adding that BMTC’s current operations of essential services will continue. With MHA guidelines not prohibiting cabs and autorickshaw services, the unions have demanded that the State government allow them to resume services immediately. Out of work for nearly two months and desperate to get back, autorickshaw and cab drivers are refusing to take a no for an answer. “We are essentially daily wage workers and have been forced to sit at home for the past 60 days. We demand that the State government allow us to resume services,” said Tanveer Pasha, president, Ola, Uber Drivers and Owners’ Association. In fact, even before the MHA guidelines came, Adarsha Auto and Taxi Drivers’ Union, that has over 15,000 drivers attached to it, had given a direct call to its members to resume services with safety precautions, even if the government continued with a ban. “We have no other option but to resume our services. Now that MHA guidelines allows services to resume and the State government has sought more time, we will wait till May 19. But we will be forced to resume services after that,” said M. Manjunath, president of the union. Most autorickshaw and taxi drivers have loans with private finance firms, which have offered no respite from EMIs. Some have even threatened to their seize vehicles. “With no income for two months, sustaining the family has become difficult,” Mr. Manjunath stressed. Though Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced a relief of Rs. 5,000 Direct Cash Transfer (DCT) to 7.75 lakh drivers in the State, the process hasn’t begun yet. Moreover, the notification by the Transport Department listing out eligibility criteria for the relief eliminates more people than serving them, unions rue. There are nearly 1.75 lakh cab drivers and 1.5 lakh autorickshaw drivers in the city. The unions have held a meeting and come up with various guidelines for their members to ensure safety - chief among these a transparent sheet separating the driver from passengers, making masks and sanitizers mandatory. “We are waiting for the government’s guidelines on the number of passengers in autorickshaws and cabs. As the government guidelines have allowed two persons apart from the driver in private cars, the same could apply to cabs. For autorickshaws, we are ready for either one or two passengers,” said Mr. Manjunath. Travel operators seek tax exemption Karnataka State Travel Operator’s Association will meet the Transport Commissioner to submit a memorandum seeking a tax waiver for six months and 50% tax exemption for six more months. Nataraj Sharma, General Secretary of the association, said that the waiver they have asked for was minimum and was inevitable for their survival.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/metro-to-remain-shut-bmtc-awaits-government-nod/article31611141.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||40 Maharashtra returnees test positive in State||COVID-19 cases linked to Maharashtra continued to haunt several districts in Karnataka on Sunday. Forty returnees from Mumbai and Kolhapur — 18 of them in Mandya and the rest in Hassan, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, and Shivamogga — tested positive. While one more death was reported in Karnataka, taking the death toll to 37, as many as 55 new cases were detected, taking the State’s tally to 1,147. This includes 37 COVID-19 deaths, one non-COVID-19 death,and 509 discharges. A 54-year-old man from Udupi with cardiac issues was admitted at a private hospital in that district. He died following a cardiac arrest last Thursday and his samples tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. While 40 of the new cases had a travel history to Mumbai and Kolhapur in Maharashtra, the rest were primary contacts of previous positive patients. Seventeen of the new cases were women, while nine were children. As many as 22 of the new cases were from Mandya alone. Of these, except four people who had a contact history, the remaining had a travel history to Maharashtra. While 10 cases were from Kalaburagi, six came from Hassan, four from Dharwad, three each from Yadgir and Kolar, two each from Dakshina Kannada and Shivamogga, and one each from Udupi, Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada, and Vijayapura. Meanwhile, the Health Department, which had converted Victoria Hospital into a designated COVID-19 hospital, is now working on an exit plan to ensure that all other non-COVID-19 activities on the hospital campus resume. Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education), said all non-COVID-19 activities would gradually resume at the hospital. “I have asked the hospital authorities to prepare an exit plan and they are working on it,” he said. Victoria Hospital, a referral tertiary public healthcare facility, that houses the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre, PMSSY Super-speciality Hospital, Institute of Nephro Urology, Minto Ophthalmic Hospital, and Vani Vilas Hospital had been converted into a designated COVID-19 facility in mid-March. Beds occupied Although Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had announced that all the 1,200 beds in the hospital would be used for COVID-19 patients, after rearranging the beds with adequate space in between two beds, 550 beds had been made available at Victoria, PMSSY and Trauma Care Centre. And as of now, only the 100 beds at Trauma Care Centre are occupied. While all OPD and admissions had been stopped at Trauma Care Centre, PMSSY and the main Victoria hospital, the functioning of Vani Vilas, Minto, Nephro Urology Institute, and Burns ward were not affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/40-maharashtra-returnees-test-positive-in-state/article31611158.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Healthcare workers upset over ‘no quarantine’ circular||Healthcare workers in the State, including senior doctors, are upset over the Health Department’s recent circular stating that there was no need for a 14-day institutional quarantine for those working in complete personnel protection equipment (PPE) without any breach while treating COVID-19 patients. “At a time when the infection is spreading at a fast pace and even healthcare workers are getting infected during quarantine, it is unfair that the government has said we should return home after ward duty,” said a resident doctor after finishing his seven-day duty in the COVID-19 ward of Victoria Hospital. Another doctor said, “The circular says healthcare workers who always use PPE without any breach during the treatment of COVID-19 patients are considered as low risk. But after a nurse from Victoria’s COVID-19 ward recently tested positive despite having worked in complete PPE, we are worried.” Pointing out that two women delivered babies at Victoria Hospital last week, the doctor said, “Two of our colleagues from OBG conducted the surgeries and some of us assisted. Despite the complete protection, we are at high risk.” Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education), told The Hindu that the circular was based on World Health Organization and Government of India guidelines. He said a similar system was being followed in other States as well, and was essential if the case load increased. Similarly, in another circular the department has said that high-risk contacts of positive patients treated in private hospitals should be home quarantined for 14 days, tested as per the ICMR testing protocol, and actively monitored for development of symptoms. This is also based on GOI guidelines, Mr. Akhtar said. Representatives of private hospitals, at a recent meeting with Health Minister B. Sriramulu, had brought to his notice the fact that private hospitals were being shut down for a week by health officials upon detection of a positive case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/healthcare-workers-upset-over-no-quarantine-circular/article31611157.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||First Shramik Special train with migrants arrives in Bengaluru from Delhi||The first Shramik Special train from Delhi, carrying stranded students, tourists and migrants, arrived at Yeshwantpur Railway Station in Bengaluru around 8 a.m. on Sunday. It had 182 passengers. According to officials at Karnataka Bhavan, New Delhi, around 960 people from the State boarded the train in Delhi, which reached the city via Hubballi and Kalaburagi, where many of them alighted. As it was a special train, passengers were transported for free. An official told The Hindu that the Central Warehousing Corporation had agreed to sponsor food for all the passengers. Thanking officials of Karnataka Sangha, New Delhi, for facilitating the journey, Chikkanna Krishnappa, who was stranded in the national capital for almost two months, said that while boarding the train at Old Delhi, there was chaos as many empty coaches were shut and people were led into a few others by the police and railway officials there. “We said we would not board the train until the empty bogies were opened. They finally opened a few of them,” he said, adding that maintaining social distancing inside the train was possible to an extent. Another traveller said that testing was not done properly before the migrant workers were allowed to board the train. “We were tested and given certificates, and but many workers were not tested,” the passenger said. Costly quarantine Those who have been put under mandatory institutional quarantine said the food available was expensive. Tushar N., a student, said they had to pay around Rs. 300 for food, apart from the room rent. “Most of us here are ordering on food delivery apps,” he said. “We were informed that food would be provided. But here it is different. We were also not given any choice of quarantine centres as well,” he added. People also claimed they were charged Rs. 100 each to be transported to the quarantine centres from the railway station. “I opted for a quarantine facility near BEL Circle, which is close to Yeshwantpur station. But they charged us Rs. 100 each. That is too high a price,” a student said. Meanwhile, another special passenger train carrying 383 passengers to Bengaluru arrived at Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Railway Station at 6.50 a.m. Passengers were sent to institutional quarantine, sources in the Railways said.  I opted for a quarantine facility near BEL Circle, which is close to Yeshwantpur station. But they charged us Rs. 100 each. That is too high a price a student who arrived by train||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/first-shramik-special-train-with-migrants-arrives-in-bengaluru-from-delhi/article31611168.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pleas of Premji, others against summons by trial court rejected||The High Court of Karnataka has rejected the petitions filed by Azim H. Premji, former Chairman and Managing Director of Wipro, his wife, and three others, questioning the summons issued by a city court in a case of alleged illegality in transfer of assets, worth around Rs. 44,000 crore, from three companies into a private trust and a newly formed company. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the order while dismissing the petitions filed by Mr. Premji, his wife Yasmeen Azim Premji, and one P. Srinivasan, and M.R. Bhat, presently Regional Director (Southern Region), Ministry of Corporate Affairs, and Venkateshwara Rao, a chartered accountant. The City Civil and Sessions Court on January 27, 2020 issued summons to them on a private complaint filed by India Awake for Transparency, a Chennai-based company. The High Court, in its May 15 order, said that there was nothing wrong in the trial court’s order of taking cognisance of the offences of criminal breach of trust and corruption by prima facie holding that there are ingredients of offences as the trial court was not required to examine the correctness or otherwise of the allegations while taking cognisance of offences. It was claimed in the complaint that Mr. Premji, his wife and Mr. Srinivasan were entrusted with the dominion over the properties and assets of three companies — Vidya Investment and Trading Company Private Limited, Regal Investment and Trading Company Private Limited, and Napean Trading and Investment Company Private Limited — as directors and they were holding the assets of worth about Rs. 31,342 crore in fiduciary capacity, without having any financial interest or ownership. Pointing out that these three companies had total assets of Rs. 51,549 crore, the complainant had alleged that by taking advantage of their position as directors, during 2010-2012, the trio took away Rs. 13,602 crore of assets of the three companies by way of gifts and transferred the same to a private trust controlled by Mr. Premji and his wife. In respect of the remaining assets of Rs. 31,342 crore, it is alleged they had conspired among themselves and merged the three companies into a new company called Hasham Investment and Trading Company Private Limited [a company wholly owned by the private trust run by Mr. Premji and wife] without any payment, and through this device they got control over the assets worth Rs. 31,342 crore belonging to the three companies. Mr. Rao, who was appointed by the High Court for the process of amalgamation of these companies, and Mr. Bhat, who was then Registrar of Companies, Karnataka, connived in these illegal transactions of huge assets, which otherwise would have vested with the Union of India as bona vacantia or escheat , it was alleged in the complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pleas-of-premji-others-against-summons-by-trial-court-rejected/article31611170.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Double whammy for theatres||Cinema theatres are presently reeling under a double whammy — extended lockdown due to COVID-19 and films directly releasing on online streaming platforms, threatening their business even in a post-lockdown scenario. With theatres shut, producers are taking cue from other industries. Two Kannada films — French Biriyani starring Danish Sait, and Law — both produced by actor and producer Puneeth Rajkumar, are set to premiere on Amazon Prime in June and July. But these are not the first films to premiere on Over The Top (OTT) platforms. Bhinna , directed by Adarsh Eshwarappa, premiered on Zee5 seven months ago. B.S. Srinivas, Director, Purple Arrow Films, content aggregators, who sold Bhinna , welcomed the move by Mr. Puneeth but said it is too premature to say the OTT market has opened up for Kannada films. “Kannada is the least preferred content on OTT platforms. Selling Bhinna was an uphill task. Now the two films sold have the backing of a big star. We can say the market has opened up when small films without the backing of a star are sold as originals,” he said. But this move by the Dr. Rajkumar family has set the cat among the pigeons. K.V. Chandrashekhar, chairperson, Karnataka Film Exhibitors’ Association, while acknowledging the rights of a producer to sell his/her content on the platform of their choice, said it does not augur well for the industry of which exhibitors are an integral part. Meanwhile, exhibitors are reeling under huge losses, Mr. Chandrashekhar said. The association, apart from seeking a financial assistance package from the government, has appealed for permission to open for screenings at least by June first week. “We are ready to operate at even 30% occupancy rate with social distancing. We will also deploy thermal guns and ensure all safety precautions,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/double-whammy-for-theatres/article31611142.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No community spread in Shivajinagar containment zone, says BBMP||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has put 14 primary contacts and 91 secondary contacts of patient number 653 under institutional quarantine. Of these, 30 have tested positive for COVID-19. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, in a video message, dispelled rumours of community spread of the pandemic in Shivajinagar containment zone. He said that all the primary and secondary contacts had already been placed under institutional quarantine. Senior BBMP officials told The Hindu that after placing all contacts under quarantine, the swab samples were collected in batches. On Sunday, 15 samples were collected for testing. “So far, all those who have tested positive are the contacts of patient 653. We are awaiting the results of some more tests,” an official said. The official alleged that the contacts under institutional quarantine were not following norms of social distancing and staying in their rooms. “We have told them repeatedly to stay in their rooms. We had to take police officials to the quarantine facility and warn them against defying the norms,” the official said and added that this was the main reason for increase in the number of positive cases among the contacts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-community-spread-in-shivajinagar-containment-zone-says-bbmp/article31611144.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man duping migrant workers caught||A man who was allegedly duping migrant workers promising to get them train tickets was caught by the Sampigehalli police on Sunday. Based on a complaint, the police arrested Basavaraju from Srirampura, while his associate Jayaramu is on the run. The accused approached migrant workers from U.P., Bihar, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh while the police were collecting their details to get tickets. The accused lured the workers claiming that they gave contacts with the police and assured to help them to get tickets without any hassle. Trusting them, many workers paid the accused Rs. 500 each. The accused collected the money and escaped. The victims later complained to the police, who tracked down Basavaraju and recovered Rs. 15,000 from him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-duping-migrant-workers-caught/article31611149.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cabinet nod for DPR on TB balancing reservoir||Nearly four years after announcing an additional reservoir to the Tungabhadra dam to impound water, the State government has given its administrative approval to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) to construct a balancing reservoir across the Tungabhadra at Navali village in Koppal district. The DPR for the project, which received Cabinet approval recently, was notified on Saturday. The State’s plan for a new reservoir comes in light of the reduction in holding capacity of the TB reservoir near Hosapete in Ballari by an estimated 30 tmcft owing to the accumulation of silt over six decades. The construction of another reservoir was decided upon after considering options to remove silt from the reservoir and its cost. “Karnataka Neeravari Nigama Ltd. has been asked by the State government to prepare the DPR. The government has worked out a new plan to address the storage problems of the reservoir, which has been affected by accumulation of silt,” Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi told reporters here on Sunday. According to the Minister, while the total storage capacity of the TB reservoir was 130 tmcft, the State was unable to impound 30 tmcft. “Directions have been issued to release Rs. 14.3 crore towards preparation of the DPR,” he added. Mr. Jarkiholi said that the new reservoir would help overcome the water crisis during drought and also increase the State’s capacity for water utilisation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-nod-for-dpr-on-tb-balancing-reservoir/article31611155.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. considering RTE quota beyond class 8 for SC, ST students||The State government is mulling over the possibility of extending the benefit of the Right to Education (RTE) quota beyond class 8 to students from Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe communities. Of the around 14,000 students who have been admitted under the 25% reservation and have completed class 8, 2,500 or so fall in the SC/ST category. The proposal has been mooted by the Department of Primary and Secondary Education. S.R. Umashankar, Principal Secretary of the department, said the Department of Social Welfare had expressed interest in the proposal to fund their tuition fee till class 10. “However, we need to have several rounds of discussion as it could be unfair to students from the non-SC/ST category,” he said. “Families of students admitted under the quota will not be able to pay fees for class 9 in private schools. It will be difficult for them to now study in government schools. So we want the government to extend reservation benefits to all students till class 10,” an official working with the department said. Sources said the State government was facing a dilemma as the department spends around Rs. 560 crore on tuition reimbursement to private schools. In fact, the State is yet to reimburse private schools for the 2019-20 academic year. Across all classes, 5.06 lakh students are currently studying in private schools under the 25% reservation quota. However, the move to extend the facility to only SC/ST students has drawn flak. An autorickshaw driver whose son has completed class 8 in a private CBSE-affiliated school in North Bengaluru said, “The school said that he can continue to class nine if we pay the fee. I earn around Rs. 20,000 a month, which is just enough to manage my household expenses. The fee at the school is Rs. 90,000 a year, and I will be unable to pay such a large amount. The local education officers are saying that we can enrol him in a government school, but it will be difficult for him to adjust in a school now even if we admit him in the English-medium section.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-considering-rte-quota-beyond-class-8-for-sc-st-students/article31611164.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hotel industry awaiting clarity on reopening||The hotel industry, which was hoping for a reprieve, is still awaiting clarity from the State Government. According to the order issued by the MHA, hotels and restaurants may continue to operate their kitchens for take away service alone. Bangalore Hoteliers’ Association president P.C. Rao told The Hindu that a week ago, representatives of the association urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to allow hotels and restaurants in the city to operate. “The State government is yet to issue its restrictions and relaxations. We hope the government comes to the rescue of the hotel industry that has been worst hit by the lockdown,” he said. He claimed that before the lockdown, the turnover for the over 3,500 hotels and restaurants in the city was nearly Rs. 25 crore a day. “After the lockdown was imposed, we are losing this revenue every day,” he said, adding that revenue from take away/parcel services was negligible. Mr. Rao also said neither the Centre nor the State government had announced any relief for the hospitality sector. “The sector provides employment and is a big consumer of farm products,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/hotel-industry-awaiting-clarity-on-reopening/article31611148.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shivakumar’s plan to strengthen party in State||D.K. Shivakumar, KPCC president-designate, will be holding a series of consultations with party leaders to chart out a strategy to strengthen the party from the booth-level next week. Sources said that as he is set to formally take charge by the end of May, he wants to outline his plan among every sections of the party. “In the initial days after announcement, Mr. Shivakumar favoured supporting the government’s effort in averting COVID-19 crisis. Now, he wants to keep the government on its toes by attacking and highlighting the failures,” party sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shivakumars-plan-to-strengthen-party-in-state/article31611171.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Official suspended||A deputy director of Horticulture Department was suspended on Saturday for allegedly allowing a “group of people” and a “senior police officer” into Cubbon Park. A departmental inquiry has been initiated against the official. S. Umesh, president of Cubbon Park Walkers’ Association, said people were seen walking in and out of the park recently and the security personnel had let them in. “Is the law different for the rich and powerful?” he asked. The order states that the suspension was done as it was in violation of guidelines issued by the Union and State governments to contain the spread of COVID-19. Cubbon Park has been closed from 21 March, following the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/official-suspended/article31611150.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JCTU calls for Statewide protest today||Condemning the State government’s proposal to amend several labour laws through an ordinance, the Joint Committee of Trade Unions (JCTU), comprising nine trade unions, has called for a Statewide protest on Monday. While a protest will be held in front of the Labour Department office here, workers plan to also stage protests in front of factory gates. The labourers are protesting against the proposed changes to the Factories Act, Industrial Disputes Act, and Trade Unions Act, among others. A JCTU press release on Sunday said these changes were being brought about unilaterally, to snatch away workers’ rights gained after over 100 years of struggle. “The State government’s attempt to amend the labour laws using the COVID-19 crisis is uncivil and a misuse of the confusion during this pandemic,” the note said. Urging the government to consult with unions over the issue, the JCTU warned of a workers’ unrest and strikes if labour laws are amended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jctu-calls-for-statewide-protest-today/article31611154.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Another 15 cases in Shivajinagar||On Sunday evening, 15 more COVID-19 cases were reported from Shivajinagar, a containment zone in Bengaluru. A top BBMP official said all 15 were contacts of P-653, a housekeeper at a hotel in Shivajinagar. With this, the number of infected cases in Shivajinagar is 45.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/another-15-cases-in-shivajinagar/article31611163.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Losses of liquor outlets estimated at Rs. 1,100 crore||Estimating the losses of liquor outlets in Karnataka during the lockdown to be about Rs. 1,100 crore, the Federation of Wine Merchants Associations, Karnataka, has sought concessions in licence fees, as the renewal is around the corner. While the federation has urged the government to adjust one month’s closure in April with the licence fees to be remitted for 2020-2021, it has also sought for a staggered payment of the licence fee instead of an upfront payment currently in vogue. For nearly 10,500 liquor outlets that fall in different category of licences, the last date for submission of application for licence renewal is May 30 and the fresh licences will come into effect from July 1. The closure of the liquor outlets during the lockdown ranged from 56 days for 247 clubs to 40 days for 3,946 wine stores. As many as 3,594 bars and restaurants, 1,342 bars in hotels, with board and lodging, were shut for 49 days. A calculation by the federations, in its memorandum to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa recently, said the licence fee per day ranges from Rs. 631 in one of the CL 4 categories to Rs. 2,685 per day in one of CL 7 categories, and stated that the total loss towards the licence fee owing to closure amounted to Rs. 70 crore. “We have made a plea before the government that when it collects the fee now for 2020-2021, the fee amount should be reduced depending on the license and the number of days the outlets were closed or for a month,” a senior office bearer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/losses-of-liquor-outlets-estimated-at-rs-1100-crore/article31611172.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prohibitory orders for two more days||The City Police Commissioner extended prohibitory orders for two more days in the city from Sunday following the MHA’s new guidelines on the lockdown. Strict enforcement of prohibitory orders will apply to non-essential activities from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. The prohibitory orders will see restriction on activities including transport, commercial other than essential services, educational institutes, hospitality industry, sports and recreation facilities, social, political and religious gatherings. Permission for vehicle movement will remain as is. The police have been instructed to ensure enforcement in red zones and restricted areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prohibitory-orders-for-two-more-days/article31611146.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Migrant worker attempts to end life at BIEC||A migrant worker allegedly attempted to end his life at BIEC where he was sheltered along with others on Saturday. Aslam Alam, 19, a native of Uttar Pradesh, was depressed that he was not able to go home, the police said. On Saturday, his friends found him bleeding and writhing in pain. The police rushed Alam to a nearby hospital and doctors treated him on time. The police counselled him that he would be sent home soon and brought him back to the centre. The Madanayakanahalli police have taken up a case and are probing further. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahavani on 104 for help.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/migrant-worker-attempts-to-end-life-at-biec/article31611145.ece
18 May 2020||Chitradurga,KARNATAKA||Heart attack claims man in quarantine||A 55-year-old man who was kept under institutional quarantine died of a heart attack in Chitradurga in the early hours of Sunday. The man was quarantined for 14 days at a government hostel in Chitradurga as he had met Tablighi members from Ahmedabad on May 5. He tested negative for COVID-19 three days ago. Deputy Commissioner R. Vinoth Priya said the man complained of chest pain on Saturday evening and was treated at the government hospital in Chitradurga. As the electrocardiogram report of the patient was normal, he was discharged and sent back to the hostel. He had got up around 5 a.m. for prayer, but died on the way to a hospital. As per the protocol, his samples were supposed to be collected on May 20 for another round of testing. The Deputy Commissioners said all precautions were taken and the body handed over to the man’s family members. The total number of cases in the district is nine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/heart-attack-claims-man-in-quarantine/article31611165.ece
18 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Four more test positive for COVID-19 in Dharwad||Four more persons, including a 16-year-old boy, tested positive for COVID-19 in Dharwad district on Sunday. Of these, three persons — P-1123 (39, male), P-1142 (28, female) and P-1143 (25, male) — have a history of visiting Maharashtra, while P-1124 (16, boy) is the contact of P-589. All these persons are residents of Shantinagar, Ayodhya Nagar and Navanagar in Hubballi. With this, the total number of those infected in the district went up to 26. Of them, seven have been cured and discharged, and the remaining 19 are being treated at the KIMS, Hubballi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-dharwad/article31611338.ece
18 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||1,440 workers leave for Bihar||A Special Shramik train carrying 1,440 migrant workers left Hassan for Katihar in Bihar on Sunday evening. A majority of the workers were employed in garment units on the outskirts of Hassan, while the others were from plantation areas in neighbouring taluks. The special train was scheduled to leave at 5 p.m. However, it was delayed due to the procedures in clearing the passengers. More than 2,000 workers had applied through the sevasindhu portal to travel to Bihar. The district administration had selected passengers considering their applications on first-come first-served basis. All the passengers were asked to undergo screening on the Government Engineering College campus and from there, they were taken at the railway station by bus. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish said that the passengers had been provided with lunch and dinner. The passengers had to bear their travel fare. The IRCTC would make arrangements for food during their onward journey. According to a press release, the special train comprised 22 coaches of which 18 were sleeper and four general-cum-second class coaches. It would reach Katihar in Bihar on Tuesday. Earlier, the Health Department officials issued certificates after screening passengers. The train had been sanitised as per standard protocol before the passengers were allowed to board the coaches. Railway Protection Force personnel are escorting the train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/1440-workers-leave-for-bihar/article31611346.ece
18 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Six more test positive||Six more confirmed cases of COVID-19 have been reported in Hassan district. With this, the total number of cases in the district has increased to 26. However, none of them had come in contact with the public in the district as they were quarantined soon after reaching the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-more-test-positive/article31611343.ece
18 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ambulance stopped||A group of people from Devara Muddenahalli in Holenarasipur taluk, on Saturday, stopped an ambulance carrying people from Maharashtra and expressed opposition to the authorities extending quarantine facility to them in a hostel in the village. Halli Mysuru Police have registered a case based on a complaint filed by the driver of the vehicle that belonged to the government hospital at Holenarasipur. As the ambulance reached the village, the group of people stopped the vehicle and is said to have thrown stones at it. The driver was forced to return to Holenarasipur. Later, the people were quarantined in a different hostel. The complaint has named Srinivasaiah, Shekhar and four other people as accused in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ambulance-stopped/article31611344.ece
18 May 2020||K.C. Deepika,KARNATAKA||City bookstores delivering to your doorstep||If it is OTT platforms for some, and online gaming for others, there is another group for whom there is nothing quite as entertaining, relaxing and enjoyable as reading a book. The lockdown caught many unawares, and some exhausted their line-up of unread books. Popular bookstores in the city are using delivery services to reach customers. Some bookstores opened their shutters from April 25, while others chose to open by May 1. But with the lockdown still in place, the number of walk-in customers has reduced to a trickle compared to the bustling numbers in the pre-COVID-19 world. The need for a good read to remain sane during the lockdown has had many readers reaching out to their favourite bookstores with lists of titles. In turn, the stores have ensured that the books reach their eager readers. Blossoms, which opened this month, has been taking orders on the phone. Owner Mayi Gowda said he has been shipping out between 15 and 20 orders every day since. What is aiding this demand is that e-commerce sites, which were stiff competition to brick and mortar bookstores, are only selling essentials now, he said. “Earlier, we used to use Dunzo for urgent orders. Now, the number of walk-in customers are very few. Most orders are for deliveries,” he said. Bookworm’s Krishna Gowda said a whopping 90% of their business now was through deliveries - a far cry from the 5% to 10% before. “Since we opened on April 25, it has been very encouraging. Most sales are through Dunzo. Customers WhatsApp us their orders, we see what we have available or arrange for them from distributors, and send it through Dunzo. Charges depend on the number of books and the area,” he explained. At the store, they have kept sanitisers outside, and have been sanitising the common areas, he said. Gangarams Book Bureau, Church Street, - which opened on May 3, is also seeing an increase in delivery requests. Somanna H, sales executive here, said they are sending at least five orders a day for delivery. “Sometimes, if we get a lot of orders from the same area, we deliver the books ourselves,” he said, adding that unlike walk-in customers who prefer to browse and buy, those requesting for deliveries are clear about the books they want. Outside Bengaluru Guruprasad D.N., owner of Aakruti Books, that opened last week, said there has been a demand for delivery from customers who are not in Bengaluru. “Those who would travel to Bengaluru on work and pick up books are unable to do so now. So we have been delivering their orders through India Post, which is extremely affordable. We have been getting orders from Mangaluru, Mysuru, Uttara Kannada and Raichur,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/city-bookstores-delivering-to-your-doorstep/article31611137.ece
18 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 cases go up to 104 in Kalaburagi; Sec. 144 extended||After the detection of the first COVID-19 case on March 12 (P-6, a 76-year-old man who had returned from Saudi Arabia and died on March 10 before testing positive for the disease), the number of positive cases crossed 100 on Sunday with Kalaburagi district reporting 10 new cases. With the new cases, the total number of COVID-19-infected persons rose to 104 that included seven deaths. The new cases are: P-1129 (35-year-old woman), P-1130 (55-year-old man), P-1131 (10-year-old boy), P-1132 (55-year-old man), P-1133 (36-year-old man), P-1134 (50-year old woman), P-1135 (13-year-old boy), P-1136 (seven-year-old boy), P-1137 (40-year-old man) and P-1138 (55-year-old man). Of the new cases, six cases (P-1131, P-1133, P-1135, P-1136, P-1137 and P-1138) had come from Mumbai, one of the COVID-19-hit cities in the country. P-1132 and P-1134 are the contacts of P-927, a 60-year-old man who died of COVID-19 on May 13. P-1130 emerged from one of the containment areas in the city having no specific source of infection. The source of infection of P-1129 is yet to be found. Considering the increasing number of positive cases in the district, Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat extended the imposition of Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code, which has been in force since March 19, till the end of May, before it expired on Sunday. Four patients (P-588, P-602, P-603 and P-611) who recovered from COVID-19 were discharged from the designated hospital on Sunday. With this, the total number of patients recovered and discharged rose to 51. There are 46 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-cases-go-up-to-104-in-kalaburagi-sec-144-extended/article31611333.ece
18 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||20,000 new job cards under MGNREGA||Member of Parliament Umesh Jadhav on Sunday directed all taluk panchayat executive officers to issue job cards to all migrant workers and engage them in work under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Addressing a meeting of zilla and taluk panchayat officials in Kalaburagi, Mr. Jadhav said that migrant workers who have returned home due to lockdown should be enrolled under MGNREGA and issued job cards in their respective gram panchayat limits immediately. As per data provided by the officials, Mr. Jadhav said that 20,000 new job cards would be issued under the scheme. Mr. Jadhav promised to bring adequate funds from the government for the scheme and told the officials to release wages regularly without any delay. Member of Legislative Assembly Dattatreya Patil Revoor said that at least one person from each household in the rural areas should be enrolled under MGNREGA. The officials should create awareness about the scheme in rural areas and work to reach it to more number of workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/20000-new-job-cards-under-mgnrega/article31611335.ece
18 May 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Reelers boycott cocoon auction||The auctioning of cocoons at the Government Cocoon Market yards in Ramanagaram and Kanakapura of Ramanagaram district was stalled on Saturday, with the reelers boycotting the auction, in order to put pressure on the government to fulfil their long pending demands. Anticipating usual business activity, the sericulture growers arrived with their produce. Upon hearing that the auction was cancelled, the growers staged protests. They dumped a huge quantity of cocoons on the Bengaluru-Mysuru highway in Ramanagaram and outside the yard in Kanakapura.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/reelers-boycott-cocoon-auction/article31611180.ece
18 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two more test positive in Mangaluru||Two more persons, a 34-year-old pregnant woman who recently returned from Mumbai and another with a history of visiting Delhi, tested positive for COVID-19 here on Sunday. With this, the number of active patients under treatment in Dakshina Kannada rose to 31. The 34-year-old woman (P-1095) hailing from Yeyyadi had returned from Mumbai along with her husband and their child on May 14. All the three were under institutional quarantine. Her throat and nasal swabs tested positive on Sunday and she was later moved to the Government Wenlock Hospital, the COVID-19 designated hospital. The other person, a 31-year-old man (P-1094) from Jeppupatna, with history of visiting Delhi, volunteered to undergo the test following symptoms of COVID-19 infection. Later, he tested positive. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh has declared Jeppupatna as a containment zone. The Executive Engineer III of Mangaluru City Corporation has been appointed as Incident Commander. Ms. Rupesh said that test reports of 112 samples are awaited. There are 33 persons under quarantine at NIT-K, Surathkal, and nine are under quarantine at the ESI Hospital in the city. According to the Deputy Commissioner, 18,918 migrant workers from Dakshina Kannada have been sent to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan and Jharkhand as on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/two-more-test-positive-in-mangaluru/article31611339.ece
18 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Video lectures keep II PU students engaged||To keep II PU students from Dakshina Kannada and other parts of the State engaged in academics, the Dakshina Kannada Pre University Principals Association (DKPUCPA) has come out with videos of lectures related to Science, Arts and Commerce streams. These lectures covering portions till the first quarter of the academic year2020-21are being made available on the YouTube platform. “We are covering the first two chapters of every subject in the three streams,” said DKPUCPA president and principal of Shri Narayanaguru PU College, Katipalla, Mangaluru, Umesh Karkera. Experienced lecturers, provided by Subject Experts Association, have volunteered their services in the interest of students, he added. The idea of providing lectures through videos, Mr. Karkera said, became necessary to keep students engaged in studies during lockdown. “We also wanted to reach out to students in rural areas who have connectivity issues and cannot use online class facility,” he said. Principal of Kittel Memorial College A. Vittala said that lectures of one-hour duration each recorded in a classroom are being posted since May 4. “There are already 65,000 views and 4,500 hours of viewing,” he said. They are trying to provide summery of the lectures through a link to the websitewww.dkpucpa.-com. The first among the lecture series is that of Principal of Vikas PU College, Mangaluru, T. Rajaram Rao, who has been teaching mathematics for over two decades. Among others featured are Physics lecturer Mahesh M. from Government PU College, Bettampady, Puttur; Chemistry lecturer Vani Kumari from Government PU College,Katipalla,Mangaluru; Sociology lecturer Madhu A.K. from St. George PU College, Nelyady; and Economics lecturer Sadhana from BEM Aided PU College, Mangaluru. Among the lectures that will be uploaded will be the one in Mathematics by Chairman of Expert Group of Institutions Narendra Nayak, and on Biology by Chairman of Tulunadu Education Trust M.B. Puranik.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/video-lectures-keep-ii-pu-students-engaged/article31611341.ece
18 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘RGUHS asked to study cause of spread’||The State government has asked Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) to study the cause for the spread of COVID-19 from First Neuro Hospital, which has been declared as a supervised isolation centre, in Padil in the city, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh has said. Speaking to reporters, she said that a team from RGUHS will visit the city in this connection. Meanwhile, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachanddra Bairy said that the district administration has found that 177 patients from Kerala had availed of treatment as in-patients while 1,200 from Kerala took treatment as out-patients at the same hospital from February to April. “We have asked the State government to ask Kerala Government to provide an update on the health condition of these patients,” Dr. Bairy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rguhs-asked-to-study-cause-of-spread/article31611328.ece
18 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Piles of unsold raw silk posing a problem||The nationwide lockdown has led to huge quantities of unsold raw silk piling up with reelers across Karnataka. Unable to find a market for an estimated 2,500 tonnes of raw silk during the last two months, the reelers claim they are left with no money to make fresh purchase of cocoons, a situation that is worrying for sericulture farmers. With marriages and other ceremonies being cancelled, the demand for saris and other silk garments has plummeted. Most of the powerlooms, handlooms and weaving industries also stopped operations. Karnataka, which accounts for almost half of the raw silk produced in the country, saw the demand from other States fall steeply owing to the ban on transportation. “When we have not been able to sell any silk for last two months, we have no money now. With so much of silk in stock, how do we raise money to buy more cocoons,” lamented Mohammed Muheeb Pasha, president of Karnataka State Silk Reelers’ Association. An estimated 7,000 reelers in the State, who are mostly concentrated in Ramanagaram, Siddlaghatta and Kollegal, had produced more than 2,500 tonnes of raw silk during the last two months. The situation turned so serious that the reelers boycotted the cocoon markets on Saturday. About 100 tonnes of cocoons are sold across 44 cocoon markets across the State every day, and hundreds of farmers had to return without selling the cocoons. The State government, meanwhile, released Rs. 20 crore to the Karnataka Silk Marketing Board (KSMB) to purchase raw silk from the reelers. Though the reelers returned to the cocoon markets on Sunday, the authorities are hoping for a lasting solution to clear the huge stockpiles. N.Y. Chigari, CEO of Koppa Sericulture Farmers’ Producer Company Ltd., Maddur, Union government enterprise, told The Hindu that the bulk of the raw silk, produced in the State, is purchased by traders who supply to end-users like weavers, powerlooms and handlooms. Steps should be taken by the State government to supply raw silk directly to customers in Karnataka and outside, he said. Meanwhile, Deputy Director of Sericulture, Ramanagaram, Munshi Basaiah, who held a meeting with reelers on Saturday, said the State government has directed KSMB to purchase upto 30 k.g. every week from each reeler, besides permitting them to pledge the silk for an amount upto Rs. 2 lakh. “Though we had sought Rs. 150 crore, Rs. 50 crore has been sanctioned out of which Rs. 20 crore has been released,” Mr Basaiah said. The Ramanagaram Sericulture Farmers’ Association President Gautham Gowda welcomed the State government’s move, but expressed concern over the price of cocoons, which had plummeted from about Rs. 550 to Rs. 600 per kg a few months ago to around Rs. 250 per kg at present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/piles-of-unsold-raw-silk-posing-a-problem/article31611178.ece
18 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||AIISH to resume out-patient services today||Mysuru-based All-India Institute of Speech and Hearing (AIISH) will resume its out-patient services from Monday. The services had been suspended since March 25 in view of the lockdown. The institute had been harnessing online platforms to offer services and it was able to continue therapies, rehabilitation, and pre-school education. A team of specialists, team led by Director M. Pushpavathi, was available to help those with communication disorders, thanks to tele-therapy and tele-advice. “The feedback to our initiatives was awe-inspiring. We had produced short videos on various speech and hearing problems and uploaded them on YouTube. The videos were well received with more than 8,000 views,” said Dr. Pushpavathi. Students of the institute, who had been staying in hostels, also lent a helping hand. Amidst the lockdown, live demonstration and training, online classes [for caregivers and siblings of special children] and other such initiatives were carried out on online platforms. AIISH had launched at least 10 WhatsApp groups for various speech and hearing disorder therapies and the therapists had been in continuous touch with those in need of assistance. The Tele-Centre for Persons with Communication Disorders also provided distance services. Those wanting to use the insititute’s services can call 9986980236 or 9902122165 or email: aiishtelecenter@gmail.com.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/aiish-to-resume-out-patient-services-today/article31611175.ece
18 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Tree-felling: Forest Dept.’s decision to call public grievances meeting criticised||Flaying the Forest Department’s decision to hold public grievances meeting during lockdown on the proposal to chop 3,368 trees for widening the Shivamogga-Tumakuru road into a four lane, environmentalists have termed it as an indirect ploy to suppress the voices of resentment against the loss of green cover. The project intends to reduce travel time between Bengaluru and Shivamogga. The road-widening work is estimated to cost Rs. 4,425 crore. The department had issued a notification on March 14 inviting objections from the public to chopping of trees on either side of the 53-km stretch from Tarikere taluk in Chikkamagaluru district to Bhadravati taluk in Shivamogga district for the widening work. The public grievances meeting has been convened at the office of the Deputy Conservator of Forest in Bhadravati on Monday. Ajay Kumar Sharma, a Shivamogga-based environmentalist, told The Hindu that the road where the trees would be chopped passes through Tarikere, Lakkavalli, Umblebailu and Bhadravati forest ranges that are hotspot of bio-diversity. The trees on the roadside, known for their timber and ecological value, are being chopped in large numbers in Malnad region in recent times in the name of road-widening. Referring to the recent proposal to cut 430 trees for the work of widening Tirthahalli-Megharavalli stretch of National Highway 169(A), he said that after the environmentalists conducted their own survey on road width and submitted a report to the department, the number of trees to be chopped was reduced to 93. There is a possibility of saving a good number of trees on the Tumakuru-Shivamogga road too, he said. Anticipating strong resentment from environmentalists in the public hearing meeting, the event has been convened during the lockdown period, he said. Mr. Sharma said: “As social gatherings have been cancelled, convening a public hearing meeting by the department would send a wrong message. Moreover, there is no clarity on how social distancing would be maintained at the event. Considering these aspects, the meeting should be postponed,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tree-felling-forest-depts-decision-to-call-public-grievances-meeting-criticised/article31611153.ece
18 May 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||IMA donates rice bags||The Yadgir district unit of Indian Medical Association (IMA) has donated rice valued at Rs. 50,000 to the district administration meant for distribution among the needy, according to Veeresh Jaka, secretary of IMA. Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao, who received the rice bags, appreciated the IMA unit for its valuable service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ima-donates-rice-bags/article31611336.ece
18 May 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Three test positive for COVID-19 in Yadgir||Yadgir district registered three more COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday taking the tally up to five in a week. Those who tested positive are from Shahpur taluk with a history of having travelled to Maharashtra, according to a release. The three were identified as Patient 1139, a male aged about 30, P-1140, a male aged about 22, and P-1141, a male aged about 34, having a history of visiting Thane and Mumbai. These migrant workers came to Yadgir district recently. Their samples sent for examination turned positive, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/three-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-yadgir/article31611337.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||77% of migrants plan to return to work in cities: Study||Reverse migration [massive movement of workers from “destination” to “origin”] on account of the COVID-19 lockdown has caused concern among industries and businesses, and raised some important questions: Will they stay back there or return to work? Will the restart of economic activities in urban India be adversely affected because of the non-return or delayed return of migrants? A study by the Centre for Decentralisation and Development, Institute for Social and Economic Change reveals that 77% of migrants, from Belagavi, Chamarajanagar, Dakshina Kannada, Davangere, and Kalaburagi districts, plan to return to work. This study was conducted through a telephonic survey in April-May 2020. As many as 7.3% of the sample households, mostly from Dakshina Kannada, Chamarajanagar and Kalaburagi, had migrants seeking livelihood in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Kerala, and Pune before the lockdown. About 69% of the migrants were in the age group between 20 and 40, and most were graduates and technically qualified. Among the surveyed migrants, 55% were salaried, but there is considerable variation in their work. Some are working for companies in India, Kuwait, and South Africa. Many others are in dead-end jobs in the informal sector as bakery helpers, drivers and construction workers. High-end workers usually come from the developed district of Dakshina Kannada, while dead-end job holders are from Kalaburagi. While some high-end workers, with assured salaries or ample availability of work-from-home opportunities, stayed back in destinations, several dead-end workers were stuck there. A person from Kalaburagi working in a hotel in Pune could not return owing to transport disruption. As the employer refused to pay salary, money from home is obtained to survive in Pune. Two construction workers, husband and wife from Kalaburagi, were earning daily wages of Rs. 500 at Pune. Without income, they survived on food packets provided by a local NGO on alternative days. Multiple reasons Why would they return to the destination cities? The first reason for wanting to return to cities is the availability of secure and attractive job contracts as in the case of a sales manager in an automobile company. Second is the belief that economic improvement is possible only in urban India. For instance, an employee working as quality controller in a company in Bengaluru said that though livelihood is possible in his village, he prefers the city work as this has greater potential to provide an opportunity to improve his situation. Third reason is limited use of acquired skills in rural areas. A specialist in the repair of air-conditioners and a nurse are keen to return to their urban jobs once transport is restored because both believe that their skills are employable only in urban areas. Fourth, a few migrants, such as a car driver for two decades, say that they cannot do anything other than this, and hence cannot derive livelihood in rural areas. The fifth reason is higher remuneration in the city. The father of two brothers, employed as helpers in provision stores and bakery earning Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 8,000 per month, respectively in Bengaluru, insisted that they should find work in the village. However, the brothers are reluctant because they believe that they will never be able to earn matching salaries. Safety concerns A few migrants, mostly labourers in the urban informal sector, have decided to stay back because of safety concerns and the perception that their livelihood opportunities in urban India are destroyed by the pandemic and associated lockdown. In some cases, the decision was also influenced by the ownership of landed assets, schoolgoing children in villages and possession of multiple skills that can be used in villages. Attractive social security and safety-net measures such as health and income security are therefore necessary to win their confidence back in building a self-reliant India in line with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision.  The authors are Professor and Assistant Professor, respectively, at the Centre for Decentralisation and Development, Institute for Social and Economic Change, Bengaluru. This is the second of a three-part series.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/77-of-migrants-plan-to-return-to-work-in-cities-study/article31611174.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COP||Guests shunned India prides itself in living by the motto of ‘Atithi Devo Bhava’, implying that guest is equal to God. But that seems to be changing with the arrival of hundreds from abroad under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ to cities in Karnataka. The fear of the spread of COVID-19 is overshadowing the instinct to be hospitable. For instance, in Mangaluru a section of citizens opposed the quarantine facilities arranged by the State government in two apartments in Kodialbail for passengers who arrived by the first flight from Dubai on May 12(in picture). An educational institution was using the same buildings as its hostel earlier. Similar protests have been witnessed in Bengaluru too. Though D. Vedavyasa Kamath, MLA for Mangaluru South, arrived at the Kodiabail facility, he failed to convince the protesting people. Finally, no one was quarantined in those two buildings. Last month, some people in Pachchanady area of Mangaluru opposed the government’s move to conduct the last rites of a COVID-19 victim from Bantwal. The body had to be shifted right back to Bantwal for cremation. Stressed officials As migrant workers are eager to get back home in Shramik Special trains(in picture), Labour Department officials are facing a very difficult task, given the logistics involved. Hundreds of personnel of the department in Dakshina Kannada district have been roped in to handle the task of sending back migrant workers. One officer said that a day before the train’s departure, a team of officials start the exercise of bringing migrants to the railway station. Apart from alerting those registered on the Seva Sindhu portal, messages are passed on to labour camps asking workers to assemble at scheduled points. Aadhaar numbers and contact details are collected for registration and verification. The migrants are allowed to board trains only after screening. The trains leave only after being filled to 90%capacity. Lakhs have registered on the app from all over Karnataka, and the work of officials in cities such as Bengaluru is far more, given the bigger numbers involved. Over 40,000 migrants have registered on the portal from Mangaluru alone; in Bengaluru, it is in multiples of that number. One sleep-deprived labour officer said, “If I go to sleep now, I do not know how long it will take for me to wake up.”  Taking responsibility  Politicians small and big rushed to take credit when Indian Council of Medical Research and the Central Health Ministry allowed the National Institute of Traditional Medicine in Belagavi to start conducting RTPRC tests for COVID-19. However, no one wanted the limelight  when rumours began to do the rounds that a politician had helped a Mumbai-based pregnant woman to enter via the Belagavi district border without a valid pass. There were rumours that the woman was brought to Belagavi from Mumbai by her husband, who used two cars — one to reach the inter-State border and another to travel from the border to the city. The woman’s brother is said to have pulled strings with a local politician to be allowed in on the condition that she observe home quarantine. However, the woman broke quarantine and moved around freely for a week. The police have now traced 45 contacts and asked them to be in quarantine. As these stories started gaining traction on social media, journalists began calling politicians of various parties to enquire if they had influenced the decision to let the woman in. But no one was willing to admit they had anything to do with the episode. One leader even said he had “not touched” his mobile phone in over a month.  Delayed reaction  Bharatiya Janata Party MLA and former Minister S.A. Ramdas earned a fair amount of derision when he, in his enthusiasm to promote Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call last month to light lamps in a show of solidarity, claimed that the novel coronavirus would be “killed” by the heat and light. But no BJP leader publicly found fault with Mr. Ramdas, who had ironically served as Minister for Medical Education, for promoting obscurantism. More than a month later, his party colleague and MP for Mysuru Pratap Simha(in picture)has called out the former Minister, but in the context of a slanging match he is having with Mr. Ramdas over a garbage treatment project in Mysuru city. “I am not among those who will sit quietly thinking lighting lamps will shoo away the virus and winds will blow away the stench of garbage,” Mr. Simha said. But one has to wonder if the MP wasn’t a bit too late in calling out his fellow BJP leader’s unscientific claim?  raviprasad Kamila   Raghava m.   Rishikesh Bahadur Desai   Laiqh A. Khan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cop/article31611162.ece
18 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Community kitchens for the expats in quarantine||The Alappuzha municipality will launch ‘Karunya Nagaram Pravasi Adukala’ (kitchen) to distribute food to expatriates observing mandatory quarantine period. Alappuzha municipal chairman Illikkal Kunjumon said that the civic body would feed 350 people three times a day. 1.25 lakh people “We provided lunch to 1.25 lakh people through seven community kitchens during the lockdown. With the easing of lockdown restrictions, community kitchens run by the municipality have been closed. However, from Monday onwards, Pravasi Adukala will start functioning at the Town Hall. Apart from giving food to expatriates lodged at the COVID-19 care centres, food will be provided to other people in quarantine and doctors and medical staff on COVID-19 duty at General Hospital, Alappuzha,” Mr. Kunjumon said. The chairman said that the food would also be distributed at the shelter home for people who are rescued from the streets of Alappuzha.  No more wanderers “Apart from giving food, we will make their stay permanent. Nobody will be allowed to wander the streets during the COVID-19 times,” Mr. Kunjumon said.  The food will also be distributed at the shelter home for people who are rescued from the streets of Alappuzha||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/community-kitchens-for-the-expats-in-quarantine/article31611469.ece
18 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fishers against privatisation of resources||Fishers’ unions have expressed concern over the Union government’s intentions to privatise fisheries resources as it set a target of Rs. 1 lakh crore export business over the next five years and 20 lakh tonnes of annual fish production. “These intentions are well and good; fishers welcomed it. However, a move to privatise these resources will not benefit traditional fishers’ community. The government must help make it a cooperative sector, giving importance to the indigenous community and women’s groups to come out with branded products that will target both national and international markets,” said Charles George of Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedhi. He said the Atmanirbhar package would not have a strong effect on the fortunes of the fishing community in the State. Mr. Charles said that fisheries’ unions here had decided not to launch new fishing vessels over the next 10 years. The State government had also decided against issuing new licences. Therefore benefits accruing to the State under the the schemes announced by the Centre would be minimal. The government should help induct new technology and modernise traditional fishing sector, he said. Kerala fisheries had lost about Rs. 3,500 crore due to the lockdown. Under these circumstances, the government must come forward to help the 2.60 lakh active fishers by providing a sum of Rs. 15,000 each a month for three months. Trawl ban Meanwhile, Kerala Swatantra Matsya Thozhilali Federation and Fish Workers’ Forum have demanded that the annual trawl ban should be implemented for at least 61 days. Jackson Pollayil of the Federation and T. Peter of the Forum alleged there was a move to reduce the number of trawl ban days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-against-privatisation-of-resources/article31611442.ece
18 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Call to digitalise time schedule of buses||The lockdown period must be used to digitalise time schedule of buses and channelise public transport, in keeping with demographic changes to prevent overlapping of services and lessen the number of private vehicles on roads. Officials of the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) could get this done during the lockdown, since their workload had reduced, said official sources. In the absence of digitalisation, mayhem prevails at timing conferences convened by respective Regional Transport Officers (RTOs), since bus operators vociferously oppose any move to reallocate time schedule in different routes. “This is because even a shift of a minute or two in the time schedule of a bus causes overlapping with that of other buses, affecting their daily collection. ,” they said. Such an intelligent system to make optimal use of the existing fleet of KSRTC and private buses and to augment services based on demand could be realised if start-up firms were roped in, said MVD officials. Former Senior Deputy Transport Commissioner B.J. Antony, who played a key role in formulating provisions of Kerala Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA) Act, highlighted the need for technology-based solutions for problems in the public transport sector. “The MVD has not commissioned a study on this. KSRTC’s debt burden is increasing, while the number of private buses in Kerala has lessened from 35,000 over a decade ago to around 14,000. By relying on digital platforms, the State and Central governments will be able to gauge, for example, the number of students and women who travelled in a bus. The travel concessions that are given to them must be compensated for, by providing bus operators with financial help,” said Mr. Antony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/call-to-digitalise-time-schedule-of-buses/article31611426.ece
18 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi corpn. allocates funds for canal work||Pre-monsoon cleaning of drains and canals in the Kochi Corporation has begun, with the civic body setting aside Rs. 3 lakh for each of its 74 divisions. Some councillors, however, say the amount is insufficient to complete the cleaning. Preethy K.H., councillor representing Tharebhagam in West Kochi, said the amount would be insufficient to clean the Pallichal thodu in the area, where water had entered several houses in October last year. K.J. Prakashan, who represents Mundamveli, said the amount was insufficient to complete cleaning the network of drains in his division. “The corporation lacks a drainage network map and the amount allotted is not based on an estimate of the length of the drains in each division,” said Poornima Narayan, councillor representing Gandhinagar. Disposal of silt and waste removed from canals is another issue. A single round of cleaning and desilting of the 10.5-km-long Thevara-Perandoor canal last year had itself generated over 1.7 lakh metre cube of waste. But the contractor’s agreement did not include the expense of transporting the silt to faraway Brahmapuram in multiple trips, and work was delayed till private and government land nearby could be found to dump it. “Agreements with contractors include only charges to transport waste up to 5 km, an arrangement that is inconvenient for the city since its dumping yard lies farther away,” said P.M. Harris, chairman, standing committee for works. In some cases, the contractors might themselves be able to find private plots. In other cases, it could lie by the wayside with contractors unsure of finding space to dump it, Ms. Narayan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kochi-corpn-allocates-funds-for-canal-work/article31611425.ece
18 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||For some, lockdown throws open a new path||It was two weeks ago that Dona Sajan, a visually challenged student, could mail her first email from her laptop computer. Till then, Ms. Sajan, a student of English literature from Kollam, was compelled to access her inbox from her smartphone. If she had to use her computer, she had to take help from her brother. As the world remained shut at home during the COVID-19-induced lockdown, she, along with 80 others overcame their disability and mastered a technology to improve their life skills. The youth wing of the Kerala Federation of the Blind came up with a tech-training online programme for the visually challenged persons using the app Google Zoom. After two online sessions, Ms. Sojan sent her first mail from her laptop to techtrainingkfbyf@gmail. com thus crossing a milestone. The sessions were focused on using office programmes such as Excel, PowerPoint, and Word, browsing the web, accessing Facebook account, and downloading books from the internet, she said. Screen Reader app The programme, right from organising the sessions to designing the training modules and bringing the participants together, was arranged by visually challenged persons, said B. Anilkumar, the State president of the youth wing. The participants are first trained in using the app Screen Reader which can be installed in computers and smartphones. The participants will learn to use technology to better their lives, he said. Two public outreach sessions were also organised to spread the message among the public. The latest one was held on Sunday and attended by cricketer Sreesanth. More such sessions are in the pipeline, explained Mr. Anilkumar, who is a bank employee. Technology is holding the hands of the differently abled to move ahead in life.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-some-lockdown-throws-open-a-new-path/article31611466.ece
18 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Health dept. tips for safe home quarantine||With thousands returning home from abroad, the Health Department has come up with a few tips on making home quarantine safe. If a two-storey house, keep the upper storey for quarantine purposes. If the house is single-storey with more than one bathroom, keep the bath-attached room for quarantining the person. If there is only one bathroom in the single-storey house, it is best to keep the house entirely for the person concerned, with the rest of the family shifting residence till the quarantine ends. If there is a vacant house nearby, the family can approach the owner or seek help from the local councillor to make it available for keeping a person in quarantine. Separate house If a person under isolation is living with others in the same house, all the people in the house should keep away from public spaces. Hence, if isolation is done in a separate house, it becomes easier for others. It is better to keep away elderly, pregnant women, children under 10 years and others with serious illnesses from people under isolation. They should be temporarily shifted to the houses of relatives or friends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-dept-tips-for-safe-home-quarantine/article31611452.ece
18 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Thevara-Perandoor canal yet to be desilted||Despite monsoon being around the corner, cleaning and desilting of the 10.58-km-long Thevara-Perandoor canal is yet to begin. An existing project under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) meant that the canal was not included under the district administration’s Operation Breakthrough project, said P.M. Harris, chairman, Kochi Corporation standing committee for works. The nearly Rs. 16-crore AMRUT project involved desilting the entire length of the canal, constructing retaining walls and fencing. “Lack of efficient monitoring and issues with preparing the cost estimate had led to an inordinate delay in implementing the project,” said Poornima Narayan, councillor representing Gandhinagar. With the responsibility now falling on the corporation to complete the work with its own funds, The civic body is still in the process of deciding whether the existing contractor should be assigned the work on a new project order, Mr. Harris said. “Once a decision is made on Monday, we hope to begin work by Tuesday and complete it in a week or two,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thevara-perandoor-canal-yet-to-be-desilted/article31611423.ece
18 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||FCI brings foodgrains by rail||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has resumed bringing foodgrains to the railway goods shed at the Cochin Harbour Terminus on Willingdon Island after a gap of five years. The move is to ensure uninterrupted distribution of foodgrains under the public distribution system. More rakes to arrive The first rake carrying 1,300 million tonnes of wheat was brought to the goods shed last week from Madhya Pradesh and a few more rakes of rice and wheat are expected to arrive at the shed this month. For the past few years, the FCI godown on Willingdon Island was fed through stocks brought by Container Corporation of India containers or by vessels. The decision to bring foodgrains via rail was taken keeping in mind the extreme situation prevailing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, said a release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fci-brings-foodgrains-by-rail/article31611432.ece
18 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Health worker tests positive in Kollam||A 42-year-old health worker from Kalluvathukkal in Kollam tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Her sample was collected when sentinel surveillance started to identify cases among frontline workers so as to prevent community spread. This is the second fresh case from the district after all the 20 persons from here recovered fully from the infection. The first one was of a 36-year-old Punalur resident and expatriate who is currently undergoing treatment at Government Medical College, Kalamassery. He had landed in Kochi on May 15 from Jeddah and was placed in isolation the same day. Route map According to the route map of the health worker released by the department, she was engaged in field work at Mevanakonam community kitchen and Kalluvathukkal during the first week of May. She had also visited the Primary Health Centre and participated in source reduction activities at Kadaikkonam, covering over 100 houses in two days. From May 8 to 10, she visited 25 noncommunicable diseases (NCD) and palliative patients and also distributed kits to the needy in Mevanakonam area. The health worker had also attended a meeting with Kalluvathukkal block president and local representatives a day before her sample was collected. The day her sample was collected, she attended a volunteer meeting with the junior public health nurse, junior health inspector, and four volunteers at the sub-centre. She had also visited Elamkulam Service Cooperative Bank, Regional Service Cooperative Bank, Aaami Bakery, and the Janaseva Kendram at Kalluvathukkal. The Health Department has placed all the primary contacts under home quarantine.  No new case The baby girl born to a 26-year-old COVID-19 patient who came from Kuwait at the Pathanamthitta General Hospitalon four days ago has been tested negative for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday, according to hospital sources. A medical bulletin said that no new COVID-19 case was reported from the district on Sunday. As of now, 23 quarantined persons, including the two COVID-19 patients, were under observation, the bulletin said. The swabs of 182 quarantined persons in district were tested negative on Sunday. The number of home-quarantined persons in the district has gone up to 2,239 on Sunday.  High vigil in Kottayam Even as the district reported no fresh cases of COVID-19 for the last few days, the authorities have been maintaining a high vigil in view of the continuing influx of people from red zones in other States. District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu on Sunday said people entering the district from other States would have to remain in home quarantine except in case of emergency situations. According to the official, people preferring institutional quarantine even after agreeing to remain in home quarantine have been creating trouble for the administration. “If some wants to stay in government centres, they will have to approach the help desks at their respective taluks,” he said. As many as 445 persons are staying at the 33 institutional quarantine centres. A total of 2,941 people reached the district till Sunday afternoon. Meanwhile, the results of all 22 samples received on Sunday were negative. Earlier in the day, the Eerattupetta town here witnessed some tense moments when a section of the inter-State migrant workers camping here approached the local police seeking transportation facilities to return to their home States. Taking a serious note of the situation, the police intensified deployment in the town but the situation soon eased. 7 so far in Alappuzha No fresh case of COVID-19 was reported in the district for the second consecutive day on Sunday. Two persons were hospitalised with symptoms of the disease on Sunday. The district has so far witnessed seven cases of COVID-19. A total of 2,428 people have so far reached the district from other States, including 182 on Sunday. ( With inputs from Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, and Alappuzha)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/health-worker-tests-positive-in-kollam/article31611471.ece
18 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Quarantine facilities for expats||With an increasing number of expatriates returning home, the Kozhikode Corporation is hard-pressed to ensure quarantine facilities for those who do not have the required facilities at home. The civic body has run out of options while accommodating them in government undertakings, and has approached private hotels and lodges for the purpose. “Many colleges in the city had agreed to provide quarantine facilities in their hostels. But we came to know that most hostel rooms do not have attached bathrooms. “There were only around four bathrooms for around 12 rooms and hence they could not be used to quarantine expatriates,” said Corporation Secretary Binu Francis. At a meeting of hotel owners on Saturday, more than 20 hotels agreed to cooperate with the Corporation. “Most hotels are not ready to provide rooms free of cost. Those who cannot afford paid rooms will be sent to free-of-cost accommodations,” said Mr. Francis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarantine-facilities-for-expats/article31611431.ece
18 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Summer rain wreaks havoc in rural Kozhikode||Summer showers coupled with winds hit rural areas of Kozhikode on Sunday afternoon, claiming one life and causing huge loss to farmers. A 24-year-old man from Thottumukkam was killed when lightning struck him around 3 p.m. The victim has been identified as Jofin Joseph. Power supply was interrupted for hours as uprooted trees fell on electrical lines. Fallen trees also blocked the national highway near Mukkom. Several farmers in Karassery, Kodiyathur, Thiruvambadi and Koodaranhi regions suffered losses. Residents from Mukkom and Koodaranhi regions said several electrical appliances were damaged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/summer-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-rural-kozhikode/article31611427.ece
18 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fewer takers for food from community kitchens||Fifty-two days since their inception, community kitchens in the Kozhikode Corporation have distributed food packets to over 5 lakh people. What was once a network of 12 kitchens in the city has now been reduced to just one at Nadakkavu thanks to the drastic fall in demand for meals during the Ramadan month. Community kitchens initially catered for the destitute, migrant labourers, and those who were stranded in the city in the initial days of the lockdown. An average of 11,000 food packets used to be distributed a day then. However, the distribution of free ration and grocery kits severely dented the demand for cooked food. With the commencement of the Ramadan season, the demand dropped further. Still, over 2,000 food packets were distributed from the kitchen at Nadakkavu on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fewer-takers-for-food-from-community-kitchens/article31611430.ece
18 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Police stop migrants leaving in lorry for Uttar Pradesh||A group of migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh were taken into custody by the police when they attempted to return home in a truck at Kuttippuram on Sunday.  District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem said 35 migrant workers had been packed into the truck. He said they were leaving for Uttar Pradesh on their own, and there was no question of trafficking.  The migrants boarded the large truck from under the Kuttippuram Bridge. Five of them were labourers of a restaurant at Kuttippuram. Several others were staying at Kuttippuram and neighbouring places.  Police took them to Tirur and sent them for quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-stop-migrants-leaving-in-lorry-for-uttar-pradesh/article31611434.ece
18 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||No power to run escalators at rail station||Lack of power connection has delayed the commissioning of escalators, installed at the railway station in Thiruvalla after much demand and pressure. It was in December 2016 that the decision to install the escalators was taken utilising the local area development funds of Anto Antony, MP, and P.J. Kurien, former Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha. Both Mr Antony and Prof. Kurien allotted Rs. 1 crore each for the escalator project. Foot overbridge Construction of a new foot overbridge too became necessary to link the escalators with the three platforms. The Railways launched the works estimated at Rs. 2.82 crore in 2018. The installation of both the escalators, linking platforms I and II, was completed in December 2019 and the Railways conducted their trial run too in the same month. To power the escalators, the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) installed an additional transformer on the railway station premises early in December 2019. The Railways deposited Rs. 35 lakh with the KSEB for this and for laying of new power transmission lines to facilitate the operation of the escalators. However, the transformer has not yet been connected to the railway station here. This is reportedly owing to lack of coordination between the KSEB and the engineering wing of the Railways.  ‘Cold war’ The problem propped up apparently because the Railways objected to the laying of overhead transmission lines along the railway station without obtaining prior permission from the utility’s engineering department. The work on laying power lines was disrupted with the Railways objecting to the cutting of a few tree branches in its property, leading to a ‘cold war’ or rather an ‘ego clash’ between the two public sector companies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-power-to-run-escalators-at-rail-station/article31611473.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Package a mixed bag for State||The final tranche of the stimulus package announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Sunday has turned out to be a mixed bag for the State. While welcoming the demand to raise the ceiling for annual borrowing to 5% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), the strings attached to the borrowings have come as thorn in the flesh, especially for Kerala that first flagged the demand and then mobilised non-BJP ruled States to mount pressure on the Centre. A breather As per the preliminary estimates, the State has the leeway to borrow Rs. 18,100 crore more this year, but the income loss is estimated at Rs. 35,000 crore. Still it could be deemed as a breather for the State that is reeling under acute funds crunch. The conditions such as one nation one ration card, promotion of ease of doing business and enhancing the resources of urban local bodies would not lead to any Centre-State friction, but the undue thrust laid on privatisation of public sector undertakings and power sector reforms that may eventually ring the death knell of Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) and its robust transmission and distribution mechanism would not be palatable to the State. Kerala was one State that had set a trend in the country by expressing its resolve to take over and operate Central PSUs that were facing the threat of execution. Starting with the takeover of Instrumentation Limited at Kanjikode, the State had expressed its willingness to take over Hindustan Newsprint Limited and even the Thiruvananthapuram international airport when the Centre decided to hand it over to private players. Decision on mining This trend had prompted employees of HLL Lifecare Limited to coax the State government to bid for the company which has also been listed for disinvestment by the NITI Ayog. The Centre’s idea to open the mining sector too may not be welcomed by the State that has refused to grant private participation for mineral sand-mining. The State may not go on a collision course with the Centre, and instead open a vestibule for parleys to wrest maximum aid to tide over the COVID-19-induced crisis, sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/package-a-mixed-bag-for-state/article31611455.ece
18 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Efforts to restore lost employment of women in State||The State Planning Board, in its preliminary assessment of losses to the State’s economy as a result of COVID-19, has come up with a few suggestions to restore employment of women. Among the suggestions in its report are an income support scheme to regenerate self-employment activities, incentivising MSME employers to hire women, providing members of Kudumbashree neighbourhood groups an opportunity to withdraw from their thrift amount in banks, and paying domestic workers lost wages. The report, which estimates a loss of Rs. 80,000 crore in the first quarter of the current fiscal, says the pandemic has had a bruising impact on employment across sectors. A large chunk of this is informal employment, of which women form a significant part. No contracts, benefits Women form 16.4% of the State’s workforce as per the Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS). A large proportion of women are employed at the bottom of the informal employment pyramid – as part-time, contract, unregistered, or home-based workers. Employed without contracts, worker benefits, or social protection, they do not enter official data. The Planning Board is of the opinion that the number of women in the self-employed and casual worker category is grossly underestimated.  Most women work for Rs. 200 to Rs. 291 under the MGNREGS, Rs. 400 to Rs. 500 in fish vending or domestic work, to a bit higher in beauty parlours. With MGNREGS work stalled during the first phase of the lockdown, its women workers have been dealt a blow. During the lockdown, about 50 lakh persondays have been lost, and the total loss for March and April is Rs. 177 crore. In Kudumbashree, the total loss to 28,083 microenterprises comes to Rs. 50 crore. Service sector The service sector employs almost 60% of women workers, 9% of whom are in household services, including domestic work. As per the SEWA Union, if Rs. 475 is taken as the average daily wage, each domestic worker has lost almost Rs. 12,000 in a month. Women fish vendors have lost Rs. 12,500 in a month, those in traditional work such as reed, bamboo, and handloom have lost Rs. 7,000, sales girls in shops Rs. 8,000, and cashew workers Rs. 7,350.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/efforts-to-restore-lost-employment-of-women-in-state/article31611440.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State govt. authorised to take a call on bus services||The stage is set for for the resumption of public transport services and operation of interstate bus services and passenger vehicles with the Centre asking the States to take a call on them while extending the lockdown till May 31. The government has given the nod to resume taxi and autorickshaw services in non-hotspots. As States have been given the authority by the Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to decide on the intrastate movement of passenger vehicles and buses, the government can decide on the services of KSRTC and private stage carriers in non-hotspot areas. Similarly, all States/Union Territories involved can decide whether interstate movement of passenger vehicles and buses can resume. Fare factor The government has to take a call on the operation of bus services as several factors like fare hike will have to be taken into account in consultation with the stakeholders, Transport Department sources told The Hindu . Restrictions on travel from 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. and movement through the containment zones in Tamil Nadu will be major constraints for the operation of interstate bus services. Manoj Padikkal, president of the Inter-State Bus Operators Association Kerala, said the chances of allowing AC buses were slim. The fare will have to doubled as only half the seats can be filled. Getting permission of all the States will be time consuming, he added. Social distancing While operating the bus services, the State will have to follow the Standard Operating Procedures issued by the MHA and follow social distancing norms. The nod to open canteens in bus depots, airports and railway stations is to benefit the travellers coming in three modes of transport. The move to resume train services during the lockdown period will also benefit hundreds of the Keralites, especially those held up in the northern and northeastern States since March 25. No metro service But, prohibiting the domestic, international air travel and metro rail services till May 31 will be a big setback for the State. Kochi Metro services will remain suspended and this will be a hurdle as MHA has given nod for functioning of the offices in the public, private sectors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-govt-authorised-to-take-a-call-on-bus-services/article31611464.ece
18 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM-led meeting today to decide on the way ahead||The Union government’s decision to extend the COVID-19 lockdown till May 31 has cast doubts in the public mind whether the State could push ahead with its plan to revive the local economy and restore some semblance of normalcy in social life. Chief Secretary Tom Jose told The Hindu that a top-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan would examine the new set of Central regulations on Monday and plot the government’s course of action. To seek exemptions He said the State was in lockstep with the Centre. However, it would seek exemptions wherever necessary. Another official said Kerala hoped that its relatively low COVID-19 caseload and effective quarantine measures would persuade the Centre to accord the State some latitude in re-adapting lockdown rules to suit local realities. 101 patients He said the State had pegged the public health safety threshold of COVID-19 positive patients at 300 at a given time. Currently, Kerala has only 101 infected patients. However, an increase in the number of cases would compel the government to seal the State’s borders and stop arrivals from abroad. The State did not want the disease to overwhelm its public health resources. The extension of the lockdown, fourth in a row, comes at a time when the State had moved to admit school students, allow a limited number of customers in restaurants, lift the ban on liquor sale and restore public transport in COVID-19 free localities. Warning against dilution Officials said the Centre had warned States against diluting restrictions. Hence, the government has to walk a tightrope between keeping the pandemic at bay and restarting minimal economic activity without inviting the wrath of the Centre. The State has prioritised the restart of paddy and vegetable farming to acquire some measure of food security before Onam. And the prediction that Kerala could anticipate a vigorous monsoon has put the State on its toes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-led-meeting-today-to-decide-on-the-way-ahead/article31611453.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Keeping count of spectacular milestones in space research||Mention ‘countdown’ in conjunction with rockets and what springs to mind is the sequence of numbers counted backwards ending with an earth-shaking lift-off blast. But there is another countdown, at the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), which is celebrating its 40th anniversary this week — the in-house journal of the VSSC with the same name. Countdown has faithfully chronicled not just the growth of the Indian space programme over the past four decades, but also the daily life at this high-profile, Thumba-based lead centre of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). This week, the VSSC will issue the special 40th anniversary volume (issue no: 480), a collectible that carries reminiscences by India’s top space scientists and former editors of the journal. “Just by glancing through the Countdown archives, one can have a fair picture of India’s progress in launch vehicle technology,” ISRO chairman K. Sivan, whose first tryst with Countdown came about in 1982 when he joined the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) project at VSSC, writes in the 40th volume. Editorial team The first issue of Countdown came out in April, 1980, with R. Aravamudan as chief editor. The editorial team consisted of 40 people. “The organisation was in a bit of turmoil, with difficult technical challenges. It is under these circumstances that Dr. Vasanth Gowariker (then VSSC director) felt that there must be a formal method of communicating to the staff regarding the developments, successes and problems rather than the word of mouth communication that was prevalent so far,” writes Mr. Aravamudan. S. Somanath, present director, VSSC, describes the contents in this monthly journal as a ‘ready-reference book’ characterised by ‘a perfect blend of technical information and overview of the activities of the Centre’. Over the years, Countdown has remained popular not just with the VSSC staff, but with scientists in general and science journalists too. Back issues of Countdown are a treasure trove on ISRO missions. Column on UAVs  The popular ‘Know About’ column — the 40th volume has one on UAVs (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) — dealt with diverse topics relevant to VSSC. S. R. Vijayamohanakumar, who chairs the current editorial committee, has an interesting story about how the name Countdown was chosen. “VSSC employees made 358 suggestions in all. The winning entry came from Rajaram Nagappa. ‘Space and You’ recommended by T. Jayakumar was chosen second best,” recalls Mr. Vijayamohanakumar. Such has been the popularity of Countdown that on the day a new issue is released, almost everyone at the VSSC would have a copy in their hands while waiting for the evening bus home, recalls M. Chandradathan, a former VSSC director who is now scientific advisor to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Time has transformed Countdown too. From a print run of 6,000 copies per issue earlier, prominence is given to the digital format, thus reducing the number of print circulations to one-sixth, Mr. Vijayamohanakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/keeping-count-of-spectacular-milestones-in-space-research/article31611476.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yellow alert for nine districts today||Several districts in the State can expect isolated heavy rainfall on Monday as part of the pre-monsoon showers, according to an India Meteorological Department (IMD) weather update on Sunday. The IMD has issued yellow alerts for Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Idukki, Kottayam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Malappuram signalling the possibility. Parts of the State can expect thunderstorms accompanied by lightning and gusting winds on Monday, the IMD has warned. Thunderstorm with lightning are likely to occur at one or two places from Tuesday to Thursday. Till month end According to an IMD forecast, the pre-monsoon showers are likely to continue till the end of the month. On Friday, the national weather agency had predicted the possibility of the southwest monsoon setting in over Kerala around June 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/yellow-alert-for-nine-districts-today/article31611448.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||182 passengers arrive from Muscat||An Air India Express flight arrived here from Muscat on Sunday evening with 182 stranded passengers, which included five children. Thirty-four passengers hail from Thiruvananthapuram district, 48 from Kollam, 36 from Pathanamthitta, nine from Kottayam, 16 from Alappuzha, five from Ernakulam, four from Thrissur, and one from Kannur. One of the passengers belongs to Karnataka while the destinations of 28 others were being ascertained, the district administration said in a statement. From Abu Dhabi An earlier flight that landed at the airport on Saturday night brought 182 passengers from Abu Dhabi. Of this, 62 hailed from Thiruvananthapuram, of whom 40 were transferred to institutional quarantine facilities while two were hospitalised. Twenty others were placed in home quarantine. Meanwhile, 230 people, which included 109 women, entered Kerala through the Inchivila inter-State border check-post in the district on Sunday. While 194 people had started their journey from Tamil Nadu, 27 did so from Karnataka, seven from Telengana, and two from Maharashtra. Of the total arrivals, 110 people had arrived from red zones in other States. Home quarantine was recommended to 107, while two people were transferred to the Covid care centre at Mar Ivanios campus while one person was shifted to the hospital. On Sunday, 569 persons were placed under disease surveillance in the district, while 141 others completed the observation period without displaying symptoms. In all, 5,391 people are under surveillance in the district, of which 5,037 are in home quarantine. The City police registered cases against 90 people for violating the total lockdown norms on Sunday. The City police charged petty cases against 52 others for failing to wear face masks. They also seized 46 vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/182-passengers-arrive-from-muscat/article31611478.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||During lockdown, all the virtual world’s a stage||For Bharathanatyam exponent Gayathri Vijayalekshmi, her performance on Friday was unlike any of her 50 previous stage shows. Swapping the well-decked stage for the confines of her drawing room, the former professor of T.K.M. College of Engineering, Kollam, who rekindled her passion for performing arts after retirement, performed in front of a camera mounted on a tripod, instead of a live audience. Hers was one of the performances telecast on the first day of the Kalanjali International Online Dance Festival organised by Thiruvananthapuram-based Kalanjali Foundation. An impressive array of accomplished dancers will perform various classical dance forms as part of the festival. Like Kalanjali, several dance festivals and workshops have moved to the virtual world amid the COVID-19 crisis. While the shows have evoked an encouraging response, they have generated a mixed reaction among performers. While some dub the move as one that could break the shackles of exclusivity, others lament that the absence of live audience makes it a less satisfying experience. Wider reach Chennai-based Mohiniyattam exponent Sampreetha Kesavan, who delivered the inaugural performance, says such initiatives could ensure a wider reach for performances that are usually restricted to a niche audience. “Besides, online shows could also usher in equity by enabling greater opportunities for performers who are often sidelined for more-favoured others,” she says. She also coordinates the Veyil online summer dance festival.  Ms. Vijayalekshmi, however, feels that online shows lacked the aura of conventional ones. Kalanjali Foundation director Soumya Sukumaran says the online mode enabled many performers from USA, Singapore, Qatar, Bahrain and other cities, including Mumbai, Chennai and Kolkata, to participate in the festival. Besides, archiving video clips makes future reference a possibility. Video collection Joining the online bandwagon to take art forms to larger audiences, Thiruvananthapuram-based Invis Multimedia has been providing free-of cost its vast collection of videos on performing arts online through various platforms. M.R. Hari, managing director of Invis, says the clips have generated a tremendous response from many who have developed new-found interest in art forms. With English subtitles, the videos can be accessed on the YouTube and Facebook pages of Natya Sutra Online and Invis Music.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/during-lockdown-all-the-virtual-worlds-a-stage/article31611444.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU urged to reconsider appointment process||The Self-Financing College Teachers and Staff Association (SFCTSA) has demanded that the University of Kerala reconsider its decision to conduct interviews as part of the appointment process for teachers in its self-financing institutions, including University Institutes of Management and University Institutes of Technology. In a statement, SFCTSA general secretary Abdul Vahab said that the university had scheduled interviews to be held in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Alappuzha from May 20 to 23. He alleged that the process was being held in violation of the COVID-19 guidelines. He said the university had replaced the existing process of annual renewal of contracts of the employees with the appointment process that includes performance appraisal and interview. The association said the move that would render several people unemployed contravened with the Chief Minister’s directions against laying off workers during the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ku-urged-to-reconsider-appointment-process/article31611474.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Isaac hails raise in borrowing limit||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has welcomed the decision of the Centre to increase the borrowing limit of States from 3% to 5% of the revenue. He said only about half of the revenue fall in the State would be addressed through this. The borrowings possible is Rs. 18,087 crore. “The borrowing limit should be based on the State’s revenues approved in the Union Budget, and not based on the current situation. It should be ensured that the States can borrow at affordable rates, or they should be allowed to borrow from the Reserve Bank of India. The State is against imposing conditions on the drawing of loans,” he said. Ease of doing business Dr. Isaac said the State was not against improving ease of doing business, but some of the steps announced in its guise would destroy the public sector. He said the State was also against the reforms in the power sector.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isaac-hails-raise-in-borrowing-limit/article31611458.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tharoor demands review of varsity exam schedule||Shashi Tharoor, MP, has urged the government to intervene to postpone the Kerala University final-year examinations scheduled to begin on May 26. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the Thiruvananthapuram MP said that the schedule must be reconsidered in view of the practical and logistical difficulties. Pointing out that it was extremely difficult for many students to travel and attend examinations during the lockdown, Dr. Tharoor also highlighted the health risks associated with travel.  Besides, the situation was also bound to affect students living in districts outside the jurisdiction of the university, including those based in Lakshadweep. He added that the current scenario also posed a challenge for differently abled learners who would find it difficult to find people willing to volunteer as scribes. Dr. Tharoor also demanded that the university review its deadline of May 29 set for final-year students to submit their project report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tharoor-demands-review-of-varsity-exam-schedule/article31611483.ece
18 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Fishers fume over stimulus package||The National Fishworkers Forum (NFF) has expressed deep disappointment over the economic stimulus package announced by the Central government for the fisheries sector. In a press note, the NFF said the package had let down fish workers, workers in allied sectors, migrant fishers and fish vendors who had been rendered jobless by the lockdown triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishers-fume-over-stimulus-package/article31611441.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water levels being monitored, says Minister||The levels of dams under the Irrigation Department are being monitored in the run-up to the southwest monsoon season, Water Resources Minister K. Krishnankutty has said. The storage levels are being noted down at 8 a.m., 12 noon and 4 p.m. and passed on to senior officers of the department on a daily basis. Additional officers will be posted at dam sites as observers, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/water-levels-being-monitored-says-minister/article31611477.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Briefly/KWA||The All Kerala Water Authority Employees’ Union (AITUC) has protested against an alleged move by the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) to reduce posts in the government-run water utility taking advantage of the COVID-19 lockdown period. Clandestine moves were on to slash as much as 30% posts, the union alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/brieflykwa/article31611479.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Admission to schools||With the Centre deciding to extend the COVID-19 lockdown till May 31, children need not be brought along for the admission process in State schools which opens on Monday, the Director of General Education said. Parents visiting schools for the purpose should maintain social distancing norms. Once the online portal is ready, children will be admitted via the facility. Parents need not rush for admissions as the government has made arrangements for ensuring entry to all children who apply.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/admission-to-schools/article31611461.ece
18 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KAU continues to help first-time farmers during lockdown||The Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) has devised means to reach out to its diverse clientele, many of them first-time farmers, even during the COVID-19-induced lockdown period. Its research farms and labs continue to work with minimum staff, and following social distancing and other COVID-19 protocols during the lockdown, KAU Vice Chancellor R. Chandra Babu said. Thus, it could meet the demand of the public for planting materials and input requirements. The sales at KAU outlets that operated on restricted schedules indicate a boom in homestead farming of vegetables in the State. Around 1,500 kg seeds and over 2 lakh seedlings were sold during the two-month period, he noted. The trend was also reflected in the high demand for bio-inputs, lure traps , and vermicompost, which recorded a sale of over 150 tonnes. This was in addition to the usual demand from seasoned farmers for seeds and planting materials of paddy, coconut seedlings, tissue culture Banana, pepper, nutmeg etc. To support new farmers, KAU has released online videos on vegetable cultivation at kitchen gardens. These were well received by Kudumbashree members and residents’ associations, according to Jiju P. Alex, Director of Extension. Helplines Round-the-clock helplines are being operated through Krishi Vigyan Kendras and research stations in all districts. Crop advisories on major crops were released through media and posted on WhatsApp groups. Experts have been giving guidance to farmers on online participatory discussion forums like Facebook Live. Horticulture Therapy, a five-day online training programme, was inaugurated by Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunilkumar through a Zoom meeting. Online certificate and MOOC courses were conducted for the farmers and the public. Counselling sessions were conducted on behalf of the university on parenting children with special needs through horticultural therapy. Weather alerts are continued as biweekly Agro-meteorological bulletins disseminated through Kisan portal, and AIR.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kau-continues-to-help-first-time-farmers-during-lockdown/article31611438.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||2 cases in Kozhikode, Kannur||The number of COVID-19 patients is on an upward spiral in Kasaragod, with one more testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients has reached 192 in the district. Of them, 177 have been discharged after treatment. The 25-year-old man from Pulloor Periya panchayat who returned from Chennai on May 6 was tested positive for the virus on Sunday. He had been under observation and was rushed to the COVID-19 treatment centre at Ukkunakadu after his sample test results returned positive. His colleague, a resident of Mattanur in Kannur, too had been tested positive for the disease last week. As many as 2,162 persons are under observation in the district. Of them, 1,887 are in home quarantine, while 275 are in hospitals. Twenty persons have been shifted to the isolation ward. In Kannur Two persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Sunday. A 24-year-old man from Pattayam, who returned from Chennai on May 6 and a 27-year-old from Maloor, who arrived from Mumbai on May 13, were tested positive for the virus. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients has gone up to 123 in the district. Meanwhile, 5,240 persons are under observation. In Thrissur One person was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur on Sunday. The disease was confirmed in a person who had returned from Chennai. In Kozhikode Two more persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Sunday. They are a 78-year-old native of Nadapuram who returned from Dubai on May 7 and a 23-year-old native of Orkkatteri who came back from Kuwait on May 13. The first person had been quarantined at the National Institute of Technology-Calicut hostel, and the second had been under observation at a nursing hostel at Omassery. They were admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital on May 16 and May 15, respectively. Their condition is reported to be stable. Meanwhile, the number of those under observation has reached 5,654, including 555 persons who were added to the list on Sunday. Among them are 444 expatriates, including 59 who were added on the day. As many as 35 persons are under surveillance at the medical college hospital, including 12 expatriates. Fourteen persons were discharged on Sunday. As many as 249 expatriates are in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/2-cases-in-kozhikode-kannur/article31611429.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Less encumbered||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/less-encumbered/article31611481.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Let there be rain!||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/let-there-be-rain/article31611450.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Elusive luck||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elusive-luck/article31611468.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pvt. doctors seek access to clinical registry||Indian Medical Association (IMA), which has a huge representation of private health sector, has raised this issue with the government. The rest of the doctors in the private sector should be trained in the strategies of the “successful Kerala model,” as the disease transmission goes up, it has said in a letter to the Chief Minister. IMA has also said that the medical fraternity is given access to the clinical registry of patients and the treatment for research purposes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pvt-doctors-seek-access-to-clinical-registry/article31611462.ece
18 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five buses deployed to ferry migrants on NH-44||The Anantapur district administration on Sunday deployed five buses from Kodikonda Checkpost on Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh border and at two other places midway up to Gooty to provide the much-needed succour to migrant labourers walking on National Highway-44 from Bengaluru.  Accommodation “We want to see to it that travel arrangements are made for all the workers so that they do not have to take up the arduous task of walking back home in sweltering heat. The State government will foot the travel bill,” District Collector Gandham Chandrudu told The Hindu.  “There are some coming from Bellary too, and we have taken over some dhabas to accommodate the migrants in case immediate transport was not available,” he added. Two Shramik specials from Anantapur have been arranged, he said. One will leave for Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh on May 18(Monday) and another for Bihar on May 19 (Tuesday). Deputy Transport Commissioner Sivaram Prasad said that Penukonda Sub Collector T. Nishanthi, along with Dharmavaram and Anantapur RDOs, was monitoring the operation of ferrying and accommodating the workers. The RTC was also running buses to Srikakulam and some destinations in Prakasam districts, he added. The district administration has tied up with non-governmental organisations to serve food to migrant labourers walking on the National Highway or stationed at shelter homes. In Kurnool, five trains with 1,500 persons have left for Bihar, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha from May 5 to 15. Some people were taken to Ongole and Vijayawada by RTC buses where trains were arranged to take them to different States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/five-buses-deployed-to-ferry-migrants-on-nh-44/article31611098.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shadow of Maharashtra cases raises tally in Karnataka||Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally crossed 11,000 on Sunday with the State adding 639 cases – exceeding the 500 mark after three days – including 81 returnees from other parts of the country. While four patients died, the overall COVID-19 numbers touched 11,224 of which 6,971 were active cases. Of the 639 persons who tested positive, 558 were from within the State and the rest included 73 from Maharashtra, three from Telangana, two each from Karnataka and Rajasthan and one from Andhra Pradesh. The returnees were located at various district check posts. In Chennai, only the person from Andhra Pradesh and one returnee from Karnataka had tested positive. Most returnees from Maharashtra, who tested positive, were from check posts in Karur, Kallakurichi, Thoothukudi and Tirunelveli districts. Eleven districts saw new patients on Sunday including Chennai, which accounted for 480 positive cases. While the neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur accounted for 28 and 18 patients respectively, Madurai recorded 10 positive cases. In the rest of the districts the number of new cases were in single digits. The State recorded four deaths taking the toll to 78. The patients had been admitted to the Government Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital and Stanley Medical College Hospital. Three of them had underlying ailments. A 63-year-old man from Tiruvallur who had systemic hypertension/chronic kidney disease and was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital died on Saturday around 9.15 a.m. The cause of his death was respiratory failure/acute pulmonary oedema. A.P. cases lower Andhra Pradesh reported one COVID-19 death on Sunday. The State, however, reported only 25 new cases, the lowest daily tally in the past one month that witnessed 1,846 cases. The latest death was in Krishna district, which so far registered a toll of 15, the second-highest in the State after Kurnool, with a toll of 19. A Health Department bulletin said, the tally had risen to 2,380, including 150 migrants, while the toll was 50. With 103 fresh recoveries, active cases came down to 874. A total of 1,456 patients had recovered, with a recovery rate of 61%, against a mortality rate of 2.1%. Among cases involving migrants, 23 patients had recovered in Anantapur. The new cases were in Srikakulam (7), Chittoor (4), Guntur (4), Kurnool (3), Prakasam (3), Visakhapatnam (3) and Nellore (1). All new cases in Prakasam and one case each in Chittoor and Kurnool were linked to Koyambedu market. Over a 24-hour period ending Sunday, 9,880 tests were done and a total of 2.38 lakh samples tested in the State, representing 4,780 tests per million. The district-wise case tally: Kurnool (611), Guntur (417), Krishna (367), Chittoor (177), Nellore (150), Anantapur (122), Kadapa (102), Visakhapatnam (75), West Godavari (70), Prakasam (66), East Godavari (52), Srikakulam (14), Vizianagaram (7) and migrant cases (150). Telangana witnessed a continued run of COVID-19 cases with 42 more reported on Sunday, taking the total to 1,551. Of the new cases, 37 were from Greater Hyderabad, two from Rangareddy and three were migrants.  Kerala cases rise COVID-19 cases continued to rise in Kerala, with 14 more testing positive on Sunday. While 12 of these were imported cases, two cases, including that of a health care worker, were picked up from the community. Malappuram accounted for four cases, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kannur two cases each, and Kollam, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kasaragod one case each. Of new cases, two returned from West Asia, while 10 came from Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. The case in Kollam was that of a health worker and one in Ernakulam, a Uttar Pradesh native from the Maldives. Kerala had reported 601 cases, of which 497 had recovered. Since May 7, when expatriates began to return, Kerala had received 60,612 non-resident Keralites, of whom 3,467 came through various airports, 1033 through sea ports, 55,086 through border check posts and 1,026 by trains. The number of persons under surveillance rose from 48,825 to 62,529 overnight.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Thiruvananthapuram Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shadow-of-maharashtra-cases-raises-tally-in-karnataka/article31611070.ece
18 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor sees drop in positive cases||Chittoor district, which witnessed a continuous spike in positive cases during the last one week, registered only five cases on Sunday taking the tally to 181. Much to everyone’s relief, none of the cases were linked to Koyambedu, which emerged as the COVID hotbed in recent times. Compared to last week, the district registered the lowest number of cases on Sunday, District Medical and Health Officer said. The new cases included three from Srikalahasti and one each from Tiruapti and Nagalapuram. Four persons belonging to Varadaiahpalem, BN Kandriga and Satyavedu were discharged from the COVID hospital at Tirupati, after they tested negative to the virus. People urged to download app District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta at a review meeting with the COVID-19 task force personnel here on Sunday said that the field staff should play a crucial role in persuading the people to download the Arogya Setu app to help them avoid all such places where a positive case has been reported. Fever clinics In view of the ensuing monsoon season, the Collector instructed all the medical officers to start fever clinics at all vulnerable areas with history of viral fevers. The clinics would also come up in red and containment zones to make them more accessible for people from these areas, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chittoor-sees-drop-in-positive-cases/article31611093.ece
18 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer struck dead by lightning near Chittoor||A 60-year-old farmer of Mahadeva Mangalam village of GD Nellore mandal died when lightning struck a tree under which he was taking cover due to sudden downpour. According to information, the mandal received heavy downpour accompanied by heavy gales and lightning on Sunday evening. The impact of the lightning was such that the farmer, identified as Venkateswara Reddy, was charred to death. The villagers rushed to the spot and doused the flames, preventing it from spreading to the nearby haystack. The revenue and area police rushed to the spot and shifted the body to Chittoor government Hospital for autopsy. Revenue Divisional Officer D. Renuka instructed the tehsildar (GD Nellore) to conduct inquiry and submit a report on the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmer-struck-dead-by-lightning-near-chittoor/article31611100.ece
18 May 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trump honours Telugu girl for lauding COVID-19 staff||Little contributions in difficult times make a great difference, and when Sravya Annapareddy sent personalised cards to healthcare workers fighting COVID-19 across the United States, little did she know that it would catch the attention of the American President himself. The 10-year-old Telugu girl born in the U.S. was among three girl scouts in that country to be honoured by President Donald Trump on Saturday in the White House for applauding COVID-19 frontline workers. Sravya, along with Laila Khan and Lauren Matney from Troop 744 based out of Elkridge, Maryland, donated 100 boxes of Girl Scouts cookies to local firefighters, doctors and nurses. They also sent personalised greeting cards to healthcare workers across the country showing their support and encouragement to their fight against the virus. Sravya is a fourth grade student at the Hanover Hills Elementary School in Hanover, Maryland. “Everyone can do something is what our team believed,” said Sravya, delighted that their small work has been recognised. “We represented the entire school children of the U.S.,” she said, adding that her parents raised her with the Indian values of Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam (the world is one family). President Trump praised the scouts and said he was in awe and admiration of the heroism, bravery, commitment and love of the Americans fighting the virus, said Sravya’s father, Vijay Reddy Annappareddy, a pharmacist from Maryland, who hails from Guntur. His wife, Seeta Kallam, a medical graduate from Andhra Medical College, Visakhapatnam, hails from Narasaya Palem near Bapatla. Mr. Vijay Reddy said Sravya had always shown concern for the society and had been very active volunteering for various community activities along with her brother, Aviv Annappareddy. “Recognition from the White House was totally unexpected and this would make a huge difference to her life and her ambition to do more for the society,” he added. Sravya’s parents had donated Rs. 25 lakh for setting up a water purification plant in Ramanayapalem, Andhra Pradesh, in Sravya’s name when she was born.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trump-honours-telugu-girl-for-lauding-covid-19-staff/article31611065.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Complete Kaleshwaram work on a war-footing’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked the irrigation engineers to take up works pertaining to lifting of three tmcft of water from Kaleshwaram project so that it could be diverted to the needy areas during the next flood season itself. In a marathon meeting with Ministers of districts in the Godavari Basin, officials and engineers of the Irrigation Department, that went on for nearly eight hours on Sunday, the Chief Minister told the engineers to start impounding lakes and ponds as soon as the projects start getting fresh water. For the purpose, required distributary canals and off-take sluices should be taken up and completed, wherever required, he said. Stating that the focus should on filling all minor irrigation tanks, lakes and ponds, he said district-wise meetings should be held over the next two-three days so that the problems and hurdles in filling the tanks could be discussed to resolve them. Before that the irrigation engineers should encourage farmers to take the silt from tank beds voluntarily and dump it in their fields to improve fertility of the soil, he said. The Chief Minister instructed the committee of Engineers-in-Chief to decide whether it is possible to improve the carrying capacity of canal from the Lower Manair Dam from the existing 6,000 cusecs to 9,000 cusecs or whether a new parallel canal system is needed to take more water to the areas below the project. He told the engineers to irrigate 16,41,284 acres ayacut under Sriramsagar project canal systems during the coming Vaanakalam crop season. ‘Reorganise the dept.’ Suggesting the officials to reorganise the Irrigation Department as per the present and future requirements, the Chief Minister said every project must have operation and maintenance manual. He also wanted the officials to arrange new water gauges at all projects and also establish a real time data operating system with advanced technology for management of water so that every drop of water is put to productive use. On the works of Kaleshwaram project to lift and utilise 2 tmc ft water every day, the Chief Minister directed the engineers to complete construction of all pump houses before the commencement of flood season. Pumping of water to Kondapochammasagar be taken up by the month-end. He also told the engineers to fill Tapaspally reservoir with Mallannasagar water and provide water to Mothkur, Adda Gudur, Cheryal, Maddur, Komaravelli and Chilpur mandals. Further, he wanted completion of the Gouravelli lift so that water can be given in the coming flood season itself. Asking the engineers to operate Devadula project throughout the year, the Chief Minister wanted speeding up of Smmakka Barrage works and giving water to 77,000 acres under Thotapally canal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/complete-kaleshwaram-work-on-a-war-footing/article31611059.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||An equivocal case of coronavirus||A post-graduate student (junior doctor) at Gandhi Hospital who attended to COVID-19 patients was detected as an equivocal case of coronavirus, which means he neither tested positive nor negative. However, the hospital authorities are taking precautions considering him to be a positive case. Tests were conducted on around 11 junior doctors who worked with him and all of them tested negative. This is the first such case of a healthcare professional from Gandhi Hospital — the largest COVID-19 isolation centre in the State. Though hundreds of doctors, nurses, have been attending COVID-19 patients at the hospital from past two and half months, none of them tested positive till date. Sources said that the junior doctor is asymptomatic and does not have any health complications. “He is isolated at the hospital as he did not want to be isolated at home. Though he used to stay in the hostel on campus, his roommate was not living there. None of his colleagues tested positive,” sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/an-equivocal-case-of-coronavirus/article31611353.ece
18 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 of a family test positive in East Godavari||As many as five members belong to the same family have tested positive for COVID-19 in the Ramachandrapuram municipality in East Godavari district. A 21-year-old youth and his father, driver, had returned from Kolkata to East Godavari after transporting eggs on the lorry before May 14. However, the youth has been tested positive on May 14. He is the student of IIIT-R.K. Valley in Kadapa district and has been staying with the family during the lockdown period. Ramachandrapuram Municipal Commissioner T. Rajagopala Rao told The Hindu ; “All the other four persons have been tested positive on Sunday. The family members of the youth are his mother, 41, grandmother, 63, paternal aunt, 48, and cousin sister, 21. The cousin sister is the Ward Volunteer.” The doctors have advised admitting the grandmother to the State COVID Hospital in Visakhapatnam while the rest of them have been admitted to the GSL Hospital in Rajamahendravaram for further treatment. “We are identifying the primary contacts of the four members who have contracted the disease from the youth,” said Mr. Rajagopala Rao. However, the youth’s father who drove him to Kolkata has been tested negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/5-of-a-family-test-positive-in-east-godavari/article31611566.ece
18 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||588 Indians reach Kochi from Maldives||INS Jalashwa arrived at the Kochi port here on Sunday from the Maldives with 588 Indians stranded in the island country following the COVID-19 lockdown. This is the second trip by INS Jalashwa , which had earlier reached Kochi with 698 Indians from the Maldives on May 10. Naval vessel INS Magar too had evacuated 300 Indians stranded in the Maldives and brought them to Kochi on May 12 as part of the ongoing Samudra Setu mission to evacuate by sea Indians stranded in different parts of the world. Of the 588 passengers, 487 are from Kerala, said a communication from the Public Relations Department. Three persons who showed COVID-19 symptoms were admitted to the Karuvelippady Taluk Hospital. They hail from Kollam, Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad districts. Forty-seven others have been sent to various centres for observation, the communication added. A communication from the Cochin Port Trust said it had facilitated the safe transit of 1,488 Indian expatriates. The disembarkation and clearance procedures were coordinated by the Kerala police.  Meanwhile, an evacuation flight (Air India Express IX 434) from Dubai brought 181 Indians from the Gulf on Saturday night. The evacuees comprised 57 men and 124 women. Of them, 32 were children below the age of 10 and 70 of the women were pregnant. A person with symptoms of COVID-19 and hailing from Thrissur was admitted to the Ernakulam Medical College Hospital. Of the others, 34 had been sent to different COVID-19 care centres, while 146 had been sent to their houses but would be under observation, said a communication from the district administration here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/588-indians-reach-kochi-from-maldives/article31611067.ece
18 May 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||28 patients discharged in Kurnool||The number of COVID-19 patients getting discharged from hospitals is rising by the day as yet another batch of 28 persons went home on Sunday, taking the number of recoveries to 433 (71%), District Collector G. Veerapandian said. There were three positive cases reported on Sunday and one of them had returned from Koyambedu in Chennai. The death toll in the district is 19, while 159 patients are undergoing treatment. In Anantapur district, no positive case was reported for the second consecutive day after 63 of the 689 Mumbai returnees tested positive on Friday. However, their number is not added to the district’s tally, which stands at 122.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/28-patients-discharged-in-kurnool/article31611094.ece
18 May 2020||Malappuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rahul reaches out with dialysis kits during lockdown||Rahul Gandhi, Lok Sabha member from Wayanad, will give away 1,300 dialysis kits to kidney and liver patients in the constituency. The kits containing vital medicines and dialysis components were being readied for distribution. They would reach the patients across the constituency within a week, said A.P. Anil Kumar, MLA. He said 1,300 patients were chosen after inviting applications from the needy in Wayanad Lok Sabha constituency comprising the Assembly segments of Wandoor, Nilambur, Eranad, Thiruvambady, Kalpetta, Sulthan Bathery and Mananthavady. “In a survey conducted recently, we found that there has been an increase in the number of kidney patients in the constituency. So Rahulji decided to reach out with dialysis kits to all dialysis patients in the constituency. Medicines are also being given to kidney and liver transplant patients,” said Mr. Anil Kumar, who is in charge of the distribution. He said it was the third phase of aid for the needy from Mr. Gandhi during the COVID-19 lockdown. In the first phase, masks, sanitisers and thermal scanners were distributed in Wayanad. Mr. Gandhi had arranged more than 5,000 litres of sanitiser and more than 20,000 face masks for distribution among the poor in Wayanad. About 100 thermal scanners were also given to health workers in the first phase of the lockdown. Mr. Gandhi also donated rice and pulses to community kitchens in the second phase. “He has given 28 tonnes of rice and three tonnes of pulses to community kitchens,” said Mr. Anil Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rahul-reaches-out-with-dialysis-kits-during-lockdown/article31611077.ece
18 May 2020||MYSURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Operation to trap tiger to begin today||The Forest Department is grappling with two tigers and trying to trap and tranquilise them to reduce conflict situation around Bandipur in Chamarajanagar district and in Virajpet territorial division of Kodagu district. The operation to trap the elusive tiger in Bandipur will commence on Monday, while the department is on the tiger’s trail in Virajpet since almost a fortnight without much success. The Bandipur-Nagarahole-Wayanad-Mudumalai belt has one of the highest tiger densities in the world as per the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) reports, and experts opine that increase in tiger numbers could be forcing some of them to carve out new territories and hence are forced to stray into human landscape. But conflict situation has also been abetted by shrinking forest cover, increasing anthropogenic pressure resulting in habitat fragmentation and disturbance, roadworks through protected etc. leading to conflict situation. T. Balachandra, Director, Bandipur National Park, said the operation to capture the elusive tiger would commence on Monday and they had secured permission for it. Based on pug marks and camera trap images the authorities had identified the tiger which was operating in a 1,000-hectare area outside the Kundakere range of Bandipur. “In the last one month it has killed 20 head of cattle and hence the local community is terrified. We are waiting for elephant Abhimanyu, Krishna and others from Nagarahole elephant camps to commence the operations,” Mr. Balachandra said. He said they were confident of the tiger’s identity as it had been photographed 10 times in the last few days by the camera trap in the vicinity. The tiger is believed to be around four to five years old and authorities said it was trying to establish a territory for itself. But in the process it had ventured too close to human settlements and was now operating outside the park boundaries and hence it was imperative to capture and translocate it, Mr. Balachandra said. The other tiger in Kodagu has struck repeatedly in Balele, Birunani, Kottageri, Nittoor and other villages in the Virajpet territorial division and is suspected to have killed more than a dozen head of cattle in the region.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/operation-to-trap-tiger-to-begin-today/article31611073.ece
18 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why are Naidu, Lokesh shying away from State, asks Minister||Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav took a dig at Telugu Desam Party chief N. Chandrababu Naidu and its national General Secretary Nara Lokesh for keeping away from the State and instead taking to virtual platform for political discourse during the lockdown. Addressing the media here on Sunday, he said he was perplexed as to why the TDP chief and his son locked themselves down in their home in Hyderabad when lakhs of people were migrating from one place to another, and indulging in mudslinging over web-based video-conferencing platforms. “Will the TDP chief not return to the State till a vaccine is found for COVID-19?” he sarcastically asked, adding that the septuagenarian leader could be exempted in view of his advancing age. “But what happened to Mr. Lokesh? Does he not have immunity?” asked the Minister who took objection to the alleged ‘politically-motivated’ criticism of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government by the TDP on Zoom platform. The Minister also wanted the TDP, which had decided to hold its annual conference Mahanadu via Zoom app, to make its stand on the State government’s decision to enhance the water carrying capacity of the Pothireddypadu head regulator to benefit farmers in Rayalaseema and Nellore. The TDP had neglected the implementation of the Polavaram project when it was in power, the Minister charged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/why-are-naidu-lokesh-shying-away-from-state-asks-minister/article31611553.ece
18 May 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 cured of COVID in Nellore dist.||In a positive development, 16 COVID-19 patients were discharged on recovery while one more person having contacts with traders in Koyambedu wholesale vegetable market in Chennai tested positive in SPSR Nellore district in last 24 hours. Those discharged on Sunday had returned from New Delhi after attending the religious congregation. After a person from Nellore testing positive, the number of confirmed cases in the district rose to 150. Warm send-off to discharged patients It was a triumphant moment for the cured patients, as they walked out of the hospital after testing negative for the infection. The health workers gave them a warm send-off at the COVID-19 designated Narayana Hospital here. In all, 94 persons had been discharged on recovery, bringing down the number of active cases to 53 at the Government General Hospital and the Narayana Hospital. Thirty seven persons are responding well to the treatment and are likely to be discharged later this week, officials said. Meanwhile, it was a great relief for a batch of 37 migrant workers who had set out on a 900 km-march from Chennai to reach Srikakulam as the district administration arranged special buses for them on Sunday. The workers, who had embarked on the gruelling journey on foot, were identified near the Venkatachalam toll plaza on the Chennai-Kolkata highway three days ago and accommodated in the Venktachalam RTC Bhavan. Meanwhile, officials swung into action in Prakasam district to test all those who had visited the Koyambedu vegetable market in Chennai in the wake of three persons with travel history to the market testing positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/16-cured-of-covid-in-nellore-dist/article31611103.ece
18 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||One killed in accident in Prakasam||One person was killed and another injured when a car they were travelling in was hit by a bus at Vetapalem, near Chirala, in Prakasam district on Sunday. While P. Srinivasa Rao, a conductor working with the State-owned Road Transport Corporation in Chirala, died on the spot, the driver of the car suffered injuries and was taken to the government hospital in Chirala. The mishap occurred when the driver of a private bus proceeding to Tenali lost control of the vehicle near the bypass road, Vetepalem Sub-Inspector Ajay Babu said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/one-killed-in-accident-in-prakasam/article31611101.ece
18 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam tally mounts to 14 as seven fishermen test positive||Seven fishermen, who returned to native places in special buses from Chennai, tested positive taking the total number of COVID-19 cases to 14 in the Srikakulam district. Officials said they were being shifted to hospitals in Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam. The fishermen belonged to Srikakulam, Itchapuram, Sompeta and Kaviti mandals. Apart from Chennai, more than 800 fishermen returned to Srikakulam district from Veraval of Gujarat in the first week of May. Their medical reports are yet to come from laboratories in Kakinada and Visakhapatnam. The district administration collected blood samples from 1,405 persons on Sunday as the situationturned alarming with the spurt in positive cases among the fishermen. Additional District Medical and Health Officer B. Jagannatha Rao said that results of as many as 3,858 tests would reach the district in a few days. “The persons with COVID-19 symptoms have already been sent to special quarantine centres in the district. Special care is being taken for their speedy recovery. Five out of 14 patients recovered quickly. It is a good sign although cases number had gone up in the district,” said Mr. Jagannatha Rao. With the increase in positive cases, District Collector J. Nivas directed officials to be on alert and implement lockdown rules strictly in containment zones, including one in P.N. Colony of Srikakulam. ‘Relax norms’ Meanwhile, people living in P.N.Colony have been requesting district officials to relax norms since only one case was identified and no other case has been detected in the last three weeks. “Life becomes horrible in containment zone as people are not allowed even to visit pharmacies. We request the Collector and other officials to review the situation and relax norms since more than 20,000 people living in P.N. Colony and surrounding areas are facing problems,” said P. Srikanth, a resident of the colony.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srikakulam-tally-mounts-to-14-as-seven-fishermen-test-positive/article31611151.ece
18 May 2020||Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oppose draft electricity Bill, Jagan urged||APSEB Engineers’ Association up in arms against the draft Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020, proposed by the Centre. The APSEB Engineers' Association (APSEBEA) has appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to oppose the Electricity Amendment Bill, 2020 citing some objectionable changes proposed to the laws governing the power sector. APSEBEA general secretary G. Ramakrishnudu told The Hindu that the consumers had ceased to have any role in the signing of Power Purchasing Agreements since reforms started in the 1990s as the sector was converted into a market place by the World Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/oppose-draft-electricity-bill-jagan-urged/article31611096.ece
18 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Community kitchens winding up||For close to two months, since the nationwide lockdown began on March 24, community kitchens across the State have been feeding the hungry. But, with grocery kits and ration benefits from the State government reaching almost all households, the civic bodies have begun shutting down a majority of these kitchens, keeping open only those meant for relief camps and quarantine facilities. On Sunday, the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation decided to wind up its community kitchens. Joint effort The first of the kitchens had begun functioning soon after the announcement of the nationwide lockdown. Since then, these kitchens, a joint effort of the Kudumbashree Mission and the local bodies, have been serving food for free three times daily to the indigent, the bed-ridden and senior citizens. But, even though the kitchen was meant only for these categories, many others too began depending upon it. On some days, the larger urban local bodies were delivering more than a lakh food packets. The community kitchens also served the thousands of migrant workers, who live scattered in various places. Kudumbashree workers, school mid-day meal cooks, local body officials and volunteers had worked tirelessly from 5.30 a.m to 7 p.m to keep these running. Financial burden The cash-strapped local bodies had increasingly found the community kitchens to be a major financial burden. The two-month period also witnessed the society as a whole pitching in to keep these kitchens running. In April, the State government, in an effort to reduce the strain on the local bodies, announced the opening of more Janakeeya restaurants, providing meal parcels at Rs. 25. In the State Budget this year, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac had proposed the opening of 1,000 such restaurants across the State by Onam. With the pandemic outbreak, the opening of these were advanced, with hundreds of them already being opened across the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/community-kitchens-winding-up/article31611447.ece
18 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. uses Moideen to target Kerala govt.||The public foray of Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen in the time of the COVID-19 lockdown appeared to have come as an opportunity for the Congress to put the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government on the defensive. The Congress has attempted to make a political issue out of Mr. Moideen’s televised appearance at a quarantine centre for Non-Resident Keralites in Thrissur on May 8. The party has accused the Minister of attempting to reap political dividends by giving the short shrift to universal pandemic prevention precautions. Mr. Moideen represents the Kunnamkulam Assembly constituency in the district from where several of the arrivals hailed. Five of them, later, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, raising the spectre that Mr. Moideen, who attends Cabinet meetings alongside Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, may have risked exposure. The Political Affairs Committee (PAC) of the party, which met here on Saturday, reportedly took umbrage at the decision of the district health authorities in Thrissur to waive quarantine for Mr. Moideen in what it described as a politically partisan move to avoid an embarrassment to the government. It pointed out that the decision to insulate Mr. Moideen from enforced isolation contrasted with the government’s insistence that the Congress leaders, who had visited the Walayar check-post in Palakkad purportedly to highlight the plight of stranded Keralites, go into quarantine. Congress MPs T.N. Prathapan, Ramya Haridas and V.K. Sreekandan have isolated themselves at home. So have MLAs Anil Akkara and Shafi Parambil. Mr. Vijayan had said the government had advised the Congress leaders to go into quarantine as part of the protocol. A medical board had found that Mr. Moideen did not require isolation. Political animus However, the Congress has not bought the argument. Mr. Pratapan said political animus had prompted the government to take Congress MPs and MLAs out of action. The government did not want Opposition leaders to listen to the woes of the people or highlight issues that challenged the narrative of the ruling front. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran has directed the Thrissur and Palakkad district committees of the party to take the issue to the people.  Congress PAC objects to the district authorities’ decision to waive his quarantine||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cong-uses-moideen-to-target-kerala-govt/article31611072.ece
18 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC buses to ferry migrants to relief centres||APSRTC buses have been kept ready at every check-post to shift migrant workers to the relief centres. “Migrants were stopped at the check-posts, counselled and shifted to 61 relief centres where food, water and other facilities have been arranged,” said State COVID Task Force Committee Chairman M.T. Krishna Babu, at a press conference here on Sunday. “A request has been made to Telangana and Tamil Nadu governments to help migrant labourers from Andhra Pradesh reach home safely,” Mr. Krishna Babu said, and added that the issue was sensitive and needed a humanitarian approach. Efforts were being made to streamline the system in the next few days. He said the Chief Minister had given clear instructions not to use force against the migrants and treat them with empathy and compassion. Special trains For long distance travel, Shramik Special trains were being arranged to help them reach home. On Sunday night, five trains – Nellore to Bihar; Anantapur to Uttar Pradesh; Guntur to Uttar Pradesh; Visakhapatnam to Odisha; and Vijayawada to North East – would take migrants to their homes. The State has also sought permission to run another five trains to Jharkhand, six each to West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh, two each to Odisha and Rajasthan, and three to Bihar. On Monday, five trains – Visakhapatnam to Jharkhand; Anantapur to Bihar; Vijayawada to Madhya Pradesh; Guntur to Rajasthan and Kadapa to Rajasthan – will take another large set of migrants to their respective homes. The State has so far sent over 36,000 migrant labourers home in 31 trains and has received five trains that brought Telugu workers stranded in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Bengaluru and Punjab.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-buses-to-ferry-migrants-to-relief-centres/article31611557.ece
18 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID effect: SSC board officials start from scratch||After announcing the much-awaited schedule of the SSC public examinations, Education Department officials now face the task of making arrangements for smooth and more importantly ‘safe’ conduct of the exams. On Saturday, officials of the public examination wing received a message from the higher-ups to explore the possibility of allowing students to take the exams from wherever they are, in the wake of the lockdown. Transport facility A large number of students, especially the ones from the social welfare residential schools and other students from private schools who live in hostels, have gone home. “There are many things directly linked to the successful conduct of the exams. For instance, transport facility. Students will be able to reach their respective hostels and then the exam centres only if public transport is restored by then,” says an official. The scale of the arrangements in adherence to social distancing protocol is a big challenge, but the department is counting on its 1.9-lakh employee strength. The outbreak of COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdown has forced the authorities to take a fresh look at the arrangements made already once in the past. The exam centres were identified and hall tickets were issued, 90 % of which were downloaded, but the rapid spread of the virus upset their plans. The issue is being seen with a new lens. The 2,882 exam centres identified in the past may multiply to 4,500 for the 6,3,000 regular students from government schools taking the test across 13 districts of the State. Besides, there are about 8,000 students from private schools, taking the total number of students to 6, 39,000. The 260 exam centres identified in Krishna district earlier may now be increased to around 400 centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-effect-ssc-board-officials-start-from-scratch/article31611104.ece
18 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. treated doctor with vengeance, alleges Naidu||The TDP came down on the State government for the alleged stripping and beating of Dr. Sudhakar, who is placed under suspension allegedly for pointing out that the government was not supplying N95 masks to doctors, by the Visakhapatnam police. In a series of tweets on Sunday, the TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu said the Dalit doctor who had asked for an N-95 mask was not a thief and the YSRCP government should explain why the doctor was being threatened. All the harassment had led to this present condition . Dr. Sudhakar could have been taken into custody without using lathi and tying his hands with a rope. Treating him like an animal was nothing but vengeance. “A Dalit doctor being meted out this treatment is a blot on civil society. This is barbaric to say the least. I strongly condemn this extreme act by @ysjagan Govt that has blurred the line between man and animal #JusticeForDrSudhakar,”he tweeted. In a separate statement, TDP leaderYanamala Ramakrishnudu accused the government of converting A.P. into a “jungle rule” . Mr. Ramakrishnudu said that Dr. Sudhakar had been delivering his valuable services to the people for many decades but now the ruling party had dragged him to the streets. Former MLA Sravan Kumar was blocked from visiting the Ambedkar memorial in an arbitrary manner, he alleged. Mr. Sravan Kumar, in another statement, said that the Chief Minister should own up responsibility for the ‘attack’ on Dr. Sudhakar and his health condition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-treated-doctor-with-vengeance-allege-naidu/article31611062.ece
18 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||West Bengal worker killed, another hurt in road mishap||A migrant worker, Sk. Minarul (23), died and another suffered injuries in a road accident near the veterinary college on the outskirts of the city in the early hours of Sunday. The mishap occurred when a private travels bus carrying migrant workers from Chennai to West Bengal hit a stationary lorry at Gannavaram around 4.30 a.m. The injured were rushed to a hospital, said Gannavaram CI K. Srinivas. The deceased, a native of Ramnagar in West Bengal, was working in Tamil Nadu.  Tension at Patamata  Tension mounted in Patamata area when migrant workers staged a protest seeking action against the local people who reportedly attacked them. A worker from Kolkata suffered head injury in the attack. According to sources, about 1,000 workers from West Bengal were working in handloom units, embroidery, painting and design works were staying in Patamata Lanka, NTR Circle, mee-Seva Centre, Ram Mandir and other areas. They became jobless due to the lockdown and were planning to go home. On Saturday, officials promised to send them back to their native places by arranging a Shramik Special train, but it did not happen. On Sunday, when a group of workers were discussing about transportation, a few local residents reportedly attacked them in which a couple of migrants suffered minor injuries. Angered over this, the workers staged a protest on M.G. Road. CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu extended support to the workers and demanded that the government provide transportation to the workers immediately. Central Zone ACP P. Nagaraja Reddy pacified the workers. “Nobody had attacked the workers , but one person suffered an injury accidentally. His condition was said to be stable, he said, adding that a police picket was arranged and the situation was under control. Transportation would be arranged after discussing the matter with the officials, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/migrant-worker-killed-another-hurt-in-road-mishap/article31611075.ece
18 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Many wells in ONGC KG Basin lack fire NOC’||After the gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam, in which 12 persons were killed and about 400 hospitalised on May 7, a review done by the Fire Services Department has revealed that a majority of the wells under the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) Krishna-Godavari Basin, reportedly do not have No Objection Certificates (NOCs). According to the ONGC personnel, the company is operating 223 wells in East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna districts. Of them, 70 were closed and the rest were under operation. The company is operating refineries and oil and gas pipelines in an additional stretch of 136 kilometres in East Godavari district. Another private firm which was involved in pumping operations is having pipelines that stretch over 63 km. Speaking to The Hindu , AP State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department Director K. Jayaram Naik said all the companies, including PSUs, should obtain NOCs and follow the safety norms to prevent mishaps in offshore and onshore wells. “We appeal to the managements to follow the safety precautions . Mock drills and awareness programmes should be conducted for the locals to prevent human, animal and property losses during any mishaps,” the Director said.  Konaseema under threat  Regional Fire Officer (RFO-Eastern Region) G. Srinivasulu said of the total, 176 wells were located in the Konaseema region. Instructions have been given to focus on maintenance of the wells, particularly the closed wells, and the pipelines to prevent leakages. “The ONGC and the other government and private companies should obtain NOC under the AP Fire Services Act, 1999, and under the Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board Act,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. “After the Pasarlapudi, Bodasakurru, Nagaram, Devara Lanka and other blowout and gas leak incidents in the last few years, precautionary measures were insufficient and a few people died in these mishaps,” said a fire official. “Recently, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy visited a village in Mummidivaram mandal to launch a programme. A closed well, which has no NOC, was located close to the venue. Keeping in view the recent Uppidi gas leak, we kept fire-fighting equipment and men ready ,” the officer said. An ONGC officer said instructions had been given to get the NOC for all wells as per norms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/many-wells-in-ongc-kg-basin-lack-fire-noc/article31611563.ece
18 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to introduce IoT technology in MSMEs||The Energy Department is moving towards introducing novel low-cost Internet of Things (IoT)-enabled power factor control devices in MSMEs in the State after they get back on to their feet post-lockdown. The devices will improve the performance of the MSMEs by bringing in energy efficiency. The A.P State Energy Conservation Mission has recently entered into an MoU with the National Productivity Council (NPC) for enabling the MSMEs to adapt IoT technology, according to a press release from SECM.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-to-introduce-iot-technology-in-msmes/article31611091.ece
18 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foreign returnees arrive in Vijayawada||Under the Vande Bharat Mission, the first batch of the foreign returnees belonging to the State arrived in the city on Sunday. Thirty four persons coming from Chicago by a special flight landed at the Hyderabad airport and were accompanied to the city by State officials. Collector A. Md. Imtiaz, Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha, Vijayawada Sub-Collector H.M. Dhyan Chandra welcomed the returnees at Berm Park where paid quarantine facilities were arranged for them. Of the total returnees, seven are from Krishna and the rest belong to other districts. They were sent to paid quarantine facilities after screening them for COVID symptoms. They will be allowed to leave for their destinations once they test negative for the virus and after they complete the 14-day quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/foreign-returnees-arrive-in-vijayawada/article31611095.ece
18 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Tourism, hospitality sectors given a raw deal’||The tourism and hospitality sectors have been given a raw deal in the Central stimulus package , alleged Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chambers of commerce and Industry (FAPCCI) president C.V. Atchut Rao on Sunday. “The tourism and hospitality sectors are disappointed towards the attitude of the Centre. The sectors, considered to be major contributor to economic growth and job creation, are the worst hit by the COVID-19 which is ensuring closure of businesses and mass unemployment,” a statement quoted Mr. Atchut Rao saying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tourism-hospitality-sectors-given-a-raw-deal/article31611556.ece
18 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan puts onus on State, Centre||Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan has said that the State government must take care of the migrant workers who are forced to take long walk to their native places. “The the issue would be resolved only if the State government acted in coordination with the Centre. The people’s representatives should also contribute their mite . Arrangements should be made for food, shelter and medical facility urgently,” he said .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pawan-puts-onus-on-state-centre/article31611558.ece
18 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bail out hapless workers, Kanna urges Jagan||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to give his personal attention to the travails of the migrant workers, saying that it is a responsibility to mitigate their suffering. In a letter to the Chief Minister on Sunday, Mr. Lakshminarayana said that the beleaguered workers were being fleeced while the district administrations were collecting funds from private people instead of utilising the resources provided by the government. He alleged that the State government had not been proactive in bailing out the migrant workers, despite of huge financial assistance from the Centre. HC directive “Even the High Court has taken notice of the plights of the migrant workers and ordered that certain measures must be taken to give them the much-needed relief. It has directed that the Collectors and SPs should appoint nodal officers for monitoring the operations,” said the BJP leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bail-out-hapless-workers-kanna-urges-jagan/article31611551.ece
18 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGOs reach out to migrant workers||Post lockdown 3.0, the desperation among migrants to return home has increased and many are finding different means to reach home. While some are boarding trucks and vans, many others are seen walking back or cycling, covering hundreds of kilometres. Migrants from States such as Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand or Odisha can be seen walking or cycling on the NH, pasing through the city, carrying their belongings. Women are seen walking with children in their arms and baggage on their head. Pritam Singh from Arrah district in Bihar has been walking for over 10 days from Chennai along with his wife and four-year-old daughter and he expects to reach Arrah in the next 10 days. In such distressing scenario, a few NGOs, social activists and general public are coming in aid of the migrants. We have decided to organise refreshments kiosks at different locations, across the NH from NAD Kotha Road to Anandapuram to provide them some food, water and refreshments, says V.S. Krishna of Human Rights Forum (HRF). Supporting Mr. Krishna's initiative logistically, Association for Urban and Tribal Development (AUTD) have organised two stalls. “We are providing some curd rice, buttermilk and water. Just basic refreshments to keep them healthy and going,” says Pragada Vasu of AUTD. Ranga Rao, former Head of the Department Social Work, Andhra University, also shares a similar concern. “I shall do what little bit I can do, to give some solace to the migrants and make them feel that we are with them,” he says. Ramana Murthy of Leader People Service, has set-up a stall near NAD Kotha Road to distribute chappals for free. “It is difficult to walk bear foot during this peak summer,” says he.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ngos-reach-out-to-migrant-workers/article31611565.ece
18 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crooning the ‘war anthem’ against corona||At a time when the entire globe has declared a war against the coronavirus, a constable attached with the city police set the tone for the fight through a song in which he croons about spreading awareness to check the pandemic. Titled “Idi Oka Yuddham” (this is a war), penned and composed by K.T.V. Ramesh, a constable of IV Town police station, has struck a chord as the song is receiving rave reviews on various social media platforms. The song that has been made into a video also depicts the contributions being made by the police, doctors and sanitation staff to the war against the pandemic. Striking a chord Since its release on the YouTube on April 30 by Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang, Mr. Ramesh says the song is now being streamed in more than 80 channels. It has received more than 250K views. The song garnered 80K views through a social media app in the first two days of its release, he says. ‘A tribute to all frontline warriors’ “I developed a penchant for singing during my graduation days. I would write the lyrics during my free time. After the COVID-19 outbreak, I saw many areas in our police station limits falling under the buffer zone. My higher officials and colleagues have been working round the clock. I thought I should come up with a song to create awareness. I wrote the lyrics and composed a tune. This is also a tribute to all frontline warriors,” says Mr. Ramesh. Then he submitted an application to Police Commissioner R.K. Meena. With the help of ACP (East) Kulasekhar and ADCP (Special Branch) Srinivas, the application reached Mr. Meena who approved recording of the song. Mr. Ramesh was guided by Y. Santosh of Media Fx Networks, who directed, edited and composed the graphics for the video and R. Narayana Rao of Snapshots Studio handled the camera. The song was choreographed by an Armed Reserve constable, S. Hemanth Kumar, says Mr. Ramesh. According to Mr Santosh, the videos were shot in three days at Akkayyapalem, Poorna Market, Maharanipeta and other areas. “We are really happy that the DGP had approved the song and liked it. Many people are sharing the song and our higher officials are appreciating our efforts. It is my small contribution to the fight against the pandemic,” adds Mr. Ramesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/crooning-the-war-anthem-against-corona/article31611560.ece
18 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyclone Amphan intensifies into severe cyclonic storm||The cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ (pronounced as Um-pun) over southeast Bay of Bengal intensified into a severe cyclonic storm, and lay centred about 990 km south of Paradip (Odisha), 1,140 km south-southwest of Digha (West Bengal) and 1,260 km south-southwest of Khepupara (Bangladesh) on Sunday morning. It is likely to intensify further into a very severe cyclonic storm and move fast across northwest Bay of Bengal and cross West Bengal - Bangladesh coasts between Sagar Islands (West Bengal) and Hatiya Islands (Bangladesh) during the afternoon / evening of May 20 as a very severe cyclonic storm. Under the influence of the above system, rain or thundershowers is very likely to occur at a few places over coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam during the next 24 hours. Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at one or two places over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam during the same time, according to V.V. Bhaskar, Director, Cyclone Warning Centre, Visakhapatnam. Strong surface winds, with speed reaching 40-50 km/hr likely of Andhra Pradesh coast during the next 24 hours, ending at 6 p.m., on Monday. The sea condition would be rough and fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea. The Southwest monsoon has advanced into some parts of south Bay of Bengal, Nicobar Islands and Andaman Sea. Conditions are favourable for further advance of the Southwest monsoon during the next 48 hours.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cyclone-amphan-intensifies-into-severe-cyclonic-storm/article31611571.ece
18 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||We acted on complaint received on Dial 100: CP||Brushing aside the allegation that the suspended doctor K. Sudhakar Rao, was targeted by the police , Police Commissioner R.K. Meena said that the police only acted on the complaints received through ‘Dial 100’ helpline . “On May 16, at around 3.45 p.m., we received the call. Traffic police were rushed to the spot,” he said. To substantiate his statement, he showed the videos recorded at the time of the incident, in which the doctor was seen using derogatory words . “When policemen were trying to stop him, he used filthy language. Being drunk, he removed his shirt, threw food items on the road . He broke the cellphone of a constable. We had to physically hold him ,” Mr. Meena said. “The doctor was shifted to the KGH, where his blood samples were takenand sent to forensic lab. A case under Section 353 of IPC has been booked,” he said. Based on video evidence, a constable was placed under suspension for using force while taking him into custody, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/we-acted-on-complaint-received-on-dial-100-cp/article31611561.ece
18 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 new cases reported in Vizag district||Three new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Visakhapatnam district, as per the State Health Bulletin released on Sunday. Seven patients, who were being treated at GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences & Research, have been discharged on Saturday evening after their tests reported negative. With this, the total number of cases reported in the district will be 75 as on date. The total number of active cases is 41, the number of persons discharged is 33. It may be recalled that the district also reported one death from Chengalraopeta area. Among the three cases, it was learnt that one case with travel history to Hyderabad was reported from Narsipatnam and one from Bowdar Road. A medico from KGH who was on COVID-19 duty also tested positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/3-new-cases-reported-in-vizag-district/article31611572.ece
18 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Essentials distributed||Stranded labourers were given bread, water bottles, biscuits and packed glucose water, by the youth wing of Ukkunagaram Sri Sathya Sai Seva Samithi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/essentials-distributed/article31611569.ece
18 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||59 cases booked||A total of 59 cases have been booked on shops not adhering to the rules on pricing and weights in inspections conducted on 182 shops by special teams on Sunday in the district, according to District Collector V. Vinay Chand. A total of 6,961 shops in the district were inspected by various departments, so far, and 1,985 cases were booked on them. Consumers having complaints on traders charging more than the MRP or deficiency in weight can call on the toll free No. 1902 or on 1800 4250 002.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/59-cases-booked/article31611570.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition parties condemn lathicharge on migrant workers||The Opposition parties condemned the lathicharge on the migrant workers from West Bengal who were staging a protest seeking arrangements for their transportation to reach their native places, in Vijayawada on Sunday. The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and Left parties in separate statements condemned the caning of the migrant workers. Terming the lathicharge as an “abominable act”, TDP national president N. Chadrababu Naidu said at a time when the migrant workers were facing hardships due to the lockdown and lack of jobs, the government, instead of helping them, was attacking them. “The YSRCP government has no concern for the people walking down to their native places. As per the directions by Central government and Supreme Court, the State government should provide food and transportation facilities to the migrant workers,” he said. The CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu, his CPI counterpart K. Ramakrishna, Y. Venkateswara Rao of CPI(ML), Y. Sambasiva Rao of CPI(ML) New Democracy, Jasti Kishore Babu of CPI(ML),K. Nagabhushana Rao of MCPI(U), B. Bangarao of CPI(ML) Liberation), B.S.R. Amarnath of SUCI(C), P.V. Sundararama Raju (Forward Bloc), Janaki Ramulu (Revolutionary Socialist Party) also condemned the lathicharge. ‘Promise not kept’ In a statement, they also condemned the arrest of the Left party leaders who extended their support to the agitating migrant workers. “The government has reneged on its promise that the migrant workers would be sent back to their native places. The police injured many workers by entering into their rooms. The YSRCP activists also attacked the workers in the presence of the police,” they said. They demanded that the arrested Left party leaders be released immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/opposition-parties-condemn-lathicharge-on-migrant-workers/article31611555.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sticking to norms||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sticking-to-norms/article31611575.ece
18 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Woman dies unable to bear death of son||: In a tragic incident, Rajeshwari of Madavelli village in Kannepalli mandal of Mancherial district died on Sunday unable to come to grips with the incident of her son’s death. Her son, 15-year-old Radandi Sampath and one of his friends Kunche Ramcharan had drowned in a local stream the previous day. According to police, the mother had wept inconsolably since the news of her son's death reached her. She fainted on Sunday morning and was being shifted to Area hospital Bellampally when the end came for her.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/woman-dies-unable-to-bear-death-of-son/article31611387.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Youm-ul-Quran’ on Jumatul Vida to be streamed on social media||For the first time in many years, given the lockdown on account of coronavirus pandemic, the annual Youm-ul-Quran public meeting will not be organised on the sprawling courtyard of Mecca Masjid. The Youm-ul-Quran public meeting is conducted on each Friday of Ramzan, with the last Friday of the holy month – known as Jumatul Vida – witnessing large crowds converging to see All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi speak on issues, including those religious, social and political in nature. This year, Jumatul Vida corresponds to May 22. A large number of the several thousands of Friday prayer congregants, who usually spill on to the streets, stay back for the public meeting. According to AIMIM general secretary and Yakutpura legislator Syed Ahmed Pasha Qadri, the Youm-ul-Quran public meeting began in 1960 by Abdul Wahed Owaisi, Hyderabad Parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi’s grandfather. “This is the first time that there has been a break in continuity. The series of Youm-ul-Quran was initiated by Abdul Wahed Owaisi sahab. People from all over came to listen to him. After his passing, Sultan Salahuddin Owaisi sahab took over and continued the tradition. The Youm-ul-Quran on the first and fourth Friday would be in the Mecca Masjid. On the second Friday, in Chowk ki Masjid and the third in Masjid Mirdhe Munawaar, Patel Market,” Mr Quadri said. The AIMIM did not want to break the tradition, the legislator added, which is why Youm-ul-Quran address this year will be in cyberspace and speeches will be streamed on social media, including Facebook and Twitter. For instance, the May 1 Youm-ul-Quran stream which was addressed by Mr Quadri clocked over 82,000 views on the AIMIM Facebook page. Other entities such as the Majlis Bachao Tahreek, a breakaway party of the AIMIM, formed by former legislator Aman Ullah Khan, too till last year organised its own Youm-ul-Quran. Given the lockdown, the MBT too does not want to break tradition and will make address the public meeting on social media. “We started our Youm-ul-Quran in 1993 after the MBT was formed. We are taking to social media platforms – Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Our president Majeed Ullah Khan Farhat will be speaking,” Mr Khan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/youm-ul-quran-on-jumatul-vida-to-be-streamed-on-social-media/article31611383.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All services to resume at govt. hospitals||All forms of medical services, including elective surgeries, will resume in government hospitals under the purview of Director of Medical Education (DME). Orders to stop elective surgeries were issued on March 17 in view of preparedness for COVID-19. However, Gandhi Hospital and Government Chest Hospital will continue to function as ‘nodal COVID-19 centres’. A part of Sarojini Devi Eye Hospital will also continue as isolation centre. In fresh orders issued on Saturday, DME K. Ramesh Reddy directed all superintendents of teaching and speciality hospitals to restore all services immediately. He has advised usage of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), N95 masks and other measures for safety of the hospital personnel. To avoid overcrowding, social distancing will have to be maintained in wards and out-patient (OP) sections. This is a crucial measure as OP sections and hospital wards tend to be overcrowded and superintendents struggle to limit number of attendants for patients admitted to in-patient wards. Though OP services were offered at some of the hospitals during lockdown, registrations were low due to restrictions on movement on roads. Heads of hospitals were directed to operate separate Fever Clinics to avoid mingling of patients suffering from fever with other OP patients. “If any patient in OP section or someone brought to the hospital has symptoms of COVID-19, they should be kept in isolation ward, take all precautions and follow the protocols prescribed by Indian Council of Medical Research,” Dr Reddy stated in a circular. It may be noted that Telangana High Court had, on May 15, directed the government to appoint nodal officers in all red zones or hot spots — localities witnessing a high number of COVID-19 cases — so that people living there can rely on them to access non-COVID health services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/all-services-to-resume-at-govt-hospitals/article31611364.ece
18 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress leaders allege police harassment||Former PCC President V. Hanmantha Rao along with senior leaders sat on a day long deeksha at the Gandhi Bhavan alleging harassment by Telangana police for trying to help migrant workers. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and Sangareddy MLA T. Jagga Reddy among others offered lime juice to Mr. Hanmantha Rao in the evening to break the fast. Speaking to media persons on the occasion, Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy said that the pain and sufferings of migrant workers are so extreme and intense that they could be compared with the difficulties faced by people who were forced to migrate during partition of India in 1947. He said people have turned refugees in their own country and they were being disowned and left in the lurch by the BJP and TRS governments. The unplanned lockdown by Prime Minister Narender Modi has created a human crisis in the country while the Telangana government too is negligent in worsening the situation, he said. He pointed out that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi personally interacted with migrant workers on Delhi roads on Sunday to send a message to entire party cadre that they should help the migrant workers in whatever form they could during this time of crisis. Following the directions of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, party leaders and workers across the Telangana State have been trying to help the migrant workers in every possible manner. However, he said it was strange that cases under serious offences have been booked against Congress leaders. Mr. Reddy wanted to know why the police was so harsh against Mr. Hanmanth Rao and other Congress leaders involved in helping the people in distress providing food, shelter and transportation. He said Mr. Hanumantha Rao was arrested when he tried to visit Kagazhnagar and Sircilla to help the migrant workers by arranging transport for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-leaders-allege-police-harassment/article31611407.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Data on testing in State released after 18-day gap||After a gap of 18 days, the Health Minister’s office on Sunday finally shared the data on the total tests conducted in the State to detect COVID-19 — the number stands at 22,842 tests, till May 14. Unlike in other States, this crucial piece of information is not shared regularly by Telangana government, prompting common people, the medical fraternity and other sections of society to raise questions about transparency. Prior to this, it was last shared by Health Minister Eatala Rajender during a press conference on April 28. At that time, he had shared that 19,063 tests were conducted in the State. The information, which used to be shared on the State Health and Family Welfare department website, started to be excluded from May 1 until when 19,278 samples had been tested. That means only 3,564 samples have been tested from May 2 to 14. According to the latest data till May 14, of the total 22,842 samples, 1,388 or 6.1% were found positive. The Minister’s office stated that accuracy of tests is on par with that of the US and UK. The data also mentioned that out of the 2,30,857 samples tested in Maharashtra, 25,922 had tested positive, which is 11.2%. In Gujarat, of the 1,22,297 samples tested, 9,628 or 7.6% came out positive. Need for more tests The argument and counter arguments about the number of tests conducted in the State have prevailed over the past week. While common people as well as doctors have demanded that more tests be conducted to detect cases and understand the actual extent of coronavirus, Mr Rajender said on multiple occasions that they are following Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines to conduct tests. Highly placed sources said that scientifically designed guidelines help detect more positives. “The important criteria is to test the target group and how many test positive, which we have been doing. Our rate of accuracy is good. More tests can be conducted. But what purpose will it serve if tests are not focused and less positives are detected,” sources asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/data-on-testing-in-state-released-after-18-day-gap/article31611367.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Social distancing is the new order at corporate hospital OP sections||The government may have relaxed lockdown guidelines in the first week of May, but out-patient department (OPD) services in corporate hospitals have enforced rigorous physical distancing norms. They are also geared up to face the twin challenge of seasonal diseases along with COVID-19 cases in the next two months. A visit to a few corporate hospitals shows patients are greeted with a totally transformed ambience with unprecedented screening, segregation and physical distancing maintained in every sphere of hospital services. Patients with fever, cough and cold are diverted at the entrance (triage) itself from general areas to pulmonology and general medicine OPs. A reassurance Patients and attendants seem reassured to enter into the highly sanitised environment with mandatory masks, hand sanitisers, thermo scanners being the first ring of protection to allow anyone to enter the hospital for OPD services. There used to be a fear among people that hospitals are hotspots for catching COVID infection in the early days of lockdown. With no public transport, many preferred OP services through tele-medicine extended by corporate hospitals. Only chronic patients and those with urgent health issues were going to hospital OPDs, said Pavan Gorukanti, director of Yashoda Hospitals. A new set of norms, Standard Operating Procedures, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) for every one — patients, attendants and hospital staff — are in place to keep transmission of infection at bay. The number of OP patients is now touching 600 per day as against the normal of 1,400-plus per day before lockdown, he said. “We redesigned and re-arranged not only the OPDs but also in-patient and emergency wards as well as ICUs. More so in dialysis and oncology/chemotherapy and other day care services for vulnerable patients where patients also have to wear face shields along with doctors and nurses in special PPE. All this is done in line with norms stipulated by the World Health Organisation and District Medical and Health Office,” said G. Vijay Kumar, unit head, Yashoda Hospitals, Secunderabad. Separate isolation floor The hospital has a separate isolation floor with a dedicated lift for patients with COVID symptoms. When their samples test positive, the patients are sent to Gandhi Hospital, said clinical director Venkata Ramana Kola. General out patients too are separated and sent straight to the respective OPD with a separate lift to minimise exposure to others. Care Hospitals group launched ‘Operation Suraksha’ and got consultants and staff on board before announcement of lockdown and follows stringent protocols, PPE, procedures for safety of patients and staff, said A.K. Das, group chief, Medical Services. Those with fever, cold and cough screened at the entrance of out-patient block itself are sent directly to Fever Room as suspected cases of COVID and a consultant tests them there itself. If hospitalisation is warranted, they are sent to the main hospital from out-patient block itself. For other patients, physical distancing is enforced in waiting rooms with glass barriers in consultation rooms, diagnostic area and billing counters. In the hospital, an hourly alert comes through public announcement system to use hand wash and every one complies. The OPD is now clocking 250 to 300 patients per day while it was 600 to 800 per day before lockdown. Only one attendant per patient is allowed, said hospital COO Riaz. Apollo Group Hospitals has stepped up protocols and every entrant, be it a patient or staff, is screened for COVID symptoms and suspected cases are sent to fever clinic. If hospitalisation is required, they are admitted in separate block outside the main hospital in Jubilee Hills. If samples test positive, they continue treatment in the COVID block with government permission. More outpatients With word of mouth publicity about visibly safe environment in OPDs, the number of outpatients has increased manifold in the past 10 days. Human touch will never go out of medicine, opines group president Hari Prasad. The protocols for protection against COVID are updated every week. Vulnerable patients and the elderly with co-morbidities, who are susceptible to infections, are counselled more now to follow precautions even at home. In due course, COVID-19 will become another infectious disease to be notified like dengue or TB, Dr Hari Prasad added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/social-distancing-is-the-new-order-at-corporate-hospital-op-sections/article31611371.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Conditional enhancement of FRBM limit has little to offer||The much sought after increase in the borrowing limits of States announced by the Centre is apparently of no big help to the State. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Central government had conceded the States’ request to enhance the limit under the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act from 3 to 5%. The hike in borrowing limit under the FRBM Act follows a series of requests made by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to the Centre. The enhancement is, however, conditional in that it is linked to four reform areas including universalisation of one nation: one ration card, ease of doing business, power distribution dealing mainly with privatisation and achieving increase in the revenues of the urban local bodies. According to the Union Finance Minister, 1% of four tranches of 0.25% each with each tranche linked to clearly specified, measurable and feasible reform actions and a further, 0.5% hike if milestones are achieved in at least three out of the four reform areas. Telangana is ranked at the top in terms of Ease of Doing Business parameters, meeting the condition set by the Centre for availing of 0.25% hike in the borrowing limit. The announcement that there will be unconditional increase of 0.5% in the FRBM limit from 3 to 3.5% would also be of little use to the State as it had been availing the benefit for few years now. However, reforms like privatisation of power distribution for instance are unlikely as Telangana is the only State in the country supplying 24x7 free power to farmers. “There is no thinking on the lines of privatising distribution as doubts persist over the efficient implementation of free power in the event of handing over the scheme to private players,” a senior official told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/conditional-enhancement-of-frbm-limit-has-little-to-offer/article31611400.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR ferries over 1 lakh migrant labourers||The South Central Railway (SCR) has announced on Sunday that it had operated 93 Shramik Special trains carrying about 1,18,229 migrant labour to their to their hometowns up north. These trains were operated only after concurrence was given by both States i.e., the State sending the passengers and the State receiving them, informed senior officials. In fact, the zone has been the first to run such special train between Lingampalli and Hatia on May Day. Since then, it has run 54 trains from Telangana carrying 69,299 passengers; 28 trains from Andhra Pradesh carrying 34,489 passengers and 11 trains from Maharashtra falling in its jurisdiction carrying 14,441 passengers. However, contrary to the earlier claims, the railways has tossed the social distancing mode aside by allowing middle berths to be filled in these trains as well as the other Rajdhani specials being run even while officials claimed that thermal screening of passengers is being done before they get in. Officials also said that the coaches were sanitised thoroughly. While 21 trains originated from Lingampally, 12 began their journey from Ghatkesar, eight from Bibinagar, six from Nagulapally, four from Bollarum, two from Cherlapally and one from Medchal. From Andhra Pradesh, the trains were - seven from Rayanapadu, five from Kurnool, four each from Chittoor and Nambooru, two each from Kovvur and Nellore, one each from Nidadavolu, Mangalagiri, Ongole and Kadapa. From Maharashtra, eight trains were run from Aurangabad, two from Jalna and one from Nanded. Senior officials explained that most number of trains, about 28, have been run towards Bihar followed by 22 towards Uttar Pradesh, 11 towards Jharkhand, 10 to Madhya Pradesh, seven each to Rajasthan and Odisha, three to Maharashtra, two for Chattisgarh and one each to West Bengal, Uttarakhand and even as far as Manipur. The train towards Manipur in a way is the longest distance travelled during this period of about 2,871 km and next comes the train from Chittoor to Sahasra in Bihar for a distance of 2,589 km. Railways has been providing food and drinking water during the journey, said General Manager Gajanan Mallya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/scr-ferries-over-1-lakh-migrant-labourers/article31611402.ece
18 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lockdown extension pushes hospitality to brink of collapse||When Fauzan Khan and his aides responded to a call for help with food, they were in for a surprise. “The young men who turned up near a restaurant in Aramghar area were workers of the hotel. The owner had stopped paying them wages and they ran out of rations. They didn’t want to work any more but had nowhere to go,” says Mr. Khan, a businessman distributing food during lockdown. In Nallakunta, five men were lounging about near an ATM, when asked what they were doing at 11 p.m. One of them responded: “We used to work in Raghavendra Tiffins. We have been asked to go. We are deciding how to make the journey home.” The hospitality industry, which is one of the biggest employers in the service sector, has taken a body blow following the COVID-19 lockdown. As the lockdown moves into the third month (it started on March 25), the hospitality industry stares at a bleak future with no clear roadmap to reopening of restaurants. “We have zero business. Third party deliveries also have stopped. This industry employs about 4-5 lakh people in Hyderabad. It will be impacted in a big way,” says Bosco Malapatti of Ofen Bakery in Banjara Hills. “What after the lockdown is lifted? Will people come to restaurants to have food? How many will sit at a table? Nothing is certain any more,” he says. “Initially, they said it will be for a month. But after they extended the lockdown, I told my staff that they will have the job. I will pay for their rent and rations but cannot pay salaries. Once we are allowed to operate, I will think about the salary structure,” said the owner of another upscale café in Banjara Hills. A vast chunk of migrant workforce keeps the hospitality industry functioning. A majority of this workforce from Odisha, Bihar and West Bengal has left the city after easing down of lockdown norms. It is not just the exit of the workforce that is worrying the hospitality industry. The norm of social distancing will lead to reduction in pax (the number of people who can sit at a time). “A reduction in number of tables would mean decline in the money we make. It will make many restaurants unprofitable. I will have to rethink the seating and price as well. Many of us have taken loans to run these places,” said a restaurant owner unwilling to be named. “The rent, electricity charges and taxes have to be paid by us. Forget profits, if we survive that will be good enough,” said the restaurant owner, who moved to a new place six months ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/lockdown-extension-pushes-hospitality-to-brink-of-collapse/article31611376.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID patients to be admitted to TIMS||The government is mulling admitting COVID-19 patients to the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (TIMS), Gachibowli. As of now, all patients detected with the novel coronavirus are admitted to Gandhi Hospital. Sources said a few of the patients might be admitted at TIMS to further perfect the system there. “All resources are in place at TIMS. Doctors, nurses and para-medical staff as well as equipment such as oxygen lines are available. If any issues are detected after admitting the patients, we will fix it,” added a source. The date from which patients will be admitted is yet to be decided. It is learnt that senior officials from the State Health department including Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy along with Osmania General Hospital Superintendent B. Nagender, who is also the nodal officer for TIMS, visited the institute on Saturday to inspect the facilities. Issues about the lack of a sewage treatment plant (STP) at TIMS were raised by students from University of Hyderabad, which adjoins the institute. “The STP is being constructed. Like in other hospitals, a third party will be given the task of handling the biomedical waste,” sources said. Doctors from Gandhi Hospital have been discussing putting forward a request to resume all medical services at the hospital too as junior doctors are missing out on academics. The load on the hospital might come down as the State government has adopted ‘Revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild and pre-symptomatic COVID-19 cases’. According to those norms, very mild or pre-symptomatic patients who have requisite facility at their residence for self-isolation will have the option to do so.  A sewage treatment plant is being constructed. Like in other hospitals, a third party will be given the task of handling the biomedical waste. A source||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/covid-patients-to-be-admitted-to-tims/article31611368.ece
18 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man attempts to end life near Pragathi Bhavan||A 42-year-old businessman from Malakpet threatened to commit suicide near Pragathi Bhavan, the official residence of Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao on Sunday afternoon. The victim, Mohammed Nazeeruddin, owner of a footwear shop, doused himself with petrol. However, security personnel at the camp office overpowered him and snatched the petrol bottle from him. Punjagutta police said that the victim parked his bike near Yes Bank at Somajiguda with a one-and-half litre petrol in a bottle. He walked towards the camp office and doused himself with petrol. “On seeing him, police party who was on duty prevented him from resorting to the extreme step and brought him to the police station,” said inspector M.Niranjan Reddy said. Nazeeruddin told police said that for the past two months he was not earning money due to lockdown and was facing financial problems, and as a result he was unable to feed his family. “He also incurred losses in his business and has debt of Rs. 20 lakh to a private chit fund company,” police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-attempts-to-end-life-near-pragathi-bhavan/article31611379.ece
18 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Vinod opposes conditions||The State Planning Board vice chairman, B. Vinod Kumar has welcomed the Central government’s announcement to increase the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) limit to 5% of the GSDP but opposed the conditions attached to it. In response to the Union Minister, Seetharaman’s announcements of the 20 lakh package of the Central government, he said the FRBM enhancement is linked to Universalisation of “One Nation One Ration Card”, Ease of Doing Business, Power Distribution Reforms and Urban Local Body Reforms and this is not proper to link the borrowing limits to these aspects when States are reeling under the COVID crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/vinod-opposes-conditions/article31611408.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Farm sector growth stopped distress migration’||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has stated that the proactive measures taken by the State government for development of agriculture sector over the last six years have made people look towards villages again and stopped distress migration of rural masses to urban areas. From the position of struggling for main inputs such as seed and fertilizer before every agriculture season, farmers in the State are now assured of timely availability of the inputs. Besides, 24×7 free power supply to farming, increasing irrigation facilities and investment support in the form of Rythu Bandhu have all made farming assured. In statement, the Minister said on Sunday that the government has also ensured proper marketing of the agricultural produce, mostly under price support procurement of not only paddy but other crops too. The storage facility which was mere 4 lakh tonnes at the time of State formation had gone up to 24 lakh tonnes now and the government is planning to add another 40 lakh tonnes capacity over the next few years, he said. He said Telangana is the only State to have an agricultural extension officer for every 5,000 acres of cultivable land.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/farm-sector-growth-stopped-distress-migration/article31611414.ece
18 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||US national found dead near Gandipet||A US national was found dead on the hillocks near Gandipet lake on Sunday. Narsingi police of Cyberabad suspect that the victim, 42-year-old Paul Robert Little John, may have accidentally slipped from the hillocks while cycling, and suffered injuries which resulted in his death. Speaking to The Hindu Cyberabad Police Commissioner VC Sajjanar said that the incident came to light around 5.30 p.m. when Paul Robert’s wife Eerica Angelina, vice-president of State Street Corporation, an American financial services and bank holding company, informed police that her husband did not return home after his cycling routine. “We tracked his mobile from tower location and found his body,” Mr. Sajjanar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/us-national-found-dead-near-gandipet/article31611397.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC put onus of LIC payments on employees||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) has put the onus of paying insurance premiums on its employees and has cautioned that policies could lapse if remittances are not made. “All the other deductions/recoveries like the LIC etc., which are to be deducted with the salary bill of March 2020, shall be the responsibility of the individual employees for their remittance as there is a scope for lapse of LIC and similar policies,” an excerpt from the circular read. According to Telangana Mazdoor Union office-bearer E. Ashok, the circular is applicable to all employees. However, there is confusion with regards to how these payments will be made. “First of all we are getting half the gross salary. Secondly, we will now have to go and make these payments or make them online. We are wondering if there would be some moratorium on these payments, like those given on EMIs,” he said.  Inter-State trips Meanwhile, the TSRTC has so far made over 2,000 trips to transport migrant workers to railways stations. According to a senior TSRTC official, up to 400 trips were clocked every day to transport them. The transport juggernaut also made inter-State trips to transport stranded persons. While one bus went to Madhya Pradesh, the other travelled to Goa.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsrtc-put-onus-of-lic-payments-on-employees/article31611398.ece
18 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ninth ‘Vande Bharat’ flight arrives in RGIA||Another ‘Vande Bharat’ flight — one from Chicago in United States with 168 passengers, landed at the Hyderabad International Airport early on Sunday morning at 4.45 a.m. It is the ninth such flight coming here and the passengers were serviced through the fully sanitised main passenger terminal. Few hours later, another Air India flight carried 68 passengers from Hyderabad to New Delhi from where they are supposed to be airlifted to various foreign destinations of the US and United Kingdom.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ninth-vande-bharat-flight-arrives-in-rgia/article31611378.ece
18 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Capitalising on the COVID crisis||The town is limping back to normalcy with no COVID-19 cases reported in the past one month and private hospitals have started opening in a phased manner. However, to the shock of city residents, some private hospitals, nursing homes and doctors have effected a sharp hike in consultation fee as well as costs of tests and other medical services. Fee up by Rs. 200 Consultation fees, which was less than Rs. 300 before the lockdown, has now shot up to Rs. 500. Some other doctors who earlier charged Rs. 500 are now asking for Rs. 700 per patient. Similarly, charges for various tests such as CT scan, MRI scan, and surgeries have also almost doubled owing to the expenditure involved in the safety gear to be worn while checking a patient. Nursing homes have increased Caesarian delivery charges from Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 60,000. Following the announcement of lockdown and spread of the virus in the town, all private hospitals and nursing homes had been shut following instructions of the State government. No patient suffering from any ailment had approached private hospitals during the lockdown, except in case of an emergency. Private hospitals claimed that they were forced to increase cost of medical services due to additional expenditure involved in treating the patients by wearing Personal Protective Equipment, facial shield, masks and gloves, use of sanitisers and disinfectants, screening of patients with infrared thermometer etc. ‘Not following norms’ However, Lok Satta Udyama Samstha district president N. Srinivas said, “It is not correct to increase the charges, that too during a crisis.” He also alleged that the private hospitals were not following the government guidelines and treating hordes of patients as against the norms of treating only four to five patients per hour. Indian Medical Association district president Vasantha Rao said that they have instructed all the private doctors and hospitals “not to fleece patients” by increasing their charges on the pretext of COVID-19 virus. Sources in the District Medical and Health Office said they have no control over the regulation of consultation fee and other charges collected by the private hospitals and doctors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/capitalising-on-the-covid-crisis/article31611374.ece
18 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Village protection squads formed||The Karimnagar Commissionerate of Policehave embarked upon an ambitious task of formation of Grama Rakshana Dalams (village protection squads) to check possible properties offences such as theft, robbery, shoplifting, burglary and vandalism etc. Usually, property offences take place during summer when people sleep outside their houses and on terraces. Now the police officials are sensing possible rise in property offences following unemployment and unrest among migrant labourers and others due to lockdown. Accordingly, in order to avoid possible property offences and other crimes in rural areas where police patrolling is a difficult task, the Commissionerate of police have decided to constitute village protection squads (VPS) with men in the age group of 18 to 50 years to conduct patrolling of their villages from 10 p.m. to 5 a.m. every day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/village-protection-squads-formed/article31611391.ece
18 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Trees uprooted due to gales in Khammam||High velocity winds swept through several parts of the district including Chintakani, Sattupalli and various other mandals uprooting many trees and disrupting power supply on Sunday evening. Several villages in Khammam and Sattupalli divisions witnessed drizzle accompanied by strong gales late in the afternoon. Paddy lying in the open fields got soaked due to the sudden spell of unseasonal rain in some villages in Chintakani mandal, sources said. A video showing an empty private bus parked on the roadside moving backwards apparently under the impact of the squally winds and coming to a halt after hitting a tree went viral on various WhatsApp groups in Sattupalli. The video was extensively shared on social media. However, the exact place where the incident occurred could not be ascertained immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/trees-uprooted-due-to-gales-in-khammam/article31611394.ece
18 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||CPI (M) seeks Rs. 10,000 aid to each migrant family||The CPI (M) district committee on Sunday strongly condemned the “foisting” of a case against the party district secretary Nunna Nageswara Rao and a few other party functionaries by the Two Town police on charges of violation of lockdown regulations here on Saturday. Terming the charges as “baseless”, the CPI (M) district committee said Mr Rao along with a few party cadres displayed placards demanding Rs. 10,000 financial assistance from the Centre’s package to each family of the migrant workers and other poor people hit hard by the coronavirus lockdown. The programme was held in strict conformity to the regulations after informing the local police to press for immediate succour to the distraught workers, farmers and other toiling masses without causing any disruption to traffic, said a press release issued by the CPI (M) district committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cpi-m-seeks-rs-10000-aid-to-each-migrant-family/article31611392.ece
18 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Two lorry drivers killed in accident||Two truck drivers were killed in a head on collision involving their trucks at Sitaramapuram in Penuballi mandal on Sunday morning. The speeding trucks, one bound for Nanded carrying fish, and another heading towards Rajahmundry with bags containing poultry feed collided on the inter-State highway near Sitaramapuram in the early hours of the day. A cleaner of one of the trucks suffered injuries in the incident. He was immediately moved to a hospital in the mandal headquarters town. The police retrieved the bodies from the mangled cabins of the two trucks and shifted them to the mortuary at the government hospital in Sattupalli town.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-lorry-drivers-killed-in-accident/article31611413.ece
18 May 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Two killed, 4 injured as tipper hits auto||Two persons were killed on the spot while four others were injured in a road accident that took place at Narsapur in the wee hours of Sunday. According to V. Nagaiah, Circle Inspector, Narsapur, a tipper hit an auto parked on the road at a turning. The deceased were identified as Guni Srihari (35) and Boyini Narasimhulu (44).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-killed-4-injured-as-tipper-hits-auto/article31611410.ece
18 May 2020||N. Rahul,TELANGANA||Chicken rate hits an all-time high in city||The live bird in retail market was an all-time high at Rs. 165 to Rs. 170 a kg on Sunday, up from Rs. 135 the previous Sunday. The dressed chicken was sold at Rs. 250 a kg and skinless at Rs. 285 a kg. The steep increase in cost of chicken was attributed to poultry farmers backing out on placements of broiler chicks for meat production in farms in February - March due to outbreak of coronavirus and wild apprehensions that the virus was the result of animal meat. It was during this spell that the farmers suffered huge losses as prices of a live bird dropped to Rs. 5 to a kg of its weight while the cost of production was Rs. 80 a kg. Of this amount, the cost of incubating chicken eggs at hatcheries itself was Rs. 26 to 27 per a day-old chick. The day-old chicks were supposed to be sold off to poultry farms within 24 hours for placements over six weeks. In this background, the farmers resisted purchase of chicks as it was largely a demand - supply market that was influenced by apprehensions on meat consumption. As a result, only 30 per cent of birds against the demand were available in farms in the subsequent weeks. It was this shortage in farms that was telling on the market, according to E. Ramesh Babu, general secretary, Telangana Poultry Breeders Association. He said the farmers did not purchase chicks from hatcheries where also the situation was not bright with managements choosing not to set the eggs for incubation over the stipulated 21 days. The hatcheries even resorted to destruction of eggs. Mr. Ramesh Babu also said the prices of chicken were generally high in May because the mortality rate of birds was high due to summer and the weight was also less. He added that there was never such shortage in supplies to market in the past. He expected a loss of Rs. 2,000 crore to the industry during the crisis in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. K. Mohan Reddy, general secretary, Telangana Poultry Federation, said the supply was not even 50 per cent of the demand presently. The supplies used to be two lakh birds on weekdays and four to five lakh on Sundays in Hyderabad and surrounding areas. It was only just now that the farmers were back to rearing chicks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/chicken-rate-hits-an-all-time-high-in-city/article31611385.ece
18 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Undivided Nizamabad’s entry into green zone likely soon||With no COVID-19 case reported in the past four weeks and coronavirus-positive patients from here being discharged from Gandhi Hospital, Hyderabad, after full recovery, the integrated district is likely to be categorised as green zone soon. The last of the 73 positive patients — 61 from Nizamabad and 12 from Kamareddy — was discharged on Saturday. With this, the administration in both districts removed containment zones and clusters, but advised residents to take all precautions. The undivided district has recorded only one death so far. Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy, Nizamabad and Kamareddy Collectors C. Narayana Reddy and A. Sharath respectively maintained that reining in the coronavirus spread in the two districts was possible with the cooperation of people and relentless efforts of doctors, paramedics, police and sanitation staff. With relaxation in norms, economic activity has gradually been picking up as more than half of the shops and business establishments are remaining open. Though buses and trains are off the roads, autorikshaws are seen running here and there despite the guidelines disallowing them from plying. Passage of vehicles, including cars and transport vehicles, which has been dull during the lockdown, picked up to a large extent on National Highway-44 over the past couple of days. However, dhabas, motels and hotels are yet to be opened on the highway. On the other hand, a stream of migrant workers on the road is steady as they are headed to their native places through different modes of transportation, and not on foot like earlier. They are travelling from Secunderabad in Orange travel buses provided free of cost by its owner Mutyala Sunil Reddy up to Mupkal from where they are resuming their journey to up to Maharashtra border after lunch. Some others are hiring private vehicles to reach home. Police, however, are continuing regular inspections at night to ensure strict observance of curfew rules.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/undivided-nizamabads-entry-into-green-zone-likely-soon/article31611389.ece
18 May 2020||SIDDIPET/MEDAK,TELANGANA||Three persons meet watery grave||Three persons were drowned in three separate incidents that took place at both Siddipet and Medak districts on Sunday. One person was drowned in Ranganaiksagar canal on Sunday at Chinnnakodur. According S. Saikumar, SI., Chinnnakodur, five persons from Siddipet town came for a swim in the canal. G. Madhubabu, 23, entered the canal and drowned even before others could rescue him. He was taken out but died while being shifted to hospital. Meanwhile, one Narasimhulu drowned at Akkannapet tank in Ramayampet mandal. In the third incident, one Shravan, 12, drowned in Ibrahimpur Peddacheruvu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/three-persons-meet-watery-grave/article31611412.ece
18 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DIST.,TELANGANA||42 workers from State stranded in Gujarat||As many as 42 workers from Mahabubabad, who went to Surat, Gujarat, in search for temporary work, are struggling to return home. They lost work and money during the lockdown and now have appealed to the State and the Central government to arrange vehicles to take them back home. All the workers are residents from Thorrur mandal. The workers sent a representation to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao urging them to arrange private vehicles to bring them back to their native place. They said several people in Surat are returning to their homes as the State governments have made arrangements. Similar arrangements should be made by the Telangana government, they said. One of the workers, K. Raghavalu, said that they had gone to work as daily wage labour at a construction site in Surat. He said that 15 days before the lockdown, they reached to Surat from Thorrur. With the lockdown, construction site works were stalled and they lost work. The money also got exhausted. With tears in his eyes, he once again appealed the State government for help, but there was no response from the State government till date, he pointed out. The State government took all measures to send migrants workers working in Telangana back to their homes but we are languish in other States, said Mr. Raghavalu. He further said that the Bhiwandi tribals helped them financially and that they have now hired private vehicles. They started for Thorrur on Sunday. The medical teams at Surat issued medical certificates but they fear that they would be stopped on Gujarat borders. Meanwhile, Mahabubabad Collector VP Gautam said that he did not get any information on the workers. Those who are returning from other states would be allowed after medical check- up and home quarantine, he said. As many as 1,000 people from the district were sent to their respective States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/42-workers-from-state-stranded-in-gujarat/article31611409.ece
18 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||Oxford School alumni’s gesture to theatre staff||Moved by the plight of theatre workers who were left jobless due to the lockdown, alumni-2004 batch of Oxford High School in coordination with Sulakshya Seva Samithi distributed to 68 ration kits worth Rs. 40,000 to theatre workers who work for different theatres in Hanamkonda and Kazipet. Speaking on the occasion, director of the school Parlapalli Venkataramana said: “ It is heartening to see our old students carrying out philanthropic activities and help the needy in this hour of crisis.” Principal of the school, Parlapalli Sangeetha said, “We are proud of our students who stepped up to extend help to those in distress and more importantly for doing this noble activity on the school premises” Founder-president of Sulakshya Seva Samithi, Santhosh Manduva co-ordinated the event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/oxford-school-alumnis-gesture-to-theatre-staff/article31611390.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Police video strikes discordant note||Shaking a leg in tune with the COVID times, the police personnel danced in front of the historic Osmania University Arts College, urging people to maintain COVID-19 etiquette. The women in uniform displayed their dancing skills to the tunes of Cheyi Cheyi Kalapakura by Chowrastha, a Hyderabad-based band. Though the dance sequence had a launch followed by rewarding the best COVID policing by women police officers on May 12, the denouement was that a few senior officers, including several women officers, found it not so palatable and reportedly expressed their dismay over the entire episode that has stirred up a hornet's nest. In a text message after launching the song, a senior officer said, “the OU Arts College façade was cleaned up of all the banners and posters which were put up irresponsibly by various student groups, to bring out its resplendent grandeur.” What was meant to be a melody, turned out to be a discordant note. A similar effort was made by the police in Kerala and Andhra Pradesh too but it did not end in any such sour note.   For Telangana police, it is back to 'normal policing' after rendering exemplary work in containing the spread of coronavirus. In a message issued by the top brass on Saturday, the unit officers were asked to get down to hardcore policing. Among others, the message reportedly hinted a possible rise in thefts, burglaries, bodily offences and even drunken brawls as liquor shops were reopened and normal economic activities gradually opening up again.   The Opposition parties have started training their guns on the government over its intentions to extend the investment support, Rythu Bandhu, to only those farmers who cultivate crops suggested by it. The parties considered it as inability of the government to continue the programme in its present shape due to empty coffers. Some politicians like Sangareddy legislator T. Jayaprakash Reddy (also called Jagga Reddy), who has the uncanny knack of always staying in the news with his maverick statements, has drawn an interesting parallel on the government’s plans on Rythu Bandhu. Stating that the plan of extending Rythu Bandhu to only those farmers who raise crop suggested by the government was a clear indication of curtailing it, he said: “Tomorrow the government may say that it would give Kalyana Lakshmi/Shaadi Mubarak benefit only if a girl marries a groom suggested by it!”     The proposed amendments to the Electricity Act appears to be turning out to be bone of contention between the Central and the State governments with the Centre insisting on privatisation of the entire distribution network. The State government is opposed to the proposal tooth and nail in that it could have an adverse impact on of the major welfare scheme in the State - free power to farmers round the clock. Telangana, being the only State to offer such a facility to farmers 24x7, has apprehensions on the efficacy with which the scheme will be implemented if it is handed over to the private players. And, the contention of the government has received appreciations given the need for giving necessary uplift to farm sector which had been ailing for some decades. (Abhinay Deshpande, B. Chandrashekhar & M. Rajeev)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/police-video-strikes-discordant-note/article31611404.ece
18 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘I regret coming to quarantine centre’||Less than 48 hours into a quarantine centre here, with allegedly unhygienic conditions and lack of proper care, a 30-year-old bank official regrets having informed the authorities about his COVID-19 status. Inmates have earlier complained of poor facilities at other centres in the city. “I didn’t know earlier that patients with mild symptoms could be quarantined at home, else I would have never come here. More than two days after I tested positive, I have no symptoms. But I fear catching some infection while staying at this centre. Already, I have a sore throat since morning,” said the man, talking to The Hindu over phone from the centre running from a medical college. No one to contact With 50 more people in the centre, some of them just suspects, he rued being locked up at the centre for the past two days. “We are kept locked inside this centre. No doctor or official has visited us. If we need any help or have any queries, there is no contact person. I have not been told how long I need to stay here,” said the official, who suspected having contracted the virus from his colleague. He recalled that soon after his colleague tested positive for COVID-19 on May 13, he too self-quarantined himself at his home and got a test done from a private lab for Rs. 5,000, including Rs. 500 consultation fee. Frantic calls After the result for the sample came on May 15, he started calling the helplines frantically to know how to go forward. “It was only the next day that an ambulance reached my home and brought me to this centre,” said the official. He said that he preferred lukewarm water and turmeric milk, but those were not available at the centre. He said he was better off at his own house. “The toilets are stinking. We get tea and biscuits in the morning and meals twice a day. The lock is opened and we are told to collect the meals from outside the main door,” said the official, who works at Udyog Vihar Phase-IV. Complaints raised The official’s brother-in-law made a series of tweets raising all these issues to which the Twitter handle of Gurugram Deputy Commissioner responded by saying that the nodal officer was informed and the matter would be resolved on priority. He also alleged that samples of the family members were not collected despite repeated requests. The man claimed that he had received calls only from journalists so far, and none of the government officials had contacted him. Chief Medical Officer, J.S. Poonia, said there were never any complaints about the quarantine centres in the district and the facilities were up to the mark. He said the matter would still be looked into.  More than two days after I tested positive, I have no symptoms. But I fear to catch some infection while staying at this centre Bank official||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/i-regret-coming-to-quarantine-centre/article31611314.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre’s guidelines in line with proposal sent by Delhi govt.: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the Centre’s guidelines for the fourth phase of the lockdown are largely in line with the proposal sent by the Delhi government. The proposal, he said, was based on suggestions of lakhs of Delhiites. “We have used the lockdown period to prepare our healthcare system if COVID-19 cases increase but it is now time to relax the restrictions to some extent,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that the government will prepare the detailed plan for Delhi based on the Centre’s guidelines and announce them on May 18. Mr. Kejriwal welcomed the easing of lockdown restrictions on a day when the Capital reported 422 new COVID-19 cases taking the total number of cases to 9,755, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. No new deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The total number of deaths stands at 148, according to reports from the Death Audit Committee. The bulletin also stated that 276 people have recovered and there are currently 5,405 active cases. Death records Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said all hospitals here have submitted a summary of their death records and the Death Audit Committee was in the process of compiling the reports — which would be done in two-three days. The committee has been revising the death toll over the past week after reports came in that the number of COVID-19 deaths were being under-reported. Mr. Jain added that at present, the doubling rate of COVID-19 stands at 11 days and while the number of Containment Zones was not increasing, there are many doctors, nurses, police and BSF jawans testing positive. The government also issued an order for all healthcare facilities operating in Delhi to follow guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare for rationale use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) in accordance with the risk involved. Type of PPE kits The guideline has listed the type of PPE kits to be used by healthcare workers according to the activity they perform, the risk associated with the task and which department of the hospital they work at.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/centres-guidelines-in-line-with-proposal-sent-by-delhi-govt-cm/article31611324.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. will take full care of migrants in Capital, says CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the government is responsible for the migrant labourers living here and would take care of them if they want to remain in the city. For those who want to return to their home States, he said the government would arrange trains for them. “The government has ordered all the officials to ensure that no migrant labourer should face any problem. It will arrange trains as many as needed for stranded labourers,” he said. The government order stated that it should see that no migrant worker walk on roads or on railway tracks. “In case they are found in such condition, they should appropriately be counselled, taken to nearby shelters. Till such time they are facilitated to board the Shramik special trains or buses to their hometowns,” the order read. It called for proper cooperation with the Railways in the running of more number of special trains so that travel of stranded workers can be done at a faster rate. Deputy CM Manish Sisodia said 25 trains and a large number of buses have carried over 35,000 migrant labourers to their home States and on Sunday, eight Shramik special trains ferried around 12,000 migrants. Mr. Sisodia tweeted the link for migrant workers to register themselves to receive reservation on the special trains and asked people not to gather in huge numbers at stations. The AAP attacked the BJP for putting migrants in a situation where they are facing atrocities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/govt-will-take-full-care-of-migrants-in-capital-says-cm/article31611321.ece
18 May 2020||New Delhi,||Is it a crime to serve the poor: Delhi Cong. chief||Delhi Congress Chief Ch. Anil Kumar said a policeman arrived at his residence on Sunday morning without any written order and prevented him from stepping out of his house, which he alleged was a violation of his human rights. The police said an FIR has been registered against him under relevant sections of the IPC for violating lockdown orders in east Delhi. He was taken to Ghazipur police station in the evening. Mr. Kumar blamed the BJP and AAP governments for the police action and said he had been working along with other party workers to provide cooked food to thousands of homeless people. He said he also organises sanitation drives to help fight the spread of COVID-19. Speaking to The Hindu , he said: “Is it a crime to serve poor labourers during the lockdown? I am only doing the work that the BJP and AAP governments have failed to do.” He added that if service to humanity was a crime, he would commit the crime again and go to jail. The police said on Saturday they got information that Mr. Kumar went to Ghazipur where he promised migrant workers that he will arrange transportation for them to go to their hometowns in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Following this, around 300 migrants gathered at the U.P. border, said an officer, adding that despite the warning, Mr. Kumar was felicitating movement of migrants towards Anand Vihar and Ghazipur border. “Mr. Kumar created unnecessary chaos by misguiding migrant workers,” the officer said. Mr. Kumar has, however, denied the allegations made by police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/is-it-a-crime-to-serve-the-poor-delhi-cong-chief/article31611318.ece
18 May 2020||New Delhi,||Ready to provide necessary trains for transporting migrants: Railways tells HC||The Railways has informed the Delhi High Court that it was ready to provide the “necessary trains” as and when States put up a request for transporting migrant workers to their respective home towns. The Railways also said “more than 800 trains have already departed, taking around 10 lakh migrant workers to their home towns”. The submission was made before a Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice C. Hari Shankar which was hearing a petition seeking the registration and repatriation of migrant workers in the Capital. The National Campaign Committee for Eradication of Bonded Labour, in its petition, had said the official website of the government meant for registration of migrant workers for transit to their respective home towns and the helpline numbers are not properly working. The petition also said there was need of appointment of Nodal Officers in each district of Delhi for the same.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/ready-to-provide-necessary-trains-for-transporting-migrants-railways-tells-hc/article31611311.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man stable after shooting incident||Two days after a 27-year-old man allegedly shot at himself after his friend refused his proposal in Outer North Delhi’s Narela, he is said to be stable. A senior police officer said that the man, a resident of Kotla Mubarakpur, is undergoing treatment but is out of danger. On Friday, the man went to his friend’s house and proposed to her. He also asked her to come with him. However, when she refused, he shot himself in the chest. He was rushed to hospital. The woman is married and her husband is lodged in jail, the police said. The police have registered a case under relevant sections and is probing the matter.  The headline of our report in the Saturday edition had erroneously said ‘Man found dead in Narela’. The error is regretted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-stable-after-shooting-incident/article31611316.ece
18 May 2020||New Delhi,||ACP deployed at Rashtrapati Bhavan tests positive||A 58-year-old Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) of the Delhi Police posted at Rashtrapati Bhavan Police Lines has been tested positive for COVID-19, said officials on Sunday. Following this, five other policemen, who came in contact with the officer, have been quarantined as a precautionary measure. The ACP developed symptoms on May 13 following which he was tested and isolated. “We were informed about his reports today [Sunday]. He is, however, found to be asymptomatic. He was in isolation since May 13 and has been admitted to a private hospital,” said a senior officer. The officer is responsible for duty deployment, administration and management of personnel within the premises of Rashtrapati Bhavan, he said. Meanwhile, an SHO of a police station in Shahdara also tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/acp-deployed-at-rashtrapati-bhavan-tests-positive/article31611325.ece
18 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Inhuman to send bodies by trucks, Soren tells Adityanath||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Sunday lashed out at Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for the ‘inhuman treatment’ meted out to migrant workers who died in a road accident in U.P.’s Auraiya district on Saturday. Taking strong exception to the migrant workers’ bodies being transported by trucks, Mr. Soren tweeted, “Heartless to see @UPGovt led by @myogiadityanath ji could not even arrange for ambulance to transport the bodies of migrant workers to their families. I request @NitishKumarji to arrange ambulance for remaining journey to Bokaro and accord them some dignity in death.” However, he deleted it later and tweeted again. “This inhumane treatment of our migrant workers could possibly be avoided. I request @UPGovt and Office of @NitishKumarji to arrange suitable transportation of the deceased bodies till Jharkhand border and we will ensure adequate dignified arrangements to their homes in Bokaro,” says Jharkhand CM’s Twitter message. He also announced Rs. 4 lakh ex gratia to the next of kin of all the 11 people killed and Rs. 50,000 to those injured. On Saturday early morning, 25 migrant workers, including 11 from Jharkhand, were killed when a trailer they were travelling in rammed a supply lorry near Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh.  Treatment for injured Terming the situation inhuman and very insensitive, Mr. Soren directed Bokaro Deputy Commissioner and Jharkhand Police to give immediate treatment to the injured as soon as they enter the State. The officials were asked to take the bodies to their respective homes with dignity. When drawn attention on the migrants’ bodies transported by trucks, Auraiya Superintendent of Police Suniti said different vehicles, in some cases ambulances and trucks, were arranged to transport the dead back to their native places. Referring to the photos of a truck in which some bodies were dumped, she said the persons seen along with the bodies were those who had been discharged after treatment. Apparently disturbed over the incident, Mr. Soren took to the social networking site putting out information for several times on Sunday. Meanwhile, the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Bokaro district administration gave rice and Rs. 25,000 cash to the family of the deceased.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/inhuman-to-send-bodies-by-trucks-soren-tells-adityanath/article31611310.ece
18 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Sharp spike in Odisha cases||Odisha on Sunday registered a sharp rise in COVID-19 cases with 91 persons testing positive. With this, the State’s total count has now touched 828. The government, which had earlier reported two new deaths, backtracked saying test result did not confirm to be COVID-19 positive in one case. Hence, the death-toll stands at 4. Now, the number of active cases in the State is 604.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/sharp-spike-in-odisha-cases/article31611297.ece
18 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder blames Centre, BJP States for migrant crisis||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party governments at the Centre and in States for aggravating the migrant crisis and politicising such a grave issue. “The entire Congress party, including all party-led States, were working day and night to support the migrant labourers in this hour of crisis, with my own government having already arranged 149 trains to ferry 178909 migrants to their native States till May 16,” said the Chief Minister, adding that the process of facilitating the labourers to go to their homes was still continuing in Punjab. Reacting strongly to Nirmala Sitharaman’s comment that Congress president Sonia Gandhi should have asked her Chief Ministers to help the migrants, Captain Amarinder said the Congress chief had been holding regular interactions with the party Chief Ministers on this and other critical Covid-19 and lockdown relates issues. The Punjab Chief Minister also flayed Ms. Sitharaman’s remarks that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi should have walked with the migrants when he met them, terming it highly frivolous and totally unbecoming of a senior Central Minister.  Entry of buses “Instead of ridiculing Rahul, who came out on the roads to extend support and compassion to the migrants, Nirmala should have spoken to the Chief Minister of the BJP-led U.P. government to allow entry to the buses arranged by Priyanka Gandhi to transport migrants,” he said, referring to the buses that were stranded at the Delhi-U.P. border on account of the Uttar Pradesh administration’s refusal to let them enter the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/amarinder-blames-centre-bjp-states-for-migrant-crisis/article31611300.ece
18 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. hits out at Haryana govt. for using force against migrants||After the incident of police using mild force to disperse a group of migrant labourers who blocked the national highway in Haryana’s Yamunanagar, the Congress on Sunday hit out at the ruling BJP-JJP government for being “insensitive and inhumane”. On May 16, a group of migrant labourers, who had been staying in a relief centre at Karera Khurd village in Yamunanagar district, besides a few others who were travelling from neighbouring Punjab, blocked traffic on the Yamunanagar-Panchkula National Highway, demanding to be sent back to their home States. “A few migrant labourers had blocked the highway, which resulted in traffic disruption. They were then pacified,” Sukhbir Singh, SHO, Yamunanagar (Sadar), told reporters. The police used mild force to disperse the agitating group, many of whom said their patience was running out as it had been days since they had been stuck at the relief centre.  ‘Insensitive, inhumane’ Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda condemned the use of force on migrant labourers by the police. “It is insensitive and inhuman to beat up poor labourers who are victims of circumstances and the government should treat them with empathy in this difficult period,” he said. “The government should ensure that the workers don’t flee from the State and arrangements should be made for their stay. They should be provided with immediate monetary relief or alternative employment. If the government is not able to do this or if the poor labourers want to go home, then proper arrangements should be made for their safe return home,” he said. Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala also condemned the incident and accused the State government of oppressing the migrant labourers. “..In Haryana’s Yamunanagar, the Khattar government is beating up migrants by chasing them!” said Mr. Surjewala in a tweet with a video clip of the incident tagged to it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/cong-hits-out-at-haryana-govt-for-using-force-against-migrants/article31611306.ece
18 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab farmers’ to go for direct seeding of rice||As the labour shortage is imminent owing to exodus of migrant labourers amid the ongoing lockdown, farmers in Punjab seem all set to go for direct seeding of rice (DSR) this khairf season, moving away from the traditional practice — of sowing nursery and then transplanting it. Farmers and agri-experts told The Hindu that they are hopeful that this technology, which had been recommended in Punjab as an alternative method of rice (paddy) planting, will save irrigation water, labour and energy (power) in contrast to conventional method of raising rice nursery and then transplanting rice seedlings in a puddled field. “The DSR technique is less time consuming and labour intensive than the conventional practice. The DSR technique called ‘tar-wattar DSR’ has been developed and successfully tested on a good scale at farmers’ fields. It helps in saving irrigation water, there’s lesser weed problem, besides there is reduced incidence of nutrient deficiency, especially iron, owing to lesser leaching of nutrients and deeper root development,” said Makhan Singh Bhullar, principal agronomist at the Ludhiana-based Punjab Agricultural University. Mr. Bhullar said that the technology has a wider adaptability as it is suitable for medium to heavy textured soils including sandy loam, loam, clay loam and silt loam, which account for 87% area of the State.  Groundwater recharge “Not only this, the DSR offers avenue for groundwater recharge as well as it prevents the development of hard pan just beneath the plough layer. It matures 7-10 days earlier than puddle transplanted rice, hence it gives more time for the management of paddy straw, for the timely sowing of next wheat crop. Results from research trials and farmers’ field survey have also indicated that wheat grain yield, after DSR, is 1.0-1.2 quintal per acre higher than puddle transplanted rice,” said Mr. Bhullar. “As the DSR involves more precision in timing and greater accuracy in operations compared to conventional transplanted rice. It gives best yield and quality when sowing is done in the month of June,” said Mr. Bhullar. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh’, said there’s absolutely no doubt that sowing with DSR will increase this year. “I am myself all set to sow paddy with the new technique. It’s cheap, less time consuming and save water as well. Besides, this year we are facing labour shortage as many migrant labourers have gone back to their native places. So, at such a time the DSR is a viable option for me,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-farmers-to-go-for-direct-seeding-of-rice/article31611308.ece
18 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||18 new cases reported in Punjab||Punjab recorded 18 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday and reported three more deaths taking the toll to 35, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 1,964. Of the three deaths, two were from Gurdaspur while one was from Ludhiana district. The Health department said the major chunk of the new cases were reported from Amritsar and Ludhiana districts respectively. The active cases are 563, it added. Health Minister Balbir Sidhu said that in the wake of COVID-19, all civil surgeons in the State have been directed to ensure the supply of hypertension and diabetes medicines, which are two major co-morbid conditions contributing to higher risk of acquiring COVID-19 infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/18-new-cases-reported-in-punjab/article31611301.ece
18 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||COVID-19 cases see sudden jump in NE||The number of COVID-19 positive cases in the Northeast has almost quadrupled in a little more than a fortnight since May 2. What has intrigued doctors and officials is that many of the new cases do not have any travel history besides maintaining minimum or no contact with people who had tested positive. The total number of cases in the region was 61 till May 1 midnight. By Sunday, the figure increased to 287, three of whom — two in Assam and one in Meghalaya — died. Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday said a 9-year-old boy who returned from Delhi with his parents tested positive and was being treated at the Jorhat Medical College and Hospital. He is the youngest to have tested positive in the State after two 16-year-old girls, one of whom died. The boy’s case , along with that of a 28-year-old who came from Chennai to Cachar district,  took the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in Assam to 97. But Tripura led the table with 167 cases while Meghalaya and Manipur took the third and fourth spots with 13 and seven cases respectively. The bulk (159) of Tripura’s cases were reported from two Border Security Force battalion headquarters. The region, according to data provided by the Health ministries of the affected States, has 159 active cases — 101 in Tripura, 52 in Assam, five in Manipur and one in Meghalaya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-cases-see-sudden-jump-in-ne/article31611298.ece
18 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan HC issues directions to control COVID-19 infection in jails||Taking cognisance of the spread of COVID-19 infection in the district jail in Jaipur, where over 100 inmates have tested positive, the Rajasthan High Court on Sunday gave a slew of directions to control the disease in prisons across the State by incorporating new provisions in the standard operating procedure (SOP). A Division Bench of the High Court took suo motu cognisance of the matter and registered a public interest litigation which it heard at a special sitting held at the residence of Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty here. The court said it was concerned over reports that 128 persons, including the convicts, undertrial prisoners and jail officials, had tested COVID-19 positive during the last 48 hours. The court summoned Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Rajeev Swarup, and Director General (Prisons), N.R.K. Reddy, to the Chief Justice’s residence for explaining the action being taken by the State government. Besides the Chief Justice, the Bench comprised Justice Ashok Kumar Gaur.  Isolation wards Mr. Swarup informed the court that special isolation wards had been created in all district and central jails, where an accused or prisoner, on his first admission, was required to spend 21 days. Such prisoners are shifted to the general wards of jails only if they are found to have no symptoms of virus infection after completing the isolation period. In its directions, the court asked the State government to incorporate a requirement in the SOP for mandatory testing of an accused by the local medical authorities for COVID-19. “The accused person should be allowed to be remanded in judicial or police custody only if he/she is found negative.” As regards the isolation period of 21 days, the court directed the jail authorities to once again present the prisoner before the medical authorities at the end of isolation for check-up to verify if he or she had developed any symptoms of virus infection. The RT-PCR test should be carried out to cover asymptomatic prisoners before being shifted to the general ward, the court said. “The jail authorities who are in direct contact with the prisoners in isolation also require special attention to ensure that the virus is not transmitted to them or their families,” the court said. It gave directions for conducting tests of jail staff and their family members on a regular and random basis, at least once in every fortnight. The medical officers in each district will inspect the isolation wards in the jails and give suggestions to the jail authorities to take steps for maintaining cleanliness and sanitisation. Besides, the jail doctors must be made available for general check-up of prisoners in isolation wards everyday, the court said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/rajasthan-hc-issues-directions-to-control-covid-19-infection-in-jails/article31611304.ece
18 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. migrant walking home dies of ‘hunger’||A migrant worker who had returned from Mumbai on a truck allegedly died of hunger in Kannauj while he was walking back home to Hardoi district, officials said. The migrant worker, Vinod, and 26 others had boarded a truck from Mumbai towards U.P. on May 14. The last time he ate proper food was on May 15, said Shailesh Kumar Singh, SDM Kannauj. Early on Saturday, around 3 a.m., the truck carrying 27 passengers reached Kannauj. Seventeen workers belonging to Hardoi got off at the bypass. “They had barely walked for half a km when one of them died. He had been lagging behind the others,” said Mr. Singh on Sunday. The preliminary reason behind the death as per the accounts of the relatives who came with him was hunger, hinted the official. “During the journey, he drank water and ate biscuits but maybe he did not eat any food on the way,” said Mr. Singh. “He didn’t get anything to eat on the way,” said Ram Kumar, the victim’s brother.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/up-migrant-walking-home-dies-of-hunger/article31611305.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Take me home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/take-me-home/article31611303.ece
18 May 2020||Beijing,||China expert warns of a second wave||Mainland China reported five new confirmed COVID-19 cases for May 16, down from eight the previous day, the National Health Commission (NHC) said in a statement on Sunday. Two of the five confirmed cases were so-called imported infections, while three were locally transmitted in the northeastern Chinese city of Jilin. The number of confirmed cases in the mainland now stands at 82,947 and the death toll at 4,634. China does not include people who have been tested and found to be asymptomatic carriers in its tally of confirmed cases. The three domestically-transmitted cases are related to a district in Jilin city called Fengman, which has been classified by Chinese officials as a high-risk area for COVID-19. Heightened disease control measures in the district include allowing only one person from a family to go out and purchase daily necessities each day, according to the district’s official post on WeChat. ‘Big challenge’ Zhong Nanshan, the Chinese government’s senior medical adviser told CNN on Saturday that the danger of a second wave of infections is looming large. “The majority of... Chinese at the moment are still susceptible to COVID-19 infection because (of) a lack of immunity,” Mr. Zhong said as quoted in the CNN report. “We are facing (a) big challenge, it’s not better than the foreign countries I think at the moment.” Mr. Zhong acknowledged that the number of infections were initially under reported in Wuhan but said the government has learned lessons from the SARS epidemic 17 years ago and he thinks all the data will be correct since January 23. Residents were advised not to leave the city and anyone who do need to leave must provide a negative test result taken within the previous 48 hours. Jilin is the second largest city of Jilin province, which borders North Korea and Russia. It temporarily suspended passenger train services last Wednesday. Fengman district said it will tighten the lockdown by closing stores, including department stores, house appliance stores and furniture stores but will keep supermarkets open.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-expert-warns-of-a-second-wave/article31611018.ece
18 May 2020||WASHINGTON,||Barack Obama criticises U.S. virus response||Former President Barack Obama on Saturday criticized U.S. leaders overseeing the nation’s response to the coronavirus, telling college graduates in an online commencement address that the pandemic shows many officials “aren’t even pretending to be in charge.” Mr. Obama spoke on “Show Me Your Walk, HBCU Edition,” a two-hour event for students graduating from historically black colleges and universities broadcast on YouTube, Facebook and Twitter. His remarks were unexpectedly political, given the venue, and touched on current events beyond the virus and its social and economic impacts. “More than anything, this pandemic has fully, finally torn back the curtain on the idea that so many of the folks in charge know what they’re doing,” Mr. Obama said. “A lot them aren’t even pretending to be in charge.” Later on Saturday, during a second televised commencement address for high school seniors, Mr. Obama panned “so-called grown-ups, including some with fancy titles and important jobs” who do “what feels good, what’s convenient, what’s easy.” “Which is why things are so screwed up,” he said. ‘Absolute disaster’ Mr. Obama did not name President Donald Trump or any other federal or state officials in either of his appearances. But earlier this month, he harshly criticized Mr. Trump’s handling of the pandemic as an “absolute chaotic disaster”. This is the latest sign that Mr. Obama intends to play an increasingly active role in the coming election. He has generally kept a low profile in the years since he left office, even as Mr. Trump has disparaged him. Mr. Obama told supporters on the call that he would be “spending as much time as necessary and campaigning as hard as I can” for Joe Biden, who served as his Vice-President.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/barack-obama-criticises-us-virus-response/article31611010.ece
18 May 2020||KABUL,||Afghan President, rival sign power sharing deal||Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and political rival Abdullah Abdullah have signed a power-sharing agreement two months after both declared themselves the winner of last September’s presidential election. Mr. Ghani spokesman Sediq Sediqqi tweeted on Sunday that a political deal between Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah had been signed, in which Mr. Ghani would remain President of the war-torn nation. The deal calls for Abdullah to lead the country’s National Reconciliation High Council and some members of Abdullah’s team would be included in Ghani’s Cabinet. Reconciliation Council The Reconciliation Council has been given the authority to handle and approve all affairs related to Afghanistan’s peace process. Omed Maisam, a spokesman for Mr. Abdullah’s team, confirmed an agreement had been signed at the presidential palace. “A technical team will work on the implementation of the agreement and details will be shared later,” he said. Afghanistan has been in political disarray since the country’s Election Commission in December announced Mr. Ghani had won the September 28 election with more than 50% of the vote. Mr. Abdullah had received more than 39% of the vote, according to the EC, but he and the Elections Complaint Commission charged widespread voting irregularities. Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah both declared themselves president in parallel inauguration ceremonies in March. They have been locked in a power struggle since then and the discord prompted the Trump administration to announce it would cut $1 billion in assistance to Afghanistan if the two weren’t able to work out their differences. A peace agreement between the U.S. and the Taliban signed February 29 calls for U.S. and NATO troops to leave Afghanistan. It was seen at the time as Afghanistan’s best chance at peace in decades of war. Since then, the U.S. has been trying to get the Taliban and the Afghan government to begin intra-Afghan negotiations, but the political turmoil and personal acrimony between Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah impeded talks. Negotiations that were to take place in March never happened. Despite 18 years and billions of dollars in international aid, Afghanistan remains desperately poor. The poverty level soared from 35% of the population in 2012 to more than 55% last year. Poverty in Afghanistan is defined as a person who survive on $1 or less a day. S Successive Afghan governments, including Ghani’s, have been accused by international watchdogs of widespread corruption. Meanwhile, Kabul and other cities are in lockdown to stem the spread of the coronavirus. Afghanistan has performed only limited testing so far with about 22,000 tested. The country has more than 6, 400 confirmed infections in a nation of 36.6 million. As more testing becomes available, the country’s confirmed infection numbers will likely rise sharply, according to public health officials. The death toll -— officially at 168 — is likely much higher. The country’s health care system, devastated by four decades of war, is woefully unprepared for a major outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/afghan-president-rival-sign-power-sharing-deal/article31611001.ece
18 May 2020||Jerusalem,||Israel swears in unity government||Israel’s Parliament swore in its new unity government on Sunday led by Prime Minister Netanyahu and his former rival Benny Gantz, ending the longest political crisis in the nation’s history. Lawmakers in the 120-person parliament, the Knesset, formally approved the three-year coalition government with 73 voting for and 49 against. One member was absent for the vote. Addressing the Knesset before the vote, Mr. Netanyahu vowed to push on with controversial plans to annex large parts of the occupied West Bank. Mr. Netanyahu said his incoming government should apply Israeli sovereignty over West Bank settlements. “It’s time to apply the Israeli law and write another glorious chapter in the history of Zionism,” Mr. Netanyahu said on the issue of Jewish settlements in the occupied Palestinian territory. Such a move is seen likely to cause international uproar and inflame tensions in the West Bank, home to nearly three million Palestinians and some 400,000 Israelis living in settlements considered illegal under international law. Netanyahu told the chamber that annexation “won’t distance us from peace, it will bring us closer”. Israel’s unity government starts work amid the coronavirus pandemic and after a political crisis that saw three inconclusive elections and left the country in political limbo for more than 500 days. The coalition government was agreed last month between veteran right-wing leader Netanyahu and the centrist Gantz, a former army chief.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/israel-swears-in-unity-government/article31611006.ece
18 May 2020||WASHINGTON,||Democrats to probe Trump’s firing of watchdog||Congressional Democrats on Saturday launched a probe into President Donald Trump’s “politically-motivated” dismissal of a government watchdog believed to have been investigating Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. The announcement came after Trump told House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi late Friday that he planned to dismiss State Department Inspector General Steve Linick. It was Mr. Trump’s third abrupt dismissal of an official tasked with monitoring governmental misconduct and abuse since April, and drew criticism even from members of his own party. “The firings of multiple Inspectors General is unprecedented; doing so without good cause chills the independence essential to their purpose,” tweeted Republican Mitt Romney. “It is a threat to accountable democracy and a fissure in the constitutional balance of power,” Mr. Romney continued. Two senior Democrats — Senator Bob Menendez and congressman Eliot Engel — said in a statement they “unalterably oppose the politically-motivated firing”. The lawmakers said Mr. Linick had apparently “opened an investigation into wrongdoing by Secretary Pompeo himself,” and said the firing was “transparently designed to protect Secretary Pompeo from personal accountability ... and may be an illegal act of retaliation.” ‘At Pompeo’s behest’ A Democratic congressional aide, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Mr. Linick was probing complaints that Pompeo inappropriately used a political appointee to perform personal tasks for himself and his wife Susan. CNN, citing a senior State Department official, reported that Mr. Pompeo himself had recommended the firing and hand-picked Stephen Akard, a former aide to Vice President Mike Pence, to succeed Mr. Linick. By law, the administration must give Congress 30 days’ notice of its plans to terminate an inspector general, in theory giving lawmakers time to study the move — and protest if warranted. “A general lack of confidence simply is not sufficient detail to satisfy Congress,” warned Republican senator Chuck Grassley. But previous such firings have gone through unimpeded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/democrats-to-probe-trumps-firing-of-watchdog/article31611004.ece
18 May 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. President issues order to hold polls in Gilgit-Baltistan||Pakistan President Arif Alvi has promulgated an order to form a caretaker government as well as to conduct elections in Gilgit-Baltistan province, a move strongly opposed by India. The presidential promulgation came days after the Pakistan Supreme Court on April 30 allowed the federal government to amend a 2018 administrative order to conduct general elections in the region. The Gilgit-Baltistan Order of 2018 provided for administrative changes, including authorising the Prime Minister of Pakistan to legislate on an array of subjects. India has conveyed its strong protest to Islamabad for its efforts to bring “material change” to territories under its “illegal and forcible” occupation after the apex court allowed holding of elections in Gilgit-Baltistan. Earlier this month, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in Delhi said a demarche was issued to a senior Pakistani diplomat lodging a strong protest over the court ruling and clearly conveying that the entire union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of India. The Gilgit-Baltistan Assembly will complete its five-year tenure on June 24.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-president-issues-order-to-hold-polls-in-gilgit-baltistan/article31611012.ece
18 May 2020||Geneva,||‘Spraying disinfectants can be harmful’||Spraying disinfectant on the streets, as practised in some countries, does not eliminate the new coronavirus and even poses a health risk, the World Health Organization (WHO) warned on Saturday. “Spraying or fumigation of outdoor spaces, such as streets or marketplaces, is... not recommended to kill the COVID-19 virus or other pathogens because disinfectant is inactivated by dirt and debris,” said the WHO in a document. The WHO said that streets and pavements are not considered as “reservoirs of infection” of COVID-19, adding that spraying disinfectants can be “dangerous for human health”. It added that spraying individuals with disinfectants is “not recommended under any circumstances”. “This could be physically and psychologically harmful and would not reduce an infected person’s ability to spread the virus,” said the document. Spraying chlorine or toxic chemicals on people can cause eye and skin irritation, bronchospasm and gastrointestinal effects. “If disinfectants are to be applied, this should be done with a cloth or wipe that has been soaked in disinfectant,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/spraying-disinfectants-can-be-harmful/article31611015.ece
18 May 2020||Herzliya,||Chinese Ambassador found dead in Israel||China’s Ambassador to Israel, Du Wei, was found dead at his residence on the outskirts of Tel Aviv on Sunday, police said. The 57-year-old envoy, who had arrived in Israel in mid-February, was found dead in his home in Herzliya, north of the city, spokesman Micky Rosenfeld told AFP. Police units were at the scene “as part of the regular procedure... (but) there is no investigation into his death,” Mr. Rosenfeld said. Mr. Du’s wife and son were not with him in Israel. The Chinese Foreign Ministry said it would only comment when it had “solid” information. Mr. Du had previously served as Ambassador to Ukraine. The Haaretz daily said initial reports said staff had found Mr. Du dead in his bed and that there were no signs of violence. It quoted Israel’s emergency medical service Magen David Adom as saying the cause of death appeared to be a cardiac incident. He had undergone a 14-day home quarantine on arrival in Israel because of the new coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/chinese-ambassador-found-dead-in-israel/article31611002.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India hopes agreement will ensure peace, stability||India welcomed the agreement signed by Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani and his political rival Abdullah Abdullah on Sunday, bringing them together in government and appointing Mr. Abdullah to the High Peace Council tasked with talks with the Taliban. The move is expected to speed up the intra-Afghan dialogue preparations that are already delayed two months behind the planned date of March 10. “India hopes the Political Agreement and creation of the High Council of National Reconciliation will result in renewed efforts for establishing enduring peace and stability and putting an end to externally sponsored terrorism and violence,” said a statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs. New Delhi also called for an “immediate ceasefire” to help Afghanistan deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. The Taliban has thus far rejected all calls for a ceasefire.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/india-hopes-agreement-will-ensure-peace-stability/article31611005.ece
18 May 2020||Wellington,||Wellington, May 16, 2020 (AFP) -||In New Zealand, no one is exempt from the strict coronavirus prevention measures — not even Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, who was denied entry to a cafe because of her own social distancing rules. Ms. Ardern, her fiance Clarke Gayford and a group of friends were turned away from a cafe in Wellington on Saturday because it had reached its customer limit.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/wellington-may-16-2020-afp/article31611008.ece
18 May 2020||Multan,||Pakistan kills 4 Islamic State-linked militants in shootout||Pakistani police acting on intelligence raided a militant hideout in a wooded area in the country’s east killing four members of an Islamic State-linked group, the country’s counter-terrorism agency said on Sunday. The overnight raid was carried out in Bahawalpur, a deeply conservative district in Punjab province where outlawed Sunni militants have a strong presence.AP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pakistan-kills-4-islamic-state-linked-militants-in-shootout/article31611014.ece
18 May 2020||Islamabad,||Honour killings: 2 Pakistani girls killed for talking to man||Two Pakistani teenaged girls were killed in the name of honour after their video clip with a man surfaced a couple of weeks ago in the country’s restive northwestern tribal region, police said on Sunday. The two girls, aged 16 and 18, were killed by one of their paternal cousins. A case of murder was registered and a manhunt was launched to nab the culprits.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/honour-killings-2-pakistani-girls-killed-for-talking-to-man/article31611013.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting India back to the Afghan high table||If India’s foreign and security policy planners had anticipated developments in Afghanistan they would have pursued nimble approaches, seeking to establish open connections with all its political groups, including with those perceived to be in Pakistan’s pocket. Instead, they continued to rigidly cling to Afghanistan President Ashraf Ghani even as his equities diminished with each passing month. This, despite his becoming the winner of the presidential elections held in September last year but whose contested results were declared five months later. Cut to the quick Inexplicably, Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated Mr. Ghani for winning the elections, in December 2019. At that stage, the Afghanistan election commission had only announced the preliminary results and most countries maintained a discreet silence. It took the commission two months more to declare Mr. Ghani as President-elect, a result that was rejected by Mr. Ghani’s main rival, Abdullah Abdullah. It led to two simultaneous swearing-ins; both Mr. Ghani and Mr. Abdullah took oath as President. It is true that the international community ultimately supported Mr. Ghani but qualified it with an insistence that he enters into a real power-sharing agreement with Mr. Abdullah. That agreement has just been reached. It will inevitably further weaken Mr. Ghani. How has Mr. Ghani reciprocated India’s such unqualified backing? His clear and public response came last month in a manner. It could only have been disappointing to Indian decision makers. The United Nations Secretariat organised a meeting on Afghanistan where it invited the six current physical neighbours of Afghanistan—China, Pakistan, Iran, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and Tajikistan. In addition, invitations were extended to the United States, Russia and the Ghani government. Obviously, Mr. Ghani did not condition his participation on India’s inclusion. He should have done so if only for the constructive role New Delhi has played in Afghanistan’s reconstruction since the Taliban were ousted from the country in 2001-2002 after 9/11. Also, for consistently supporting him. If Indian policymakers had adequately pondered on Mr. Ghani’s stance they would have recalled his position on India in the immediate aftermath of assuming the leadership of the National Unity Government brokered by the Americans in September 2014. He had then relegated India to the fourth concentric circle of five in importance to Afghan interests. Hence, it is not surprising that he did not bat adequately for India to become part of the meeting called by the UN. Indeed, if all his fine words of India’s importance to Afghanistan were actually true, he would have lobbied and ensured India’s participation. Point man’s blunt talk So much for Mr. Ghani. What truly cut India more to the quick was the U.S. going along with India’s absence. So much for the personal chemistry of the leaders of the two countries. The day after the meeting, Zalmay Khalilzad, the U.S. point man on Afghanistan and the architect of the Taliban deal, spoke to India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar to assuage hurt sentiments. But the balm of good words cannot obscure the basic fact that the U.S. acts to promote its interests in Afghanistan. It obviously expects that if in doing so Indian interests are exposed, India will protect them as best as it can. The fine diplomatese of the Ministry of External Affairs statement of the conversation between Mr. Khalilzad and Mr. Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval in Delhi on May 7 cannot override the blunt message conveyed by the U.S. official in his interview to this newspaper, “‘India should talk directly to Taliban, discuss terror concerns directly’,” ( The Hindu , Inside pages, ‘Interview, Zalmay Khalilzad’, May 9, 2020). He noted that despite India’s contributions to Afghanistan’s economic development — and these are undeniably significant covering large parts of the country, and are popular — as well as its long history of contacts with that country, it does not have a place in international diplomacy on Afghanistan. As Mr. Khalilzad put it: “But when it comes to international efforts, India yet does not have a role that it could.” He patronisingly added that the U.S. wants India to have a more active role in the peace process. Clearly, as the most significant power in the region, India should have ensured that it had a place on the table and should have devised ways to achieve that end. This is especially so because Afghanistan impacts on India’s interests, especially its security concerns. The question that India’s security and foreign policy decision makers should therefore ask themselves is this: why did the powers not consider India’s participation vital to the present peace-making efforts, especially when the U.S.-Taliban deal was concluded leading to a possible new stage in Afghanistan’s evolution? The Taliban and Pakistan Mr. Khalilzad offered first a clue. He followed it up with what is the obvious reason. He said, “I do think engagement between India and all the key players in Afghanistan, not only in terms of the government but also in terms of the political forces, society and the Afghan body politic is appropriate….” Responding to a question of groups in Afghanistan targeting India he said, “I believe that dialogue between India and the Taliban are important, and it would be important that issues of concerns like this [terrorism] are raised directly.” Taking Mr. Khalilzad’s views in their entirety, it is clear that he feels that by avoiding open contacts with the Taliban, India has reduced its role in international diplomatic efforts. That the U.S. is currently crucially dependent on Pakistan for the successful implementation of its Taliban deal aimed at securing as orderly a withdrawal as possible from what is a major strategic reverse for the world’s pre-eminent power is not in doubt. Mr. Khalilzad’s positive words for Pakistan make it clear. More significant is his comment, “Our strong position is that there shouldn’t be [terror] sanctuaries on either side of the Afghan-Pakistan border….” This is in sharp contrast to U.S. President Donald Trump’s earlier focus only on Taliban sanctuaries in Pakistan. In such a situation, it was essential for India to have maintained its strong links with the Afghan government, built and supported its traditional Afghan allies — perhaps this was discreetly resumed — but also establish open lines of communication with the Taliban. This was especially because they were informally conveying that India should not consider them as Pakistan’s puppets and also because they had gained international recognition. Contacts and discussions do not mean acceptance of their ways or that their professions of not being Pakistan’s stooges should not have been tested. Echo from the past It is sad that despite all that India has done in Afghanistan over the past 18 years since the Taliban were ousted from Kabul in 2001, it finds itself on the margins of international diplomacy on Afghanistan. It is reminiscent of the time in the 1990s when, at Pakistan’s insistence, India was considered a problem and kept out of crucial global forums on Afghanistan. It did not matter then because along with Iran and Russia, it kept the resistance to the Taliban going through Ahmed Shah Masood. Mr. Ghani is no Masood and there are no countries on the horizon which are really opposed to the Taliban acquiring a major place in the Afghanistan’s formal power structures. India needs to take corrective diplomatic action even at this late stage, and even in the time of COVID-19. It must begin openly talking to the Taliban and with all political groups in the country. It must realise that its Afghan policy needs changes. Vivek Katju is a former Indian Ambassador to Afghanistan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/getting-india-back-to-the-afghan-high-table/article31610987.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Where is health in the stimulus package?||India can pause and breathe a sigh of relief in its efforts to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Though the situation varies across States, at the end of the first innings, the country seems to have an advantage. Our bowlers have done well to limit the COVID-19 score and flatten the curve. Credit for containing the spread of the virus should go to our frontline medical and health workers in government who literally rushed in where angels fear to tread to save people’s lives. Putting aside threats to personal safety, family interests, and stigma, selfless government health workers across the country are the ones who are leading the charge. We shouldn’t however forget that the pitch conditions aren’t favourable to the Indian players. Even before COVID-19, India was staring at a serious economic slowdown. India's GDP growth for 2019-20 was lowered to 4.1% from 5% projected by several agencies before the outbreak of the virus. Recent reports predict that the impact of COVID-19 might reduce GDP growth rate to 1.1% or even lower in the current financial year. Unemployment has been growing since January 2020 when the first cases of coronavirus emerged. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, India’s unemployment rate at the end of May 16, 2020 was staggeringly high at around 24%. The second reason why the pitch isn’t in India’s favour is because our healthcare delivery system in most States is extremely fragile. One wonders, for instance, whether Bihar can handle the consequences if the virus begins to spread with the return of millions of migrant workers back to the State. Many other States also face a similar plight given the poor state of primary healthcare facilities. Restoring livelihoods During this innings break, discussions on the strategy to win the match have been focusing on ending the lockdown, reviving economic activities, restoring livelihoods, addressing concerns of hunger and starvation, stimulating small and medium enterprises, and enhancing farm incomes. The package of Rs. 20-lakh crore, equivalent to about 10% of India’s GDP, announced by the Prime Minister on May 12, is expected to restore the livelihoods of millions of migrants and other workers who have lost their jobs and also enable entrepreneurs and businesses to get re-started. Some elements of the stimulus package have been announced. Others might follow. While it is too early to comment on the impact of these announcements, one should not forget that the fear factor in reviving employment and business is real. Economic desperation might leave poor workers with no choice but to return to work. But many of them are truly worried about getting infected. Businesses are also genuinely concerned about the collapse of demand and shutting down of retail outlets. Equally disconcerting for them are the difficulties in and consequences of not adhering to conditions set by the government. They are worried about the unpredictability of government’s actions and policy revisions. This could well be a reason why, according to recent reports, in the midst of the long-term structural shift from China, companies prefer to relocate manufacturing to countries in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) region, and not India. In all this, the silence around health is disturbing. While economic stimulus packages are essential, the match cannot be won without urgently and immediately stepping up investments in health. Strengthening public health Dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic has brought out the critical importance of the public sector in health provisioning. However, stuck at around 1.15% of GDP for well over a decade, the low level of public spending on health is both a cause and an exacerbating factor accounting for the poor quality, limited reach and insufficient public provisioning of healthcare. Despite this, the public health system has risen to the challenge so far. The Union and State governments seem to have found the financial resources to provide an emergency response to deal with the pandemic. With agility and speed, orders have been placed for PPEs, ventilators, testing kits, and other supplies needed to detect and treat COVID-19 patients. It is possible that resources allocated for other health programmes are being diverted to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic. The opportunity cost of such diversion of funds could be high. Media reports point out, for instance, that people’s access to routine maternal and child health as well as family planning services in parts of the country has been negatively impacted. Also, many States are simply not in a position to deal with a second wave of infections. The pandemic has exposed a hard truth: most private healthcare providers seem to be incapable of and unwilling to help even during a national crisis. And India’s private sector in health is sizable. According to recent figures, the private sector accounts for 93% of all hospitals, 64% of all hospital beds, and 80-85% of all doctors. Rapidly declining revenues and sharply eroding profits are leading to the closure of many private hospitals. Only a few private providers have come forward to extend support to the government. Not addressing weaknesses in the public health delivery system can thwart all efforts at reviving the economy. State governments need to be prepared as the worst maybe yet to come. This is the time then to seize the opportunity and invest in universal health coverage (UHC) by reversing the financial neglect of public healthcare. Nearly every country in the world that has achieved anything like UHC has done it through the public assurance of primary healthcare. Announcing a new ‘health investment plan’ (as part of the stimulus package) is the urgent need of the hour. At least 1% of GDP out of the stimulus package should be earmarked for improving the country’s health infrastructure and strengthening public health service delivery. And up to 70% of the additional expenditures should be ring-fenced for primary healthcare and further strengthening health and wellness centres, primary health centres and community health centres. Only then can State governments be better prepared to face a second round of the pandemic. Investing in health, apart from improving people’s well-being, is also essential for accelerating and sustaining India’s economic growth. If cricket is a game of chance, so is the match against COVID-19. What the immediate future holds for India in terms of the spread of the virus is not known. As is said of matches, ‘it ain’t over till it’s over.’ There is only one way to win this match and establish a self-reliant and prosperous India: seize the opportunity and step up investments in public health across the country. A.K. Shiva Kumar is a Delhi-based development economist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/where-is-health-in-the-stimulus-package/article31610996.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Labour rights are in free fall||As India slowly attempts to lift its nationwide lockdown, under compulsion of reviving the economy, labour rights are disappearing at an astonishing pace. Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, which are States ruled by the Bharatiya Janata Party, took the lead in suspending crucial labour laws for varying lengths of time. Undemocratic introduction This strategy visualises effecting an economic turnaround through improvement of India’s rank in the “ease of doing business” index, thereby attracting foreign direct investment (FDI) and enthusing domestic private capital. Flexible labour and environmental laws are key instruments through which improvement in ranking is sought (incidentally, India’s rank jumped from 130 in 2016 to 63 in 2019). Such thinking forms the core of the ‘Make in India’ programme; therefore, elements of labour law dilution are already visible in the four labour codes aimed at consolidating 44 central labour laws (these are on wages, industrial relations, social security and occupational safety, health and working conditions). However, what is surprising is the undemocratic manner, by promulgating ordinances and notifying rules, in which labour rights are suspended without tripartite discussion. The continuity in direction of policy, although more vigorously pursued now, is obvious: for instance, consider the extension of a work day up to 12 hours. It is argued that this would address the problem of labour shortages at a time when social distancing is the norm. Interestingly, draft rules on the Code on Wages, 2019 already proposed extension of a workday by one hour (from eight to nine hours) when the novel coronavirus pandemic was nowhere on the horizon. Further, even though working hours are extended, there is no provision for overtime pay in Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat (although such provisions are available in Uttarakhand, Haryana, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh). Shades of an agenda Next, take the U.P. ordinance that shockingly exempts employers from complying with the Minimum Wages Act 1948. However, the Code on Wages, 2019 makes a distinction between national minimum wage (calculated on the basis of an objective formula) and national floor wage (without providing a methodology to calculate it). This was done on purpose, for the minimum wage calculated by a government-appointed committee in 2018 was Rs. 375 per day, whereas, the national floor wage in the same year was a mere Rs. 176 per day; however, State governments, under the wages code, are directed to set their minimum wages only above the national floor wage. Thus, States, vying for private investments, would essentially consider the national floor wage, and this in effect would dilute the idea of minimum wage. Additionally, the U.P. ordinance also exempts employers from complying with the Industrial Disputes Act 1947. Therefore, employers can hire and fire workers at will; however, employers even now are allowed to offer “fixed-term” employment without any restrictions on the number of renewals. Hence, firms hardly face any problem in adjusting their workforce. Now check the M.P. ordinance which exempted factories employing less than 50 workers from regular inspections and allowed third-party inspections. Again the wages code severely eroded the inspection mechanism by snatching away the power of inspectors to conduct surprise checks. Even when violations in law are detected, they are mandated to advise, provide information and facilitate employers to comply with the law; in fact, they are now called inspector-cum-facilitator. The M.P. ordinance further states that for new establishments, provisions guiding industrial dispute resolution, strikes/lockouts and trade unions would cease to operate. This is in line with the Industrial Relations Code, 2019, which proposes to raise the membership threshold of a trade union from 15% to 75% of the workforce in an establishment, for it to be recognised as the negotiating union. Therefore, it seems the novel coronavirus pandemic simply provided a window to aggressively fulfil the long-term agenda of diluting labour rights. This becomes evident from the length of suspension of these labour rights — which vary from 1,000 days (M.P.) to three years (U.P.). Surely there is no basis to expect that the impact of the lockdown will stretch for so long and it appears that State governments are competing to project themselves to be investor-friendly. But will such suspension of labour rights, aimed at reducing labour cost, stimulate private investment and ensure recovery? Past experience does not inspire confidence. The Reserve Bank of India, for some time now, has single-mindedly designed policies that reduce the cost of borrowing capital, but this has clearly failed to unleash animal spirits. Further, reductions in corporate tax in September 2019 made no impact in boosting private capital and reviving growth in subsequent quarters. Actually, banking on private investment for economic recovery when the economy is wrapped in acute uncertainty is essentially futile. This is easy to understand: for example, home buyers, once uncertain about completion of a housing project, will never evince interest even if flats are offered at dirt-cheap rates accompanied by additional benefits. Private agents wait and watch for a predictable environment before committing their money and, therefore, cannot be the principal agent for guiding an economy caught in a downward spiral. Issue of timing Finally, consider the timing of labour rights suspension. Although industry associations and government are projecting these changes as necessary for enticing FDI relocating from China, this is only a cover for the unique opportunity provided by the lockdown. In other times, such a violent attack on the fundamental rights of workers would lead to widespread protests and massive strikes. Both instruments are toothless now; protests are prohibited by lockdown rules and strikes are meaningless when production days are lost anyway. However, this exposes the authoritarian nature of the state, and every section of society must come together to protect the rights of workers. This is essential for destroying the rights of one section of society makes the rights of other sections of society vulnerable as well. For example, the plight of migrant workers will now spread to the working class as a whole, and industrial accidents such as the ones in Bhopal and Vishakhapatnam could engulf larger sections of society. It is time we see these interconnections and resist unitedly. Anamitra Roychowdhury teaches at the Jawaharlal Nehru University and is the author of the book, ‘Labour Law Reforms in India: All in the Name of Jobs’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/labour-rights-are-in-free-fall/article31610989.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Can Facebook’s self-regulation ensure information hygiene?||We have spent a decade discussing the problems posed by social media platforms and looked at issues such as filter bubbles, echo chambers, information silos, viral virus, misogynist trolling and amplification of toxic content. The platform companies have now started acknowledging their role in vitiating the information universe and undermining the lives of millions. Last week, Facebook apologised for its role in the 2018 anti-Muslim riots in Sri Lanka. An in-house probe found that incendiary content on the social media platform may have led to the deadly violence. The social media conglomerate has also launched a content oversight board, which will be able to overturn decisions by the company and Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg on whether individual pieces of content should be allowed on Facebook and Instagram. Google has launched its Google News Initiative to help journalism thrive in the digital age. Will these initiatives and measures by the platform companies be enough to sanitise our news and information environment? I can reasonably claim that I am not only familiar with the works of two members of the 20-member Facebook oversight group — Alan Rusbridger, former editor of The Guardian and Nighat Dad, the Executive Director of Pakistan’s Digital Rights Foundation — but also respect their contribution to a free and fair information space. Mr. Rusbridger has written an explanatory note on why he agreed to join the team. He sees the social media giant at the intersection of three humongous crises in front of credible information space: information chaos, crisis in free expression and crisis in journalism. Though he is guarded about the final outcome, Mr. Rusbridger said: “There is, in my view, no excuse for not trying. The balancing of free expression with the need for a better-organized public square is one of the most urgent causes I can imagine.” I am a votary of self-regulation but I am sceptical of the mechanism created by Facebook. First let us look at some of the proven instances of its gross failures: the anti-Muslim riots in Sri Lanka, the violence against Rohingya in Myanmar, the sordid details of the harvesting of personal data by Cambridge Analytica and the mindless censoring of the Pulitzer Prize winning photograph of the “Napalm girl” that spoke about the barbarity of war. People from other regions have their own lists of failures of the platform. Dealing with localised propaganda Second, there is a huge gap between the magnitude of Facebook’s size, reach, linguistic diversity and influence on one hand, and the limitation of the oversight board to look into localised propaganda on the other.  As of the first quarter of 2020, Facebook has 2.6 billion monthly active users and the number surpasses 3 billion people a month if one includes the other popular products of the company such as WhatsApp, Instagram and Messenger. It is available in 101 languages. For instance, how will the oversight board handle a toxic posting in Tamil? I have noticed a growth in bigotry, hate and abuse in Tamil-language postings. These do not reveal their true colour if they are subjected to mechanical translation without providing adequate context. What are the mechanisms to capture the gravity of the polarising content that fills cyberspace? Problematic posts should be removed on a war footing because there is a political dividend for inciting hate. We must remember that the grim images broadcast by the killer in two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand could not be controlled or moderated by the social media giants despite the conscious and collective decision to take down the offensive video. There seems to be no mechanism to prevent reposting of offensive content, which was taken down. Rebecca MacKinnon, a fellow with the University of California National Center for Free Speech and Civic Engagement and co-founder of Global Voices, is convinced that the oversight board “cannot stop the exploitative collection and sharing of user data, or stop the company from deploying opaque algorithms that prioritize inflammatory content to maximize engagement.” I tend to agree with her. In print and broadcast organisations, there is a shared value system between all the stakeholders which makes self-regulation an effective mechanism. But there is no unifying objective between Mark Zuckerberg, his hand-picked corporate board, Facebook’s nearly 2.5 billion users and the oversight board, despite the individual credentials of its members. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/can-facebooks-self-regulation-ensure-information-hygiene/article31610994.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Licensed to beat, abuse and kill||On April 16, Mohammed Rizwan, 19, a resident of Chhajjapur village, Uttar Pradesh, ventured out of his home to buy biscuits. He was beaten with rifle butts and lathi s by the police, while other residents purchased their groceries from the shop. In a battered condition, he managed to reach home. After some home remedies did not work, he was admitted to the local hospital where he died in the wee hours of April 18. There was nothing unusual in this incident or similar acts of brutality committed by the police as migrant workers, taking an arduous inter-State journey, attempted to return to their respective villages. In several places, elderly people were ruthlessly beaten. The high-handedness shown by the police during the various phases of the ongoing lockdown even led to a petition being filed with the State Human Rights Commission of Tamil Nadu. The petition called for the institution of a grievance redressal mechanism to inquire into the excesses committed by law enforcement personnel. Taking a serious view of police brutality, the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative in March issued a set of guidelines for police, in no uncertain terms prohibiting them from using force on persons violating the lockdown regulations. In this regard, the Bengaluru Police later set an example by divesting the policemen of batons and instead engaging in the use of persuasive methods to seriously implement the lockdown. Trained to be fierce A legacy of the British rulers, brutality has been a tenacious characteristic of the Indian police and precious little has been done to eradicate it. Most policemen are made to believe from their very training days that brutality is inherent in the very role to be performed by then, to instil a certain degree of fear in the citizens. This attitude is reinforced by training instructors, who abuse and even manhandle errant trainees. Unfortunately, posting to police training institutions is considered a punishment. Having picked up the traits and armed with the power to take anyone to task, policemen exercise their unbridled power to beat, abuse and even kill after they have donned the khaki s. Application of force is definitely a legal requirement and it is justified by arming policemen with lathi s, pistols, rifles and other modern weapons. But the mere issue of lathi s and weapons in no way justifies their indiscriminate use on innocents or even the accused. Prudence demands that these weapons be used in a just manner. Though the subject of human rights is a part of training curriculum in training institutions, no seriousness is attached to it. Those who violate human rights are seldom taken to task. By virtue of being from the same fraternity, most superiors overlook instances of brutality as they consider it an innate demand of the job of policing. True, there are officers who brook no unjustified use of force but their numbers are few. To make matters worse, seldom are senior officers seen on the spot when their junior-ranking personnel are on duty. Presence of senior officers with their personnel in the field not only will be conducive in building up a spirit of camaraderie with them, it will also serve as an opportunity to brief the personnel and deter them from any wrongdoing. Difficult working conditions On the other hand, it is true that long duty hours tend to test the patience of policemen. Working under tremendous pressure without any respite for relaxation, some of them are constantly on a short fuse and tend to vent their ire on innocent victims. Large vacancies in police forces are also responsible for this state. Against the UN recommendations of 222 police personnel for a population of one lakh, most States in our country have around 100 personnel only. Proper planning in recruitment, training, in service courses and close supervision by senior officers can go a long way in reducing, if not eradicating, brutality by policemen. M.P. Nathanael is a retired Inspector General of Police, CRPF||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/licensed-to-beat-abuse-and-kill/article31610992.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Peaking||In 106 days since the first laboratory-confirmed novel coronavirus case was reported on January 30, India surpassed China’s tally of 84,038. As on May 15, India had over 85,500 cases and the death toll stood at 2,752, as against 4,633 in China. There are only 10 other countries that have more cases than India. At the same time, the toll in the U.S. alone went past the total number of cases in China, while the total case load crossed 1.4 million. On March 18, when China reported zero fresh cases, India had just 162 cases and three deaths. Despite the country being under lockdown since almost end-March, the number of fresh cases and deaths reported each day has continued to rise steadily — on average, over 3,600 cases have been reported daily since May 8. This is of serious concern as contrary to the advice of WHO, India has not fully utilised the precious lockdown period to increase manifold the number of tests carried out daily while simultaneously tracing, isolating and treating COVID-19 patients. That even during the lockdown India has witnessed the shortest time, of 13 days, for cases to double compared with 14 other countries that have the most cases reported is testimony to the wide spread of the virus. A reason for this could be that cases in other countries, barring Russia and Brazil, have already peaked or are about to. Unfortunately, even as the number of cases has crossed 94,700, India is yet to begin investigating community transmission despite the strongly suggestive findings of sentinel surveillance among those hospitalised for severe acute respiratory infections. Given the high rate of asymptomatic transmission, high viral resurgence is inevitable when the lockdown is lifted. With over 11,200 cases, Tamil Nadu has the second highest number of cases next to Maharashtra (over 33,000). But with over 4,000 tests per million, TN is testing nearly two times more than Maharashtra. It is not the States that report more cases that is a cause for concern, but those that have reported fewer. Active case finding and testing of most people with a travel history early during the lockdown could be one reason why Karnataka has reported fewer cases. Similarly, surveillance and case finding of those with a travel history early on have been good in Andhra Pradesh and could be a reason why it has reported fewer than 2,400 cases so far. Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal have reported high case positivity. This could either be due to good surveillance, which is unlikely, or wider spread of the virus in the community, at least in specific regions. If the latter be the case, India can expect huge numbers to be reported in the coming weeks. No State, including Kerala, can thus be complacent.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/peaking/article31610982.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||Farm gate in focus||The Centre’s objective of using the COVID-19 crisis to usher in an Atmanirbhar Bharat saw Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman focus Friday’s tranche of announcements on farm sector reforms. The centrepiece was a Rs. 1-lakh crore fund to finance agriculture infrastructure projects at the farm gate and produce aggregation points. Given that the lack of adequate cold-storage facilities continues to extract a high price on farmers and the agrarian economy by way of post-harvest losses, especially in perishables, the targeted outlay is a welcome step. The decision to channel the funds to agricultural cooperatives, farmer producer organisations, rural entrepreneurs and start-ups is also encouraging as it lays the onus of creating the appropriate infrastructure or logistics solution largely on the principal beneficiaries, the farmers themselves. The Minister also unveiled a Rs. 10,000 crore scheme to promote the formalisation of micro food enterprises. Suggesting a cluster approach focused in different regions on signature produce, Ms. Sitharaman said the goal was to assist unorganised enterprises in scaling up food safety standards to earn the products certification and build brand value. The package, though, may be more beneficial in the longer term than providing any immediate relief from the lockdown-exacerbated distress in the rural hinterland. Crucially, the Minister also announced three reform proposals that are ostensibly aimed at enabling better price realisation for farmers by removing restrictions and facilitating enhanced marketing freedom. These include amendments to the 1955-vintage Essential Commodities Act that would effectively hollow out the legislation by deregulating cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onions and potato. While the Economic Survey, in January, had recommended jettisoning the “anachronistic” Act, the law has nonetheless remained a vital tool in the government’s armoury for protecting consumers from irrational volatility in the prices of essentials by tamping down on black marketeers and hoarders. While the Act’s provisions do have scope for an overzealous bureaucracy to harass even an honest exporter, who may have paid a fair price to the farmer and stocked produce for shipment overseas, total deregulation for foodgrains is fraught with the risk of future inflationary food price spikes. The other two proposals are also of concern. While one seeks to bypass the APMC regime through a central law that would allow farmers the freedom to sell across State borders, the other proposes a framework for farmers to enter into pre-sowing contracts that would purportedly help assure them of offtake volumes and prices. Both the changes, once enacted, could privilege market forces without necessarily safeguarding food security. Surely, it would be in no one’s interest to throw the baby out with the bathwater.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/farm-gate-in-focus/article31610983.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Task Force’ for Peace in Cambodia||The 11-nation Asian and Pacific conference on Cambodia ended today (May 17, Jakarta) with the setting up of a “task force” of the Foreign Ministers of Indonesia, Malaysia and Japan to initiate action by the United Nations and other countries for an effective solution to the Cambodian situation. The conference, attended by Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, Laos, South Vietnam, the Philippines, South Korea. Japan, Australia and New Zealand, besides Indonesia, urged in a joint communique that “all foreign troops be withdrawn from Cambodia and hostilities be stopped” and also that all parties respect the sovereignty, neutrality and territorial integrity of Cambodia. Towards this end the members of the 1954 Geneva conference and all interested parties were urged to hold talks to convene an early international conference “to find a just, peaceful and effective solution” to the Cambodian situation. The Foreign Ministers who participated in the conference decided to place their views before the United Nations and apprise all UN members of the gravity of the situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/task-force-for-peace-in-cambodia/article31610991.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||This really is paper gold||What is a sovereign gold bond (SGB)? Sovereign gold bond is a substitute for holding physical gold. The bonds are issued by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on behalf of the government and is a bond denominated in gold. The government issues such bonds in tranches at a fixed price that investors can buy through banks, post offices and also in the secondary markets through the stock exchange platform. What are the benefits of buying SGB? These bonds are backed by a sovereign guarantee and can also be held in demat form. Further, they are priced as per the underlying spot gold prices. Hence, investors who want to invest in gold can buy the bonds without worrying about safekeeping of physical gold along with locker charges, making charges or purity issues. Plus, these bonds offer an interest at the rate of 2.5% per annum on the principal investment amount. While the interest on the bonds are taxable, the capital gains at the time of redemption are exempt from tax. These bonds can also be used as collateral for availing loans from banks and NBFCs. How are the bonds structured? SGB has a fixed tenure of eight years, though early redemption is allowed after the fifth year from issuance. Since the bonds are listed on the exchange, these can be transferred to other investors as well. The bonds are priced in rupees based on the simple average of closing price of gold of 999 purity, published by the India Bullion and Jewellers Association for the last three business days of the week preceding the subscription period. At the time of redemption, cash equivalent to the number of units multiplied by the then prevailing price would be credited to the bank account of the investor. How was the latest tranche priced? The latest tranche, which closed for subscription last week, was priced at Rs. 4,590 per gram. Those who apply online were eligible for a discount of Rs. 50 per gram. Reports suggest that RBI will again issue such bonds in June, July, August and September.  Are there any risks in investing in SGB? Capital loss is a risk since the bond prices would reflect any change in gold prices. If gold prices fall, the principal investment would fall proportionately.  The latest tranche, which closed for subscription last week, was priced at Rs. 4,590 per gram||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/this-really-is-paper-gold/article31610978.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. nod for re-opening sports complexes||The latest guidelines on the extension of lockdown from the central government have finally opened up the spectre of training for athletes across the country, with caveats. “Sports complexes and stadia will be permitted to open only for sports activities. “However, spectators will not be allowed,” the MHA note on Sunday said. This would allow athletes stuck in various SAI centres to resume training. While this would allow non-contact sports to start training almost immediately, those with full or partial contact would be looking for further clarity. “We still need to clarify if all sports complexes are open or only training centres? The SAI centres are in any case not open to general public but every sport is different, so let us wait a day to know the details,” IOA president Narinder Batra said. The restrictions, however, mean only training facilities are likely to begin at the moment. There is also uncertainty on the complexes that can be opened up, since a lot of them also belong to various State governments. However, the MHA guideline also says “all social / political / sports / entertainment / academic / cultural / religious functions / other gatherings and large congregations” are still prohibited, thereby casting a doubt on the resumption of sport. BCCI reacts Taking into the account the restrictions on air travel and movement of people till May 31, the BCCI has announced that it will wait before organising a skill-based training camp for its contracted players. It added that it will work in sync with the State Associations to chalk out a programme for skill-based training at a local level. The Tamil Nadu Government has given a relaxation for athletes preparing for National/International events to train with independent coaches after seeking the necessary permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/govt-nod-for-re-opening-sports-complexes/article31611114.ece
18 May 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Indian men’s basketball on upward curve’||India’s basketball captain Vishesh Bhriguvanshi feels that contrary to popular opinion, the men’s team is gradually improving, thanks to the best facilities being made available. “After 2014, our graph was going up till ’17. But, after my injury and the ban on Amritpal Singh, it started to come down. Now it is on the up [again],” he said. Quality players, coach “We have quality players, a good coach (Serbian Veselin Matic) and the environment is perfect, especially in the last 6-8 months,” added the 28-year-old, during a video conference, organised by the Indian Basketball Players’ Association, on Sunday. About the Asian qualifiers in February where India lost a close match to Bahrain (68-67) and defeated Iraq comfortably (94-75), Bhriguvanshi said: “I am happy with the way we played because ours is a largely young team and many players didn’t have international exposure.” India has done relatively well in 3x3 basketball at the top level, and amid calls for more aggressive promotion of the same, the skipper stated that the focus should continue to be on 5x5 and not 3x3. Vinod Muthukumar, who conducts the Ramu Memorial Tournament in Mumbai, and Anil Kumar, who was instrumental in getting Harlem Globetrotters to the country in 2006, felt that for more all-India tournaments to take place, like in the 1980s and ’90s, there have to be better facilities for the fans and more scouting for sponsorship.  “We have to change the business model,” said Anil. “The existing one is dead. We need to use technology better. Without that, tournaments will never happen. Better marketing “With better marketing strategies, things will improve. The Basketball Federation has a role and so do the organisers.” Vinod said that Indian basketball needed a “big push with good media support and overall good ambience for the sport.” Former India men’s skipper Ram Kumar, former India women’s captain Geethu Anna Jose, Troy Justice, Vice-President, NBA Head of International Development, and Marc Pulles, NBA Operations Director, also spoke.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-mens-basketball-on-upward-curve/article31611183.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chess Gurukul beats Superkids to title||Two-time National champion Murali Karthikeyan did the star turn for Chess Gurukul before teammate R. Praggnanandhaa put the finishing touches to a 4-3 triumph against Superkids in the Superfinal of the inaugural Sukooon Resorts Indian Chess.com League on Sunday. With only a few seconds remaining of his allotted time, Praggnanadhaa defended brilliantly to hold Nihal Sarin and take Chess Gurukul to the title. The draw meant Gurukul’s top player Aravindh Chithambaram was not required to play. Karthikeyan, modest as ever, said, “I’m happy, I could contribute to my team’s success. I’m glad I could play some very strong moves.” Gurukul skipper R.B. Ramesh hailed his players for holding their nerve. “We, at Chess Gurukul, enjoy and try to be creative and not go after results. That’s the reason our board order went by ratings, without trying to be clever about it,” he said. “Karthikeyan played very well after coming in when we were down by two points,” he added. After Divya Deshmukh (2), also Ramesh’s student, put Superkids ahead by accounting for R. Vaishali and stunning Aditya Mittal, Karthikeyan beat Divya, N. Srinath and Raunak Sadhwani. Thereafter, Karthikeyan was held by in-form Arjun Ergaisi (0.5). As per rules, the draw packed off both GMs. This left Gurukul’s No. 2 Praggnanandhaa needing only a draw against Nihal Sarin to decide the title.  The results:   Superfinal: Chess Gurukul bt Superkids 4-3 (R. Vaishali lost to Divya Deshmukh; Adtiya Mittal lost to Divya; M. Karthikeyan bt Divya; Karthikeyan bt N. Srinath; Karthikeyan bt Raunak Sadhwani; Karthikeyan drew with Arjun Ergaisi; R. Praggnanadhaa drew with Nihal Sarin).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chess-gurukul-beats-superkids-to-title/article31611108.ece
18 May 2020||Coimbatore,||COVID-19 took us by surprise: TNSA secretary Ravi Krishnan||Even as the Tamil Nadu Shooting Association (TNSA) was busy preparing to host the State shooting championship in Chennai this summer, the pandemic rattled its plans. “We were in consultation with major clubs regarding their availability, but COVID-19 arrived faster than those bullets and took us by surprise,” TNSA secretary R. Ravi Krishnan told The Hindu on Saturday. He said the State championship attracts the biggest crowd. “There are about 1500 shooters taking part, of which 1200 figure in the pistol and air rifle events. Also, 80 per cent of them are school and college goers, and they come with their families for the championship that is spread for over a week to ten days.” “There is a great deal of hard work and planning that goes in to organising this. None of us expected to be trapped in a situation like this,” he added. So, has the TNSA dropped the plan to host the championship? “We are keeping our fingers crossed but, the way the pandemic is spreading, I believe it may not happen before September,” said Ravi Krishnan. He also revealed that even if it begins after September, the shooters may have to start from scratch. “It may take 10 to 15 days for them to get back to form. Also, most weapons (rifles & shotguns) are built to suit a particular person. So, if a shooter has added or lost weight, the whole setting of the weapon has to be changed. That may take a day or two as well.” However, he insisted the TNSA is prepared. “Chennai will be ready to host it even tomorrow. I believe it will happen this year,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/covid-19-took-us-by-surprise-tnsa-secretary-ravi-krishnan/article31611181.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pranjala making the most of Australia sojourn||Y. Pranjala is in Australia under lockdown, but using the time to regain physical fitness and iron out health issues, with the full attention of ATP Director of Medical Services Paul Ness. “I arrived in Australia on February 23, on a three-month visa. The visa expired on May 13, and the process of extending it is on,” said Pranjala in an Instagram conversation with the tennis fraternity. Hands-on training “Paul has 23 years of experience at the Australian Open, and working with top players. He has put no restrictions on my movements. He works out with me every day, even beats me in the sprints. It is a lot of fun. He picks me up from my place and drops me back,” said Pranjala, quite grateful to Ness and his wife Stacey. Pranjala even had a memorable birthday this year despite being away from home, thanks to Stacey. Hitting against the wall to begin with, Pranjala later found a friend from Hyderabad studying in Melbourne — Himakesh Sankineni — to practise on a private court. Pranjala also expressed her gratitude to GoSports Foundation for funding her Australian visit and for getting her treated by one of the best physiotherapists in the world. Winning back-to-back singles titles in $25,000 ITF women’s tournaments in Lagos in 2018 has been the high point of her career so far, and Pranjala thanked coach Stephen Koon for her progress — physically, technically and mentally. Good advice “I started thinking better on court. I begged him to let me play doubles, but he said no. I am glad I listened to him,” said Pranjala, who rose to a career-best rank of 265. For the record, she was ranked No. 15 among juniors, won the Asian junior title and also made the doubles quarterfinals of junior Grand Slams in Melbourne and Paris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/pranjala-making-the-most-of-australia-sojourn/article31611277.ece
18 May 2020||Bengaluru,||‘My father showed me the right way’||India’s cricket captain Virat Kohli recalled how his late father Prem instilled values and principles in him that have helped shape his successful career. On the Instagram live chat show Eleven On Ten hosted by football star Sunil Chhetri, Kohli reminisced about an incident from his junior cricket days when his father stood tall as a role model. “In my home State (Delhi), sometimes things happen which are not fair. On one occasion, a certain someone did not play by the rules when it came to selection criteria. There is merit, but... “He told my father that while I had the merit to be selected, a little extra (possibly a bribe) was needed to confirm my selection,” Kohli said. “My father — an honest middle-class man who had worked hard all his life to become a successful lawyer — did not even understand what ‘little extra’ meant. My father simply said, ‘If you want to select Virat, then let it be purely on merit. I will give you nothing extra’. “I didn’t get selected. I cried a lot; I was broken. But that incident taught me a lot. I realised that I had to be extraordinary to become successful, and that I had to achieve this purely through my own effort and hard work. My father showed me the right way, through action and not merely words.” Prem passed away when Kohli was 18. “In fact, I went and batted in a Ranji Trophy match the day after he died. His death made me realise that I had to make something of my life. I think about how nice it would be if I could have given my father the peaceful retired life that he deserved,” Kohli said. Chhetri said he was a big fan of Sachin Tendulkar and stopped watching cricket after the latter retired. “I started watching cricket again only after Kohli emerged on the scene, hitting century after century. He is the most-loved sports personality in the country,” Chhetri said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/my-father-showed-me-the-right-way/article31611121.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||There will be hesitancy when sport resumes, says Dravid||Rahul Dravid reckons there could be “a sense of doubt, hesitancy and fear” initially in the minds of athletes as well as people in general when sport resumes in the post-COVID-19 pandemic world. Sense of doubt or fear “For a short period there may be a sense of doubt or fear about certain things, I am sure there will be a certain hesitancy when we get back in, also there will be certain hesitancy in terms of people,” said Dravid on Sunday, speaking alongside Olympic champion shooter Abhinav Bindra and badminton legend Prakash Padukone in the ‘Staying Ahead of the Curve-The Power of Trust’ show on Facebook Live. Fitness issues “(Regaining) match fitness, game fitness, I think that will take a little bit of time before people can confidently trust themselves and go all out... and that needs to be factored in, to give athletes enough time to be able to regain match fitness.” Dravid felt players will not forget their skills by the time activities resume and said sportspersons will quickly get their mojo back as they are used to facing challenges.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/there-will-be-hesitancy-when-sport-resumes-says-dravid/article31611109.ece
18 May 2020||MUMBAI,||‘RCB will be ready when IPL happens’||Royal Challengers Banglore (RCB) director of cricket operations, Mike Hesson, is still hopeful of the IPL taking place this year and said his franchise will be ready when it happens. “We’re still really hopeful that things will evolve and there will be an IPL this year and if it happens, then I can assure you that RCB will be ready,” Hesson said on Star Sports show Cricket Connected . Hesson said things were rightly put on hold in view of the unprecedented health crisis. “There are obviously other priorities at the moment that people are focusing on,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rcb-will-be-ready-when-ipl-happens/article31611119.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||KSFA’s Mohanraj passes away||M. Mohanraj, a governing board member of the Karnataka State Football Association and vice-president of the Karnataka Olympic Association, passed away on Sunday. He was 89. Mohanraj, who retired as an assistant welfare officer, AG’s Office, Govt. of India, had held administrative posts across sports federations such as the AIFF, KSFA, Bangalore District Football Association and the KOA. From 1978 to 1985, he also served as the manager of Karnataka State football team many times. In 1982 he was a member of the technical committee for the Asian Games held in New Delhi and was the organising secretary of the pre-World Cup Qualifying Round held at Bengaluru in 2001. He played an important role in the setting up of the Karnataka Soccer Welfare Trust and was on its board as the honourary treasurer. The KSFA condoled his death.   The Karnataka State Lawn Tennis Association (KSLTA) made a representation to Chief Minister, B.S. Yediyurrapa, urging him to allow the opening of tennis academies and coaching centres. Golf is set to be one of the first sports to get going in the State, with non-contact sports like badminton and tennis hoping to follow suit. In a media note circulated on Sunday, Priyank Kharge, the newly elected senior vice-president of KSLTA, assured the government that all physical distancing measures like a maximum of four players on the court, 5 ft distance between them and no sharing of equipment will be strictly adhered to. Regular temperature checks and sanitising routines will be carried out. The release further stated that the lives of nearly 5000 coaches, markers and ball boys were at stake and resumption of activities would come as a relief for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ksfas-mohanraj-passes-away/article31611112.ece
18 May 2020||COLOGNE,||Cologne waste two-goal lead in draw with Mainz||Cologne had to sweat to rescue a point in a 2-2 draw with visitors Mainz 05 in the Bundesliga on Sunday. On Saturday, Monchengladbach beat Eintracht Frankfurt 3-1.  The results: Cologne 2 (Uth 6-pen, Kainz 53) drew with Mainz 2 (Awoniyi 61, Kunde 72). Saturday: Frankfurt 1 (Silva 81) lost to Monchengladbach 3 (Plea 1, Thuram 7, Bensebaini 73-pen) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/cologne-waste-two-goal-lead-in-draw-with-mainz/article31611110.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ankita, Divij for Arjuna||The All India Tennis Association is set to nominate Ankita Raina and Divij Sharan for the Arjuna Award and coach Nandan Bal for the Dhyan Chand honour.PTI||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ankita-divij-for-arjuna/article31611122.ece
18 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Documenting the struggles of women||Sulema, a middle-aged mother, has always had a tough life. Her husband died young and her in-laws kept her child but pushed her out to retain ownership of her husband’s stake in the family property. She fought an arduous legal battle to retain the three-year-old boy’s custody but lost any claim to the land. “Still, she could hang on as she worked as a housekeeper for a wealthy family in Tezpur,” said Asma Khatun, a social activist, who has been in touch with Ms. Sulema. Since the beginning of the lockdown, Ms. Sulema was unable to go to her workplace. Facing destitution and realising that she could not feed her child, she reached out to the employers she had served for three years. Such testimonials — about 200 in number — from working women of lower income groups and their distress in surviving the lockdown has been meticulously documented over the last two months by Asma Khatun and 35 of her co-workers at the Women’s Leadership Training Centre (WLTC), an Assam-based feminist organisation that also works for cis and transsexual people. Last Friday, WLTC published a book of short stories — Her Lockdown Story — based on these testimonials. Among them is Ms. Sulema’s account, titled ‘Dust Storm’. Ms. Sulema walked a distance to reach her employers’ house and all along she thought, as she narrates in her story, “They are good people.” She was hopeful that her employers would not “rob her off her justified income”. “She could buy vegetables and eggs, lentils…she was so occupied in her thoughts, making a mental-list of household things to buy, the long wait felt not long enough. However…they…refused to pay,” the story relates. How Ms. Sulema, who allowed WLTC to use her name in the book, is surviving the lockdown with her child to care for is another story, said Ms. Khatun. WLTC has plans to collect about 1,000 stories, said the organisation’s executive director Banamallika Choudhury, who edited Her Lockdown Story . The stories have been written and illustrated by U.K.-based scientist Shreejata Gupta. More stories “The plan now is to make the book more comprehensive, mainly focusing on working women, and to make our workers, like Asma, write the stories in multiple languages, with translation into English. Finally, [we want to] to take it to the government so that some notification is issued to release the salaries,” Ms. Choudhury said. In the next phase, Ms. Khatun and her colleagues will collect stories of working women in tea gardens, factories, households and farms. “Maybe we will ask Sulema to write for us now,” said Ms. Khatun.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/documenting-the-struggles-of-women/article31611124.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 08:44 IST,||Sudoku - May 18, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-18-2020/article31611860.ece
18 May 2020||New Delhi,||Life in a hostel||Where college campuses should have seen hectic end-of-year activity – farewells, exams, parties – these once bustling spaces are now mostly empty. The lockdown has meant that academics have gone online, friends don’t meet, and there’s a general sense of uncertainty. The few students who remain in hostels across Delhi-NCR, speak of how they cope with long silences and short bursts of online engagement. Hostellers have a double burden of being away from family and not having friends around either. “Currently, there are 35 out of 600 people in our particular hostel and we are not really familiar with each other. So for our free time, I either depend on walks with a friend from a different hostel or end up speaking to my parents back home,” says Salma Wasi, a second-year Ph.D scholar of modern history at Jawaharlal Nehru University. Her parents in Samastipur, Bihar, were initially very worried about how she would manage, but are now reassured because there’s regular food, despite a limited menu, she says. Quiet spaces At Saureesh Namagiri’s hostel in Shiv Nadar University, Greater Noida, there are a little over 100 students, mostly boys and some girls. “The college never really reopened after the mid-semester break in mid-March,” he says of the period that was too short for him to go back home to Madurai, where his parents and sister live. “Some people chose not to come back, and some took the opportunity to leave, sensing that there may be a problem.” Mr. Namagiri, who will soon enter his third year in management studies, says the initial weeks were tough, because Gautam Buddha Nagar, where the university is, was declared a hotspot. A week or so ago though, students were offered the option of leaving in State transport buses, but most preferred to stay on campus. Families aren’t comfortable with students taking trains back home either, fearing the quarantine process or the possibility of contracting the virus on the journey. “The university has made it clear that we can stay back and stay comfortable here,” says Mr. Namagiri. Traditional teaching methods have evolved into Microsoft Teams sessions, projects, and presentations, which he finds are all learning experiences. He is comfortable in the non-air-conditioned room he chose, and says the 286-acre campus, with its greenery, a lake, even a biodiversity park, gives students the space to move around. With bicycles provided to ride around, strong Wi-Fi, and clubs active on social media, he says, “It’s better to be on campus than home… All this time away from people is helping me get a better perspective on life.” It hasn’t been this easy for everyone though. For Ms. Wasi, there are no online classes as her coursework is over, which means she must be completely self-reliant for her work. “It is proving to be very difficult to focus on academics and I am ending up watching some movies or series on the various online platforms. Even though we are in touch with our supervisors and keep them updated with our progress, it is a challenge to concentrate under the current circumstances,” she says. Staying up at night is a recurring theme. Circadian rhythms have gone for a toss with a lack of physical activity, binge-watching, and OD-ing on screen time, considering many classes are held online and social interactions are also via Facetime or WhatsApp calls. Kiki Sakhile from Swaziland, a second-year psychology student at Delhi University’s Zakir Husain College, says she has developed an inconsistent sleep pattern, sometimes staying up through the night, at other times sleeping through the day. “There’s not much that we can do, except roam around the garden [of the International Students’ Hostel]. Most of us sit around with each other or watch Netflix.” Helplines that connect Sensing there would be a need for more robust mental health services than before, Arvinder J Singh, director, Ashoka Centre for Well-Being, Sonipat, says that as soon as the lockdown was declared, she set up a peer support system. This group of students she trained could reach out to others via personal emails or just by drawing them out of their rooms for a meal at the canteen, for instance. All counselling services moved online and a helpline was launched. “There’s a sense of loss – of choice, of decision-making, of control. But the biggest is the loss of social connection – it’s just not the same when you’re waving at people from a distance,” she says, adding that it is especially hard for those who already have anxiety, and for foreign students because they are worried about loved ones at home and vice versa. Ms. Sakhile, who is the youngest of three siblings, says it is true that in the initial days there was a great deal of worry. “We were a bit concerned because we didn’t know if we would be told to vacate hostel. There was also uncertainty because of the exams. I didn’t want to go back home and then have to return almost immediately,” she says. For many, with the long hot summer ahead, there’s still no clear plan. Some students had to make harder choices though in the suddenness of the lockdown announcement. Cindy, at one of Delhi University’s North Campus hostels, has a father with diabetes and a brother under palliative care, in Imphal, Manipur. “I had a long conversation with my family, especially my mother. We thought it best that I stay put here as their immunity is low,” says the second-year, post-graduate student of philosophy. The doers In order to keep themselves occupied, students are finding ways to engage with each other and the spaces they’re in. In Ashoka University, those in hostel have offered to work in the kitchen garden. “We are currently harvesting and planting,” says Geo Ciril Podipara from Kottayam, Kerala, who works in the student life office. “They’re also using the vegetables to cook. We had a sale, and the pay-as-you-like proceeds will go to maintaining the garden,” he says, of some of the approximately 140 students on campus. Food has become a point of coming together. At night, Mr. Namagiri (who heads the cuisine club) and those in the hostel will often assemble in the pantry that has an induction stove and a microwave. “We cook something – last night it was pakoras at about 3.30.” They are also making a short film about the life on campus. It’s a time to look at the lives of the support staff as well, some of whom may not have a choice about living on campus. Mr. Podipara talks of a woman guard who is using the opportunity to learn cycling, while another colleague takes long walks as she speaks on the phone to a loved one. “I spend my free time cleaning my room, as it is therapeutic for me,” says Ms. Cindy. “We even play badminton at times to keep ourselves engaged. It is a difficult situation that everyone is in right now,” she says. She is on the verge of finishing college, but is hopeful for the future. “I want to join the government services once my course is over,” she says. She will be studying for the civil services examination. “I want to work on women empowerment and education for children, and I feel the civil services will be the best option for me.” She is aware that with private sector job market shrinking, there will probably be more takers for government jobs, but, “I can only hope for the best. I have not really thought about Plan B yet, but if UPSC doesn’t work out I will probably look for some other government job,” says Ms. Cindy. Hope seems to be what the future is hinged on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/life-in-a-hostel/article31611286.ece
18 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Driven by penalty-fear, hostellers of DDU pay maintenance charges||Hostellers of the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya College The Hindu spoke to said that they were facing financial difficulties in paying hostel maintenance charges demanded by the college for the months of April, May and June. However, threatened with penalties and fearing backlash, they said, they hardly had a choice but to pay. While the college authorities defended the move, students complained that it was unfair as most hostellers had vacated the premises before the beginning of April. “My father has taken a loan to pay the fees” said Sanjay*, a second-year student from U.P. whose family’s hardware store has been shut since the beginning of the lockdown. “If not for the hostel, my father would not let me study in Delhi... I did not want to be thrown out,” he said. Relaxation appeal Following a notice to hostellers on April 7, asking them to pay Rs. 19,500 as part of the fourth quarter fee, which includes electricity, water, housekeeping and mess charges, students had written to the college principal, appealing for a relaxation. With mess charges removed, students were asked to pay a revised amount of Rs. 7,500, payable by May 11, failing which they were informed that they would be charged Rs. 50 per day as penalty for non-payment. Sagar*, a second-year student, whose father had not been paid his salary for the last two months and is expecting a salary cut, said that he wrote to the college authority, asking for some relaxation, but was told to pay the fees and that reimbursement would be made at a later date. Others such as third-year student Mohan*, son of a wheat farmer, said that he had written to the college but did not receive any reply. “We have paid our annual rent and developmental charges... on what basis are they asking for electricity and water charges?” he said. Gopal’s* father, a production manager at a notebook factory, has not received his salary either. “My parents are saying they will arrange the money somehow. But why are they [college] doing this when almost no one has been living in the hostel?” he asked. College Principal Hemchand Jain said that a sanitation worker is employed at the hostel and since at least eight students have stayed back, the charges for electricity, water and cleaning need to be paid. He said if people were facing financial crisis, the matter would be looked into before extending any relaxation, stressing that it could not be extended to all. *names changed to protect identity  My father has taken a loan to pay the fees... I did not want to be thrown out Sanjay Second-year student||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/driven-by-penalty-fear-hostellers-of-ddu-pay-maintenance-charges/article31611291.ece
18 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘We are labourers, but we too have some self-respect’||“We are labourers, but we too have some self-respect,” said Monu, recalling his “embarrassing” experience. After leaving to his home in U.P. from Haryana’s Panipat in a State bus on Sunday morning along with fellow labourers, he was forced to return to his rented accommodation. More than two months after the lockdown and after running from pillar to post for the past 48 hours to seek permission to go back to their home towns, 40-odd labourers, mostly daily-wagers in textile industry, boarded a State bus to U.P., but it stopped after travelling around 10 km and then returned a few hours later to drop them back at their rented houses. “The landlord allowed us inside. But we too have some self-respect,” said Monu. He recalled that the labourers staying in different areas of Panipat received calls from officials late on Saturday and were asked to reach the local bus stand around 5 a.m. to board a bus to their home towns. “We walked several km with luggage to reach the bus stand. It was after seven hours of wait that they finally allotted us a bus around noon. But after travelling around 10 km towards Karnal, the bus stopped. Four more buses were parked there. We were told that the service will soon resume,” said Monu. After waiting for a couple of hours, the labourers decided to walk with the luggage. “At this point, the driver started the bus and told us to stay inside. But they took a U-turn from under the flyover and returned to Panipat,” said the 25-year-old resident of Lakhimpur in U.P. RTI activist P.P. Kapoor said it was a cruel joke on the labourers. He said the government had failed to arrange food for them and now was not able to even send them back homes with dignity. ‘Law and order issue’ Deputy Commissioner Hema Sharma said the buses carrying around 200 migrants had to return from Karnal after the police received a message regarding some law and order issue in U.P. She said the State buses went to Shamli, but were not allowed towards Saharanpur. Ms. Sharma added that the workers would go on Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/we-are-labourers-but-we-too-have-some-self-respect/article31611279.ece
18 May 2020||New Delhi,||JMI student arrested in connection with riots||A 24-year-old student of Jamia Millia Islamia was arrested in connection with riots here last December, officials said on Sunday. The accused, Asif Iqbal Tanha, is a resident of Abul Fazal Enclave Thokar, Shaheen Bagh, they said. He is a third-year student of B.A. Persian language. He is also an active member of Students Islamic Organisation, the police said. “He has been arrested in connection with a case which was registered at Jamia police station on December 16, 2019, related to riots in the Jamia area in which he is named an accused,” a senior police officer said. He was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Saket court. He was remanded to judicial custody till May 31, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jmi-student-arrested-in-connection-with-riots/article31611289.ece
18 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Bring back 56 pregnant nurses stranded abroad’||The United Nurses Association has approached the Delhi High Court seeking direction to bring back 55 pregnant nurses stranded in Saudi Arabia and one in Kuwait due to the lockdown. The association said all the 56 pregnant nurses have serious medical issues as most of them are in the 3rd trimester of their pregnancy and are staying alone. The petition claimed that even though most of the nurses were duly registered with the Indian Embassy at Saudi Arabia for prioritised repatriation in the first phase of ‘Vande Bharat Mission’, they were not considered by the Centre.  The plea said since the nurses are healthcare workers, they are exposed to hazards that put them at risk of infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/bring-back-56-pregnant-nurses-stranded-abroad/article31611278.ece
18 May 2020||May 18 2020 00:00 IST,||On foot for food||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/on-foot-for-food/article31611288.ece
18 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Taking online exams tough for J&K students’||Students in Jammu and Kashmir would face severe difficulties taking online examinations as proposed by Delhi University, since they have access to only 2G services, a student from the Union Territory has written to the Lieutenant-Governor of J&K, appealing to look into the matter. “We are a group of about 100 students from J&K presently doing our studies from DU,” wrote Hitesh Panotra. Writing on their behalf, he highlighted that given the limited access to the internet, students were not even able to attend online classes. Given DU’s recent decision to conduct online examinations for students in the final semester, Mr. Panotra wrote that it would be impossible for students from J&K to take part in the exams, which would consequently affect their “academic performance and mental health”. He said that appeals had been made to the Dean of Examinations as well as the Vice-Chancellor, but in vain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/taking-online-exams-tough-for-jk-students/article31611290.ece
