23 May 2020||Kolkata /Bhubaneshwar,||PM announces Rs. 1,000 cr. aid for Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday announced a rehabilitation package of Rs. 1,000 crore for West Bengal and Rs. 500 crore for Odisha after an aerial survey of the devastation caused by cyclone Amphan. “An advance assistance of Rs. 1,000 crore will be arranged by the government of India, so that the State government does not face any major hardship during these difficult times,” Mr. Modi said following the survey of affected areas with Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and Governor Jagdeep Dhankar. “In addition Rs. 2 lakh will be given from the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund to the family of the deceased and Rs. 50,000 each for the seriously injured,” Mr. Modi added. The death toll from the cyclone rose to 80 on Friday with eight more bodies being recovered. It is expected to rise as more bodies were found by disaster management teams and sent for postmortem, officials said. The number of fatalities is likely to go up as many places are still inaccesable due, officials added. The State government had announced a relief and rehabilitation package of Rs. 1,000 crore on Thursday and a compensation package of Rs. 2.5 lakh to the families of the deceased. Indicating that the “State and the Centre should work together at this hour of crisis”, Ms. Banerjee said the Prime Minister had witnessed the large-scale damage in North and South 24 Paraganas. “For an hour Prime Minister witnessed the damage. From Rajarahat, Bhangar, Hasnabad, Sandeshkhali, Basirhat, Hingalganj (North 24) to Patharpratima, Namkhana, Kakdweep, Basanti (South 24) — the entire area was shown aerially. The entire area is flooded, dams on rivers collapsed. I have also shown photographs of Kolkata indicating the damage,” Ms. Banerjee said. Following the survey, Mr. Modi and Ms. Banerjee met at Basirhat in North 24 Paraganas. Senior State officials briefed the Prime Minister. Following the briefing, Mr. Modi the State government will conduct a detailed survey of the extent of the damage. A more extensive aid package is expected after the submission of the report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pm-announces-rs-1000-cr-aid-for-bengal/article31655294.ece
23 May 2020||KARACHI,||Pak. plane with 98 on board crashes near Karachi||A passenger plane with 98 people on board crashed in a crowded neighbourhood on the edge of the Jinnah International Airport near Karachi on Friday after what appeared to be engine failure during landing. Karachi Mayor Wasim Akhtar said at least five or six houses were destroyed as the domestic flight operated by the Pakistan International Airlines crashed. Smoke billowed from the site where the flight came down, some roofs had caved in, and debris lay scattered in streets as ambulances rushed through crowds. Local TV stations reported that three persons in the front row of the aircraft survived and aired footage of a man on a stretcher, identified as Zafar Masood, the head of the Bank of Punjab. Seemin Jamali, executive director at the nearby Jinnah Hospital, said 17 dead bodies and six wounded persons had been brought in. There were no estimates of casualties on the ground. Pakistan’s Prime Minister Imran Khan tweeted: “Shocked & saddened by the PIA crash... Immediate inquiry will be instituted. Prayers & condolences go to families of the deceased.” Deeply saddened: Modi Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet said he was deeply saddened by the loss of life due to the crash. A transmission of the pilot’s final exchange with air traffic control (ATC) indicated that he had failed to land and was circling around to make another attempt. “We are proceeding direct, Sir — we have lost engine,” a pilot says. “Confirm your attempt on belly,” the ATC responds, offering a runway. “Sir - mayday, mayday, mayday...Pakistan 8303,” the pilot is heard saying before the transmission ends.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/pak-plane-with-98-on-board-crashes-near-karachi/article31655292.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Maharashtra pushes India tally to record 6,510 cases||With 2,940 cases recorded by Maharashtra alone, Friday marked yet another new high in daily COVID-19 cases. Data from State health departments show that with the addition of 6,510 cases, there have been a total 1,24,525 confirmed cases with 69,140 active infections and 51,666 recoveries country-wide. Fatalities increased by 148, to take the total death toll to 3,720. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, taking charge as the chairman of the World Health Organisation (WHO) executive board on Friday, said in a release: “Today we have a mortality of 3% only. In a country of 1.35 billion, there are only 0.1 million COVID-19 cases. The recovery rate is above 40% and doubling rate is 13 days. I am aware that I am entering this office at a time of global crisis on account of this pandemic. We all understand that there will be many health challenges in the future and all these challenges demand a shared response.” V.K. Paul, chairman of Empowered Group-1, set up to tackle the COVID-19 threat, said at a press conference: “Because of the lockdown, India has been able to limit the virus in a manner where 80% of active cases are in just five States (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh). More than 60% cases are in five cities, including Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad and the spread of COVID-19 infection has remained limited to certain areas. This also gives confidence to open up other areas. It is so far an urban disease.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/maharashtra-pushes-india-tally-to-record-6510-cases/article31655290.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Now, complaints in 24-hour ‘quarantine’||With a number of COVID-19 cases surfacing among Delhi Police personnel, a police station in east Delhi has begun ‘quarantining’ complaints. The initiative aims at minimising physical contact between policemen and people visiting the station. Madhu Vihar police station personnel are not touching written complaints for a period of 24 hours after receipt. Station House Officer Rajeev Kumar said “complaints are quarantined” before they are picked up for further proceedings. Not only are the complaints ‘quarantined’, the police station has an iron that is used on the complaint sheet for heat treatment to kill any possible viruses in case of emergency. Mr. Kumar said whenever a person comes with a complaint, the duty officer takes a picture on his phone and reads it. The person is then asked to put the complaint in a file kept on the table after which it is uploaded to the computer and an acknowledgement of receipt is sent on the complainant’s mobile phone. “In case the complaint needs to be immediately touched, the policemen iron it first before holding it,” said the SHO. At the police station, briefings by the SHO are sent on WhatsApp in the morning and the staff also share documents online as far as possible. “Video calls are preferred to meeting in person,” said Mr. Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/now-complaints-in-24-hour-quarantine/article31655520.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||Fourth consecutive single-day high in Delhi COVID-19 cases||Delhi witnessed yet another biggest single-day jump with 660 new COVID-19 cases reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 12,319. This is the first time more than 600 new cases have been reported over a 24-hour span. Health bulletins released by the Delhi government in the past three days had also recorded biggest single-day increases.  14 more deaths Friday’s bulletin also reported 14 more deaths, taking the total number of fatalities to 208, but all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the 12,319 cases, 5,897 people have recovered and there are 6,214 active cases. Six more areas in South West district were declared as containment zones, authorities said on Friday. The number of such zones in Delhi now stands at 79, up from 69 on May 20. The revisions were initiated after the Health and Family Welfare Department on Monday raised the issue of a decrease in the number of containment zones even as the number of cases registered a steady increase.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fourth-consecutive-single-day-high-in-delhi-covid-19-cases/article31655524.ece
23 May 2020||HUBBALLI,||Injured crew evacuated from merchant vessel off Karwar||A crew member of a merchant vessel who had suffered burns was evacuated and given timely medical aid in an operation conducted by Sagar Prahari Bal (SPB) off the coast of Karwar on Thursday. According to a press release issued by the Karwar Naval Base, following a request received through Karwar Port Trust for emergency evacuation of a crew member of mv Vardman who had suffered stained severe burns on his face due to oil spillage at high temperature on Thursday, Sagar Prahari Bal carried out the operation. Upon receiving the request, a Fast Interceptor Craft from Sagar Prahari Bal was pressed into service and the 24-year-old oilerman from the merchant vessel was evacuated and provided immediate medical care. According to the release, the entire operation was completed within an hour, though the sea was rough. The injured oilerman, an Indian national, is a native of Berhampur, Odisha. He has been shifted to a hospital in Karwar where his condition is said to be stable, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/injured-crew-evacuated-from-merchant-vessel-off-karwar/article31655559.ece
23 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports highest single-day spike with 42 cases||Kerala on Friday reported its highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases with 42 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. While 40 of the cases were returnees from other States and abroad, two persons developed the disease through contact with known/unknown sources of infection. However, even as the State is bracing itself for a major surge in the coming days, it is taking a conscious stand to welcome all its people home, fully confident that with the right precaution and aggressive containment measures, the crisis could be managed, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Everyone would be taken care of, and the best of medical treatment would be offered, he added. The focus now would be on improving intensive management of COVID-19 as the number of infected people would go up in the coming days, he said. Of the 40 returnees, 17 are expatriates from foreign countries and 23 from other States, especially Maharashtra. Kannur reported 12 cases, Kasaragod seven, Palakkad and Kozhikode five each, Thrissur and Malappuram four each, two from Kottayam, and one case each was reported in Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Wayanad. Of the two contact cases, one is a health worker in Kozhikode. The other case is in Kannur. Two persons have recovered from the disease. Kerala has so far reported 732 cases, of which 216 persons are undergoing treatment. A total of 512 persons have so far recovered. The number of people under surveillance has increased to 84,258. Among them, 83,649 are on either home or institutional quarantine, while 609 are admitted to hospitals. Till date, Kerala has tested samples from 51,310 persons, of which, 49,535 have been negative. Of the 7,072 sentinel surveillance samples collected from select groups in the community and sent for testing, 6,630 have been negative. 14-day quarantine The Chief Minister said people returning to Kerala would have to undergo the mandatory 14-day quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/highest-single-day-spike-in-state-with-42-cases/article31655634.ece
23 May 2020||MUMBAI,||RBI cuts repo rate again, down to 4%||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) further reduced the key interest rate or the repo rate by 40 bps on Friday, after a yet another out-of-turn Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meeting as the COVID-19 pandemic induced lockdown continues, albeit with calibrated relaxations. The central bank also extended the loan repayment moratorium for another three months till August 31. The six-member MPC announcement has reduced the repo rate to 4% with five members of the panel voting for the steep cut while one member, Chetan Ghate, voted for a 25 bps cut. The MPC also decided to continue with the accommodative stance ‘as long as it is necessary to revive growth and mitigate the impact of COVID-19 on the economy’, while ensuring that inflation remains within the target, RBI said. Demand collapse RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das termed the risk to growth outlook “gravest”. “Domestic economic activity has been impacted severely by the two-month lockdown. The top six industrialised States that account for about 60% of industrial output are largely in red or orange zones,” Mr. Das said. “High frequency indicators point to a collapse in demand beginning in March 2020 across both urban and rural segments,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/rbi-cuts-repo-rate-again-down-to-4/article31655283.ece
23 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||HC orders CBI probe into action against Vizag doctor||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Friday ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation to investigate the Dr. Sudhakar case. A Division Bench comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice K. Suresh Reddy asked the CBI to probe into the case for police allegedly using excessive force while taking the doctor into custody and also directed the investigating agency to look into the larger conspiracy as has been alleged by Dr. Sudhakar. It has also directed the CBI to file the investigation report within eight weeks. According to lawyers who represented the petitioners, the High Court took cognisance of a report from a Visakhapatnam District Magistrate, who stated that there were six injury marks on the doctor, which was missing from the government’s report. The Bench also viewed in detail the videos circulated, along with the counter-affidavit filed by the Chief Secretary. Since the local police in the opinion of the court could not be entrusted with the investigation, the CBI was directed to register a case based on the statement before the Magistrate. Arrest On May 17, Dr. Sudhakar was taken into custody by the Visakhapatnam police after they tied his hands, allegedly beat him and dragged him into an autorickshaw, for reportedly creating a ruckus on the National Highway. He was earlier suspended for levelling allegations against the State government for not providing N95 masks and PPE kits to the doctors while treating COVID patients during the lockdown period. According to the police, he was allegedly in an inebriated condition during the incident. He was sent to King George Hospital for alcohol test, where the doctors certified the presence of alcohol in the blood and was later sent to Government Hospital for Mental Care for his mental assessment, said Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena. The doctors at the mental hospital also certified that the was suffering from ‘acute and transient psychosis’, he added. Dr. Sudhakar is currently in the Government Hospital for Mental Care for 14-day observation period. The footage of Dr. Sudhakar’s arrest had gone viral and IMA had written to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to take action against the policemen concerned. Mr. Meena had suspended the constable, who was seen beating the anaesthetist. Meanwhile, senior police officers were of the opinion to approach the Supreme Court, as they questioned the validity of the statement recorded by the Magistrate from a person who is certified to be suffering from a mental illness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-orders-cbi-probe-into-action-against-ap-doctor/article31655224.ece
23 May 2020||UDUPI,||COVID-19 lab to soon come up on govt. hospital premises in Udupi||A COVID-19 lab will be set up at the District Government Hospital here in about a month at a cost of Rs. 1.45 crore. A 2,000 sq ft building on the hospital premises is being renovated to set up the lab. The lab is being set up as per the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The equipment for the lab will cost about Rs. 1 crore and will be brought here soon. Already, a microbiologist has been appointed to the lab, which will be called Viral Diagnostic Lab. “The appointment of 12 lab technicians, three data entry operators and three Group D workers for the lab is in process,” District Surgeon Madhusudan Nayak told The Hindu . The staff at the lab is expected to work in four shifts. With the number of COVID-19 cases increasing, this lab will help in getting results of the throat and nasal swabs of the patients faster. “We expect this lab to start functioning in three to four weeks,” Dr. Nayak said. At present, there is only one COVID-19 lab in the district and it is located at the Kasturba Medical College and Hospital in Manipal. Earlier, the nasal and throat swabs were being sent to labs in Shivamogga, Hassan or Mangaluru for COVID-19 test.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-lab-to-soon-come-up-on-govt-hospital-premises-in-udupi/article31655561.ece
23 May 2020||Chennai,||T.N. allows autorickshaws to operate||The Tamil Nadu government has permitted autorickshaws and cycle rickshaws to ply in the State, other than in Greater Chennai Police limits and COVID-19 containment zones, from Saturday. Only one passenger will be allowed and the window of operations will be from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., according to a statement issued by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday. The drivers should have sanitisers for use by passengers, and both drivers and passengers must compulsorily wear masks, it added. The vehicles should be sanitised at least three times a day and drivers should regularly wash their hands with soap, the statement said. The Chief Minister also requested people to extend full support and cooperation for measures taken by the government to contain the spread of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-allows-autorickshaws-to-operate/article31655385.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||HC sets aside IPS officer’s suspension||Senior IPS officer A.B. Venkateswara Rao won the battle against his suspension as the Andhra Pradesh High Court ordered its revocation by setting aside the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT)’s verdict in the matter. The court directed the government to reinstate Mr. Rao and also pay salaries and perquisites for the period of suspension. Mr. Rao was charged with serious misconduct in the procurement of security equipment from an Israeli firm. He was Additional Director General of Police (Intelligence) at that time. A 1989-batch IPS officer, Mr. Rao was placed under suspension under All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969. His suspension was upheld by the CAT and confirmed by the Union Home Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hc-sets-aside-ips-officers-suspension/article31655286.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||KSDPL steps up production of drugs||Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals Limited (KSDPL) has considerably increased the production of drugs during the past two months as part of the government’s COVID-19 containment efforts. An official release said here on Friday that 16 crore tablets, 2.66 crore capsules, 1.8 lakh litre injection fluids and oral rehydration salt solution were manufactured between March and May 18. The total production is worth Rs. 27 crore. Earlier, the company’s monthly production was 2.6 crore tablets and 79 lakh capsules. The drugs have been handed over to the Kerala State Medical Services Corporation and the corporation would supply it to government medical colleges and hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/ksdpl-steps-up-production-of-drugs/article31655699.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Scorched slum||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scorched-slum/article31655522.ece
23 May 2020||Jaipur,||U.P. resorting to gimmicks, says Pilot||Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Friday accused the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh of indulging in “political gimmicks” on the issue of Congress offering to provide buses to ferry migrant workers during the lockdown. Mr. Pilot said the Congress had made arrangement of buses when even the Centre had dragged its feet on helping out the migrants. Mr. Pilot, who is also Pradesh Congress Committee president, said at a press conference here that the political tussle on the issue, with the U.P. government creating hurdles, registering cases and arresting Congress leaders, had depicted the BJP’s “narrow mindset.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/up-resorting-to-gimmicks-says-pilot/article31655525.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,||786 cases take State’s tally past 14,000||The number of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu crossed the 14,000-mark after 786 persons tested positive on Friday. The State reported four deaths, taking the toll to 98. Chennai’s tally climbed to 9,364, with 569 testing positive. As many as 846 persons were discharged. Of the 14,753* cases, 7,128 persons have recovered from COVID-19, taking the recovery rate to 48%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/786-cases-take-states-tally-past-14000/article31655386.ece
23 May 2020||UDUPI,||Construction workers stopped; truck seized||The police stopped 11 migrant workers going to Rajasthan on a container truck from Mangaluru, at Karkala in Udupi district on Thursday night. According to the Karkala police, a group of five migrant workers from Barkur in Udupi district was trying to board the truck at Pulkeri Junction in Karkala, when some locals saw that there were already workers (from Mangaluru) inside the truck and brought it to the notice of the police. The police immediately reached the spot and stopped the workers from travelling. These construction workers from Mangaluru and Barkur wanted to return to their native places in Rajasthan. The police then contacted the construction site owners in Mangaluru and Barkur and sent the workers back with them. The container truck has been confiscated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/construction-workers-stopped-truck-seized/article31655562.ece
23 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Face shield for police officers||The State government has issued face shields for police officers. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Friday that the Indian Medical Association (IMA) would repurpose standard-issue raincoats and gumboots for use as personal protection equipment. The police have opened domestic conflicts resolution centres in all districts. The cells received 340 petitions, of which the police amicably resolved 254 grievances. Mr. Vijayan asked the police to prosecute people who trespass on railway tracks. Traders cautioned He said the police would prosecute traders who falsely rebrand expired goods and attempted to palm them off to unsuspecting consumers. He said the police should ensure that buses and autorickshaws did not take more passengers than the allowed capacity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/face-shield-issued-to-police-officers/article31655659.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||India reaches out to Pak. to fight locusts||India has reached out to Pakistan to counter a locust invasion which threatens to destroy crops and undermine food security in south and southwest Asia — a region where the COVID-19 pandemic has already disrupted farming. An official source who did not wish to be named said India had proposed a trilateral response in partnership with Pakistan and Iran to combat the desert locust wave sweeping across the Afro-Asian region. “India has suggested to Pakistan that both countries coordinate locust control operations along the border, and that India can facilitate supply of Malathion, a pesticide, to Pakistan,” the official said. Desert locusts pose a major threat to food security in the region, including India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-reaches-out-to-pak-to-fight-locusts/article31655281.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||One more COVID death in State||Andhra Pradesh has reported one COVID-19 death in the last 24 hours. The death was reported in Krishna district. The total deaths so far stand at 55. Fifty-one persons recovered and were discharged from hospital. While 8,415 samples were tested during the last 24 hours, 62 cases were found to be positive. Of this, four from Chittoor and 14 from Nellore were linked to the Koyambedu market in Tamil Nadu. The total positive cases in the State stands at 2,514. Of this, 1,731 were discharged and remaining are undergoing treatment. The total number of positive cases in the State are 2,667. It includes 2,514 positive cases from Andhra Pradesh and 153 cases from other states. There are 856 active cases in the State. It includes 728 active cases from Andhra Pradesh and 128 from other States. Also, 1,756 are discharged from hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/one-more-covid-death-in-state/article31655287.ece
23 May 2020||Raichur,||Three arrested||The police arrested three men in connection with a kidnap case registered at the Shaktinagar Police Station in Raichur district. According to a release from Superintendent of Police C.B. Vedamurthy here on Friday, the police arrested the three on the charge of kidnapping and issuing a threat to a contractor Harshan and demanding a ransom of Rs. 20 lakh on May 7. They also got Rs. 5 lakh transferred online on May 8 to their account, he added. He gave their names as Mohamamd Gouse, alias Shaikh Gouse, Venkatesh and Jawid Hussain.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/three-arrested/article31655556.ece
23 May 2020||Gurugram,||No curbs on industries but traffic throttled||Though the Haryana government has allowed industries to work with full strength and permitted the opening of shops, markets and private companies, the restrictions on movement across Delhi-Gurugram border continue to hamper smooth running of commercial and industrial establishments. However, the actual implementation of the restrictions on the border has slackened.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-curbs-on-industries-but-traffic-throttled/article31655518.ece
23 May 2020||BENGALURU,||SSLC, II PU exams to be held later for some||SSLC and II PUC students in containment zones will not be able to write the exams scheduled to be held in June and July, respectively, but will be given opportunity to write the supplementary examination and treated as fresh candidates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sslc-ii-pu-exams-to-be-held-later-for-some/article31655330.ece
23 May 2020||BENGALURU,||State notifies 10-hour work shift for 3 months||The State government on Friday notified a 10-hour work shift per day, up from eight hours, for a period of three months. Similarly, the number of weekly working hours is up from 48 to 60.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/state-notifies-10-hour-work-shift-for-3-months/article31655329.ece
23 May 2020||Chennai,||T.N. not in favour of resuming flight services||With the spike in COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, the State government has opposed resumption of domestic flights connecting cities in the State, till the month-end, and might take up the matter with the Centre, an official said on Friday. The immediate concern of the government is to screen all passengers arriving in the State and keep track of the infected, if any. The Union Civil Aviation Ministry is set to resume the services from Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tn-not-in-favour-of-resuming-flight-services/article31655388.ece
23 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Three die in Telangana; Kerala adds 42 cases||Three more patients succumbed to COVID-19 in Telangana on Friday, taking the toll in the State to 48. Andhra Pradesh reported one virus death in Krishna district. The focus was also on Kerala as it reported its highest single-day spike in cases, with 42 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. While 40 cases were returnees from other States and abroad, two persons developed the disease locally. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that even as Kerala was bracing itself for a surge, it was taking a conscious stand to welcome all its people home, fully confident that with the right precautions and aggressive containment measures, the crisis could be managed. Of the 40 returnees, 17 were expatriates from foreign countries and 23 from other States, especially Maharashtra. Kannur reported 12 cases; Kasaragod seven; Palakkad and Kozhikode five each; Thrissur and Malappuram four each, besides two from Kottayam and one case each in Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Wayanad. Of the two ‘contact’ cases, one was a health worker in Kozhikode and the other was in Kannur. Two persons recovered from the disease. Kerala has so far reported 732 cases of COVID-19, of which, 216 persons were under treatment. A total of 512 persons recovered. The number of people under surveillance rose to 84,258, of whom 83,649 were either on home or institutional quarantine, while 609 were in hospitals. A.P. toll now 55 Andhra Pradesh’s fatalities rose to 55 with the latest death. On the other hand, 51 persons recovered and were discharged. Among 8,415 samples tested in a day, 62 cases were positive. Of these, four from Chittoor and 14 from Nellore were linked to Koyambedu market in Chennai. The total positive cases in the State stood at 2,514, of which 1,731 were discharged and remaining were under treatment, while another 153 cases were from other States.  138 cases in Karnataka In Karnataka, a total of 138 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Friday. The highest number of cases was from Chickballapur at 47, followed by Hassan with 14, Raichur 10 cases and Bengaluru Urban five.  Telangana’s toll on Friday rose to 48. Besides, 62 more samples tested positive for the virus. The new cases included 42 from Greater Hyderabad, one from Rangareddy and 19 were migrants. Of 1,761 cases detected till date, 670 were active. 786 new cases in T.N. The number of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu shot past the 14,000-mark after another 786 persons tested positive on Friday. The State reported four more deaths taking the toll to 98 and Erode district was no longer in the green zone with one person testing positive after 37 days. Chennai’s overall case tally climbed to 9,364, with 569 of the 786 patients testing positive in the city. Of the 14,750 cases, 7,128 persons had recovered from COVID-19. The State’s total of active cases stood at 7,524.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Hyderabad and Chennai Bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/four-die-in-telangana-ap-kerala-adds-42-cases/article31655239.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition demands a ‘true stimulus’||Leaders of 22 Opposition parties on Friday accused the Union government of “unabashedly usurping the power of the State governments” during the COVID-19 pandemic, with Congress president Sonia Gandhi alleging that the spirit of “federalism” had been forgotten as all power is now concentrated in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). The parties put up a charter of 11 demands, including a cash transfer of Rs. 7,500 a family, free rations, transportation of migrant workers, restoring parliamentary functioning and a revised stimulus package — “a true fiscal stimulus in order to stimulate demand in the economy.” Joint statement In a joint statement, the 22 Opposition parties that met for nearly four hours via videoconferencing, asserted that the Centre has failed to discharge its duties in a timely manner, and stated “it is not time for showmanship or one-upmanship.” The meeting was attended by the Chief Ministers of West Bengal, Maharashtra and Jharkhand, Mamata Banerjee, Uddhav Thackeray and Hemant Soren, respectively. Other senior leaders included Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Janata Dal(S) supremo H.D. Deve Gowda, National Conference leader Omar Abdullah, DMK chief M.K. Stalin, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI leader D. Raja and RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav. The Bahujan Samaj Party, the Samajwadi Party and the Aam Aadmi Party were absent. “That the present government has no solutions is worrying; but that it has no empathy or compassion for the poor and vulnerable is heartbreaking. The government has also abandoned any pretence of being a democratic government ...The spirit of federalism... is all but forgotten,” Ms. Gandhi said. The meeting began by condoling the loss of lives in West Bengal and Odisha because of Cyclone Amphan, and urged the Centre to declare it a national calamity. All the three Chief Ministers criticised the Centre for delaying the dues. Ms. Banerjee said her State was facing a double whammy with the COVID-19 pandemic and the cyclone. “The economic crisis is getting unbearable to handle and there is no money. It is getting very difficult for us,” she added. The meeting saw sharp attacks from Mr. Thackeray on the Narendra Modi government. According to sources, he said, the BJP-led Union government had been unresponsive towards non-BJP State governments. The parties agreed that the economic plan announced by the Centre is tilted towards supply side measures and has little to spur the demand. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi compared the sudden announcement of lockdown with demonetisation and called the government strategy unscientific. He said the lockdown was announced when the COVID-19 cases were few, and now we were talking about lifting it when the cases were spiralling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/opposition-demands-a-true-stimulus/article31655252.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Airlines make Aarogya Setu mandatory||All airlines have made the government’s contact-tracing app, Aarogya Setu, a pre-requisite for booking a flight, despite concerns over privacy and data surveillance due to ambiguities in the Centre’s guidelines for resumption of air travel from May 25. IndiGo, the largest airline in the country, which will operate 450 flights to begin with, requires passengers to “download the Aarogya Setu app on your phone to be able to fly”. Additionally, passengers will also have to “fill an online health declaration before being issued the online boarding pass”, the carrier said in a mail to customers. Vistara, SpiceJet and AirAsia India, also, announced similar measures. All airlines, barring GoAir, have opened flight bookings. The move by airlines come despite Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri clarifying at a press conference on Thursday: “If you don’t have the app or the phone instrument is not compatible, it doesn’t mean you will be deprived of air travel. You will be given a self-declaration form to fill.” Mr. Puri was responding to a question on ambiguities in the guidelines prescribed by the Ministry which, at certain stages of the journey, provides travellers an option to fill up a self-declaration form and at other stages, prescribes mandatory use of the app. This has also resulted in each airline interpreting the advisory differently. A senior official of the Ministry said while the app was not compulsory, passengers would be “nudged” to download it. The preface to the guidelines issued on May 21 by the Ministry states, “a self-declaration/ Aarogya Setu App status (for compatible device) would also be obtained that the passenger is free of COVID-19 symptoms. Passengers with “Red” status in Aarogya Setu App would not be permitted to travel.” Similarly, in the section for measures to be adopted by airlines, the preface recommends: “Airlines should devise a system that web-check-in or tele check-in is possible only when the passenger certifies the status of their health through the Aarogya Setu App or a self-declaration form.” But contrary to these protocols, if a passenger does not have the app when he or she reaches the airport then “the passenger should be facilitated to go to a counter provided by the airport where Aarogya Setu can be downloaded. Children below fourteen years of age would be exempt from this requirement,” according to the measures suggested for airports to follow. As a result, Vistara said in a press statement that it will accept passengers for flight bookings only “after certification of their health status on the mandatory contact tracing Aarogya Setu app”. In response to a query, Vistara replied, “We will ensure strict compliance with all guidelines/SOPs of MoCA (Ministry of Civil Aviation) including the requirement of self-declaration form by passengers in case they do not have the Aarogya Setu app.” “Wearing a mask and downloading the Aarogya Setu App will be mandatory for passengers,” said SpiceJet in its statement. Air Asia says passengers must do both. “Guests must mandatorily web check-in, complete their self-declaration form and download the Aarogya Setu app.” An official of another airline explained why it has made the app compulsory for passengers despite the Minister's remarks. “It’s not mandatory as we know but not having (the app) means undergoing thermal screening, temperature check or downloading the app at the airport. (Having the app) ensures a more hassle free experience.” he said. The Ministry of Home Affairs on May 17 backtracked on the app being mandatory and suggested that employers ensure that it is downloaded “on best effort basis”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/airlines-make-aarogya-setu-mandatory/article31655265.ece
23 May 2020||Kolkata,||Storm of rage in battered Kolkata||On Friday evening, a few hundred residents of Naktala in south Kolkata took to the streets, blocking a key road connecting the Tollygunje Metro station to a large neighbourhood further east, Garia. Their ire was directed at local councillor Susmita Dam. “For the past 50 hours, there is no electricity,” said a resident, an information technology professional who spoke on the condition of anonymity. “Thus water pumps are not working and houses are without water. The trees are not cleared and neither have the lamp posts been put in place. Every department is blaming the other and we are in darkness as the temperature is rising,” the resident added. The fear and confusion that prevailed on Wednesday, when the cyclone tore through the city, is fast turning into anger as thousands of fallen trees remain entangled in electric, telephone, and television cables across the city’s streets. Blocked roads have disrupted traffic. The members of Udayan Sangha who count the Trinamool’s secretary general Partha Chatterjee as a key patron and wield influence in Naktala, could be seen trying to calm down the residents. A similar protest at the Santospur connector on the Eastern Metropolitan bypass shut an arterial road in southeast Kolkata, leading to chaos and frayed tempers. “They are not even allowing ambulances,” said a young woman who was trying to take her mother to the hospital. “She is in a serious condition due to kidney trouble,” she said. Ms. Dam wasn’t immediately reachable by phone. The term of the Kolkata Municipal Council’s elected councillors has lapsed but elections have been delayed by the COVID-19 outbreak. The KMC’s appointed administrator Firhad Hakim had said on Wednesday that normalcy would be restored in 48 hours. Poll worries The Trinamool’s local leaders are a worried lot with two elections due inside a year. “First COVID and now Amphan before KMC and next year’s Assembly polls; we have to significantly buckle up,” said a party official, who declined to be identified. “Sad part is most of our local leaders, particularly MLAs and MPs, have left everything to Didi and are not on the ground.” “There cannot be so many simultaneous protests at around the same time — 8 p.m. — unless it is coordinated. Only some political network can coordinate such simultaneous protests,” a Trinamool Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/storm-of-rage-in-battered-kolkata/article31655277.ece
23 May 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala film crew returns from Jordan||The 58-member crew of Malayalam film Aadujeevitham , including director Blessy and lead actor Prithviraj, reached the Cochin International Airport at Nedumbassery here on Friday after being stranded in Jordan since March 16 following the COVID-19 outbreak. They arrived in a special Air India flight AI 902 (Amman-Delhi-Kochi) as part of the second phase of the Union government’s Vande Bharat initiative. The flight carried 187 Indian nationals, including the film crew. The health authorities asked the crew to follow quarantine procedures after completing the mandatory medical check-up on arrival. The shooting of the movie was progressing at the Wadi Rum desert when the global pandemic hit normal life. Expressing relief over their safe return, Mr. Blessy said they were able to shoot crucial scenes involving Prithviraj after the authorities in Jordan eased restrictions by the last week of April. “However, we were not able to complete all the scenes planned there as a few actors were not able to reach Jordan following the cancellation of international flights. The pending work can be resumed only after the situation turns normal at the global level,” he said. The filmmaker said that they were staying at a desert camp and had enough stock of food and other essentials. “The number of positive cases in Jordan is low compared to other countries. We were mostly indoors when the curfew was in place following the COVID-19 outbreak,” he said.  Aadujeevitham (Goat Days), based on the best-selling novel by writer Benyamin, narrates the real-life experience of a Gulf escapee in the 1990s. The music is by A.R. Rahman. K.U. Mohanan is behind the camera and Oscar-winner Resul Pookutty is handling sound design.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-film-crew-returns-from-jordan/article31655227.ece
23 May 2020||JAIPUR,||U.P. is resorting to gimmicks: Pilot||Rajasthan Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Friday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government in Uttar Pradesh of indulging in “political gimmicks” on the issue of the Congress offering to provide buses to ferry migrant workers during the COVID-19 lockdown. Mr. Pilot said the Congress had made arrangement of buses when even the Centre had dragged its feet on helping out the migrants. Mr. Pilot, who is also Pradesh Congress Committee president, said at a press conference here that the political tussle on the issue, with the Uttar Pradesh government creating hurdles, registering cases and arresting Congress leaders, had depicted the BJP’s “narrow mindset”. “A ruling party blaming the Opposition for its initiative to extend help to poor migrants is unheard-of in Indian politics,” Mr. Pilot said, pointing out that AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra had offered to send 1,032 buses, which were parked for three days on the Uttar Pradesh border. Mr. Pilot also slammed the Centre for its failure to chalk out a concrete policy for transporting the migrant workers to their native places. “Thousands of migrants are walking hungry on roads. Uttar Pradesh refused to accept the offer made by the Congress in this situation. Would it have diminished their stature?” State Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas demanded that Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath be booked for defying the Centre’s orders on plying of buses. “In its guidelines for the COVID-19 lockdown, the Central government had clearly stated that no bus transporting the migrants would be stopped ... till June 30,” he said.  Responding to the Uttar Pradesh government’s allegation that Rajasthan had charged it Rs. 36 lakh for providing additional buses to send students stranded in Kota back home, Mr. Khachariawas said it was the Uttar Pradesh government which had offered to pay the bill for additional buses and the diesel provided.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/up-is-resorting-to-gimmicks-pilot/article31655243.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Paul says forecast showing cases going to zero was misinterpreted||That India would see a decline in new COVID-19 cases by May 16 was a “misinterpretation,” V.K. Paul, who leads the government’s COVID committee on managing medical emergency, said at a media briefing on Friday. “No one has ever said that the number of cases would go down to zero at a particular date, there is a misunderstanding, which needs to be corrected. For the misunderstanding, I feel sorry and apologise,” he said in a response to a question that sought an explanation. As The Hindu has previously reported, on April 24, Dr. Paul, NITI Aayog member and internationally acclaimed paediatrician, had made a detailed presentation at the daily briefing of the Health Ministry detailing the lockdown’s impact in curtailing the spread of the novel coronavirus. This is the first time Dr. Paul has acknowledged the issue at a public forum. His presentation suggested that the first lockdown had prevented India from seeing a 1,00,000 cases in April. It had also slowed the rate of transmission and increased the doubling time, the period it took for cases to double, to about 10 days. However, included in this was a PowerPoint slide that projected the benefits from “extending the lockdown” beyond April 15. This had a curve showing the number of active cases plummeting to zero by May 16. While it’s true Dr. Paul didn’t actually say the cases would go down to zero, a video of the day’s presentation available on YouTube shows him using that slide to demonstrate the lockdown’s impact in slowing down the increase in cases. From May 3, India would hit its peak in adding daily cases at a little above 1,500 and this would drop to 1,000 by May 12, and down to zero by May 16, this curve showed. The Hindu had reported on April 25 that members of his own committee didn’t agree with that assessment. While the presentation was made available to the media and heavily criticised on social media, electronic copies of that slide no longer appeared to show the questionable curve in new cases declining to zero.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/paul-says-forecast-showing-cases-going-to-zero-was-misinterpreted/article31655263.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||Visa, travel curbs relaxed for limited category of OCIs||Visa and travel restrictions were relaxed by the Union Home Ministry on Friday for a limited category of stranded Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cardholders to come to the country. The life-long visa to OCIs was temporarily suspended in March in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The first lockdown that began on March 24 and ended on April 14 has seen three extensions. The current phase ends on May 31. Several OCIs said they felt discriminated as it stopped them from flying to India on the special flights being arranged by the government under the Vande Bharat Mission. The categories allowed by the MHA on Friday include minors born to Indian nationals abroad and holding OCI cards, those who wish to come to India on account of family emergencies like death in family, couples where one spouse is a cardholder and the other is an Indian national and they have a permanent residence in India and university students who are cardholders (not legally minors) but whose parents are Indian citizens living in India. On May 7, the MHA issued an order prohibiting international travel to and from 107 immigration check-posts until further orders. The travel restrictions would not apply to any aircraft, ship, train or any other vehicle deployed for bringing back the specific categories of OCI cardholders who are stranded abroad. The OCI scheme, operational since December 2005, provides facilities like life-long visa, exemption from registration with Foreigners Regional Registration Office and parity with NRIs in economic, financial and educational fields except purchase of agricultural properties, political and public employment rights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/visa-travel-curbs-relaxed-for-limited-category-of-ocis/article31655259.ece
23 May 2020||Mousuni,||Mousuni licks its wounds as leaves turn yellow, resorts stare at certain doom||The inhabitants of the sinking island of Mousuni woke up to a bright sunny morning and an unusually calm sea on Friday, two days after Cyclone Amphan wreaked havoc on the island. As the residents of the boat-shaped island, with a population of about 30,000, started clearing the debris, they noticed something unusual about the trees. All of them had turned yellow, their leaves withered and sporting a lifeless look. “All the trees have burnt,” island resident Subhas Bhandari said. Mr. Bhandari, who had refused to move to a cyclone shelter on Wednesday, watched the storm from one of the holiday homes he manages at Salt Bheri, the southernmost tip of the island on the Bay of Bengal. “After hours of wind and rain, it suddenly turned all quiet at 4 p.m., when the eye of the storm passed. Then the rain ceased and gusts of very high speed winds lifted water [droplets] from the seas,” Mr. Bhandari said. Affirming what Mr. Bhandari had described, many other islanders said the gale was so strong that seawater droplets were carried and deposited on the trees by the wind. Every tree on the island, even mighty banyan trees that had stood their ground, had turned yellow and appeared dead. About 90% of houses had suffered damage, said Serafat Ali Sheikh, a resident. Mr. Sheikh had just finished washing the leaves of two guava saplings with water from a deep tube well in a bid to revive them. “We were able to evacuate 10,000 people from their homes and keep them in cyclone shelters,” said Mr. Sheikh, who is the husband of the panchayat pradhan. “This helped us ensure that nobody died.” Successive high-intensity cyclones — Fani followed by Bulbul and now Amphan — had made people on the island more cautious. The islanders said the latest storm was far more destructive. “I wasn’t able to complete the repairs of the portions affected by Cyclone Bulbul and now my home is completely damaged,” S.K. Ajharuddin, a resident, said. “Whatever little we are earning we are putting in building and rebuilding homes.” Business loss The impact of the cyclone was so powerful that the sheds of the newly constructed holiday homes were not only blown away but smashed into little pieces. The island, which is located about 120 km south of Kolkata, had found a chance to stay afloat with these holiday homes that were built a couple of years ago. Facing the bay, 42 such “resorts” and homes had sprung up, providing a steady influx of tourists. Swapan Koyal, who was clearing debris from the roof of one such “resort”, said that after the lockdown, the cyclone had struck a major blow to the new-found vocation of the islanders. In a few resorts, the damage is so extensive that the residents are at a loss about which part of the debris to start clearing. In one resort, a solitary mule stood forlorn, surrounded by fallen trees . About 35 km from Mousuni is Lot No. 8, an important intersection for connectivity in the Sunderbans. Vessels from this point leave for Sagar Island and Ghoramara. Behind the massive electricity pylons meant to transmit power to Sagar, a small habitation of a dozen houses has been razed to the ground. The residents, who said that they were fishermen, were cooking in the open. “As many as 536 people had taken shelter in our school and medical centre from Tuesday to Thursday,” said Swami Adhyatmanand of the Bharat Sevashram Sangh. “The storm was so strong that a part of the roof of our structure was ripped off,” he added. The monk, while discussing what relief could be provided, said that 90% of the houses in the Kalikapur region had suffered damage. Economic activities such as betel nut cultivation had also been badly affected. Particularly galling for the region’s residents is the extent of destruction in what they have believed to be ‘sacred land’ — a place where millions of pilgrims descend every year during Makar Sankranti, to cross the river to Sagar. The most visible signs of the havoc wrought by Amphan are the trees along the entire road leading to the Sunderbans: many uprooted, some snapped in half and yet others dangling perilously atop electric poles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/mousuni-licks-its-wounds-as-leaves-turn-yellow-resorts-stare-at-certain-doom/article31655273.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Film shoots, theatres to resume in phased manner||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced on Friday that film shootings, post-production works and cinema halls, which were stopped due to lockdown, would be permitted in a phased manner keeping all restrictions and guidelines to check the spread of coronavirus into consideration. He suggested initiating the operations with indoor processes like post-production with less number of people and shootings may be allowed from June. The government will take a decision on reopening of cinema halls later. He advised shootings with as less artistes, technicians and other crew members, as possible. The number of people to be permitted at shooting sites and precautions to be taken could be discussed with Cinematography Minister T. Srinivas Yadav and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, he said. The government will come up with strict guidelines and accord permission for shoots. After the initial phase of shootings for a few days, one would get an idea on the way forward before taking a decision on reopening of theatres. A delegation comprising filmstars Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna, director Rajamouli and producer Dil Raju and others requested the CM to permit shootings and reopen cinema halls. Mr. KCR responded positively to the request, as the government was keen on keeping the film industry alive because lakhs of people are dependent on it for livelihood. Others such as Allu Arvind, N. Shanker, Trivikram Srinivas, Kiran, Radhakrishna, Koratala Shiva, C. Kalyan, Meher Ramesh and Damu were also present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/film-shoots-theatres-to-resume-in-phased-manner/article31655782.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks NIA’s response on Gautam Navlakha’s bail plea||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought a response from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to a plea by civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha seeking interim bail in the Bhima Koregaon violence case. Justice Anup J. Bhambhani asked the NIA to submit its response, and listed the case for May 27. Mr. Navlakha, who is lodged in Tihar jail since April 14 in pursuance to a Supreme Court direction, sought interim bail on the ground that due to his advanced age (67), he was vulnerable to catching viral infections in a crowded environment like a prison during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The applicant is a citizen suffering from Colonic Polyposis, Chronic Gastritis and lactose intolerance, which can be controlled only through timely and regular medication.." his plea said. While he was in NIA custody during interrogation, he was diagnosed with high blood pressure at Safdarjung Hospital, it stated. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta opposed the plea and said the grounds for interim bail were rejected by the Supreme Court when Mr. Navlakha sought an extension of his protection from arrest due to the ongoing pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-seeks-nias-response-on-gautam-navlakhas-bail-plea/article31655240.ece
23 May 2020||Mumbai,||Anand Teltumbde’s judicial custody extended till June 5||A special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday extended the judicial custody of Anand Teltumbde, an engineer and Indian Institute of Management graduate who used to teach at the Indian Institute of Technology (Kharagpur), arrested by the agency on April 14 in connection with the Elgar Parishad case, till June 5. Dr. Teltumbde was remanded to judicial custody on April 25 and is currently lodged at Taloja jail. He was kept under quarantine after an assistant sub-inspector with the NIA’s office in Mumbai, where Dr. Teltumbde was kept during his custodial interrogation, had tested positive for COVID-19. His lawyers asked the court to grant him proper medical aid as he suffered various ailments, following which the court asked the prison authorities to respond to the plea and to submit a report on medical treatment given to him by May 15. NIA had claimed that Dr. Teltumbde had links with the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) and that he was the convener of an event organised on December 31, 2017 at Shaniwarwada in Pune where provocative speeches were given by activists of Kabir Kala Mach. Meanwhile, arguments in bail applications filed by other accused in the case — poet Varavara Rao, Prof. Shoma Sen and advocate Sudha Bharadwaj — will be heard on May 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/anand-teltumbdes-judicial-custody-extended-till-june-5/article31655246.ece
23 May 2020||Bhopal,||Locust swarms attack crops in M.P.||Six swarms of locust entered Madhya Pradesh on May 17 from Rajasthan but have caused minimal crop damage so far as fields lie fallow. This is the first such invasion since 1992-93 when the swarm was much smaller, said the Madhya Pradesh Agriculture Department. “Due to lockdown, farmers in Rajasthan, who are aware about their movement, couldn’t possibly kill them in time. It’s a yearly phenomenon which was stymied each year before it reached Madhya Pradesh,” Avnish Chaturvedi, Deputy Director, Agriculture Department, told The Hindu . The swarms, which could be 1-2 km to 10-12 km long and 1.5-2 km wide, move around 100-150 km every day during daylight in the wind direction. Around late evening, they settle around greenery and attack it. “Fortunately there are no crops in Madhya Pradesh at this time of the year,” said Mr. Chaturvedi. District-level teams The State government has set up district-level teams comprising revenue, police and agriculture officials to track the swarms during the day. “After they settle somewhere around 7-8 p.m., we mobilise our local resources there. The most effective time to kill locust, using pesticide, is between 3 a.m. until around 9 a.m. when it files away,” he said. Mr. Chaturvedi admitted that once the humidity increased and crops were sown, controlling the swarms would be a challenge. “We are yet to take a crop damage assessment,” he said. On May 21, a swarm settled at a village in Neemuch district, which borders Rajasthan. Another descended on three villages in Ujjain district, and the third one on another three villages in the district. In Sheopur district, one swarm descended on a village. In all the cases, authorities mobilised tractor-mounted pumps and fire tenders to spray pesticide. Central locust control teams are also aiding efforts. Another swarm descended on two villages in Ratlam district where 65-70% control was achieved.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/locust-swarms-attack-crops-in-mp/article31655275.ece
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea for ban on Zoom: SC issues notice to Centre||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the government to respond to a petition seeking a ban on the use of video communications app ‘Zoom’ for official and personal purposes. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde issued notice to the Centre on the plea raising privacy concerns. The court said the government should file a reply in four weeks. The plea by Delhi resident Harsh Chugh said the app made users “vulnerable and prone to cyber threats.” It has alleged that the Zoom app “practices data hoarding and cyber hoarding,” which include mass storage of personal data of its users and stores cloud recordings, instant messages and files. “Zoom is reported to have a bug that can be abused intentionally to leak information of users to third parties. The app has been falsely claiming that calls are end-to-end encrypted when they are not,” the petition said. It claimed that Zoom had apologised publicly for “mistakenly routing traffic through China” where Internet is heavily monitored by the government. The plea has alleged that Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In), the nodal cybersecurity agency, has also warned Zoom users of cyber risks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ban-on-zoom-sc-issues-notice-to-centre/article31655271.ece
23 May 2020||WARANGAL,||Nine bodies recovered from well in Warangal||In all, nine bodies have been recovered from an agricultural well in Gorrekunta village under Geesugonda mandal in Warangal Rural district of Telangana over the past two days. Bodies of four members of a migrant worker’s family from West Bengal were found on Thursday. On Friday morning, police arranged to pump out the water after finding another body floating in the well. This led to the recovery of four more bodies. The dead were identified as Maqsood Alam, 50; his wife Nisha Alam, 45; their sons Shabaz Alam, 21 and Sohail Alam, 20; daughter Bushra Alam, 22; Bushra’s three-year-old son; Sriram, 35; Shyam, 40; and Shakeel 40. Residents for 20 years While Maqsood and his family were from West Bengal, Sriram and Shyam hailed from Bihar. Shakeel was a local who worked as driver in a nearby factory. Maqsood and his family had been staying at Kareembad in Warangal city for the last 20 years. He and his wife had been working at a gunny bag manufacturing unit in Gorrekunta’s industrial area since December. With the lockdown restrictions, the family was unable to go to their rented home in Kareemabad in the city and had been staying on the mill’s premises. Sriram and Shyam stayed in another room on the terrace of the building. No injuries Warangal Commissioner of Police V. Ravinder said the owner of the mill informed the Geesugonda police on Thursday morning that his employees were missing. Later in the afternoon, he informed them of four bodies in a well adjacent to the mill. “There are no injuries on the bodies. Post-mortem report will throw light on the cause of the deaths. We have formed teams to investigate the case,” Mr. Ravinder said. Geesugonda police Inspector G. Shiva Ramaiah said they suspect that financial problems in the wake of the lockdown may have driven the family to suicide. Police have moved the bodies to MGM hospital for post mortem. A case of suspicious death under Section 174 of CrPC has been registered, the Inspector said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nine-bodies-recovered-from-well-in-warangal/article31655236.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Inhuman to put dead and injured in accident in same vehicle: NHRC||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Friday issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government over reports of the bodies of the Auraiya road accident victims being transported in the same vehicle with those who were injured on May 16. The NHRC took suo motu cognisance of the media reports and asked the Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary to submit a detailed report within four weeks about the action taken against officers involved and the relief provided to the victims and their families. “The injured had suffered not only physical injuries but they were also under tremendous trauma of the fatal accident, and in that painful condition, they were forced to sit in the same vehicle where the bodies of the deceased were also kept. The public servants failed to deal with the situation sensibly,” the NHRC statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inhuman-to-put-dead-and-injured-in-accident-in-same-vehicle-nhrc/article31655247.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||HCQ cover extended to frontline workers||The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has recommended the use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) for asymptomatic frontline workers, such as surveillance workers deployed in containment zones and paramilitary/police personnel involved in COVID-19-related activities, in its revised guideline for the use of prophylaxis released on Friday evening. The previous advisory issued on April 23 provided placing the high-risk population (asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases) under chemoprophylaxis with HCQ. The Ministry has noted that studies on the prophylaxis of the SARS-CoV-2 infection at the ICMR has found there is a significant dose-response relationship between the number of prophylactic doses taken and frequency of occurrence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in symptomatic healthcare workers tested for infection. Another investigation from three Central government hospitals in New Delhi indicates that among healthcare workers involved in COVID-19 care, those on HCQ prophylaxis were less likely to develop infection, compared with those who were not on it. The benefit was less pronounced in healthcare workers caring for a general patient population. An observational prospective study of 334 healthcare workers at the AIIMS, out of which 248 took HCQ prophylaxis (median 6 weeks of follow-up) in New Delhi also showed that those taking HCQ prophylaxis had lower incidence of infection than those not taking it, the guideline noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hcq-cover-extended-to-frontline-workers/article31655260.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Call for multi-pronged strategies to make agriculture come of age||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced that the government will implement short-term and long-term strategies in future to enable agriculture come of age. The cultivation of crops in Telangana should be done in such a way that it would be in tune with the changing food habits of people, provide raw material to the agro-based industries, ensure entire crops would get sold and the sector would be in a position to compete with the world. In the coming days, the agriculture in the State should undergo a sea change, he said. Chief Minister held a meeting with experts at Pragathi Bhavan here on Friday to finalise the strategy for cultivation of crops, agri-business and food processing, in accordance with the people’s requirements and market demand. Former MLC Nageshwar, PJTS Agriculture University Vice Chancellor Praveen Rao, Agri Business College Principal Seema, ASCI Director Srinivasachari, Food and Agriculture Management advisor Gopinath K., Managing Director of the TS Seed Development Corporation Keshavulu and others attended the meeting. Necessary changes The meeting discussed changes that needed to be brought in cultivation of crops, how to increase the productivity, how to do value addition to the farmers’ produce before sending it to the market and what are the methods available now and what new changes should be introduced and how to make agricultural produce withstand global competition and what changes should be brought in use of fertilizers and chemicals etc. The experts gave various suggestions and it was decided that more such meetings be held in future to provide a new direction and guidance to Telangana agriculture. The Chief Minister said that when the State was formed agriculture was in a crisis and it got some relief due to various measures taken by the government and farmers were slowly regaining confidence. Reforms in agriculture would begin with the ensuing vaanakalam and farmers have trust that government would take measures only for their benefit. “We have farmers with expertise and land to cultivate any type of crop. When there are so many favourable factors, development in agriculture, agri-business, agri industry should be of international standards,” he said. Quick to change Mr. Rao said that efforts should be made to attract agro-based industries to the State and as a result industry and service sectors would expand. Every year situation would change for agriculture world-wide and accordingly crops should be changed instantly. Thus farmers in the State should get attuned to changing crop patterns and it would give greater yield and land fertility would improve. All these factors should be explained to the farmers in detail, he said. He also said that change should be brought in the use of pesticides and chemical fertilizers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/call-for-multi-pronged-strategies-to-make-agriculture-come-of-age/article31655582.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||RBI cuts repo rate again, down to 4%||The central bank refrained from giving a projection for GDP growth for the current financial year and stopped at saying that growth expected in the “negative territory” with some pick-up in growth impulses from the second half of 2020-21 onwards. “It is in the growth outlook that the MPC judged the risks to be gravest,” Mr. Das said. Inflation target has also been held back by the central bank. “The MPC is of the view that headline inflation may remain firm in the first half of 2020-21, but should ease in the second half, aided also by favourable base effects,” Mr. Das said. “By Q3 and Q4 of FY20-21, it is expected to fall below target. Thus, the MPC’s forward guidance on inflation is directional rather than in terms of levels. Going forward, as and when more data are available, it should be possible to estimate the path of inflation with greater certainty,” he added. Since February last year, the RBI has reduced the policy repo rate by a cumulative 250 bps, from 6.5% to 4%. And there could be further scope for a rate cut if the inflation trajectory evolves as expected, RBI said. The bank also extended the loan repayment moratorium for another three months, till August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rbi-cuts-repo-rate-again-down-to-4/article31655217.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||PM announces Rs. 1,000 crore aid for Bengal||“Meanwhile a central team will also conduct a survey in the State,” the Prime Minister said. It is a “difficult fight” as the battle against coronavirus and the one against Amphan move in two different directions, Mr. Modi said after conducting aerial survey of the flood-hit region. “To fight Corona, it is said stay at home, do not go out or maintain a distance of two yards, whereas in case of cyclone it is instructed that one needs to shift to a safe place, move out of your house. Two different types of fight West Bengal had to fight. “However, under the leadership of Mamataji, the State government has put in its full effort,” Mr. Modi said. On Thursday night, Ms. Banerjee had said at least 80 people had died in the cyclone. Later Mr. Modi, undertook an aerial survey of affected areas in Odisha along with Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik and Union Ministers Dharmendra Pradhan and Pratap Sarangi, and held a high level review here. Odisha government had said that 45 lakh people in 89 blocks were affected.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-announces-rs-1000-crore-aid-for-bengal/article31655231.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka govt. to bear cost of migrants’ travel||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday said the Karnataka government will bear the travel expenses of migrant workers returning home on trains. The facility will be extended to those travelling on Shramik Specials till May 31. The decision comes in the light of widespread opposition to its decision to charge migrant labourers the train fare, despite the Union government announcing that the expenditure would be borne by the State governments. A division bench of the Karnataka High Court, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B. V. Nagarthna, hearing a PIL petition, was also critical of the government’s stand. “The government considers migrant workers, who have come from far flung parts of our country, as our own people and it is my firm belief that they too must be supported by the State,” the Chief minister tweeted. This is in contrast to the stand the State government had taken in the High Court of Karnataka, where it said it was correct in collecting the prescribed train fare from workers in the event of their home States not depositing advance fares. The State government has been bearing the travel costs of return of migrants to the State from other parts of the country.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-govt-to-bear-cost-of-migrants-travel/article31655229.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||India reaches out to Pak. to fight locusts||India has reached out to Pakistan to counter a locust invasion which threatens to destroy crops and undermine food security in south and southwest Asia — a region where the COVID-19 pandemic has already disrupted farming. An official source who did not wish to be named said India had proposed a trilateral response in partnership with Pakistan and Iran to combat the desert locust wave sweeping across the Afro-Asian region. “India has suggested to Pakistan that both countries coordinate locust control operations along the border, and that India can facilitate supply of Malathion, a pesticide, to Pakistan,” the official said. Desert locusts pose a major threat to food security in the region, including India. A typical locust swarm, which can vary from less than one sq. km to several hundred sq. km, can devastate farmlands. A one sq. km swarm, containing about 40 million locusts, can in a day eat as much food as 35,000 people, assuming that each individual consumes 2.3 kg of food per day, says the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO). In India, small swarms of desert locusts, in the past weeks, have already arrived from Pakistan, moving east into Rajasthan, and reaching Jodhpur. “We are preparing for a worst-case scenario. Starting from the Horn of Africa, and joined by desert locusts from breeding grounds en route, one locust stream can travel over a land corridor passing over Yemen, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Iran, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan and India, impacting farmlands in Punjab, Haryana and the Indo-Gangetic plain. But another stream passing over the Indian Ocean can directly attack farms in peninsular India, and then head towards Bangladesh,” another official had earlier said. The official source said India and Pakistan had a regular mechanism, led by their “Locust Officers,” who hold six annual border meetings between June and November. This dialogue is held either at Munabao in Rajasthan or Khokhropar in Pakistan. Officials of the two neighbours are in wireless contact with each other during these months from their perches in Jodhpur and Karachi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-reaches-out-to-pak-to-fight-locusts/article31655232.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘New Nepal map based on historic documents’||Nepal’s new official map is based on historic documents dating back to the early 19th century and cannot be termed artificial, a top official in Kathmandu has said. Rajan Bhattarai, Foreign Policy Adviser to Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, said the border dispute at Kalapani region had received attention during the Vajpayee years, when a series of meetings was held between top officials of both sides, and the same should be resumed at the earliest to reach a mutually agreed solution. “Our map is not artificial. We are willing to sit across the table and discuss it with our Indian counterparts ... Our position is based on the historical documents dating back to the Treaty of Sugauli of 1816, which demarcated the shape of present-day Nepal,” Mr. Bhattarai said. Nepal launched the new official map on Wednesday, which depicts Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh as part of its territory. India’s External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava had hit out at Nepal’s claims, saying, “Such artificial enlargement of territorial claims will not be accepted by India.” He also urged the Nepali leadership for a dialogue over the issue. Mr. Bhattarai said Nepal too desired an early dialogue to find a solution but it was India that had been delaying. “We have sent two diplomatic notes to India seeking dialogue at the level of the Foreign Secretaries but India has responded without offering a date for holding a meeting. To make the matter more complicated, they have taken unilateral steps like building of infrastructure on the territory of Kalapani,” he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/new-nepal-map-based-on-historic-documents/article31655255.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||India records highest surge in a day with 6,510 cases||With 2,940 cases recorded by Maharashtra alone, Friday marked yet another new high in daily COVID-19 cases. Data from State health departments show that with the addition of 6,510 cases, there have been a total 1,24,525 confirmed cases with 69,140 active infections and 51,666 recoveries country-wide. Fatalities increased by 148, to take the total death toll to 3,720. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, taking charge as the chairman of the World Health Organisation (WHO) executive board on Friday, said in a release: “Today we have a mortality of 3% only. In a country of 1.35 billion, there are only 0.1 million COVID-19 cases. The recovery rate is above 40% and doubling rate is 13 days. I am aware that I am entering this office at a time of global crisis on account of this pandemic. We all understand that there will be many health challenges in the future and all these challenges demand a shared response.” V.K. Paul, chairman of Empowered Group-1, set up to tackle the COVID-19 threat, said at a press conference: “Because of the lockdown, India has been able to limit the virus in a manner where 80% of active cases are in just five States (Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh). More than 60% cases are in five cities, including Mumbai, Delhi, Ahmedabad and the spread of COVID-19 infection has remained limited to certain areas. This also gives confidence to open up other areas. It is so far an urban disease.” “But lockdown cannot go on forever, it is meant for a purpose which we have achieved to a very large extent. Now we have to make things difficult for the virus,” Dr. Paul said, adding that India used its lockdown period to build its medical staff strength and infrastructure. “In less than two months, we have 1,093 facilities with 1,85,306 beds; 2,402 COVID care facilities with 1,38,652 beds with oxygen facility. It has been used only in some places but preparation is national.” Warning that the country could be in for a long haul, Dr. Paul added: “We have to stay very cautious with the lockdown measures being done away with in several places across India. Since we don’t have a vaccine or medicines, awareness and caution are our best bet right now. Social distancing is vital as India still doesn’t have herd immunity. We have to work at building immunity and adopt early care seeking behaviour.” Giving details of how the lockdown has helped slow down the rise of COVID-19 cases in India, Pravin Srivastava, Secretary, Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, said: “The growth rate of COVID has witnessed a steady fall from April 3, 2020 when lockdown was able to put a brake on the speed of growth. The number of cases today would have been much higher, had lockdown not been implemented.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-records-highest-surge-in-a-day-with-6510-cases/article31655233.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Booking period for 30 special trains increased||Indian Railways on Friday increased to 30 days the advance booking period of the 30 special trains that started on May 12. These trains, which were running with an advance booking period of seven days till now, will operate along with 200 new time-tabled trains from June 1 and the Shramik special trains. For the 200 new trains, the Railways said nearly 6 lakh tickets were booked till Friday afternoon for over 12.54 lakh passengers. The online bookings for these trains opened on Thursday morning, and booking via counters and agents was allowed from Friday. “There shall be no Tatkal booking [in the 30 special trains] ...RAC/Waiting list tickets will be issued... However, waitlisted passengers will not be allowed to board these trains as per extant instructions.” Railways said. Booking of tickets will be permitted through computerised PRS counters in Post Offices and Yatri Ticket Suvidha Kendra (YTSK) licensees among others. They can also be booked online through authorised agents of the Indian Railway Catering & Tourism Corporation(IRCTC) and Common Service Centres, it added. “This will be implemented with effect from train booking date 24th May 2020 and for train starting date of 31st May 2020 onwards.” A spokesperson said a total of 2317 Shramik special trains, ferrying more than 31 lakh migrants, had run till midnight of May 21.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/booking-period-for-30-special-trains-increased/article31655268.ece
23 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM ducks questions on Sprinklr deal||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday appeared unenthusiastic to grapple with the Opposition on the ethical disputes underlying the government's controversial deal with U.S.-based data analytics firm Sprinklr. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala had challenged Mr. Vijayan to tell the public why the government had ‘recanted’ the State’s ‘surreptitious arrangement’ with Sprinklr in its affidavit filed in the High Court. Mr. Vijayan seemed reluctant to take up the gauntlet and stated that the government had declared the facts. He refused to entertain any more posers on the subject from journalists.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/cm-ducks-questions-on-sprinklr-deal/article31655637.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Inspector tests positive||An inspector of the Rachakonda Police Commissonerate tested positive for novel coronavirus on Thursday. Though he was down with fever, and had body pains and cough, the 35-year-old inspector had attended duty till Wednesday. When the temperature spiked, he was taken to a government isolation centre where his swabs were collected. After the test result came positive, he was shifted to Gandhi Hospital, and the family members were home-quarantined. Following this, samples of 35 police personnel, including the Station House Officer of the police station where he was working, were sent for tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/inspector-tests-positive/article31655600.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Order food before reaching airport||GMR’s two leading airports in Delhi and Hyderabad have come up with a first-of-its-kind contactless food ordering solution in partnership with HOI, a cognitive and intuitive travel app that helps travellers navigate the airport seamlessly. This app allows travellers to discover outlets inside the terminal to order through their smartphones. Passengers receive alerts via the app, email and SMS when their order is ready and payment can be processed online. HOI makes commuting through airports easier and hassle-free for people as there is no wait time at food courts since orders and payments can be made through HOI before reaching the airport or while waiting at the terminal. Passengers can scan through the QR code placed near outlets or directly navigate to F&B catalogue using the web version of HOI. One can either choose eat-in or collect-at-outlet option to pick their items kept ready at the outlet. The app can be downloaded on iOS or Android devices, and one needs to sign up and add the upcoming flight’s details. They will be able to access all the events happening at the airports in just a few taps. It also shows real time flight status alerts, boarding gate and belt information, airport facility information, time to gate and waiting estimates, and weather at destination, among other things, said an official spokesperson on Friday. More flights land Meanwhile, RGIA handled more evacuation flights from multiple destinations. AI 1914 from Jeddah via Vijayawada landed in the city with 68 Indians at 12.24 a.m. on Thursday. AI 174 arrived from San Fransisco to Hyderabad via Bangalore and landed at 12.16 p.m. on Friday with 81 passengers. AI 1347 arrived from Singapore to Hyderabad at 8.35 p.m. on Thursday with 149 passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/order-food-before-reaching-airport/article31655590.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC declines to stay Koda’s conviction||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to stay former Jharkhand Chief Minister Madhu Koda’s conviction in a coal scam case to enable him to contest elections. It would not be desirable to allow him to contest for any public office, it said, till he was finally acquitted. Law commission report Justice Vibhu Bakhru referred to the 244th Law Commission report that recommended that a person against whom charges have been framed would be disqualified from standing for elections. Mr. Koda was held guilty, by a trial court in 2017, of corruption and conspiracy in the allocation of a Jharkhand-based coal block to Kolkata-based company Vini Iron and Steel Udyog Ltd (VISUL). He had moved the High Court for a stay of the conviction to contest the 2019 Assembly elections. The court had reserved its verdict on his application on March 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-declines-to-stay-kodas-conviction/article31655241.ece
23 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Rajasthan govt. charged us for buses, says U.P.||In a fresh attack on the Congress over the issue of the party offering to provide buses to ferry migrant workers, the Uttar Pradesh government on Friday accused the Congress-ruled Rajasthan of charging it for providing additional buses to bring students stranded in Kota back home. U.P. Deputy Chief Minister Dinesh Sharma said the State had sent 560 buses to Rajasthan, but the number of students there turned out to be more than they expected, following which it requested the Rajasthan government for 94 buses. The State government asked for a payment and a written appeal for the buses, said Mr. Sharma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rajasthan-govt-charged-us-for-buses-says-up/article31655250.ece
23 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||363 cases, 29 deaths in Gujarat||With 29 deaths reported on Friday, the COVID-19 toll in Gujarat has gone up to 802, even as its mortality rate remains above 6%. The total number of cases jumped to 13,273, with 363 new cases. Another worrisome trend is the growing number of patients requiring ventilator support. As on Friday, 63 patients are on ventilator, the highest number since the beginning of the outbreak. But the number of patients being discharged is growing: 392 persons were discharged on Friday. There are 6,591 active cases undergoing treatment at hospitals. Ahmedabad reported 26 deaths and 275 cases on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/363-cases-29-deaths-in-gujarat/article31655267.ece
23 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||UN praises LGBTQI initiative||The United Nations Secretary-General’s Envoy on Youth has listed Manipur’s ‘khudol’ (gift) among the top 10 global initiatives for an inclusive fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Khudol is a crowdfunded initiative of Ya_All, an Imphal-based NGO. The initiative entails ensuring food supplies and health services for the LGBTQI+ community, people living with HIV, daily-wage earners, children and adolescents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/un-praises-lgbtqi-initiative/article31655270.ece
23 May 2020||Guwahati,||Man booked for spreading rumours||The police in Manipur’s Kakching district have booked a man for spinning a yarn about a quarantine centre romance. Officials did not spell out the quantum of punishment for the social media announcement that had been uploaded as a prank. The Kukis of the district’s Sugnu area had set up a quarantine centre for the community. Locals became restive when a social media post claimed that a volunteer on COVID-19 duty named Mangboi had fallen in love and eloped with Sharon Lamkang, a quarantined woman. The false post claimed that the police were looking for them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/man-booked-for-spreading-rumours/article31655279.ece
23 May 2020||Bhopal,||Plaint against man for Godse image on note||A man in Madhya Pradesh has allegedly ‘replaced’ Mahatma Gandhi’s image with that of his assassin Nathuram Godse’s on a Rs. 10 note and posted the picture on social media. The National Students’ Union of India (NSUI), the student wing of the Congress, filed a complaint with the police on May 20, demanding that a case be registered against Shivam Shukla, who they claim is a student leader of the ABVP, on charges of sedition and fraud.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plaint-against-man-for-godse-image-on-note/article31655280.ece
23 May 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha CM offers help to West Bengal||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday spoke to his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee, extending men and material to overcome the crisis caused by Amphan. Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force and Fire Service personnel had been deployed at other States during disasters. Mr. Patnaik on Thursday made an aerial survey to assess the damage in the affected districts of his State. The Odisha government said about 45 lakh people have been affected in 89 blocks of the State and one lakh hectares of cultivated land impacted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/odisha-cm-offers-help-to-west-bengal/article31655278.ece
23 May 2020||Mumbai,||Palghar lynching case adjourned to June 5||The Bombay High Court has adjourned till June 5 the hearing into a PIL case seeking a probe by the CBI into the Palghar mob lynching case. The PIL was filed by a Supreme Court lawyer, Alakh Alok Srivastava, and states that the police personnel who were present at the spot did nothing to save the victims.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/palghar-lynching-case-adjourned-to-june-5/article31655244.ece
23 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Naveen urged to withdraw contract-farming ordinance||The All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) on Friday demanded that the Naveen Patnaik government withdraw the ordinance allowing contract farming. It would ruin the livelihood of lakhs of small and marginal farmers, said Suresh Panigrahy, Odisha secretary of the AIKS, which is affiliated to the Communist Party of India(Marxist).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/naveen-urged-to-withdraw-contract-farming-ordinance/article31655253.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unions stage protests, urge PM for relief to migrants||Ten central trade unions staged protests across the country and wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, seeking immediate cash assistance for migrant workers affected by the lockdown and a halt to the dilution of labour laws in several States. In their petition, the unions said stranded workers should be sent home safely, the public distribution system should be made universal, workers should be paid wages for the lockdown period and a cash transfer of Rs. 7,500 should be done for three months to all non-income tax- paying households.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/unions-stage-protests-urge-pm-for-relief-to-migrants/article31655257.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Activists moot 7-point revival plan||A group of economists and activists on Friday proposed a seven-point plan, which includes helping migrant workers go home in 10 days and free universal healthcare services to COVID-19 patients, to address the economic, health and humanitarian crisis due to the pandemic. In a statement, the group of 24 experts said the Centre had failed to address the urgent need for economic support to those who had been hit by the crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/activists-moot-7-point-revival-plan/article31655261.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Airfare regulation a retrograde step’||The Indian government’s decision to fix airfares to be levied by domestic airlines is a retrograde step, according to global airlines body IATA. “India’s Air Corporation Act was repealed in 1994, so the announcement to regulate airfares more than 2 decades later comes across as certainly a step back,” Albert Tjoeing, assistant director, Corporate Communications, IATA, said in response to an e-mail query by The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/airfare-regulation-a-retrograde-step/article31655266.ece
23 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||T.N. against resuming flights till May-end||With the spike in COVID-19 cases weighing heavily upon it, the Tamil Nadu government has come out against resumption of domestic flights connecting cities in the State, till the month-end, and may take up the matter with the Centre, an official said on Friday. With the Union Civil Aviation Ministry gearing up to resume the services from Monday, Tamil Nadu hopes that the plans will be deferred. Officials in the Secretariat said that the stand taken by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami against the resumption of regular air services till May 31 remained. “The government may take up the issue with the Centre,” an official told PTI . The immediate concern of the government is to screen all passengers arriving in the State and keep track of the infected, if any. The sheer volume of passengers at the airports would make the health machinery concentrate more on inbound visitors, officials said. In the last ten days, the Health Department has detected 66 cases among returnees from abroad by flights and from other States by trains. They have all been quarantined. Govt. guidelines As per the government guidelines on COVID-19 prevention and management, all persons entering the State should be scanned for the virus and if found to have symptoms, have to be taken to government facilities for treatment. Those who don’t show symptoms will be home quarantined. During his interaction with the Prime Minister through video-conferencing on May 11, Mr. Palaniswami had pitched against restarting of air and rail services in Tamil Nadu, till May-end. An airport official said that the schedule of passenger flights that would arrive here after resumption of services was yet to be received. Officials are gearing up for operations at the airport, which has only handled cargo services since the lockdown was enforced.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tn-against-resuming-flights-till-may-end/article31655425.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metering farm power supply fraught with several difficulties||Political opposition apart, the levy of tariff on agricultural connections is fraught with a host of practical difficulties that will come in the way of effective implementation of the direct benefit transfer (DBT). Recently, the Centre prescribed the replacement of the free power scheme for farmers with the DBT. It stipulated that the DBT should be launched fully during the next financial year and to begin with, at least in one district by December this year. The first and foremost issue is how to accurately measure electricity used by the farm connections. At present, there are no meters for the 21-lakh odd agricultural services. At present, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) is arriving at the approximate figure of consumption by the farm sector and huts by deducting the details of power used by other categories of consumers from the overall figure. The Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission goes by the disclosed load of the pump sets of the farmers and findings of a sample survey that covers 3% to 5% of the connections. The panel, in its tariff subsidy order in September 2019 for 2019-20, said the estimated load of all farm pump sets in the State was 1.45 crore horsepower (HP). Yawning gap It goes without saying that there is a wide gap between the disclosed load and actual load of the pump sets. This is why the Tangedco has come out with a scheme of regularising the connections with extra load up to 15 HP. So, there is an element of “arbitrariness” in arriving at the figure of consumption for the agricultural services. In fact, this gets reflected in the assessment of aggregate technical and commercial (AT&C) losses too, officials acknowledge. Another issue to be kept in mind is the transaction cost of meter reading and billing which makes it not viable to assess the consumption through meters. Another option is to have exclusive distribution feeders for agricultural connections. It is being talked about for over 10 years with no great progress. But given the development of urbanisation in the State, the segregation will amount to having a parallel network, which will be as huge as the general network. Still, the authorities are planning to have such feeders in Tiruvannamalai district, which has the highest number of connections. The metering of distribution transformers has been cited as a solution but there is not much progress in this regard. Eventually, the authorities may find it much more difficult to update records regarding farmer-consumers who are enjoying the agricultural services. As there is no need for farmers to update their records with the Tangedco, in view of the free power scheme, the chances of the DBT reaching the genuine beneficiaries under the given circumstances are dim, the officials say. For all these reasons, the idea of DBT cannot be rushed through, the officials add.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/metering-farm-power-supply-fraught-with-several-difficulties/article31655429.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Just three zones of the city account for over 3,000 cases||Three zones of the Chennai Corporation — Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Kodambakkam — have reported more than 1,000 cases of COVID-19 each, out of a total of 9,364 cases in the city as on Friday. On a more positive note, with over 3,000 residents returning from COVID-19 care centres and hospitals after treatment, the Corporation has removed 517 areas from the list of containment zones in the city. The areas were removed as no positive cases were reported in them for the past 14 days. As many as 26 containment zones were removed in Thiruvottiyur, 9 in Manali, 18 in Madhavaram, 43 in Tondiarpet, 98 in Royapuram, 90 in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, 32 in Ambattur, 27 in Anna Nagar, 59 in Teynampet, 39 in Kodambakkam, 39 in Valasaravakkam, 6 in Alandur, 12 in Adyar, 13 in Perungudi and 8 in Sholinganallur. Movement of residents in such areas will no longer be restricted after the barricades came off. The city now has 635 containment zones, where positive cases continue to be reported. Most of them are located in Royapuram, Kodambakkam and Thiru Vi Ka Nagar.  Shops reopen The Corporation has started allowing shops to resume operations after they were sealed for violations with regard to social distancing norms. Shops in areas such as George Town, Purasawalkam, T. Nagar and Mylapore were permitted to open after the shopkeepers agreed to follow norms. More than 1,000 shops were sealed in various parts of the city during the lockdown after they were found flouting rules. Meanwhile, the Corporation has begun sending stranded migrant labourers to West Bengal. As many as 3,375 such labourers are staying in Corporation shelters. “We have sent 43,141 stranded labourers in 32 trains. The number will touch 50,000 shortly,” said Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanath Reddy.  More than 1,000 shops were sealed in various parts of the city during the lockdown after they were found flouting rules||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/just-three-zones-of-the-city-account-for-over-3000-cases/article31655395.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘About 4 lakh stranded migrant workers in T.N.’||The State has about four lakh stranded migrant workers, according to the identification done by District Collectors. Stating this in the context of State Food Minister R. Kamaraj’s interaction with Union Food and Public Distribution Minister Ram Vilas Paswan through video-conferencing on Friday, an official release stated that though the Central government had allocated 35,732 tonnes of rice, the State would require only 4,300 tonnes as there were 4,00,782 stranded workers. While the State government had lifted the required quantity of rice, the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED) was yet to supply “chana dal,” the release stated, adding that the State’s requirement of whole “chana dal” was 801 tonnes. Recently, the Central government announced that for the benefit of stranded migrant workers, States would be allocated 5 kg of rice per person and 1 kg of “chana dal” per family, all free of cost, during May and June in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic. Till May 20, a total of 1,32,042 migrant workers went back from Tamil Nadu to their home places by 96 special trains. As for the status of the “one nation, one ration card” scheme , Mr. Kamaraj informed Mr. Paswan that the procurement of biometric devices and integration with point of sale (PoS) devices were in an “advanced stage of approval.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-has-four-lakh-stranded-migrants/article31655431.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||For stranded migrants, all roads lead to Tiruvallur||Sivendu Suvram, a migrant worker had walked all the way from Tiruppur, and was planning to walk all the way to his home in Odisha, to take care of his aged mother. He was stopped at a checkpost on the Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border in Tiruvallur district, when he was hoping to cross into Andhra Pradesh and somehow walk his way to his hometown. He had six fellow workers for company. Other migrant workers who were turned back by the Andhra police at the border had walked from places like Kumbakonam, Thanjavur and even Kerala, hoping to cross over. “Twenty-seven of us started walking from Tiruppur on May 12 and it took us three days to reach Tiruvallur by foot. Sometimes we hopped into a lorry and paid Rs. 1,000 to travel a few kilometers,” said Mr. Suvram, from Mayurbhanj district in Odisha, who has now been accommodated in a wedding hall in Madharpakkam in Gummidipoondi taluk. Stopped by police Of the 27, 13 have already left by train and a few pooled in money and booked a bus back home. “We did not have any money, hence we decided to walk. However, the Andhra Pradesh police chased us into Tamil Nadu and Tiruvallur officials brought us to the shelter,” explained Mayal Kusko from Bhadrak district in Odisha, also accommodated at the same shelter. Dharmendra Jal from Khordha district in Odisha, who also walked from Tiruppur, said that the police were cordial in most places along the route. “But when we reached close to Tiruvallur, they treated us badly,” he said. Nearly 20 km away from the shelter is the Pethikuppam checkpost at the T.N.-AP border. Until a few days ago, it was a busy spot as migrant workers tried to cross over to Andhra Pradesh. “The crowd now has reduced drastically as we have increased the number of shelters to accommodate migrant workers in Tiruvallur,” said A.N. Kumar, tahsildar, Gummidipoondi. As on date, there are over 6,000 migrant workers housed in 21 shelters across Tiruvallur district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-stranded-migrants-all-roads-lead-to-tiruvallur/article31655413.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||12,000 part-time teachers appeal for salary||D. Anandakumar, 43, a physically-challenged person who teaches drawing in a government-run school in Sholavaram in Tiruvallur district, is one of nearly 12,000 part-time teachers employed for a monthly salary of Rs. 7,700. Since his teaching job pays him only for 11 months and not in May when the schools are closed, he takes up painting jobs to augment his income. “My wife occasionally works as an agricultural labourer. With two sons in school, we were managing somehow with these incomes,” he says. However, with the lockdown due to COVID-19, which stopped all other sources of income, coupled with no salary for May, Anandakumar and his family were forced to move to a makeshift shelter as he was unable to pay rent. “My houseowner is also an autorickshaw driver, who is struggling. He did not pressurise me for rent. But with around Rs. 15,000 pending as rent for nearly three months and with no clarity on when I will get my salary, I thought I cannot continue to stay there,” he says. He added that of the 12,000 part-time teachers, nearly 200 were physically challenged, and were struggling to meet their expenses during the lockdown. C. Senthil Kumar, State coordinator, Tamil Nadu All Part-Time Teachers’ Association, said that non-payment of salaries for the month of May had been an issue since their appointment in 2012.  Special appeal “We were initially paid Rs. 5,000 a month and later it was increased to Rs. 7,700. The original announcement envisaged payment of salaries for all 12 months. After appointment, the School Education Department arbitrarily started paying only for 11 months,” he said. The association has made a special appeal to the Department to pay them at least this May, considering the difficulties faced by the teachers during the lockdown. Alleging that the State government had failed to ensure adequate financial protection for differently-abled people during the lockdown, S. Namburajan, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently-Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC), said that the government must immediately announce a separate financial package for the differently-abled.  After appointment, the School Education Department arbitrarily started paying only for 11 months C. Senthil Kumar State coordinator, Tamil Nadu All Part-Time Teachers’ Association||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12000-part-time-teachers-appeal-for-salary/article31655427.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More Tasmac shops to reopen in city’s neighbouring districts||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) will reopen 110 outlets in Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts. A source from Tasmac said outlets were already operational in parts of the three districts. With operating hours extended, Tasmac also plans to issue more coupons. “We were issuing 500 coupons per shop and this will now be increased to 700-750 coupons,” the source said. Another source in Tasmac said that reopening more shops and giving away additional coupons would fetch another Rs. 2.5 crore to Rs. 3 crore per day to the coffers. “Some of these shops are bordering Chennai and tipplers from the city will surely go there to pick up liquor. Considering that each shop on an average sells Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 4 lakh worth of liquor, they can easily fetch Rs. 3 crore per day. This is just an estimate,” the source said. When asked how much revenue the 110 shops would fetch, a government official said it was too early to estimate and day one sales data would give a number. The official also clarified that shops in containment zones would not be opened. Last week (May 16), 3,700 liquor shops reopened across Tamil Nadu except in Chennai, Tiruvallur and containment zones. According to data, the shops earned over Rs. 160 crore on day one and slightly above Rs. 130 crore on day two. From the third day, the average earnings have remained between Rs. 97 crore and Rs. 105 crore per day till now. Once the Chennai market opens up, the sales were expected to go up by at least 20-30% in the initial few days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-tasmac-shops-to-reopen-in-citys-neighbouring-districts/article31655401.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||City’s auto drivers upset at not getting nod to resume services||Autorickshaw drivers in the city are upset that the government overlooked them while announcing that autos in other districts could resume operations starting Saturday. “A driver from our stand took his auto to a nearby shop with his aged mother and his vehicle was seized. We are scared to even drive our vehicles on the streets now,” said Ram, 47, an auto driver near the T. Nagar bus stand. He added that he had earned nothing in the last two months and had managed with his wife’s wages. S. Madaswamy, who operates his auto in the Park Town area, said he was able to manage his family until the first week of April. “I have not touched the vehicle after the lockdown started. A group of techies who are volunteering with NGOs visited my locality and helped us with groceries and vegetables,” he said. During the lockdown, many auto drivers sold vegetables to earn a living. Santhosh, an auto driver from Velachery, said he and his friends bought vegetables from the Koyambedu wholesale market and sold them in their locality. “Our sales were good but unfortunately after news about Koyambedu being affected by the virus broke, we stopped selling vegetables,” he said.  Venkatesan, an auto driver in R.A. Puram, said he has not been able to pay his loans for the last two months. “In my stand, many drivers hire vehicles from others — they pay Rs. 150 per day. After the lockdown they left the vehicles with the owners and are being asked to pay rent. Without work how can they pay,” he asked. The drivers said the government has to intervene and help them. Many auto drivers said this was their only source of income. An auto driver in Chennai, on an average, earns Rs. 15,000 to Rs. 20,000 per month, after accounting for expenses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/citys-auto-drivers-upset-at-not-getting-nod-to-resume-services/article31655399.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||For front line couples, family life is the casualty||Except for those daily phone calls, and a few meetings outside the gate, Haripriya* and her husband, both government doctors, have not had a chance to hug their child for nearly two months. The couple, who are on COVID-19 duty in different hospitals, rarely get the chance to see each other and had to put their child under the care of a relative. COVID-19 might have distanced healthcare professionals from their families. But it is tougher for doctor couples in the government sector. According to doctors, about 20% of their colleagues in the State government sector are couples. With no exemption for even one of them, despite pleas, many government hospitals have posted both husband and wife on COVID-19 duty, keeping them away from their children, elderly parents, and home for several weeks. Their cup of woes “I was put on COVID-19 duty during the end of March, and I have completed three or four rounds of COVID-19 duty so far. My husband is on both COVID-19 and non-COVID duty in rotation. Due to our exposure to the virus, we did not want to put our child and elderly parent-in-law at risk. So, we sent them to a relative’s house two months ago,” Dr. Haripriya said. The days are only getting tougher. “The last time we met, we stood outside the gate with a six metre distance between us. Now, every time we call, the child starts to cry,” she added. Working in a different district, *P. Sivakumar is worried about his young son. “My wife works in the COVID ICU. She cooks meals for two days for him, and leaves for duty. Our neighbours help by giving him food,” he said. Being on the front line is not an easy task, another doctor couple said. “Our neighbours do not open the door. It is natural for them to be afraid. We have no relatives here. With the two of us on COVID-19 duty, our child and parents are left alone at home,” the doctor said. With no choice, the doctor takes a shower at the hotel and goes home. “I stay in a room, while my child and parents stay in another,” she added. The doctors are seeking exemption for one of them from COVID-19 duty, or at least post them in lesser frequency.  *names have been changed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/for-front-line-couples-family-life-is-the-casualty/article31655416.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||In tough times, usurers make a killing||Pawnbrokers and moneylenders in the city are doing brisk business with women, businessmen and traders knocking on their doors, seeking cash against jewellery and other documents. Insiders concede that while business was initially hit by the lockdown, from April-end there has been a steady stream of enquires on the formalities for pledging gold. Besides, with the shutdown being eased, people are queuing up for money. Vijaya Amma, 58, the sole bread-winner for her family, said, “I work as a maid in an apartment in West Mambalam. Since the lockdown, I am at home and my employers said they can pay only 30% of my salary. I ran out of cash and went to a bank for pledging the little gold that I have, but found the process to be cumbersome. That’s when I went to a pawnbroker. I was given Rs. 17,000 for the one sovereign of gold that I pledged, with a 2% rate of interest per month. I hope I’m able to retrieve the gold soon,” she added. Kannan, a small trader who runs a store, pledged 10 sovereigns of his wife’s ornaments with a financier and borrowed money. “I have six women employees and I need to pay their salaries. All the women are married and have children, their husbands work in small shops and if I don’t pay salaries, their lives will be hit,” he said. Mr. Kannan said the financier asked him to pay 4% interest a month. A pawnbrokers said that if people cannot come to his shop, he is open to house visits to check their gold and hand over money. At a pawn shop in Saidapet, there is a queue and most of the women are street vendors who sell toys and utensils. “There has been no business since the lockdown. We need to wait till the Saidapet market opens,” said one of them and added that she wanted to pledge her husband’s old cellphone for Rs. 400. “Since I don’t have gold the moneylender agreed to give cash against this phone. This will help me get rice and vegetables,” she said. Many pawnbrokers said that there was a surge in customers pledging gold. “But we are not lending to everyone,” said a pawnbroker in Mylapore. “We ask them for ID proof. We are getting 20-25 calls a day from people asking for cash. Earlier, it was hardly 5-10 a week,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-tough-times-usurers-make-a-killing/article31655391.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Government promulgates ordinance to take over Veda Nilayam||The State government has got an ordinance promulgated to take over “temporarily” Veda Nilayam, the residence of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa in Poes Garden, Chennai. It has also decided to establish a foundation to make the residence into a memorial. Governor Banwarilal Purohit has promulgated an ordinance to this effect, according to an official release issued on Friday. Senior officials in the government said a sum of about Rs. 67 crore had been earmarked for the purpose of acquisition. Headed by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, the foundation “Puratchi Thalaivi Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Memorial Foundation" - will include Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and Minister for Information and Publicity Kadambur Raju as members with Director of Information and Public Relations as member-secretary. One of the reasons cited in the release for the action is that the building of Veda Nilayam, including movable items such as furniture, books and jewels, are in a “state of disuse for more than three years." [Jayalalithaa died in December 2016]. The government had decided to transfer all the immovable and movable properties to it for their “upkeep until the acquisition process is complete.” Pointing out that the government would entrust the properties with the proposed Foundation, the senior officials pointed out that the acquisition is called “temporary”, as claims and counter-claims over the property have not yet been disposed of. This will be done as per the 2013 law on land acquisition. The amount has been sanctioned for making the settlement to legal heirs, if and when ascertained. Ordinarily, in such case, the government deposits the amount with a city civil court. A few days before factions in the AIADMK, led by Mr. Palaniswami and Mr.Panneerselvam, reunited in August 2017, the Chief Minister announced that Jayalalithaa’s residence would be converted as a memorial “in remembrance of her achievements and sacrifices for the people of Tamil Nadu".In October that year, the Tamil Development and Information Department gave an administrative sanction for the acquisition. In June 2019, preliminary notification was issued and on May 6, a declaration was published. An official at the Chennai Collectorate said that after the declaration’s publication [a copy of which has been pasted on the premises of the residence], niece and nephew of the former Chief Minister, J. Deepa and Deepak, who staked their claim over the property in May 2017, have sent their objections by post to Collector R. Seethalakshmi. The official added that within 30 days of the publication of the declaration, any one including residents of the area can send their objections on the acquisition. Explaining why the ordinance route had to be used, the senior officials said as far as the government was concerned, there was “no legal heir”. However, for the purpose of taking over an intestate property and converting it into a memorial, a law is required. As there is no Assembly in session, the ordinance has been promulgated. Besides, the government had taken prior sanction of President [Ram Nath Kovind] too. Perhaps, it is for the first time that the government has created a foundation to manage the acquired properties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ordinance-for-veda-nilayam-takeover/article31655411.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four-member team to manage Madras University||In an unusual decision, a Convenor Committee of even-number composition was constituted on Friday to oversee the affairs of the University of Madras till a successor to incumbent Vice-Chancellor P. Duraisamy was chosen. Mr. Duraisamy’s three-year tenure would end on Tuesday next week. Normally the committee comprises of odd-number composition — three or five members — to avoid a tie between members in decision making process. The university Syndicate constituted a four-member Convenor Committee comprising Higher Education Secretary Apoorva (Chairman), Commissioner of Technical Education K Vivekanandan, MOP Vaishnav College for Women principal Lalitha Balakrishnan and University of Madras Head of Indian History Department S.S. Sundaram.  A syndicate member said the Higher Education Secretary felt there was no need to follow this norm as the committee’s work would be limited to only overseeing day-to-day functioning for a few weeks. The colleges would not function until September 1, by which time a new V-C would be appointed, she had informed the Syndicate, the member said. Granting affiliation Meanwhile, the syndicate approved grant of affiliation to new courses and additional sections. This will not apply to new colleges for which inspection has to be conducted. Mr. Duraisamy said the Syndicate took up the matter so that the students did not lose out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-member-team-to-manage-madras-university/article31655393.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No clarity on testing or quarantine procedures||The Chennai airport is getting ready to resume domestic flight operations on May 25, despite the Tamil Nadu government’s reluctance to resume services before month-end. However, there is still no clarity on the procedures for testing and quarantine of passengers arriving at the airport. The guidelines issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation says, “On arrival at their destination, the travelling passengers will have to adhere to such health protocols as prescribed by the destination State/Union Territory.” Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that they were yet to hear from the State about the preparations that have been made to test passengers. “Once we get to know, we will make all arrangements they require. Other facilities have already been made for passengers and we are taking precautionary measures,” an official said. Departing passengers’ temperature will be checked and they should have the Aarogya Setu app or produce a self-declaration form.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-clarity-on-testing-or-quarantine-procedures/article31655414.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||V.P. Duraisamy joins BJP||Former Assembly Deputy Speaker and ex-DMK MLA V.P. Duraisamy, who was sacked from the post of deputy general secretary of the party on Thursday, joined the BJP on Friday morning in the presence of State BJP president L. Murugan and other senior leaders. “I left the DMK because they have deviated from their ideology for which the party was started. I am joining a party (BJP) that has good intentions,” Mr. Duraisamy said. Mr. Duraisamy accused the DMK of indoctrinating party cadres that the BJP was working only for the welfare of the forward community, he claimed. “Later we realised that the the BJP is working for Hindus, Christians, Muslims and SC/STs,” Mr. Duraisamy said. The former DMK leader also accused the DMK of indulging in caste politics.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vp-duraisamy-joins-bjp/article31655406.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crocodile bank to raise funds online||Following the COVID-19 lockdown, the Madras Crocodile Bank in Mamallapuram has remained shut for visitors and this in turn, has affected their revenue from ticket sales. The Madras Crocodile Bank Trust has now, appealed to the public, to step forward and donate funds to help with meeting substantial fixed costs to keep the bank functional — the costs include food for animals and wages for local staff. The public can donate by visiting their official website.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crocodile-bank-to-raise-funds-online/article31655404.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin slams Centre, State over handling of COVID-19 pandemic||DMK president M.K. Stalin slammed the Centre and State government over the handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. During the joint Opposition meeting via video conferencing convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi, he said the Opposition had an important task of questioning the governments, holding them accountable and providing relief to the public. He said the Centre has not taken any concrete steps to contain the spread of the disease or solve the problems faced by migrant workers or in providing economic relief. “On the contrary, the government is functioning against the established democratic principles of the country. Due to this, Tamil Nadu is facing severe economic hardship. The State’s share of the GST refunds too has not been given yet,” he said. Mr. Stalin said the DMK was working round-the-clock for carrying out relief measures in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Stalin proposed that a joint resolution be passed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/stalin-slams-centre-state-over-handling-of-covid-19-pandemic/article31655409.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL seeks share of donations for disabled||The Madras High Court on Friday sought the response of the Centre as well as the State government by June 2 to a public interest litigation petition filed by the National Federation of the Blind as well as December 3 Movement Society, seeking a direction to them to allocate 4% of the donations received towards COVID-19 relief work for the welfare of the physically challenged. A Division Bench of Justices M.M. Sundresh and P.T. Asha ordered notices on a joint petition filed by both the organisations. Their counsel R. Prabhakaran contended that the physically challenged were in a disadvantageous position compared to others and hence they should be given their due as required under the Persons with Disabilities Act of 1995.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pil-seeks-share-of-donations-for-disabled/article31655421.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||RBI rules on corpus a relief for State||Tamil Nadu maintained Rs. 6,437 crore in the consolidated sinking fund (CSF) as on March 30, and had the seventh highest balance among the States, according to data from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). The RBI on Friday announced relaxation of rules for withdrawal from CSF, which would help States meet the repayment of loans raised through market borrowings through issue of bonds known as State development loans. The change in withdrawal norms will come into force with immediate effect and remain valid till March 31, 2021. State governments maintain CSF with RBI as a buffer for repayment of their liabilities. As per the scheme, State governments can contribute 1-3% of the outstanding market loans each year to the fund. Contribution to the fund is voluntary. CSF gives States and investors comfort that State development loan payments would be made in all circumstances. “With States’ revenue choked on the one hand and expenditure rising due to COVID-19, there is pressure on State finances, with loan repayments coming up. CSF is mainly for amortisation of debt, mainly during challenging situations, and this will help ease the burden,” said D.K. Pant, chief economist with India Ratings and Research. Madan Sabnavis, chief economist, CARE Ratings, said that States that created the fund would now be at an advantage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rbi-rules-on-corpus-a-relief-for-state/article31655422.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Mandatory to wear masks outside’||City Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan on Friday appealed to the people to wear masks in public places and said police were imposing a fine of Rs. 500 on motorists for not wearing masks.He inspected the vehicle-check near Spencer Plaza. Talking to reporters, Mr. Viswanathan said, “People should compulsorily wear mask in public places. The police have been constantly monitoring and initiating action against violators.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mandatory-to-wear-masks-outside/article31655392.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP’s assurance to newspaper industry||Bharatiya Janata Party State president L. Murugan on Friday assured a delegation of newspaper industry representatives that he will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman about the set of demands made by the industry. Mr. Murugan also told the delegation that he will speak to Ms. Sitharaman about the issues raised by them. The delegation comprised of N. Ram, Chairman, THG Publishing Private Ltd., L. Adimoolam, publisher, Dinamalar , and R.M.R. Ramesh, managing director, Kal Publications ( Dinakaran ).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/murugan-to-write-to-pm-on-newspaper-industrys-demands/article31655430.ece
23 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||More leopards now stroll in Valparai||Forest areas and estates in and around Valparai are known to be home for leopards. Big cats taking strolls on deserted roads of the hill station at night is also common. According to the Forest Department, there has been an increase in their movement in human habitations and towns during the lockdown. A recent video captured by a surveillance camera of the police showed a leopard walking on roads near the new bus stand at Valparai. Though the big cats have preyed on livestock during the lockdown, attacks on humans have not been reported. Senthil Kumar, forest range officer of Valparai range, said that decrease in the movement of vehicle and people due to the lockdown could be the reason behind increased sighting of leopards in human habitations and towns. Places like Ceylon Colony and Kakkan Colony were witnessing increased movement of leopards, he said. “Despite the increase in the movement of leopards, we did not have major conflict situations in Valparai range,” said Mr. Kumar. However, the straying big cats have attacked livestock within the limits of nearby Manombolly forest range where at least five cows were targeted by them in the last one month. On Thursday, a leopard attacked a cow at a place named Injiparai. C. Natarajan, Forest Range Officer, Manombolly range, said that the staff have given advisory to people to avoid encounters with leopards during the early hours, evenings and night.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-leopards-now-stroll-in-valparai/article31655441.ece
23 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police organise events for creating awareness||The Coimbatore City Police organised cultural programmes in various locations of the city in an effort to raise awareness on COVID-19 on Friday. Held at 10 locations The programmes were held at 10 locations in Coimbatore including Singanallur, Puliyakulam, Gandhipuram and Ukkadam. The one-hour-long events that started at 9 a.m. comprised dances, street plays and yoga performances that emphasised on activities such as physical distancing and wearing of masks required to prevent the spread of COVID-19. In Singanallur, the awareness event was held near the Singanallur Bus Terminus. Around 15 volunteers participated in the cultural programme, said Singanallur police station Inspector M. Muneeswaran. The awareness events were held as per the directions of Commissioner of Police Sumit Sharan. According to a senior police officer, these awareness programmes were organised after a gap by Coimbatore City Police in the city to ensure that the public remain cautious, even though there had been no fresh COVID-19 cases for more than two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-organise-events-for-creating-awareness/article31655461.ece
23 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries welcome RBI announcements||Industries in Coimbatore region, especially those in the textile sector, have welcomed the announcements by Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das saying it will give relief to the industries as they need more funds now. According to Confederation of Indian Textile Industry chairman T. Rajkumar, the textile and clothing industry had sought extension of moratorium period for another 10 months when the RBI initially announced moratorium for three months. The measures announced on Friday will prevent a number of textile and clothing accounts from becoming NPAs. But the banks should pass on the benefits of repo rates reduction to the customers in full, he said. A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council, said increasing the maximum permissible period of pre and pro-shipment export credit from the existing one year to 15 months for disbursements made till July 31, 2020 would help the exporters. The penalties levied by the banks should be converted into working capital term loan with minimum interest, he said. Southern India Mills’ Association chairman Ashwin Chandran said the industry needed another seven months moratorium. It would also find it difficult to repay the accrued interests of moratorium period within six months as the interest component would double. The government should permit conversion of accrued interest into term loan and repayment of it in two years with six months moratorium, he added. Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters Association, said the decision to extend time for completion of outward remittances against normal imports into India from six months to 12 months from the date of shipment for imports made before July 31 would help the specialty fabric and machinery importers. According to Indian Texpreneurs Federation convenor Prabhu Dhamodharan, the industries will now talk to banks to get the real benefit of the rate cuts announced by the RBI. President of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, V. Lakshminarayanasamy said the RBI should take a calibrated approach to save the economy and its announcements would bring relief to corporate borrowers. The borrowing costs were expected to come down for trade and industry. The banking system now had substantial liquidity and the banks should support the industries, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/industries-welcome-rbi-announcements/article31655470.ece
23 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Thank you gesture that touched the heart||On Saturday afternoon, after Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation driver A. Rangaraj had dropped off Coimbatore Corporation conservancy workers at their residence in Malumichampatty, the workers asked him and another driver, Devaraj, to park their vehicles one behind another and join them. “I knew the workers were up to something as I had heard them discuss that they should all get down at the last point, Malumichampatty. But I did not have a clue of what they were up to.” The workers got together to adorn the two drivers with shawls, garlands and gifted them utensils and purses with money. “Their affection was overwhelming for I had never imagined that they would recognise Devaraj and me in such a fashion,” recalled Mr. Rangaraj. Another driver S. Saravanan, too. had a similar experience when workers honoured him in Thudiyalur on Sunday morning. “My respect for the conservancy workers soared. They have demonstrated how big their hearts are and that it has nothing to do with they being at the bottom of the hierarchy in government service.” More than five such drivers had transported the workers from their homes to work spots during the COVID-19 lockdown period – an outcome of the arrangement that the Coimbatore Corporation had with the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation. A conservancy worker N. Kalpana said the workers honoured the drivers because they patiently transported them to their work spots, stopping buses right at their work spots and treating them with dignity. That the passengers in the buses were only conservancy workers only helped establish the friendship. Driver Mr. Saravanan recalled that the workers shared the food meant for them and also gave masks and gloves that the Corporation had given them. “I recall a worker regularly giving not only me a food packet but also giving two or three shelter-less people that she spotted on the road.” Another worker, P. Kaliappan, said the drivers were prompt in picking and dropping them. During travel they were friendly as well. “We both being government employees even discussed when the government would credit our salaries.” Ms. Kalpana added that the drivers were also helpful in that they even woke them up for work. “Upon arrival, the drivers would blare the horns for us to get up. It was our wake up call for the past 60 days. I’ll miss it.” The conservancy workers’ gesture came in for appreciation from the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation officials as well. “My depot branch manager has been asking for the pictures of the workers honouring us to be framed and hung in the office, for this was such an occasion.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thank-you-gesture-that-touched-the-heart/article31655455.ece
23 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Animal census under way in ATR||The pre-monsoon all-animal census is under way within the limits of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR). The week-long exercise, which began on May 19, will assess the carnivore and herbivore population along with the quality of their habitats in ATR. Arockiaraj Xavier, Deputy Field Director of ATR and District Forest Officer of Pollachi Forest Division, told The Hindu that 128 staff of the Forest Department and biologists were involved in the census. As a precaution against COVID-19, volunteers and nature enthusiasts were not included in the team. “The staff will cover 32 beats within four forest ranges of ATR namely Ulandi, Pollachi, Valparai and Manombolly that fall under the Pollachi Forest Division. There are 64 transect lines in the four ranges and each transect line will have two persons each for the survey,” he said. According to him, the team was using ‘M-STrIPES’ app (Monitoring System for Tiger-Intensive Protection and Ecological Status), a tiger monitoring application developed by the National Tiger Conservation Authority, for the census. Data entered in the M-STrIPES app will also record the GPS coordinates of locations while entering the survey results. Pollachi Forest Range Officer A. Kasilingam said the team members were given one-day training before the start of the census.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/animal-census-under-way-in-atr/article31655447.ece
23 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Shift in orientation must for industries post lockdown’||After the end of COVID-19 lockdown, industries must focus on an orientation shift and grabbing of opportunities to bounce back, said Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath here on Friday. He was one of the panel members at the webinar on ‘Impact of COVID-19 in our Lives and Business’ organised by The Hindu BusinessLine and S.P. Apparels. Other panel members were K. Ilango, managing director of RSM Autokast Limited, and P. Sundararajan, chairman and managing director of S.P. Apparels Limited. Venky Vembu, Associate Editor of The Hindu BusinessLine, hosted the webinar. Industries should not “get depressed” about migrant workers returning to their home towns, Mr. Jatavath said. “Opportunities will not migrate [along] with the personnel,” he said. With the Central and State governments allowing more relaxations during lockdown, the industries must utilise this to restore their normalcy, Mr. Jatavath said. “We do not expect full recovery for at least a year,” Mr. Ilango said regarding the recovery of various industries post-COVID-19. Noting that entire supply chains were affected in the present situation, he gave the example of how caterers, venue owners and floriculturists were affected due to lack of weddings. The success of the Central government’s economic stimulus package will depend on the delivery system, Mr. Ilango said. Mr. Sundararajan said that businesses must not engage in “hasty decision-making” post lockdown. The apparel factories have been reopened but with 50 % workforce in place, he noted. Although the exports are hit at present due to the pandemic, it will recover in a phased manner, according to Mr. Sundararajan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shift-in-orientation-must-for-industries-post-lockdown/article31655444.ece
23 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. asked to redesign streets to facilitate personal distancing||With personal distancing in public spaces becoming the norm during the COVID-19 lockdown period and likely to continue even after the lockdown, architects see an opportunity to redesign pavements and public places. Though redesigning of urban public places was seen from aesthetic, utilitarian point of view, this COVID-19 has added a health dimension to it and therefore it is not just opportunity but becomes imperative to redesign public spaces, says Ranjith Parvathapuram, a German GIZ urban planning expert working in Coimbatore. The GIZ along with the Corporation had experimented with a redesigned street project on Big Bazaar Street in December 2019. Coimbatore Corporation has toyed with the road redesigning project under various schemes and names – model roads, smart streets, etc. And, a few months ago, it started the project on D.B. Road, R.S. Puram, and is likely to take up the project on a few more streets. Now, after the lockdown, it must aggressively execute the project and perhaps look at taking up busy, business areas that see high footfalls like R.G. Street, Raja Street, Big Bazaar Street, Cross Cut Road, etc, Mr. Parvathapuram adds. Coimbatore architect Chenthur Raaghav, who has approached the district administration with a few designs, says the Corporation may look at redesigning shelters at bus stops too and busy road junctions like Lakshmi Mills Junction or Hopes College Junction. It has to put in place a mechanism where pedestrians have more space to walk. It can do so by extending pedestrian pathways by at least using paints and cones, if not by taking up civil work. The temporary arrangement can later pave way for a permanent extension. His company A+R Architects is engaged in a similar project with the Mangalore Municipality in Karnataka, he says and suggests that the Corporation work with the Coimbatore City Police to regulate vehicle movement on R.G. Street and roads where goods movement is important. Mr. Parvathapuram adds that a comprehensive street design will also ensure that hawkers also have adequate space to carry on their business. And, while doing so, the Corporation can also use public address system, like the police do during the Deepavali shopping season, to guide public to the new arrangement on streets. Sarfaraz S. Yaseen, another architect, thinks that it is the best time for the Corporation to push through the road redesigning project by widening pedestrian pathways. In China, where the COVID-19 outbreak happened, the government there has brought in such measures and it will be easy to emulate those. If the Corporation pushes through the project and puts in place a mechanism in the next few weeks or months and the public get used to it, it can become a permanent fixture in the city. A Corporation officer says it is a welcome suggestion which the civic body will think about.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-corpn-asked-to-redesign-streets-to-facilitate-personal-distancing/article31655450.ece
23 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Raw material, a major challenge for manufacturers of paper cones, tubes||For the 400 and odd Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs) that make paper cones and tubes in the State, the nationwide lockdown for the last two months has brought about several challenges, threatening their very survival. M. Ilango, president of Tamil Nadu Paper Cones and Tubes Manufacturers Association, says the question is will the industry manage to revive, and if so, when. The paper cone and tube producers supply products to spinning, weaving and paper mills, pumpset units and any sector that needs packaging material to protect the product edges. These producers are located mainly in Coimbatore, Erode, Salem, Namakkal, Dindigul, Madurai, Hosur, Rajapalayam, and Tiruppur and largely employ women workers. K.S. Balamurugan, managing director of KU Sodalamuthu & Co that makes machinery to make the cones and tubes, says the units in Tamil Nadu produce nearly 275 tonnes of tubes and cones. The main raw material for these units are kraft paper and the units consume 700 tonnes of kraft paper board a day. The paper mills have hiked the prices of raw material, which is up by nearly Rs. 3,000 per tonne, citing shortage of raw material. Availability of kraft paper is also low as the paper mills face labour and raw material shortage. According to Mr. Ilango, problems started for paper cones and tubes manufacturers from the time of demonetisation. Now, with the lockdown, there is no demand for their products and raw materials are also not available. With dues pending from their buyers, who are spread across Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, and Andhra Pradesh, they face financial constraints. The units are not operating at viable capacities and their workers are without jobs. The paper cones and tubes manufacturers need additional working capital at reduced interest rates, says Mr. Balamurugan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/raw-material-a-major-challenge-for-manufacturers-of-paper-cones-tubes/article31655471.ece
23 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Complete on-going projects early’||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Friday asked officials of various departments to complete at the earliest the works that were under various stages of implementation, get projects of the drawing board and make special arrangements for Class X students to write public exam. The Minister held a review of various projects at the Coimbatore Collectorate. A release said the Minister wanted the Revenue Department officials to complete land acquisition process for the Pilloor III drinking water and western bypass projects and start awarding compensation to those who had parted with their lands or houses for the Coimbatore Airport expansion project. While asking officials to clean channels and canals that take water to tanks, he wanted them to implement the Rs. 1,652 crore Athikadavu-Avinashi groundwater recharge project. He directed the Water Resources Organisation wing of the Public Works Department to start the Noyyal Rejuvenation project for which the Chief Minister had allotted Rs. 174 crore. To ease the traffic congestion in the city, the State government had allotted funds for constructing flyovers on Trichy Road, Mettupalayam Road and in Ukkadam. The works were in various stages of progress, the release said and added that the Minister wanted the officials to expedite the completion. As for students appearing for the Class X public exam, the Minister asked the School Education Department officials to ensure that the students and teachers travelled to the examination centres without difficulty, particularly those students and teachers who travelled to the district from outside. He also wanted them to ensure that the students from outside the district were given exemption from quarantine and provide sanitisers at the examination centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/complete-on-going-projects-early/article31655473.ece
23 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||World Bank appreciation for Corpn.||Coimbatore Corporation has come in for appreciation from the World Bank for the effort it took in December 2019-January 2020 to bring about a change in urban street design. The Corporation had made some ‘tactical changes’ on Big Bazaar Street and Raja Street to give more space to pedestrians and regulate the flow of traffic. Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath said the Corporation’s tactical design, implemented on a pilot basis with assistance from the German agency GIZ, came in for the World Bank appreciation, which he conveyed to the Smart Cities Mission Director Kunal Kumar during a video conference he had on Thursday. He also shared with Mr. Kumar the steps the Corporation had taken to mitigate the impact of COVID-19 lockdown on the people by organising the sale of vegetables through vehicles. Mr. Jatavath said he shared with Mr. Kumar how the tactical design could also be looked through the COVID-19 prism to provide space for maintenance of physical distance. In the video conferencing, Mr. Jatavath also explained the reasons why the Corporation had to push the deadlines for some of the Smart Cities Mission projects and the need for the Government of India to directly transfer funds to beneficiary cities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/world-bank-appreciation-for-corpn/article31655448.ece
23 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Case against DMK MLA for defaming Minister||Kuniyamuthur police booked Singanallur DMK MLA N. Karthik on charges of defaming Minister S.P. Velumani and attempting to disrupt public harmony. Police sources said on Friday that the complaint was filed on May 18 by one Rangaraj. In the complaint, Mr. Rangaraj has alleged that the MLA deliberately spread falsehoods about his company, which he claimed was not connected to Coimbatore Corporation. Based on the complaint, police registered a case against Mr. Karthik under Sections 153 (Wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot), 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 505(1)(b) (Statements conducing public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/case-against-dmk-mla-for-defaming-minister/article31655442.ece
23 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Trade union members stage protest||Members of CITU, AITUC and INTUC staged protests at 150 places in Tiruppur district demanding that working hours at factories should not be increased from eight hours to 12 hours a day, the district-level worker welfare monitoring committee meeting should be held, and industries should not reduce wages for workers. In Coimbatore district, CITU and AITUC protests were held in 300 locations. At Salem and Namakkal, the protesters raised slogans demanding the Central government to provide cash assistance of Rs. 7,500 to labourers. They also sought distribution of relief materials to all labourers irrespective of whether they had registered with the welfare boards or not. They also wanted the government to bear the cost of transporting migrant labourers and give up moves to privatise PSUs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-union-members-stage-protest/article31655437.ece
23 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for poaching wild boar using country bomb||Forest Department officials on Thursday arrested three persons on charges of poaching a wild boar using a country bomb in Periyanaickenpalayam forest range near Coimbatore. Based on a tip-off, K. Marimuthu, 62, M. Arumugam, 49 and A. Balamurugan, 42 were secured by the forest officials on Wednesday in Kattanjikaradu, an area belonging to the Revenue Department within the Periyanaickenpalayam forest range. Wild boar meat weighing seven kg and six country bombs also known as avittukais were seized from the accused, officials said. Remanded The accused were produced before the VIIIth Judicial Magistrate in Mettupalayam and were remanded to judicial custody on Thursday, according to the forest officials. Periyanaickenpalayam Forest Range Officer S. Suresh said that Forest Department personnel across Coimbatore Forest Division are being vigilant to prevent wildlife offences as per the instructions of District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh. “We will continue to maintain a strict vigil,” Mr. Suresh said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-poaching-wild-boar-using-country-bomb/article31655467.ece
23 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Food distributed||Officials of the Coimbatore GST Commissionerate (Appeals) distributed food, water bottles, and masks to about 4,800 migrant workers, who left Coimbatore by special trains to their home States.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/food-distributed/article31655436.ece
23 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Crescent sighting event today||Coimbatore District United Jama-ath has said that there would be Shawwal crescent events on May 23. A release from the Jama-ath General Secretary M.I. Mohammed Ali said as Ramzan ended on Saturday evening, there would be events across the city that evening to sight the crescent. Those who sight the crescent should dial 94437-77337 or 0422-4954480 to convey the news. Thereafter the Jama-ath would make a formal announcement on Ramzan, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/crescent-sighting-event-today/article31655449.ece
23 May 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Dindigul Collector warns cab operators||Collector M. Vijayalakshmi has warned omni bus, van and other tourist cab operators not to transport people without valid e-pass especially from other districts or States. It follows complaints that vehicles, which left Dindigul to drop people in other districts and States, picked up passengers who wanted to come here on their return trips. Checks at specially installed check-posts indicated that none of the passengers had valid e-pass. She ordered the Regional Transport Officer to seize and impound such vehicles and take action against erring drivers for being negligent. Such acts by some people irked the official machinery at a time when the district administration had been taking very many measures to tackle the COVID-19 spread. An officer attached to the Department of Health and Family Welfare said that people from Dindigul city, who were employed in Bangaluru and Gujarat, recently got into a mini-van which had gone to drop a batch of workers in Hosur after applying e-pass. At least four among the people who arrived had symptoms of COVID-19 and two tested positive. Similarly, some men belonging to Dindigul, who were from Gujarat too, had sneaked into the district in a similar fashion, he added. A meeting was convened at the office of the RTO on Friday where cab operators and representatives from the tourist van welfare association members participated. They agreed to cooperate with the officials during the COVID-19 pandemic times and assured that they would sensitise their drivers and conductors not to encourage unauthorised people to board their vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dindigul-collector-warns-cab-operators/article31655723.ece
23 May 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Worker dies in accident||Rathinam, 37, a daily wage earner of Komanampatti near Natham, was fatally knocked down by a dipper lorry on Friday. Police said that when he was going on his two-wheeler from Natham to his home, the lorry came from behind and hit him as he was approaching Pallapatti Pass near Madurai Road. He fell down and collapsed. Natham police have arrested the driver.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/worker-dies-in-accident/article31655743.ece
23 May 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Time sought||A group of autorickshaw drivers and SHG women from Natham submitted a memorandum to the Tahsildar Radhakrishnan here on Friday stating that they were being pestered by private money lenders and private banks to repay EMIs. They sought time to repay loans as per the government announcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/time-sought/article31655720.ece
23 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister directs health officials to arrange for test||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, through Twitter, instructed Health Department officials to take steps to test a person for COVID-19, after the individual appealed to him on social media. The person, whose father had visited Kerala, had requested the Chief Minister to intervene and arrange for a COVID-19 test for him, as he had its symptoms and also suffered from chest pain. ‘Staff not helpful’ He complained that medical specialists he had approached were not helpful in conducting the test. Responding to the request, Mr. Palaniswami directed Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar and Health Secretary Beela Rajesh to immediately ensure that he undergoes a COVID-19 test. Dr. Beela Rajesh replied to the Chief Minister’s post on Twitter itself. She informed him that the person was residing in Cuddalore and immediate arrangements were being made for him to be tested for COVID-19 and for subsequent treatment, is necessary. “We immediately inquired with the person. The Joint Director of Health Services, Cuddalore, has spoken to him, and he has reached the Cuddalore government hospital,” she said.  The Joint Director of Health Services, Cuddalore, has spoken to him, and he has reached the Cuddalore government hospital Beela Rajesh Health Secretary||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chief-minister-directs-health-officials-to-arrange-for-test/article31655423.ece
23 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Shops in Gani Market reopen||With the district administration permitting textile shops to reopen, traders at the E.K.M. Abdul Gani textile market premises (Gani Market) opened their shops after two months. The wholesale and retail market has 730 weekly shops and 370 daily shops. Shopkeepers have adhered to the norms. But business was very poor as a few people visited the shops on Thursday and Friday. They said that “we have taken all the steps to ensure personal distancing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/shops-in-gani-market-reopen/article31655453.ece
23 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for placing concrete slab on railway tracks||Two persons, who placed a concrete slab on railway tracks, were arrested by the police here on Friday. On May 18, the Erode Government Railway Police received information that a concrete slab measuring five foot was placed on the tracks at Pudupalayam between Sankari Durg and Magudanchavadi Railway Station in Salem district. The Railway police inspected the spot and removed the slab. As no trains were operated on the particular day, major accident was averted. The police have been on the lookout for the culprits. They picked up Nagalingam (21) and Babu (27), both of Pappireddipatti in Salem who confessed to have committed the crime for fun. Both were lodged at prison.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-held-for-placing-concrete-slab-on-railway-tracks/article31655466.ece
23 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco extends bill payment date||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) has extended the last date for paying electricity bill. A press release from T. Rajendran, Superintending Engineer, Erode Power Distribution Circle, Erode, domestic consumers whose due date falls between March 25 and June 5 could pay their electricity bill till June 6 without fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tangedco-extends-bill-payment-date/article31655435.ece
23 May 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||At Hosur, a royal send-off to migrants||It was around 7.30 a.m on Thursday. The Government Arts College in Hosur was swarming with migrant workers, who would board the first train from Hosur to Uttar Pradesh that afternoon. A group of Muslim men, some with skull caps, visibly exhausted, and armed with laptops were keying in Aadhaar numbers on an excel sheet for each of the migrant workers. There were over 1,000 migrants with the last of their belongings. The volunteers from the Muslim community were at it since the previous night, liaising between the officials and the workers, in Hindi, in the holy month of Ramzan. Another team from the community was preparing over 1,800 food packets of tamarind rice and lemon rice with heavy dose of ground nuts, and chappatis with tomato chutney in their kitchen, in addition to the food that was being packed by the Hosur Corporation for the migrant workers in the central kitchen of Amma canteen. Water bottles, fruit drinks, biscuits were part of the goodies along with food distributed to the travelling migrants. On Thursday, at 1.50 p.m, when the first train chugged out of the platform of Hosur railway station, this band of youth after clocking volunteer work non-stop for over two days and nights clapped to cheer the smiling, home-bound migrant workers. When the pandemic acquired a communal colour in some parts of the country, this group, with the support of various jamaaths of Hosur channelled their energeies into COVID relief in the industrial town. Their presence was a shot in the arm for the Hosur Corporation and Hosur revenue administration – both faced with a short window of contacting over 1,600 workers on Tuesday evening, when the train schedule arrived and arranging for food. Faced with the mammoth task of contacting the migrant workers registered in thenonresidenttamil.orgwebsite to go home, Hosur tahsildar K.Venkatesan took the help of these volunteers of COVID relief. “When we look back, it feels good,” says Abdul Hadr, one of the coordinators of the volunteering community youth. “ We have a strong tech team. On Tuesday, within a span of three hours, we made 400 plus calls to UP workers.” Since then, they had also made 700 calls to Jharkhand workers and 1,200 calls to Odissa workers, to organise them for the forthcoming trains, next week. Abdul Hadr and his brother Abdul Bari, who run a Trust, organised with the support of various jaamaaths of the Hosur. Their band of youth, resourceful, highly qualified, and employed as doctors, techies, have been doing COVID relief work distributing cooked food and dry rations. “Our friends across the globe contributed funds to feed people here,” says Hadr. Perhaps their first push came in the early days of COVID from Abdul Hadr’s sister, a dermatologist at the Hosur government hospital. It was still early days of COVID and there were no PPEs. “When we found that the doctors were apprehensive of seeing patients without protective gear, we supplied PPEs and N-95 protective masks for all the doctor of the GH.” When cross border movement of people continued, their community’s kitchen ran overtime, providing 300 packs of hot cooked dinner at the inter-State checkpost to feed the walkers. In all this, the ingenuity of the local Hosur Corporation, led by its Commssioner K.Balasubramaniam, also stood out. Mr.B alasubramaniam roped in all the help that was needed. On Thursday morning, as the first load of breakfast for migrant workers left the central kitchen of Amma canteen, Hosur Commissioner was also relieved that the train was arriving late. “Otherwise, we could not have prepared meals for 1,600 people. They would go hungry for two days in the train,” he said. Simultaneously, he made calls to the biggest garment stores asking them to provide bags to put in the food packed for the workers. “We will get a call from the border post saying there are people without food. There will be some rava in the kitchen, and I’ll call them to whip up some upma,” says Mr. Balasubramaniam. For him, the lockdown if any, ensured full square meals for the sanitation workers. Earlier, they were not entitled to food from the canteen. Now, they get to eat full, and their work load has reduced considerably, says the Commissioner. Without the officials, none of this would be possible, says Hadr underlining the need for decentralising and delegating relief work and embracing help from all quarters without redtape. “Sundaramoorthy sir, please come,” he called out introducing the sanitation inspector. “He readily came to inspect the kitchen to ensure food safety of the meals for the migrants. “They trusted us, delegated work, and we did it. I would call it the joint effort of all.” On Thursday afternoon, when the train was about to leave, these officials and volunteers receded to the background and optics gained foreground. A railway police officer scurried along the platform looking through the windows. He finally stopped at the window of a Muslim woman and asked her to say something, while he recorded a video on the phone. “The officer asked me to thank the Railway Minister for sending a train,” said the woman, who had covered up her face for the video. Tamil Nadu government paid Rs. 920 for the workers and ensured they had left the State with dignity and their stomachs full, said an official. On May 25, when a Jharkhand train would come to fetch the migrant workers to their State, this community of volunteers plan to celebrate Eid with the migrants on the platform.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/at-hosur-a-royal-send-off-to-migrants/article31655469.ece
23 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||IPPB helps unorganised sector workers avail COVID-19 relief||Around 20,600 accounts have been opened in India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) across Madurai district in the past 10 days. These accounts have been opened for unorganised sector workers registered with the Labour Department to help them avail COVID-19 relief. G. Vinoth Kumar, Senior Manager, India Post Payments Bank, Tallakulam Branch, said that out of one lakh unorganised sector workers who were eligible to avail the assistance in the district, nearly 30,000 did not have bank accounts. “So, based on information provided by the labour department, we have been opening bank accounts for them. Within the next few days, we will ensure that all the 30,000 unorganised sector workers have accounts with IPPB,” he said. So far, assistance has been credited to the accounts of around 3,000 workers, he added. A total of 280 post offices in the district have IPPB, where people have been visiting for the past few days to open bank accounts. As a measure to reduce crowding and follow personal distancing norms, around 330 postmen and Gramin Dak Sevaks have been helping customers to open bank accounts at the doorstep. R. Rajesh Kumar, a postman from Palanganatham, said they have been provided a smartphone and biometric device to help open accounts for customers. “A bank account can be opened within a few minutes if a customer knows his Aadhar number and is present to undergo fingerprint verification. The customer can maintain zero balance in the account and easily avail assistance of the government,” he said. It has benefited customers as otherwise it would have been difficult for them to open bank accounts with banks amidst the lockdown, said D. Maheshwaran, Gramin Dak Sevak from Thumbaipatti village in Melur block. “Especially, people in rural areas have benefited largely as other banks had very minimal operations during the lockdown,” he added. “Customers were happy when we delivered the credited amount at their doorstep,” said Mr. Rajesh Kumar. With this, the customer base of the IPPB has increased manifold, said Mr. Vinoth Kumar. “Since the inauguration of the bank in 2018, we have had only 25,000 customers in the district. But, due to this move, our customer base will be expanded by additional 30,000 people,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ippb-helps-unorganised-sector-workers-avail-covid-19-relief/article31655740.ece
23 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Rise in positive cases in southern districts||Madurai district recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases in a single day as a total of 33 people tested positive on Friday, according to the media bulletin. However, 32 of 33 cases were persons who reached Madurai from other States. Collector T. G. Vinay said that some of these patients were natives of other districts and will be cross-notified to their respective areas later. According to the bulletin, a total of 29 people from Maharashtra, one person each from Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Delhi tested positive. The total number of COVID-19 positive cases till date stands at 224. Of the total number of positive cases, two transgenders tested positive. Till date, five transgenders have tested positive across Tamil Nadu. As on date, there are 111 active cases. According to the bulletin, two persons were discharged from the Government Rajaji Hospital. Virudhunagar The district saw the highest spike in number of positive case on Friday with 26 persons and all had come from other States. Among them, 14 had come from Maharashtra and 12 from New Delhi. With this, the total number of positive cases has increased to 95 and active cases have crossed the 50-mark with 52 persons admitted to hospitals. A total of 43 patients have been discharged. All fresh cases were admitted to the Government hospital in Sivakasi. Collector R. Kannan said tests have been conducted for all those kept in quarantine facilities. “Results of over 400 persons were awaited,” he said. Theni With five fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, Theni district crossed the 100 mark. Officials said that three among them were admitted in Theni Government Medical College Hospital and two in Cumbum Government Hospital. One among the five had gone to Telangana and returned to the district recently. His samples were taken at the check post. With regard to other four persons, they were in contact with a person, who tested positive and returned from Koyambedu recently. Collector M. Pallavi Baldev said random sampling was intensified. On Friday, 136 samples from Muthalapuram, which has been identified as containment zone, were sent for test. A 70-year-old man, who was undergoing treatment for coronavirus after he tested positive, died in the Government Medical College Hospital here on Friday. Doctors said the patient was admitted on May 10. Records suggested that he had diabetes and blood pressure. He was in contact with some COVID-19 patients in his area before admission. As the condition deteriorated, the patient died. Steps will be taken to perform the last rites as mandated by the Health Ministry. This death was second casualty in the isolation ward as a woman had died a month ago. According to doctors, 52 patients are undergoing treatment till date at the isolation ward. Ramanathapuram In Ramanathapuram district, the number of persons testing positive crossed the 50 mark. A 32-year-old woman from Keelakarai, her 10-year-old son and six-year-old daughter tested positive. Similarly, a 47-year-old woman and two men aged 23 and 53 years from the same area tested positive. A lone 23-year-old man from Sayalkudi also tested positive. Besides, six others, who returned from Kolkata recently tested positive when they were screened at a check post. There was a lone case of a male testing positive and he had returned from Andhra Pradesh. He has been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. There was no fresh case in Sivaganga district, where the total active cases remained at 29 and 13 among them were discharged. The lone positive case from Dindigul was a lorry driver from Batlagundu who had returned from Andhra Pradesh. Tirunelveli While Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts did not record any fresh case on Friday, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts had 18 and 9 cases respectively. Of 18 new cases in Tirunelveli district, which has 271 positive cases, 17 were returnees from Maharashtra. In Thoothukudi, 3 of the 9 cases were from Mumbai and the tally is now 144. “We expect number of positive cases in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts to continue to swell. This is not a good sign as it will lead to community transmission of this infection,” said a senior doctor. As of now, Tirunelveli has 177 active cases undergoing treatment in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital while Thoothukudi stands second with 108 patients. Tenkasi district stands third with 32 cases and Kanniyakumari district has 24 cases undergoing treatment in the Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rise-in-positive-cases/article31655729.ece
23 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fake Facebook account of Police Commissioner found||Senior IPS officer and Madurai City Police Commissioner Davidson Devasirvatham has asked the cyber crime police to probe into a fake Facebook account created in his name. “I came to know, through my friend, about a fake Facebook account, identical to my original account with the same photographs. Only when he tried to recall a chat he had through the Facebook messenger, I realised that it was a fake account,” Mr. Davidson said. A similar fake account has also emerged for another senior IPS officer, he added. Mr. Devasirvatham has warned people about such fake identity being created in others’ name on Facebook. In his Facebook page, the Police Commissioner has said that it was not enough to frequently change passwords of the social media account. “But you should also keep checking whether there were any new identities similar or identical to your original account with your photographs,” he said. He said that people using such fake account could try to lure gullible people with some false promises. Cyber criminals, after creating a fake account, would try to send a friend request to people already in the friends’ list of the original account holder. “When the friends take the fake account for your second account and confirm the friend request, the criminals could upload some objectional photographs through the fake account,” the Commissioner warned. He appealed to people to post a message warning their Facebook friends against accepting a second friend request from them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fake-facebook-account-of-police-commissioner-found/article31655727.ece
23 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Corporation begins online classes for Class 10 students||Madurai Corporation has begun online classes for Class 10 students to help them prepare for the board examinations scheduled to begin from June 15. “This move was initiated as we wanted to ensure that all Corporation school students are well trained and are on par with students from private schools,” said Chief Education Officer P. Vijaya. There are around 1,500 Corporation school students who will be taking the Class 10 examinations. From Saturday, online classes will also be held to train Corporation school students crack the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test. “Around 50 high-scoring students, who have written Class 12 examinations, will be given NEET training through online classes,” said Ms. Vijaya. On Friday, the first session was held for Mathematics, in which around 100 students participated. “There was a good response from the students who were able to revise and clarify their doubts with the teachers,” said Headmistress of Kasthuribai Gandhi Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School R. Murugeswari, who attended the session. “From Monday, there will be two sessions each in the morning and evening. We are also taking steps so that around 500 students can attend an online session,” said Ms. Vijaya. Ms. Murugeswari said that all school teachers have formed Whatsapp groups with their students. The online link and the timetable will be shared on Whatsapp groups, one day prior to the sessions, she added. Corporation teachers take online classes from a hall in Arignar Anna Maligai.  Around 50 high-scoring students, who have written Class 12 examinations, will also be given NEET training through online classes P. Vijaya Chief Education Officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-begins-online-classes-for-class-10-students/article31655735.ece
23 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Feeding the homeless amidst lockdown||On Friday morning, Nithya Mess, located near Anna Bus Stand here, was bustling with activity. Pots and pans clanged and aroma of tomato rice filled the air as a large number of volunteers were cooking, and arranging food packets in large containers. Later, groups of volunteers distributed these food packets to abandoned elderly, homeless and the underprivileged who were unable to feed themselves during the lockdown. Around 400 volunteers, largely comprising youngsters, are part of ‘Maamaduraiyin Annavasal’. These youth have been cooking and distributing lunch everyday to around 5,000 homeless across the district since May 1. Preparation of food begins as early as 3 a.m. at 17 centres in the district. They prepare tomato rice, lemon rice, biryani and vegetable rice. Madurai Member of Parliament Su Venkatesan, who initiated this programme and arranged sponsors, said that the urban poor were the most affected during the COVID-19 pandemic. “Many of them are not covered by the public distribution system and are on the brink of starvation,” he said. “The volunteers are the backbone of this initiative and they have identified the underprivileged and are regularly distributing food”, he said. “Through a decentralised structure, the volunteers ensure that food packets reach all the underprivileged in the city,” he added. “Only after I began volunteering, I understood the immensity of hunger that was prevalent in the city. Though I cannot donate financially, I am contributing my time to help the underprivileged during this crisis,” said V. Ramamoorthy, a volunteer from South Gate. Most of these homeless were dependent on hotels and annadanams (free food) provided at temples to feed themselves and the lockdown has deeply affected them, said R. Kavitha, a volunteer. S. Saravanakumar, another volunteer who works in a private car company, said that for the past four days, since resumption of his office work, he has been distributing food packets during lunch breaks. “I do it because I know that around 100 homeless are dependent on volunteers to have their lunch,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/feeding-the-homeless-amidst-lockdown/article31655732.ece
23 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Lack of manpower hits functioning of DCPU||Without enough manpower, inadequate salaries and lack of vehicle, the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) in Madurai is finding it difficult to implement various schemes. The DCPU was started in 2012 as part of the Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS). According to its official guidelines, the department must contribute to effective implementation of child protection legislation, schemes and achievement of child protection goals. However, an officer says that with only 11 employees in the department, it becomes difficult to implement schemes and create awareness in 13 blocks of the district. According to the ICPS guidelines, the Collector is the chairman of the DCPU. The second in command is the District Child Protection Officer. Other staff, include two protection officers who look into institutional care and non-institutional care, a legal cum probation officer, two social workers, two outreach workers, a counsellor, an accountant, a data analyst and an assistant cum data entry officer. With only eight members on the field, an official from the DCPU says that it is difficult to ensure proper disbursal of finances under schemes and create awareness. “We have to be present when there is case of infanticide, child marriage, bonded labour and abuse. It becomes difficult to be everywhere when we have shortage of field-level staff,” he said. The officer adds that the department does not have a vehicle to travel to scenes of crime or to further investigate child rights problems in areas recognised as vulnerable. Field staff must travel in their own vehicles- usually bikes- across the district to attend to cases. On the morning of May 16 when the body of a four-day-old girl child from Sholavandan who had been killed allegedly by her father and her grandmother was being exhumed by the police, no member from the DCPO was present, said an official involved in the investigation. Since they were unable to get first hand information due to limited resources, the officer says that they depend on local resources including staff from other departments, local journalists and non-governmental organisations for information. The source says that all staff members have been appointed on consolidated pay and that their contracts are short. “People on the scale of outreach workers get only Rs. 8,000 as salary for the whole month. It becomes difficult to allocate funds for travel out of one’s own pocket,” the officer says. When asked about increasing the manpower, District Collector and Chairman of DCPU T. G. Vinay says that the available strength was enough at the moment. “Any increase in manpower needs to be assessed based on the number of cases recorded in the district calling for child protection,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lack-of-manpower-hits-functioning-of-dcpu/article31655719.ece
23 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Court-monitored investigation sought||On May 22 and 23, 2018, 13 people lost their lives in police firing in Thoothukudi during a protest against Sterlite Copper. Two years on, no policeman has been held accountable for their act against the public, said Human Rights Activists, including former High Court judges. With no progress in investigation, activists demanded a court-monitored time-bound probe into the killing of peaceful protesters who were only exercising their fundamental right to free expression and assembly. In a statement, the Human Rights activists said that two years ago the residents of Thoothukudi had gathered at the Collectorate to mark 100th day of peaceful protests against expansion of Vedanta’s Sterlite Copper. However, policemen targeted and fired at those, who were exercising their fundamental right, killing 13 people and injuring many others. The violence was a planned State response to the protesting public and no official was held accountable, they said, adding that any further delay would erode trust in rule of law. In separate statements, the Samam Kudimakkal Iyakkam, the Tamil Nadu Bishop’s Council and the Tamil Nadu Latin Bishop’s Council urged the authorities concerned to expedite investigation into the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-monitored-investigation-sought/article31655718.ece
23 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man hurls country-made bombs on sister’s house||Angered by his sister who had scolded him for drinking, M. Murugan (30) assaulted her, and later hurled country-made bombs at her house, injuring her two children and killing her dog, at Palamedu near here on Thursday night. The police said that S. Selvarani (34) of Ramagoundanpatti had reprimanded her brother, Murugan, for creating a ruckus under the influence of alcohol. Murugan assaulted her and she sustained injuries on her face. Murugan then left and brought his friend T. Chinnadurai to her house at around 9 p.m. Chinnadurai hurled four country-made bombs. However, only one bomb exploded and Selvarani’s two children S. Kathiravan (12) and S. Kavin Bharat (10) were injured. Selvarani’s dog was killed in an explosion as it bit one of the bombs, said Inspector of Police, Nirmala. Stating that Chinnadurai had made the bombs at his house for killing wild boars that invade farms, the Inspector said that he had earlies been arrested under the Arms Act and provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act for making and using country-made bombs. The police have arrested Murugan, while Chinnadurai was absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bombs-hurled-near-madurai/article31655726.ece
23 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses plea to open mosques||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday dismissed a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to open mosques in Madurai district for two hours to conduct special Ramadan prayers on May 25. A Division Bench of Justices P. N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi observed that the lockdown was imposed in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and it was for the government to decide on the issue. The court would not interfere, the judges said. The court was hearing the PIL petition filed by A. K. Sahulhameed of Islamiya Sevai Sangam. The petitioner said that mosques should be permitted to be open for two hours to conduct the special prayers. Physical distancing would be ensured at the mosques, he had said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-dismisses-plea-to-open-mosques/article31655733.ece
23 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||briefly 2||A Home Guard volunteer on Friday found Rs. 40,000 on the road and restored the amount to the owner. The police said that Mukesh Kumar, who runs a cosmetic shop and lost the money while riding on a two-wheeler at Vilakkuthoon junction. Home Guard Vigneshwaran found the money and traced Mukesh Kumar. Sub-Inspector Gomathi handed over the money to Mukesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/briefly-2/article31655737.ece
23 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Abuse victim accommodated at a private home||A 16-year-old girl from Oomachikulam, who was sexually abused by a relative, has been accommodated in a private home after her pregnancy came to light on Friday. The girl, who is seven months pregnant, was checked at the Government Rajaji Hospital after her parents reported the abuse on May 10 to the police. As she had crossed 20 weeks of her pregnancy, she would not be able to abort her baby. Child Welfare Committee Chairman S. Vijayasaravanan said the girl will deliver a child at the private home with her identity protected. She has agreed to give the baby for adoption. She will receive support from the committee to continue her education. The accused has been remanded.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/abuse-victim-accommodated-at-a-private-home/article31655717.ece
23 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Six COVID-19 cases in U.T.||In the sharpest single-day spike, Puducherry recorded six new COVID-19 cases on Friday. With this, the tally has gone up to 28 in the U.T., including the five patients from Tamil Nadu at Jipmer. Officials said there had been an over three-fold increase in cases over the past week since further easing of lockdown norms and the arrival of residents stuck in other States and in the Gulf. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said the government was coordinating with airport authorities in Chennai to streamline arrival of passengers into Puducherry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-covid-19-cases-in-ut/article31655407.ece
23 May 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Special DRO appointed to acquire land for Cauvery-Gundar project||A special District Revenue Officer has been appointed to acquire land required for the Cauvery-Gundar river link project in Pudukottai district. The project, which remained at the drawing board stage for long, got a push after the State government allotted Rs. 700 crore in the Budget for 2020-21 to carry out land acquisition and preliminary works. The scheme envisages a new link canal for 250 km to carry surplus waters of the Cauvery from Mayanur barrage in Karur district to Agniyaru, South Vellar, Manimutharu, the Vaigai and Gundar under intra-State river linking programme. About 6,000 cusecs of surplus water from the Cauvery is planned to be diverted through the canal to the drought-prone southern districts. In the first phase, the link canal from Cauvery to South Vellar is to be taken up at a tentative cost of Rs. 7,677 crore. The project is widely viewed as a boon to Pudukottai district as over a 100 villages in 12 taluks are expected to benefit from the scheme. The canal will bring water to 760 kanmois in the district and irrigate over 20,000 hectares of land. Around 6,730 acres are required for the project which will be executed in three phases. In Pudukottai district, about 653.6 hectares of land in Viralimalai, Kulathur and Pudukottai taluks will be acquired. Collector P. Uma Maheswari convened a consultative meeting on Friday, consequent to the appointment of R. Ramya Devi as the special DRO (Land Acquisition: Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar link project) to discuss the modalities of land acquisition. Apart from Ms.Ramya Devi, District Revenue Officer P.V. Saravanan, District Rural Development Agency Project Director M. Kalidasan, PWD Assistant Executive Engineer Uma Shankar attended the meeting. Speaking on the occasion, Ms.Uma Maheswari said three units, each under an officer in the rank of tahsildars, would function under the special DRO to carry out land acquisition. She instructed the officers to expedite the exercise.  The Cauvery largesse Agniyaru, South Vellar, Manimutharu, the Vaigai and Gundar will be the recipients  6,730 acres are required for the project which will be executed in three phases Link canal from Cauvery to South Vellar is to be taken up at a tentative cost of Rs. 7,677 crore||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-dro-appointed-to-acquire-land-for-cauvery-gundar-project/article31655764.ece
23 May 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Forest personnel donate money to family of deceased watcher||Days after a 24-year-old Forest Watcher C. Chandru, a native of Pudukottai district, died while retrieving the carcass of an elephant that had slipped into a contour canal and died at Udumalpet in Tirupur district, forest personnel have pooled money to donate it to the family of the deceased. More than 700 Foresters, Forest Guards and Forest Watchers serving across the State collected Rs. 4.31 lakh. and a couple of forest personnel went to the house of Chandru at Keeramangalam in Pudukottai district and handed over Rs. 10,000 and a sapling to his mother Vijaya on Thursday. The remaining Rs. 4.21 lakh was deposited into her bank account. Since it was Chandru’s birthday on May 21, the forest personnel offered floral tributes to his portrait kept at the community hall of the village. An engineering degree holder, Chandru was recruited only in December and it was his first operation on that ill-fated day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/forest-personnel-donate-money-to-family-of-deceased-watcher/article31655761.ece
23 May 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Clash over speed-breaker||Tension gripped Kanniyankollai near Vadakadu on Thursday following a clash that broke out between two groups over erecting speed breaker. Two persons were injured and pickets were posted at the village to avert further clash. The speed breakers were erected by Dalits, and opposed by caste Hindus of Vaanakankaadu “as they reportedly caused hindrance to free flow of traffic.” A wordy quarrel between the two groups resulted in exchange of blows using sticks triggering tension. The Vadakadu police booked separate cases on receipt of complaints preferred by both groups. Two persons have been arrested.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/clash-over-speed-breaker/article31655759.ece
23 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Two test positive in Salem, one in Hosur||Two persons, who had recently travelled to Salem from Maharashtra have tested positive for COVID-19 disease here. The patients from Sooramangalam travelled to Salem in a truck from Maharashtra. Health officials said they were admitted to the COVID-19 ward at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital.   Special Correspondent adds from Hosur: A 52-year-old call taxi driver from Hosur had tested positive for COVID 19. The man has been admitted to the Krishnagiri government hospital. The patient had dropped a customer from Bengaluru to Chennai between May 11 and 13. He had developed symptoms on May 20, when his swab was collected. According to the Deputy Director of Health V. Govindan, the patient was healthy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-test-positive-in-salem-one-in-hosur/article31655463.ece
23 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Life convict dies of heart attack||A life convict died of heart attack at the Salem Central Prison on Friday. According to prison officials, the convict was identified as S. Selvam (39). On Friday morning, Selvam complained of chest pain and was provided first-aid at the hospital on the prison premises. He was then taken to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College hospital, where he was pronounced dead.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/life-convict-dies-of-heart-attack/article31655439.ece
23 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Relief materials donated||The JSW Group donated relief materials to 4,000 families residing in M.Kallipatty and Pottaneri panchayats here on Friday. According to a release, the organisation handed over grocery kits worth Rs. 11 lakh to the presidents of the two panchayats.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/relief-materials-donated/article31655440.ece
23 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Corporation staff slap fine on those not wearing mask||Corporation staff here have started collecting spot fine from road users who move around without wearing face masks. Earlier, when the nation-wide lockdown was imposed, the police started slapping fine on vehicle users who were roaming without a valid reason. Cases were booked and the vehicles seized. Following the extension of the lockdown from May 18 to 31, the civic body has embarked on an exercise to make the residents realise the importance of wearing face mask to protect themselves from COVID-19 virus infection . As part of this exercise, special teams were formed to conduct surprise checks in the town at regular intervals from May 21 and punish those who failed to wear face masks. Nearly 4,400 persons who were riding vehicles without wearing face masks were intercepted by the special teams and a fine of Rs. 44,000 was collected from them. Apart from issuing a receipt for the fine, a face mask was also issued to them free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corporation-staff-slap-fine-on-those-not-wearing-mask/article31655770.ece
23 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown comes in handy for reviving defunct wells||A group of farmers in Vengarayankudikadu seem to have been bestowed with luck as they were able to get the defunct wells on the lands revived during the nearly two-and-half months-long nation-wide lockdown. It all began when farmer Kathirselvan decided to engage five to six persons in the village on daily wages basis to get a defunct well on his agricultural field revived as soon as the lockdown was announced. His offer was grabbed eagerly by a group of labourers who were idling the time away as the 100-day job scheme had come to standstill then. His well was rejuvenated in about a week and a spring opened up at a depth of 25 feet. As the news spread, the dedication with which the farmhands executed the work enthused other farmers also to rejuvenate their defunct wells. By April second week, around 50 farmhands and youngsters, who were unable to get themselves engaged in unskilled works, grabbed the opportunity extended by another set of farmers who also wanted to rejuvenate their defunct wells on agriculture fields and patta lands. “We engaged them for a daily wage of Rs. 600 with tea and snacks twice a day and lunch,” said Balasubramanian, who revived a well on his agricultural land and on a patta land. Meanwhile, a few farmers who belatedly decided to get their defunct wells revived have found themselves in a quandary in view of the revival of 100-day job scheme and opening up of small and medium scale industries in rural areas. The workers who used to report for duty promptly at 6 a.m. earlier are now turning up at the site late and the pace of work has also slowed down as only a few turn up for work, says Sundarrajan who had taken up desilting of a well on his field a few days before the governments announced relaxation in guidelines for the extended lockdown period. He hopes to complete the work before ‘kuruvai’ season starts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-comes-in-handy-for-reviving-defunct-wells/article31655771.ece
23 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Thanjavur Collector shows his prowess with hoe||Collector M. Govinda Rao on Friday demonstrated to some of the 100-day job work beneficiaries on how to use the hoe to widen the canal beds and strengthen the bunds. During his inspection of spots where the widening and strengthening of bunds of canals were taken up under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme at Kattur in Orathanadu taluk and Valamarkottai in Thanjavur taluk, the Collector grabbed the hoe from the MGNREGS beneficiaries to conduct a demonstration on how to use the tool to remove sand from the canal beds and deposit it on the bunds to strengthen them. The villagers were surprised over the ease with which the Collector used the hoe to demonstrate to them how quickly and effectively the tool could be used to complete the work without much strain. Later Mr. Govinda Rao inspected the job worksheets maintained by the local body staff at Kattur and Valamarkottai and instructed the officials to ensure that the COVID-19 virus prevention measures such as wearing of face masks, cleaning of hands with sanitisers and maintaining of social distancing were adhered to by the workers. The Collector also inspected works taken up under kudimaramathu scheme on Vadacherry canal in Valamarkottai at a cost of Rs. 55 lakh for a total distance of 3.5 km. He also inspected work taken up under the Chief Minister Scheme of Desilting of Irrigation Channels and rejuvenation of waterbodies in Thanjavur and Orathanadu taluks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thanjavur-collector-shows-his-prowess-with-hoe/article31655756.ece
23 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to victims of police firing||Public and political parties on Friday paid floral tributes to portraits of victims of police firing, amidst heavy deployment of police personnel across this port town, on the occasion of second anniversary of anti-Sterlite protest in which 13 persons were killed. When the anti-Sterlite protesters took out a procession towards the Collectorate against the copper smelter plant on May 22, 2018, violence broke out and 13 persons were killed in police firing. Since lockdown was clamped across the country in the wake of coronavirus pandemic, the police denied permission for taking out silent processions or conducting public meetings or special prayers in churches in memory of those who were killed in police firing. Flex banners carrying photographs of 13 victims were erected for homage in villages such as A. Kumareddiyarpuram, Pandaarampatti, South Veerapandiapuram, Madaththur and Meelavittaan that played pivotal role in the protest. Sporting black dresses and black masks, villagers in small groups paid tributes to the victims by showering flower petals on the banners. Relatives of the victims, who went to their tombs, were stopped by the police, who collected the Aadhaar card numbers from them before allowing them to pay their homage. Several political parties such as the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Naam Thamizhar Katchi, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi cadres remembered the victims in simple functions organised in their party offices. Led by Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan, over 1,000 police personnel had been deployed in Thoothukudi town in the wake of the anniversary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tributes-paid-to-victims-of-police-firing/article31655715.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Time is ripe for setting up banana processing clusters’||With banana growers in Tamil Nadu and other States complaining of severe losses due to the lockdown, the National Research Centre for Banana here says it is high time banana food processing industry clusters are promoted to make value-added products from the fruit. “As the government seeks to give a push to micro food enterprises as part of its economic revival packages, the time is ripe for adopting a cluster-based approach in the major banana growing States,” said NRCB Director S. Uma. A major advantage of banana is that it can be easily used alongside the other major processed fruit in the country - mango, for its pulp. As mango is a seasonal fruit, the machines in processing units run for four months round-the-clock and remain idle largely for the rest of the year but for a single shift of running to recover the operational costs. During the lean season, the units can process banana, she suggested. “We have to think innovatively, identify where we stand to lose and capture new markets rather than depend on normal marketing channels,” Ms. Uma said in a statement. Banana is an all-season, nutritious and a poor man’s fruit that is rich in potassium and magnesium coupled with mood mellowing proteins. But due to mishandling, about 25 to 40% of the banana produced in the country is wasted in the supply chain and only 2% is processed into value-added products. Proper branding and marketing of banana-based products for their nutraceutical values and immune boosting capability against diseases at affordable cost was essential. The low glycemic and sugar controlling capability of banana flour has to be rightly marketed to boost the demand for banana-based products, she observed. Creation of cross-functional convergence of development agencies and farmers producer organisations, creation of market linkages, technological incubation and cross cutting initiatives were essential. Big and established players in the food industry should come up with plans to utilise banana flour, powder, puree and juices in their product portfolio to scale up use and market it effectively, she added. The pandemic has dealt a blow to farmers who have raised highly perishable fruits and vegetables due to the ban on interstate movement which has impacted the supply chain. Non-availability of workers for harvest and poor demand in the market have led to a crash in prices. Besides, the closure of major consumption points such as temples, hotels and tea stalls, and restrictions on mass gatherings such as marriages have further constricted the demand for banana. Farmers have reported heavy losses of up to Rs. 2 lakh an acre. With the steep drop in prices and the disruption in supply chain, roughly Rs. 6,000 crore had been lost in business, the NRCB estimates. In addition, as March to May are the months when maximum export from India is supposed to happen, the decelerated demand in the export trade has also caused heavy losses.  Waiting to be tapped Drop in prices and disruption in supply chain have resulted in Rs. 6,000-crore loss  During off season, mango processing units can use banana  Food majors must use value-added banana products in a big way||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/time-is-ripe-for-setting-up-banana-processing-clusters/article31655762.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||238 people stranded in Gujarat arrive by Shramik special train||As many as 238 stranded people, who were stranded in Gujarat due to the COVID-19 lockdown, arrived Tiruchi on Friday afternoon aboard a Shramik special train from Ahmedabad. The passengers, hailing from 10 districts in the central region, were guided to buses arranged by the district administration to drop the passengers at their home towns. The special train departed from Ahmedabad around 11 p.m. on May 20 ferrying Tamil Nadu workers up to Tirunelveli. It arrived Tiruchi around 12.45 p.m. Of the 238 people who got down in Tiruchi, 43 were from Tiruchi district, 19 from Ariyalur, six from Perambalur, 35 from Karur, 36 from Thanjavur, four from Tiruvarur, 28 from Nagapattinam, 37 from Pudukottai, 11 from Mayiladuthurai and 12 from Namakkal districts. Six special buses were arranged to transport them to their respective towns. The 43 travellers from Tiruchi district were taken to Sethurapatti Government College of Engineering where a special quarantine facility has been set up for people returning from other districts and States. Throat swabs were lifted from the travellers who will be quarantined for at least 14 days. Speaking to The Hindu while waiting to board a bus to Thanjavur, S. Srinivasan said he went to Ahmedabad for a project at a construction company in January. “Though my employer took good care of us, I missed my family. I have a son and a daughter and I would look at them on video calls and long to see their faces. I’m so glad I will get to do so soon,” he said. R. Sundar, a service engineer, and his three-member team, were sent to Gujarat in February and were stranded following the lockdown. The Gujarat Tamil Sangam has borne the expenses of their travel to the railway station and made all necessary arrangements, he said. “They even bought our tickets,” he said. Some exhausted travellers said they would not return to work in Gujarat. “We were shocked to see the COVID-19 cases rising drastically. They were not following the lockdown norms there. We longed to come home and were afraid that we would contract the infection,” a woman with a four-year-old child in tow said . The most difficult part was ensuring that the child was safe. “We hope never to return there. It is better to work in one’s own place,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/238-people-stranded-in-gujarat-arrive-by-shramik-special-train/article31655769.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Ten test positive in central region||Ten patients - four from Tiruchi district, three from Tiruvarur and three from Pudukottai - tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Friday. Of the four who tested positive in Tiruchi were three of a same family who returned from Chennai and the fourth patient was a 28-year-old policeman belonging to Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion. He hails from Tiruchi and contact tracing to see the source of the infection is on, sources at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital said. Apart from him, a 80-year-old man, his wife, a 72-year-old woman and their 36-year-old daughter, who had returned to the district from Chennai, also tested positive and have been admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi hospital. In Pudukottai, a jewel appraiser of a Tamilnad Mercantile Bank branch in the town and his wife have tested positive for COVID-19 and were admitted to Ranees Hospital for treatment. The private bank had been closed for a week and disinfectants sprayed as a follow-up measure, Collector P. Uma Maheswari said. The appraiser voluntarily came to the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital for medical examination on Thursday after he fell sick a couple of days ago. He and his wife tested positive, the Collector said adding that their son was a van driver who had gone to Tiruchi and Thanjavur. Swab tests from the appraiser's son would be taken, the Collector said. In Tiruvarur, three men aged 38, 28 and 24 tested positive for the infection, and were admitted to Tiruvarur Government Medical College. Meanwhile, five positive patients were discharged from the District Headquarters Hospital in Perambalur on Friday. The patients were given a warm send off by hospital officials who presented the individuals with fruit platters. The GH has only other positive patient undergoing treatment. In Ariyalur, 350 of the 355 patients who tested positive for COVID-19 have been discharged so far and five persons are undergoing treatment. As on Friday, 20 villages in the district have been cordoned off as containment zones. Throat swab samples have been lifted from 35 people, including 31 who visited their nearest Primary Healthcare Centre with cold and fever symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-test-positive-in-central-region/article31655758.ece
23 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||The saviour for the poor and needy||Many poor and homeless people depend on Amma Canteens which have been serving meals right from the early days of the lockdown. Free meals are served thrice a day at the 11 canteens in Tiruchi for nearly 11,000 people daily. When the lockdown came into force on March 25 as a preventive measure against the spread of COVID-19 and all the eateries and restaurants were ordered to be closed, these canteens rose up to the occasion and ensured that the poor did not go hungry. Food for corporation workers was also cooked at Amma kitchens. Prior to the lockdown, only breakfast and lunch were served - Rs. 1 for an idli, Rs. 5 for variety rice and Rs. 3 for curd rice. However, since the State government announced that the Amma Canteens would serve all the three meals of the day for free, the footfall has drastically increased, officials say. Amma Canteens near Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, Anna Nagar and Amma Mandapam receive good crowds. At the unit near Tiruchi GH, T. Vijaya, the head of a self-help group of 10 women, who manages the unit, is busy grinding rice for idlis. “On a normal day, we would have enough batter for morning and night. But now we have to grind and ferment it for every service,” she said. This unit has seen the largest number of customers, and has distributed the most amount of food. “We served boiled eggs also for lunch till May 1,” she said. Since March 25 to May 19, the unit has served 92,108 idlis for breakfast, 24,510 plates of rice - including variety rice, sambar rice and curd rice, and 3,880 idlis for dinner. In total, the 11 units in Tiruchi have served nine lakh idlis for breakfast, 2.49 lakh plates of rice and 4.47 lakh idlis for dinner. “The corporation has stocked foodgrains and vegetables to meet the rising demand,” Ms. Vijaya said. The women workers use personal protective equipment. “A geyser has been installed to wash dishes with hot water. Those who serve used to wear gloves even before the COVID-19 pandemic, but now they also wear face masks,” she said. Some of the regulars to the Amma Canteens want the free meals to be served even after the lockdown is lifted. “Now people like us cannot afford to buy a meal and depend on Amma Canteen. After the lockdown, we will not be able to find a job for some time and will not be able to afford food,” R. Murugan, one of them, said. Amma canteens must serve at least one free meal a day, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/the-saviour-for-the-poor-and-needy/article31655766.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Private schools in Tiruchi withhold teachers’ pay||Complaints of private schools in the district either withholding or deducting salary for teachers for the month of April, in the midst of lockdown, despite instruction issued by the School Education Department to desist from doing so, have surfaced. And one such complaint has also been redressed by the office of Chief Educational Officer. The orders issued by the Directors of School Education, Matriculation Schools and Elementary Schools on April 29 provided a clear instruction to the school heads that the salary for April must be disbursed to the teaching and non-teaching staff without any delay and that a compliance report must be submitted to the respective District Educational Officer. However, instead of depositing the salary for the month of April into their accounts, the correspondent of a matriculation school in Lalgudi offered to extend advance on future salary to the teachers. Starting off with enquiring the well-being of the teachers during the lockdown period, a note allegedly circulated among teachers by the Correspondent of Nest Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Lalgudi, said a maximum of Rs. 5,000 would be provided as advance against salary to teachers in need. Separately, the Principal was forcing the teachers to pay the provident fund for the month of April even without paying the salary for the month. When contacted, Principal Ritu Victor denied the charge, describing it as a false allegation. A senior official of School Education Department said the grievance of the teachers will be verified, adding that a similar complaint from teachers from another school in Lalgudi was addressed and rectified. The teachers who were struggling without the April salary said they were looking forward to withdrawing money from the EPF, availing the utility of the provision introduced by the Central government for a special withdrawal in view of COVID-19 pandemic, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. Under this provision, non-refundable withdrawal to the extent of the basic wages and dearness allowances for three months or up to 75% of the amount standing to member's credit in the EPF account, whichever is less, is provided. The member can apply for lesser amount also.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/private-schools-in-tiruchi-withhold-teachers-pay/article31655754.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Seized vehicles released||The police in Tiruchi range have been releasing seized vehicles in batches. The exercise began in mid-April following an order from the Director General of Police. A total of 29,117 vehicles had been released till May 21 in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Perambalur, Karur and Ariyalur districts out of 40,513 vehicles seized during the lockdown. Of the vehicles released till now, a vast majority of 28,712 were two-wheelers followed by 354 four-wheelers and 51 three-wheelers. Tiruchi district was on top in respect of vehicles seized and in release of vehicles. The number of vehicles seized and released was 16,999 and 12,982 respectively. Pudukottai district was second. As many as 11,240 vehicles including 10,000 two-wheelers were seized out of which 5,214 were released so far. The seizure figure in Karur district was 4,755 of which 4,343 were released. Total number of vehicles seized in Ariyalur district was 5,303 of which 4,370 were released. In respect of Perambalur district, the number of vehicles seized and released was 2,216 and 2,208 respectively. A First Information Report was registered for every seized vehicle and a crime number given. Original documents such as registration certificate, driving licence and insurance were checked before release of vehicles and a copy was kept with the police. A written undertaking was being taken from vehicle owners stating that the vehicle would be produced in court as and when called for. Many vehicles were seized during late night hours, sources say.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/seized-vehicles-released/article31655773.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Good patronage for e-content portal of Bharathidasan varsity||In just a week after attending a webinar on ‘Online-virtual classes and e-content portal for the unfinished syllabus,’ teachers of affiliated non-autonomous colleges, Bharathidasan University, have uploaded 2,000 study materials in digital form in various disciplines on ‘e-Contents Development Cloud 2.0’ developed by the University Informatics Centre. Lessons in 42 disciplines had been uploaded by faculty members belonging to Science, Arts and Humanities. More than 3,000 people have already visited and benefited from the knowledge repository, Registrar G. Gopinath Ganapathy said Citing principals and teachers who attended an online review meeting on Wednesday, the Registrar said that the portal had been received well by teachers and students, notwithstanding poor network access and non-availability of gadgets. The 131 participants - 40 principals and the rest teachers - appreciated the initiative of the university for creating an apt channel for knowledge transmission to the student fraternity. The faculties were exposed to the method of illustrating mathematical and chemical equations. There is provision in the portal for adding new features. The faculty can add content for Environmental Science, Gender Studies and other subjects of general study, as per guidelines of University Grants Commission. “The portal is enriched with more search features and video slicing metrics. The version 2.0 has been redesigned to be more user-friendly and it acts as a thin-ware enabling easy download without any bulk and thick contents in order to eliminate chock-up during transmission,” S. Parthasarathy, Director of University Informatics Centre, said. All affiliated colleges have to adopt the digital technologies to prepare their students for exams during the COVID -19 lockdown, Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/good-patronage-for-e-content-portal-of-bharathidasan-varsity/article31655767.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||394 leave for Rajasthan||A special Shramik train arranged by the Southern Railway to transport migrant workers to Rajasthan departed with 662 workers from Tiruchi Junction on Friday night. The train had started from Kanniyakumari earlier in the evening and had on board workers who had been employed in various districts across Tamil Nadu. In Tiruchi, 394 workers from 15 districts boarded the train and were given a send-off by Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu and revenue officials. Of the 394, 30 belonged to Tiruchi, 42 from Thanjavur, 17 from Tiruvarur, 32 from Ariyalur, 29 from Cuddalore, four from Perambalur, 33 from Pudukottai, 62 from Ranipet, 33 from Nagapattinam, 21 from Villupuram, 18 from Dindigul, 24 from Theni, 33 from Ramanathapuram and 16 from Karaikal districts. A total of 268 passengers hailing from Madurai district also boarded the train. Respective district administrations had approved for the passengers to travel and had sent them to the Tiruchi junction on 20 special buses. Meanwhile, 17 migrant workers hailing from Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir who had requested the Tiruchi Collector to allow for their travel to their home town have been sent to the Chennai Central railway station. A special train will depart for their home towns from the station on Saturday and all necessary arrangements to allow them to board the train have been made, officials here said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/394-leave-for-rajasthan/article31655772.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||2 special trains leave for Jharkhand, Rajasthan||While two ‘Shramik Special’ trains, carrying migrant labourers stranded in the southern districts, left on Friday for Dhanbad (Jharkhand) and Jaipur (Rajasthan) from Nagercoil and Kanniyakumari respectively, a special train from Ahmedabad arrived at Tirunelveli Junction with 494 persons, all stranded in Gujarat. A total of 1,554 passengers travel by the Jharkhand-bound special train including 870 persons from Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts who boarded at Tirunelveli Junction before it left the station at 6.10 p.m. Since there was no halt for the Jaipur-bound train at Tirunelveli Junction as it crossed the city at 3.30 p.m., 104 migrant labourers from Tirunelveli were taken to Kanniyakumari in the morning in three buses to board the special train. In total, 438 migrant labourers were travelling in the train as it left Kanniyakumari and more number of labourers is expected to board the train at Madurai and Tiruchi. When 494 persons – 280 from Tirunelveli district, 46 from Tenkasi, 87 from Kanniyakumari and 81 from Thoothukudi districts - arrived at Tirunelveli Junction by the special train from Ahmedabad, the waiting officials took them for quarantine and screening for COVID – 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/2-special-trains-leave-for-jharkhand-rajasthan/article31655713.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Teen held for hanging to death cat, squirrel||The Pazhavoor police have arrested a teen for hanging to death a cat and a squirrel and sharing this video showing the inhuman act on the social media. Police said S. Thangaraj, 19, of Sathya Nagar near Pazhavoor, who caught the animals from the cowshed behind his house a few days ago, hanged the animals to death and recorded it with his mobile phone. As he shared on the social media the video showing the animals being gruesomely hanged to death, the public informed the Pazhavoor police about this video that triggered a huge outcry. When the Pazhavoor police picked up Thangaraj and questioned him about the killing of animals, he reportedly confessed to it. He was arrested on Thursday evening. He was released on bail.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teen-held-for-hanging-to-death-cat-squirrel/article31655716.ece
23 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Injured leopard shows signs of recovery, a week after its rescue||A week after it was rescued, a six-year-old male leopard that was found injured near the Government Botanical Garden in Udhagamandalam seems to be making some progress, as both the animal as well as a team of dedicated veterinarians fight to increase its chances of survival. Soon after the rescue, the Forest Department officials noticed that the animal was affected by epileptic seizures and was unable to stand on its own. Forest officials and veterinarians suspected that it might have been affected by the canine distemper virus and collected samples and sent it for testing. However on Friday, District Forest Officer (Nilgiris division) D. Guruswamy confirmed that the animal tested negative for the viral infection. “The health of the animal has seen a marked increase over the last few days, but it is still not eating food on its own, which is a concern,” said the DFO. Ever since its rescue, the leopard is being treated by a dedicated team of veterinarians from the departments of Animal Husbandry and Forest. E.Gochalan, a veterinary assistant surgeon, said that a full-body X-ray was performed on the animal, and there was no signs of bone injury. “However, it does seem to have an injury to one of its rear legs, as well as to one side of its body, indicating some kind of blunt force trauma.” He added that despite the signs of progress, the team would only be more comfortable about the chances of the leopard’s survival once it starts eating food.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/injured-leopard-shows-signs-of-recovery-a-week-after-its-rescue/article31655446.ece
23 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Future looks bleak for resort owners, cab operators in the Nilgiris||Though Udhagamandalam town has returned to some semblance of normalcy since lockdown measures were eased, those dependant on the tourism industry said that the medium to long-term future for many remains bleak due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Small-time entrepreneurs, including those in the hospitality business in the town, said that business has improved over the last few days due to more people venturing out of their houses, but they added that unless the district is once again opened up to tourism, many businesses will have to shut down in the coming months. “The Nilgiris depends on tourism to provide livelihoods for lakhs of people. We have already lost two summer months, which are the most profitable months of each year. “Unless the situation improves, and tourists start visiting again, many cottages will have to close down permanently,” said Ram Gopalan, a resort owner from the Nilgiris. Taxi drivers, too, said that the cancellation of the summer flower festival this year due to COVID-19, and the district being closed to tourists has meant that most have not made any money from their taxis for the last month. “Many drivers are now thinking of selling their cars just to make ends meet and find alternative employment. It really is a very challenging time for many taxi owners,” said R. Kumar, a taxi driver from Khandal in Udhagamandalam. V.A. Mohammed Jaffer, district president of the Nilgiris District Small Eateries Owners’ Association, said that there were more than 800 small restaurants, bakeries and eateries in the district. “Even if these businesses are allowed to open, many may not be able to function due to certain conditions the government may impose on each establishment in the wake of the pandemic, such as a mandatory amount of floor space available for each shop to be allowed to operate. We could lose hundreds of shops due to such restrictions,” said Mr. Jaffer, who added that the livelihood of thousands of people was linked to small eateries in the Nilgiris.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/future-looks-bleak-for-resort-owners-cab-operators-in-the-nilgiris/article31655462.ece
23 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions stage protest||Major trade unions on Friday staged a demonstration protesting against some of the State governments suspending labour laws. Communist Party of India, Virudhunagar district secretary, P. Lingam, led the protest at Seithur. He said labour rights that were secured by the working class after a prolonged struggle were being snatched and labourers were being made slaves. The protest was held at over 80 places in Virudhunagar district where office-bearers of CPI (M), Labour Progressive Front, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam took part. In Madurai, members of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union staged a protest on the railway premises opposing the Centre’s move to implement cut in dearness allowance, suspension of increment. The protest was led by union divisional secretary J.M. Rafi. The agitators wanted the Centre to give up its attempt to privatise public sector units and increasing working hours to 12 hours. Assistant divisional secretary V. Ramkumar was present. Dakshsin Railway Employees Union also staged a similar protest on Friday pressing for scrapping of new pension scheme. Divisional secretary of the union, Sankaranarayanan, said that the protest would continue till the Centre heeded to the demands of the labour unions. Ramanathapuram Protests were held in as many as 22 locations. Speaking at the demonstration meeting, CITU district secretary M Sivaji said that the Centre should immediately withdraw the amends made in the labour laws and just not remain in paper. In Dindigul district also, the CITU, LPF and other trade unions joined in the demonstration held in front of the Head Post Office, in Begumpur and at Nagal Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/trade-unions-stage-protest/article31655722.ece
23 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Fire destroys sawdust||Fire broke out at a unit making charcoal at N. Subbaiyapuram along Sattur-Virudhunagar highway on Friday evening. While the fire was noticed at 4 p.m., the Fire and Rescue Station at Sattur was alerted at around 5 p.m. Firemen, led by Station Fire Officer, S. Kathiresan, rushed to the spot and put out the fire after 30 minutes of struggle. Sparks from fire used to destroy wild growth are suspected to have spread to a huge dump of sawdust kept outside the unit. However, no one was injured.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/fire-destroys-sawdust/article31655725.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||786 cases take tally past 14,000-mark||Tamil Nadu now has a total of 7,524 active cases. Erode, which recorded a case after 37 days, is no longer a green zone. A health official said that the spike in cases continued in Chennai due to multiple clusters in four zones of Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Kodambakkam. “Find, test, isolate and quarantine strategies should be followed properly. Identification of symptomatic patients should be done. Special care should be provided to vulnerable groups,” he said. Among the four persons who died was an 81-year-old man from Chennai. He was referred from a private hospital to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on May 20. He died on Friday due to respiratory failure, pneumonia, and acute respiratory distress. A 51-year-old man died in Chennai, while a 70-year-old man died at the Government Theni Medical College Hospital. A 72-year-old man died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Chengalpattu. The three neighbouring districts of Chennai — Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur — continued to report COVID-19 cases. With 40 new cases, Chengalpattu’s tally climbed to 695, while Tiruvallur added 39 new cases, taking its total count to 675. Kancheepuram reported 13 new cases. There were seven cases in Ramanathapuram, six in Thoothukudi, four each in Theni and Tiruchi, two each in Pudukottai, Tiruvannamalai and Vellore, and one each in Erode, Kallakurichi, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Ranipet and Tirunelveli. Of the fresh cases, 92 were reported among persons who returned from abroad and other States. A person who returned from the Philippines and initially tested negative turned positive for COVID-19 during Friday’s exit test. A large number of persons returning from Maharashtra continued to test positive for COVID-19. On Friday, 66 Maharashtra returnees, who were screened at checkposts in seven districts, tested positive. Of this, 29 tested positive in Madurai, 17 in Tirunelveli and 14 in Virudhunagar. Thirteen persons who returned from Delhi tested positive in Virudhunagar and Madurai. Six persons who returned from West Bengal, two from Andhra Pradesh and one each from Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Telangana also tested positive in various districts. Till date, 62 persons who returned from other countries have tested positive for COVID-19. This included 26, who initially tested negative, and turned positive during the exit screening after seven days of quarantine. A three-month-old baby and a five-month-old baby were among the 46 children below 12 years who tested positive. Another 93 persons aged above 60 also tested positive. So far, a total of 3,85,185 samples have been tested in the State. One more private laboratory was approved — Lifecell International Private Ltd, Chennai — was approved. The State now has 41 testing facilities in the government sector and 26 in the private sector.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/786-cases-take-tally-past-14000-mark/article31655419.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||When a train waited for over 30 minutes for the last worker to arrive||“Where are they? I will hold back the train,” declared Collector S. Prabhakar, when he was alerted about the 10 migrant workers, who were unaware of the waiting Orissa-bound train carrying migrant workers home, here on Friday evening. A train filled with 1600 migrant workers bound home to Orissa waited for over 30 minutes for the last worker to arrive, after a series of nail-biting and tense moments culminated in a happy send-off to the the migrant workers at Hosur station late Friday evening. A day after the first train to UP was seen off on Thursday, the second train that was Orissa bound was punctuated by nerve-wracking moments, when the officials were made aware that some workers were left out. Only that the train that was already full, was set to leave any time. On Thursday night at 11 p.m, officials had received information about the train. Officials, overworked with back to back train schedules, had set out to work through the night along with the volunteers of the Muslim community, making calls to the workers alerting them of the train. However, in the melee, a few of the workers were missed out. Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) volunteers were coordinating with the migrant workers from Orissa. However, those volunteers too, whilst receiving anxious calls from about 10 workers asking about the schedule of the Orissa train, were unaware of the train already waiting at Hosur station, almost full. The train was waiting for 24 workers to arrive from Dharmapuri by a bus before it left. It was at that point The Hindu alerted Dr. Prabhakar. He immediately called to ask where were the workers and that he would ask the train to wait. “I will hold back the train. Ask them to come. The train will wait for them,” he said, over phone. In the minutes that followed, the entire revenue administration and the dedicated group of volunteers coordinated with each other, and held back the train, while the DYFI volunteer Vignesh stayed in touch with the workers to guide their pickup points. However, the wait was burdened by anxious moments, when some of the workers were unreacheable, and also there was no mode of conveyance for the workers at the last minute. In its wake, Abdul Bari, one of the coordinators, arranged for vehicles that would go fetch the workers from the common point in Zuzuvadi. The workers were finally brought to the station at break-neck speed, and provided food packets before they boarded the coach. As the train finally rolled out of the platform at half past 7, the volunteers and the officials, heaved a sigh of relief, looking at the smiling faces.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/when-a-train-waited-for-over-30-minutes-for-the-last-worker-to-arrive/article31655465.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Special trains operated to West Bengal, Odisha||Salem Division of Southern Railway operated two Shramik special trains for migrant workers to West Bengal and Odisha on Friday. Railway officials said that the first train was bound for Malda Town in West Bengal, which left at around 6 p.m. The second train was bound for Bhadrak in Odisha and it left at around 11 p.m. Both trains ferried 1,600 passengers each. With West Bengal and Odisha are affected by Super Cyclone Amphan, precautions will be taken while operating the trains, officials said. Due to increase in demand, all special trains will accommodate 1,600 passengers henceforth, according to the railway officials. With two weeks passed since the operation of first Shramik special train from Coimbatore Junction, 23 special trains have been operated as on Friday. The trains were operated to eight States namely Bihar (9), Uttar Pradesh (4), Odisha (4), Jharkhand (2) and one each for Assam, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/special-trains-operated-to-west-bengal-odisha/article31655456.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to shift flower market||Coimbatore Corporation will, in a day or two, shift traders from the flower market on the west of Mettupalayam Road to the Boys’ School ground on West Arokiasamy Road. The Corporation had shut the market since the State Government imposed lockdown to battle the spread of COVID-19. The Corporation sources said the market continued to remain shut even though the Government had eased some of the lockdown restriction. This was because the Market was a very congested place where maintenance of physical distance norm was a challenge. It had earlier identified the Devanga High School ground as the place to shift the flower traders but had instead chosen the Boys’ School ground as it was prone to inundation and had more space and was easily approachable. By Saturday or Sunday, once the traders had erected sheds and were ready to sell flowers, the Corporation would throw open the place. Though there were around 120 traders in the market, the Corporation looked at accommodating 100-odd traders. The other reason for permitting only 100-odd traders was that a few among them would close business by 9 a.m. and some others would start only thereafter. Sources said that the Corporation could also explore the possibility of redefining the selling area on Mettupalayam Road.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/corpn-to-shift-flower-market/article31655452.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Work to shift vegetable market to V.OC. Park Grounds begins||Work began at the V.O.C. Park Grounds to establish shops from where the vegetable market is expected to function once bus transport service resumes from the Corporation Central Bus Stand. Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruits Market on R.K.V. Road functions at a congested area where personal distancing could not be maintained by the shopkeepers and customers due to lack of space. Hence, the market was shifted to the bus stand on May 28 where adequate space is available. While the wholesale market functions from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. for shopkeepers, retail market for the public functions from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. every day. With government offices and private establishments functioning, there are chances of resumption of bus service at any time. Hence, the civic body has decided to shift the temporary market from bus stand premises to the grounds so that space is available for shops and parking. Work began on Wednesday and is expected to be completed in two days after which shops would be shifted. Corporation officials said that they are prepared to vacate the bus stand premises for operating buses at short notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-to-shift-vegetable-market-to-voc-park-grounds-begins/article31655451.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the report “Private school sealed in Dharmapuri”, which appeared on Page 2 of edition dated May 22, 2020, Prathap was wrongly mentioned as the Revenue Divisional Officer. He is the Sub Collector of Harur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/correction/article31655438.ece
23 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||One more patient tests positive for COVID-19||A man who had returned from a pilgrimage to Shikarji, a Jain pilgrimage centre in Jharkhand, has tested positive for COVID-19. He is in the district designated hospital and is responding to treatment. This takes the district tally to 119. As many as 71 persons have been treated and discharged while the active cases in the district hospital are only 56 who include eight patients from Bagalkot district. Of the 7,623 persons tested till now, results of 7,120 have turned negative. One person has died. Officials have kept 8,919 persons under observation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/one-more-patient-tests-positive-for-covid-19/article31655566.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Quarantine rules relaxed for people entering State||Passengers coming from states that have a high prevalence of COVID-19 cases will have to be in institutional quarantine for a period of seven days, followed by seven days of home quarantine, if they test negative. Those who come from low prevalence states will have to undergo a 14-day home quarantine and need not have to to an institutional facility. This is a relaxation from the earlier rules which mandated a 14-day institutional quarantine for all entering the state. The high risk states are: Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Madhya Pradesh. The order issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare states exempts some categories -- pregnant women, children below ten years and those above 80 years and terminally ill patients -- from institutional quarantine. The State government has also made an exception for businessmen who are coming for “urgent work” which includes coming to participate in auction of perishable or agricultural commodities. However, they have to bring a report stating that they have tested negative from any of the ICMR approved laboratories. If they don’t have a report, they will have to undergo institutional quarantine until their test results are out. The department has also stated that those coming in two-wheelers or cars from other states will have to be screened for health conditions at the border check post and be sent to the destination district along with buses headed to the same district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/quarantine-rules-relaxed-for-people-entering-state/article31655344.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State notifies 10-hour work shift for three months||The State government on Friday notified a 10-hour work shift per day, up from eight hours, for a period of three months. Similarly, the number of weekly working hours was raised to 60 from 48. This came amid opposition from workers’ unions to any increase in working hours. The three-month window started on Friday and will end on August 21. The notification issued by the Labour Department was made under Section 5 of the Factories Act that equips the government to make changes in “emergency” situations for a maximum of three months. The changes in working hours had been sought by the Commerce and Industries Department, and the notification came amid speculation that the State government could promulgate an ordinance to bring about changes to labour laws, following in the footsteps of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat. Industry bodies, including Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) and Karnataka Small-Scale Industries Association, had also sought an increase in working hours and had petitioned Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Labour Minister A. Shivaram Hebbar on the matter. “In an exercise of powers conferred under Section 5 of Factories Act, 1948, the Government of Karnataka is pleased to order that all the factories registered under the Act shall be exempted from the provisions of Section 51 (weekly hours) and Section 54 (daily hours),” the government notification read. It further said that no adult worker would be allowed or required to work in a factory for more than 10 hours a day or 60 hours a week, “The provisions of Section 59 regarding overtime wages shall continue to be applicable without any change,” the notification said. ‘Immoral and illegal’ Trade unions termed the notification “both immoral and illegal” and having far-reaching impact on workers. They said it would be challenged legally and on the streets. The increase in working hours will result in unemployment as factories could terminate the services of casual and contract workers as shift hours have been increased, All-India Trade Union Congress general secretary D.A. Vijaybhaskar told The Hindu . “The State government notified the changes without consulting the workers’ union and misusing the COVID-19 situation. The government has succumbed to pressure from industries,” he said. “While the current notification is for three months, our fear is that it will be extended in the future too.” He argued that Section 5 could be invoked in times of grave emergency, but the COVID-19 pandemic was not an emergency where the security of the country was threatened. “While Section 5 can exempt any factory or a class of factories from the provisions of the law, it cannot have blanket exemption to all industries across the State,” he added. Welcoming the government’s decision, FKCCI president C.R. Janardhan said the increase in working hours would improve productivity and revenue for all the stakeholders . “The improved productivity and revenue will also ensure better industrial relations. We are thankful to the government for having heard our plea.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-notifies-10-hour-work-shift-for-three-months/article31655364.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Only a few board trains on day one||The first of the intra-State passenger service post lockdown chugged from KSR Bengaluru to Belagavi on Friday, while the second train was operated from Bengaluru to Mysuru and back, signalling the resumption of train services in a graded manner. However, on day one, both the routes received a lukewarm response. The first express special (train 02059) to Belagavi flagged off at 8 a.m. by Muniyammal, cleaning staff, and Nabi Ahamed, working as pointsman. The train had seating capacity of 1,484 of which only 338 booked tickets online. From Bengaluru, 176 passengers boarded. Train (06503) from Bengaluru to Mysuru left KSR Bengaluru at 9.20 a.m. with only 37 passengers. The train reached Mysuru with 63 passengers at 12.15 p.m. In the return direction, the train (06504) left Mysuru at 1.45 p.m. with 57 passengers. The train has 15 chair cars with a seating capacity of 1,415 seats. The train has stoppage at Kengeri, Ramanagaram, Maddur, Mandya, Pandavapura and Naganahalli. Divisional Railway Manager of Bengaluru Division Ashok Kumar Verma told The Hindu that there could be various reasons for poor patronage of on the first day. “It is a first train and people may not be aware of resumption of services. There are possibilities of people coming out of houses only if absolutely necessary. KSRTC is operating inter district bus services for the last couple of days and hundreds of people have already used buses to reach their home town.” The official said in coming days, the number will gradually increase on both routes. On the first day, people who had reserved tickets online were allowed to travel. An official in commercial section expect that the passenger traffic to see a significant increase from Monday as the ticketing counters at the railway station, are now open for walk in passengers. The SWR is operating Bengaluru to Belagavi train services on Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday. Enroute the train stops at Yeshwanthpur, Tumakuru, Arsikere, Birur, Chikkajajur, Davengere, Harihar, Ranibennur, Haveri, Hubballi and Dharwad.Bengaluru-Mysuru-Bengaluru will run every day except Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/only-a-few-board-trains-on-day-one/article31655348.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Exams to be held later for SSLC, PU students in containment zones||SSLC and PUC students residing in containment zones will not be able to write the exams scheduled to be held in June and July, respectively, but will be given opportunity to write the supplementary examination and treated as fresh candidates. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar announced this at a press conference on Friday. In turn, officials in the Department of Primary and Secondary Education will start collecting the list of students in containment zones. However, they are worried since the list of containment zones is dynamic and a particular locality can be declared a containment zone even the night before the examination. “If any examination centre is located in the containment zone, then we can change the centre and move it to a non-containment zone. However, if a student resides in a zone that is declared containment zone just before the exam, there is no option but for the person to skip the exam,” an official said. Officials of the department are worried about another scenario as well. “There is a chance that midway through the examination, an area is becomes a containment zone. Then some students may write a few papers and give the rest a miss. Implementation at the district- and block-levels will be a challenge,” said an official. Sources said that the department is working out several situations that may arise and trying to work on providing practical solutions to the students. Around 5.98 lakh students have registered for the second pre-university English examination that is scheduled to be held on June 18. As many as 8.48 lakh students have registered for the SSLC examination scheduled to be held between June 25 and 4 July. Currently, there are 261 containment zones in Karnataka that have 5.49 lakh people residing in these zones. Meanwhile, the Karnataka Secondary Education and Examination Board has decided to ensure that only 18 students are seated in a classroom to write the SSLC examination. This is to ensure that social distancing is maintained in the exam hall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/exams-to-be-held-later-for-sslc-pu-students-in-containment-zones/article31655375.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Congress urges SEC to hold panchayat polls as scheduled||A delegation from Karnataka Congress on Friday submitted a petition to the State Election Commissioner urging him to hold elections to 6,024 gram panchayats (GPs) in the State as per Article 243 of the Constitution and the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act, 1993. Elections to GPs were last held in 2015 and the terms of these bodies will end in June-July. A delegation comprising Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, Karanataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar, and party legislators H.K. Patil and S.R. Patil met Commissioner B. Basavaraju. Speaking to presspersons afterwards, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged that the State’s BJP government was trying to “subvert the Constitution and panchayat raj laws” by postponing elections to GPs citing the spread of COVID-19.“The Commission has not provided any information so far about the preparation of electoral rolls, fixing of reservation to seats, and calendar of events for holding elections. It is the duty of the Commission to hold elections as per the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act,” he said. Quoting Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, he said the Cabinet had taken a decision to put off elections and issued directions to Deputy Commissioners to undertake COVID-19-related work. The Congress leader said the government intends to appoint administrative committees to GPs though Deputy Commissioners. “The Karnataka State Election Commission is an independent body and it need not listen to the government. The government has no right to give directions to the Commission, which is a constitutional body,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said. “We have told the Commissioner to hold elections as per the law and not to succumb to the government’s pressure tactics. The Commissioner promised that they would abide by the law and act accordingly.” Mr. Shivakumar said elections to GPs were apolitical and the Congress would protest if the government went ahead with the appointment of its party workers to administrative committees of GPs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/congress-urges-sec-to-hold-panchayat-polls-as-scheduled/article31655366.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Out of the 138 cases on Friday, Chickballapur dist. reports 47||A total of 138 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported on Friday. The highest number of cases were reported from Chickballapur with 47. The second highest was Hassan with 14 cases, while Raichur reported 10 cases. Bengaluru Urban reported five cases. With this, the total number of positive cases in the State stands at 1,743. Of these, 597 patients have been discharged so far. On Friday alone, 26 patients were discharged.  Since May 14 Meanwhile, analysis of 618 cases, reported since 14 May, reveals that 62% were people who had a travel history to Maharashtra. The second highest number of cases [138] were reported from those who were contacts of those who tested earlier. As many as 21 patients had an international travel history, and 15 of the patients had a travel history to Tamil Nadu. Several patients who come for tests provided false numbers and this is leading to some confusion, said Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. The Minister said that the use of Aarogya Setu app is compulsory for all those who undergo testing for the virus. “It is also mandatory for people to provide their own mobile number during testing. It will not be possible for the administration to send test results and other safety information to the correct person, if you give false mobile numbers,” he said. The department has said that there has been evidence that people have given the phone number of their relatives during testing, thus misleading the administration.  It is also mandatory for people to provide their own mobile number during testing. Otherwise tt will not be possible to send test results and safety information K. Sudhakar, Medical Education Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/out-of-the-138-cases-on-friday-chickballapur-dist-reports-47/article31655378.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Statutory bodies directed to act on litigant emails on court matters||The High Court of Karnataka on Friday directed that statutory authorities and agencies of the State government must be represented in court proceedings, acting upon emails sent by litigants or their advocates along with court orders, without waiting for an official notice from the court. The court issued the directionsafter noting that in two cases, Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had failed to ensure that their advocates appeared before the court, despite intimations sent to the official emails IDs by advocates representing the litigants.A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna said it was not possible to send notice from the High Court as usual in every case as the court was functioning with limited staff at present. The Bench, while hearing a contempt of court case, found that the BBMP Commissioner, Joint Commissioner (East), and an assistant executive engineer were not represented even after counsel for the litigant sent emails, as per the court order, to the BBMP’s official ID twice since May 11. While directing the personal presence of the Joint Commissioner (East) through videoconference on May 28, the Bench directed the BBMP Commissioner to issue instructions to the civic body’s law section to act upon emails sent on court proceedings. The Bench cautioned that it would take a serious view of things if the Joint Commissioner (East) failed to appear through videoconference and if other officials were not represented via an advocate on the next date of hearing. It also directed the litigant’s counsel to send another email to the BBMP. In the second case, a Division Bench comprising the Chief Justice and Justice P.N. Desai found that the KSPCB was not represented through its advocate despite an email sent by the advocate representing the litigant. “The KSPCB is a statutory authority and it is an instrumental agency of the State. Therefore, when a notice of the proceedings before this court, along with a copy of the proceedings, is received on its official email address, it is the duty of the KSPCB to ensure that its standing counsel remains present,” the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/statutory-bodies-directed-to-act-on-litigant-emails-on-court-matters/article31655358.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Online booking platforms see surge in flight bookings||Online booking platforms are seeing a surge in demand for flight tickets after the Civil Aviation Ministry announced that domestic services will resume from May 25 after a gap of two months. Sectors such as Bengaluru-Delhi and Bengaluru-Mumbai are seeing a huge demand, said travel operators. A spokesperson of Make My Trip told The Hindu that the demand has increased sevenfold. “Our data shows people are booking flight tickets to metropolitan cities such as Bengaluru, Mumbai, Delhi and others,” they said. On Friday, tickets from Bengaluru to Delhi ranged from Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 11,000 and those from Bengaluru to Mumbai hovered between Rs. 4,500 and Rs. 5,500. Many people who had booked tickets for April and May but could not travel due to the lockdown took to social media to ask booking sites to readjust their tickets for new dates. However, despite the apparent surge in demand, passengers have sought clarity on quarantine rules. While Union Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said there will be no 14-day quarantine for passengers as it is not practical, people hoping to come to Karnataka by air want clarity from the State government. Social media handles run by the government here were flooded with queries from people. The State government had recently announced that it had restricted people coming from States such as Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, and Gujarat due to the high number of COVID-19 cases. “I want to know what the health protocol is once I land at KIA,” said a musician from Mumbai with family in Bengaluru. Others posted similar queries on the Twitter handles of DIPR_Covid-19. A man from Pune asked about whether passengers will need e-passes to enter Bengaluru. One parent announced that she was hesitant to book tickets for herself and her children until the Karnataka government issues clear guidelines for air passengers. “There is no clarity on health protocol one needs to follow after reaching the airport. Institutional quarantine with small kids will be difficult. The State government should clear these doubts as early as possible,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/online-booking-platforms-see-surge-in-flight-bookings/article31655353.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IIHR launches portal for online sale of seeds||The Indian Institute of Horticultural Research (IIHR) in Bengaluru has launched a seed portal through which people living anywhere in the country can get quality seeds at their doorstep after paying online. Said to be the country’s first such seed portal from a public sector unit in horticulture with a wide range of seeds , it offers more than 60 high-yielding varieties of seeds for vegetables, flowers and fruit crops. Though the ICAR-IIHR seed portal  (https://seed.iihr.res.in) was launched by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) Director-General Trilochan Mohapatra during the National Horticulture Fair organised by the institute on its campus this February, it has become functional now. According to institute director M.R. Dinesh, the portal aims to take the institute’s quality seeds to even remote places of the country which do not have access to quality plant material through this portal. “This helps in increasing productivity of horticultural crops as all our seeds are high yielding and have resistance to several diseases,” he said. Environment protection will also get a boost as the use of pesticides will reduce since IIHR varieties have resistance to many diseases, Mr. Dinesh said. K.K. Upreti, principal scientist and nodal officer of the Agricultural Knowledge Management Unit of the institute, said the institute produces over 15 tonnes of seeds of fruits, vegetables and flower crop varieties annually for sale to farmers. The sales are expected to increase by 20-25% now. When a farmer registers online for buying seeds, he will also be told whether the location is suitable for cultivation of such a variety, he said. In the coming days, the institute also plans to provide counselling on cultivation practices. It has prescribed norms on maximum purchase of each variety, to ensure that quality seeds are available to a large number of farmers. IIHR has branded all of its seeds with the prefix “Arka”, as it is located on the banks of river Arkavathi. Some of the popular varieties of vegetable crops developed by the IIHR include tomato (Arka Rakshak), chilli (Arka Meghana), onion (Arka Kalyan), ridge gourd (Arka Prasan), French beans (Arka Arjun), and okra (Arka Nikita and Arka Anamika).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/iihr-launches-portal-for-online-sale-of-seeds/article31655362.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State gets Rs. 201.8 crore for disaster mitigation||Karnataka has received Rs. 201.8 crore under the newly-launched State Disaster Mitigation Fund under the Ministry of Home Affairs for fiscal 2020-21, said Revenue Minister R. Ashok. The Centre had released funds in advance to make preparations to handle possible floods and purchase materials required to evacuate people. The fund would be utilized for taking up activities/facilities to provide shelter to flood affected people. The fund would be used for the repair and restoration of roads and embankments. Under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), the Centre allocated Rs. 1,054 crore to the State in 2020-21 and had released Rs. 395 crore so far, he told presspersons here on Friday. The Minister said 6.5 lakh hectares of crops were destroyed in last year’s floods and compensation of Rs. 1185 crore had been released to farmers’ bank accounts. A sum of Rs. 557.67 crore had been released for construction of houses, which were either partially or totally damaged during 2019 floods. He would write to DCs and block level officers to take steps for expediting construction of houses before the onset of monsoon, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/state-gets-rs-2018-crore-for-disaster-mitigation/article31655345.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Advocate bodies told to help out clerks||Observing that the clerks of advocates play an important role by assisting them on court cases, the High Court on Friday asked the State Bar Council, the Advocates’ Association, Bengaluru (AAB), and senior members of the bar to lend a helping hand to the clerks in distress in view of the closure of courts owing to COVID-19. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna passed the order while hearing a PIL petition filed by Karnataka State Level Advocates’ Clerks Association, Bengaluru. The Bench noted that no monetary benefits could be extended to clerks registered under the Karnataka Registered Clerks Fund, established under Karnataka Advocates’ Welfare Fund Act, 1983, as it permits monetary relief only when a clerk ceases to work or in case of death. “It cannot be disputed that clerks play an important role for the benefit of members of the bar. Because of the closure of the courts, their income has stopped or reduced considerably.... the AAB, the Bar Council, and the association should come together to evolve a scheme to give a helping hand,” the Bench observed. The Bench also asked the council to convene a meeting in this regard. Further hearing was adjourned till May 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/advocate-bodies-told-to-help-out-clerks/article31655359.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||142 wards in Bengaluru have no positive cases||Although Bengaluru has the most number of COVID-19 cases in Karnataka, more than 71% of the total 198 wards in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) limits have not reported a single case so far. As of Friday, 142 of the 198 wards in the city have no case, while 55% of the cases are concentrated in three wards. These were some of the findings of the BBMP COVID-19 war room. A further analysis of the data shows that 135 wards have only one positive case. while six have reported two cases each. Even among the wards that reported positive cases, only a portion of them have been marked as containment zones after cases were reported. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, Special Officer, BBMP COVID-19 war room, said that compared to other metros in India, Bengaluru has a lower incidence of positive cases. “At the war room, we are doing a case-by-case analysis and following up to contain the spread. The civic body has been extremely vigilant in contact tracing, quarantining and ensuring that containment zones are sealed off so that the virus does not spread,” she said. As on Friday, there are 20 containment zones in the city. As many as 24 others, identified as containment zones, have returned to normal after no new cases were reported in the area. With 15, the south zone has the most wards with positive cases, while Yelahanka zone has the least [2]. B.H. Anil Kumar, BBMP Commissioner, said that they will analyse the number of samples they have drawn based on the wards. “If the number of tests is less in wards which have reported no cases, we will ramp up the testing,” he added.  EOM Graphics Number of cases - Number of wards 0 cases - 142 1 case - 35 wards 2 cases - 6 wards 3 cases - 2 wards 4 cases - 5 wards 6 cases - 1 ward 7 cases - 3 wards 9 cases - 1 ward 38 cases - 1 ward 46 cases - 1 ward 63 cases - 1 ward EOM||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/142-wards-in-bengaluru-have-no-positive-cases/article31655369.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GO issued on crop loans||The State government has issued an order for releasing interest-free agricultural loans of up to Rs. 3 lakh to farmers from primary agricultural cooperative societies (PACS), district cooperative credit banks, and other related cooperative banks. PACS, DCC banks, Large-Sized Adivasi Multi-purpose Societies, and Primary Cooperative Agricultural and Rural Development banks will disburse loans only for agricultural purposes. Banks have been told to sanction interest-free loans to at least 25% of the farmers who have not borrowed loans at all. Of the total loans issued under this category, 24.1% should be for SC and ST communities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/go-issued-on-crop-loans/article31655373.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Musician Shyamala Bhave passes away||Classical musician Shyamala G. Bhave, who was well versed in both the Hindustani and the Carnatic styles and earned the title ‘Ubhayagana Vidushi’, passed away in Bengaluru on Friday morning. She was 79. Born on March 14, 1941, in Bengaluru to a musical family, she was one of the early practitioners of the Hindustani style in the city and also taught hundreds of students at her school, Saraswati Sangeet Vidyalaya at Seshadripuram. “Last week, she was admitted to a private hospital as her BP and sugar levels were erratic and she also had breathing difficulties. For the last three days she was home. This morning she breathed her last listening to music,” said one of her senior students, Vageesh Bhat, who is secretary of the vidyalaya. Ms. Bhave was the daughter of Pandit Govind Vittal Bhave, who sang and played multiple instruments, and vocalist Lakshmi Bhave. Trained from an early age, she gave her first performance at 12, said Mr. Bhat. She performed, taught and held positions in institutions related to the arts for decades. She served at the Karnataka Sangeeta Nrithya Academy for two terms from 1997 to 2001. She had also composed music for some films, including the first Sanskrit film by G.V. Iyer, Adi Shankaracharya, and India’s first Sanskrit serial Kadambari . Hindustani singer Sangeeta Katti, said, “I have been associated with Shyamala Bhave for three decades, and she was one of the foremost vocalists to propagate classical melodies in Bengaluru.”  The last rites of the musician were performed at Friday evening at Chamarajapet crematorium.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/musician-shyamala-bhave-passes-away/article31655372.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Academics petition CM on labour laws and more||The crisis brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic is an opportunity to “legislate new labour laws that will assure workers decent and fair wages, working conditions and norms, and health and residential facilities”, according a host of academics, including historian Ramachandra Guha, sociologist A.R. Vasavi, and theatre personality Rameshwari Verma, among others. They have written in an open letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa arguing this. The letter also opposes the recent ordinance brought to the APMC Act in the state. “It is important that key institutions such as the State Agricultural Producers’ Marketing Committee be retained and new rules made to facilitate better servicing of such organisations,” the letter states. It also suggests promotion of farmer-producer organisations and small-scale, rural-based processing and production units. “This will be the realisation of self-reliance and will be more important than promoting the entry and hold of corporate interests in agriculture.” The letter delineates 14 points, including a host of short term and long-term measures pertaining to labour, food provisioning, agriculture, ecological restoration and conservation, strengthening panchayats, re-skilling youngsters, and public health. The academics have also requested the government to consider nominating professionals and experienced persons, including civil society members, as advisers to the State emergency task force set up to tackle COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/academics-petition-cm-on-labour-laws-and-more/article31655355.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DCs’ suggestions sought||The Karnataka State Election Commission has asked Deputy Commissioners of all districts to give their suggestions on preparing the electoral rolls, reserving gram panchayat seats, and holding elections as per the newly amended Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act in the current circumstances of the COVID-19-induced lockdown. The State government had amended the Act and reduced the tenure of reserved seats to be rotated in all three tiers from 10 years to five years. In a circular to the DCs, the Commission has stated that it had commenced preparations to hold elections to GPs, but all the work was stalled for now owing to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dcs-suggestions-sought/article31655360.ece
23 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||UAS-B launches YouTube channel||The University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru (UAS-B) has launched its official YouTube channel and toll-free telephone to help farmers, students and the public. They were launched by Vice-Chancellor S. Rajendra Prasad on Friday. The YouTube channel which can be viewed on https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCT3_lfb8uL8g XMJtckT3Bq provides information on the university, agricultural education, research and extension, research stations and Krishi Vigyan Kendras of the university and various facilities available for agriculture. The V-C said farmers could also get information on services availble while students could get information on various agricultural courses that can be pursued after completing II PU. Farmers can also get technical information related to agriculture by calling the toll-free telephone No: 18004250571. Farmers could WhatsApp pictures related to diseases and pest attack to mobile No: 9482477812 to get accurate information related to remedial measures,he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/uas-b-launches-youtube-channel/article31655340.ece
23 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown||There will be power supply disruption from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on May 26 in the areas coming under the 66/11KV HSR MUSS of 31.5 MVA transformer-1 in view of maintenance works. According to a Bescom release, the areas that will be affected are Mangammanapalya Main Road, Neelakanteshwara Layout, Manjunath Layout, Madeena Nagar, Hosapalya Main Road, HSR 7th Sector, Gundu Thopu, Rupena Agrahara, ITI Layout, CPWD Quarter, IAS Colony and surrounding areas.  Cut in Chandapura Power supply will be affected on the same day between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. in the areas coming under 66/11KV Chandapura MUSS due to maintenance works. The areas that will be affected are Lakshmisagara, Ramasagara, Bommasandra, Sammanahally, Gopasandra, Chikkathimmasandra, Old Chandapura, Keerthi Layout, TCP Layout, Vakil Layout, Bunahally, Kennagura, Masthenahally, Adigondanahally, Bendiganuhally, Bandapura, Marasuru Agrahara, Adisonnahatti, Halehooru, Marasuru Madivala and surrounding areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/power-shutdown/article31655335.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Decision on coming academic year next week||With several parents anxious over the schedule for the next academic year, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that a decision on the same would be taken next week. He said that the department had sought the opinion of several experts and asked them when the 2020-2021 academic year would commence. “We will take a decision by next Wednesday or Thursday,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/decision-on-coming-academic-year-next-week/article31655381.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Containment zone definition tweaked||The State government, on Friday, tweaked the criteria and definition of containment zones. While it was initially 100 metres for individual houses where a positive case was reported, it is now a smaller area. Rules for apartment Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family said that Deputy Commissioners will have to take a call on the area. Initially, an entire block of an apartment was considered a containment zone if a positive case was reported, but it will now be restricted to one floor above and below the flat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/containment-zone-definition-tweaked/article31655337.ece
23 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Industries assured of all help to re-start work in Dharwad||Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Deepa M. has said that all necessary cooperation will be extended to industries to resume their operations in the district. Chairing a meeting with office-bearers of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) and industrialists from the district here on Friday, she said that the government had released an advisory on re-starting industries and industrialists should follow the guidelines and ensure only 33 % workers on their premises. Ms Deepa said that nearly 7,000 migrant workers from Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and Gujarat and others had returned to their native places resulting in a shortage of workers. Regarding repayment of loan and interest and the need for working capital, she said that she would write to the State government. To a request, she clarified that steps would be taken to permit round-the-clock movement of goods vehicles. She also said that steps would be taken to issue permits for ferrying workers to work places even during curfew. KCCI president Mahendra Ladhad sought the district administration’s permission for mango and food processing industries to work even on Sundays. Industrialist Ninganna Biradar demanded working capital for industries through banks. Office-bearers of various industry organisations submitted their views. Joint Director of Industries and Commerce Department Mohan Bharamakkanavar explained the facilities and relief measures announced by the State government. Deputy Director of Industries and Textiles Viresh Davale, Assistant Commissioner of Labour Department Meena Patil and other officials were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/industries-assured-of-all-help-to-re-start-work-in-dharwad/article31655574.ece
23 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||JCTU stages protest||Instead of rushing to the rescue of workers and downtrodden sections of society during a crisis, the Union government is exploiting the situation to push forward anti-labour and pro-corporate policies, AIUTUC leader Gangadhar Badiger has said. Addressing a meeting organised by the Joint Committee of Trade Unions (JCTU) as part of the nation-wide protest here on Friday, Mr. Badiger said that it is unfortunate that the Union government found this health emergency an ideal time to pursue its agenda. The Union government’s recent move on labour policies would push the working class into a modern serfdom, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/jctu-stages-protest/article31655573.ece
23 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Going home||1,550 migrant labourers leave Ballari for Jharkhand As many as 1,550 migrant labourers stranded in different parts of Ballari district thanks to COVID-19 lockdown imposed across the country left in a special Shramik Express for their native places in Jharkhand on Friday. Ballari Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul, Superintendent of Police C.K. Baba, Additional Deputy Commissioner Manjunath, Additional Superintendent of Police B.N. Lavanya, Probationary IAS officer Ishwar Kandoo, Assistant Commissioner Ramesh Konareddy, Deputy Superintendent of Police Rama Rao and other officers were present in Ballari Railway Station to see off the labourers. The workers were medically examined at Ballari Central Bus Station and Toranagal Government Higher Primary School well in advance and were provided with health certificates the travel tickets. They were sensitised on the precautions to be taken during their travel in view of COVID-19 pandemic. They were also provided with food packets and water bottles enough for reaching their destinations in their home State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/going-home/article31655565.ece
23 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Shramik Special train leaves Kalaburagi||The third Shramik Special Express carrying 1,436 migrant workers from Bihar left Kalaburagi on Thursday evening. Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat said that all the workers travelling to Bihar underwent medical examination at the district headquarters and the taluks before leaving for their home State. On Tuesday, the first Shramik Special Express carried 1,500 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh. On Wednesday, another train carrying 1,436 migrant workers from Bihar left Kalaburagi, he added. Kalaburagi City Corporation Commissioner Rahul Pandve and Station Master Prasad Rao and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shramik-special-train-leaves-kalaburagi/article31655567.ece
23 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Low footfall at railway counters||When computerised Passenger Reservation (PRS) counters reopened on Friday, not many people thronged to book advanced tickets on various special trains being and to be operated by the Indian Railways. The footfall were low since it was the first day of opening after two months of lockdown, said Railways officials hoping it would return to normal soon. Uncertainty over the health protocol (institutional quarantine) in destination States too could have dissuaded people from planning their journeys. The Railways has already been running 15 pairs of air-conditioned specials between New Delhi and other cities, two intra-State trains in Karnataka, and had proposed to operate 100 pairs of special trains from June 1 for which bookings/cancellations could be made through PRS counters. Four Railway Zones operating in Karnataka opened as many as 23 PRS counters in the State on Friday. Though the Railways initially had announced only online tickets would be available, it subsequently announced booking of tickets through PRS counters, post offices, Yatri Suvidha Kendras and official agents of Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC). PRS counters were made functional ensuring safety measures including sanitisation, social distancing and wearing of masks. SWR operated PRS counters at Hubballi, Dharwad, Belagavi, Ballari, Hosapete, Vijayapura (Hubballi Division), KSR Bengaluru, Yeshwantpur, Bengaluru Cantonment, Bangarpet, Kengeri, Krishnarajapura (Bengaluru Division), Mysuru, Davanagere, Shivamogga and Hassan (Mysuru Division), according to CPRO E. Vijaya. As many as 31 tickets for 74 passengers were sold in Mysuru Division; in Bengaluru division 320 tickets were sold for 747 passengers and in Hubballi division, 161 tickets were sold for 462 passengers. Southern Railway operated its PRS counter in Mangaluru Junction and sold seven tickets for 15 passengers, said SR’s PRO at Palakkad Division M.K. Gopinathan. Central Railway through one PRS counter at Kalaburagi sold three tickets for 10 passengers. It would open three more counters, one exclusively for refund of cancelled tickets, at Kalaburagi from Monday, its Divisional Commercial Manager (PR) Pradeep Hirade told The Hindu. South Central Railway operated PRS counters at Raichur, Yadgir, Sedam, Saidapur and Nalwar, said its CPRO Ch. Rakesh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/low-footfall-at-railway-counters/article31655350.ece
23 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Most of dredging work completed, says Mangaluru City Corporation||Mangaluru City Corporation is dredging 11 raja kaluves in the city at an estimated cost of Rs. 1.68 crore to be ready for the monsoon floods, according to corporation commissioner Shanady Ajith Kumar Hegde. Speaking at a meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority at the office of the Deputy Commissioner here on Friday, he said that 80 % of the dredging works have been completed. The corporation has opened a control room which will function round the clock to attend to complaints related to flooding and other rain-related issues. Each six wards will have a team to attend to emergency works. It has prepared 16 relief centres, he said. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh, who presided over the meeting, said that precautionary measures should be taken in the relief centres in view of COVID-19. Ms. Rupesh said that an NDRF team will arrive in the district in the last week of May. She asked officials to be prepared to face any emergencies during the monsoon. Heavy rain and floods in some parts of the district last year had damaged infrastructure, mainly roads and bridges, and had affected life in the district. She asked Tahsildars to identify spots where landslips could occur. Precautionary measures should be taken in such places. People living in flood-prone and other dangerous places should be evacuated from their houses well in advance and they should be asked to shift to safety. If not, the Tahsildars should identify community halls, hostels and marriage halls to house such people temporarily, she said. Ms. Rupesh said that the district administration will provide boats, life jackets, ropes and other equipment required to evacuate people during emergencies. She asked representatives of oil marketing companies to respond without any delay in case of toppling of bullet tankers and any other road accidents involving their vehicles. In some road accident cases previously, the companies did not take up relief measures at the expected speed, she said. Selvamani R., Chief Executive Officer of the zilla panchayat, B.M. Laxmi Prasad, Superintendent of Police, Dakshina Kananda, Deputy Inspector-General S.B. Venkatesh, Commander, Indian Coast Guard, Karnataka, participated in the meeting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/most-of-dredging-work-completed-says-mangaluru-city-corporation/article31655575.ece
23 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Man found dead in quarantine tests positive||A 55-year-old man who was found dead under institutional quarantine, at a school in Kadandale village, near Moodbidri in Dakshina Kannada, on May 21 has tested positive for COVID-19, according to Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh. According to the police, the victim and his eight family members, all men, had returned to their native village from Mumbai on Wednesday evening. Later, seven among them, including the 55-year-old man, had been put under quarantine in the school. Two other family members were sent to quarantine in Udupi. The man’s body was found on the Kadandale school premises on Thursday. Following his death, the Health Department had tested the swabs. After the man tested positive, the six men, who were at Kadandale school, were shifted to the quarantine at ESI hospital in Mangaluru on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-found-dead-in-quarantine-tests-positive/article31655379.ece
23 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Victims of 2018 Kodagu floods made to wait longer for homes||Flood victims in Kodagu will have to wait for houses constructed for them as a part of rehabilitation package since the event organised to hand over the property documents has been put off from May 31 to the first week of June. It was earlier announced that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa would be handing over the title deeds of 463 houses constructed at Jamboor and Madhenadu before the onset of monsoon on May 31. However, with the extension of lockdown till May 31, a decision was taken at a meeting in Madikeri on Friday to reschedule the event to the first week of next month. Speaking to reporters in Madikeri, Minister in-charge of Kodagu district V. Somanna, who chaired the meeting, said houses for the flood-affected had been completed at Jamboor and Madhenadu and were ready for allotment to eligible people affected by 2018 floods and landslips. Also, houses under construction at Gaalibeedu and Biligeri would be completed in the next three to four months, he added. Mr. Somanna said the government has set a target of constructing 10 lakh houses in the State in the next 24 months. As many as 5.50 lakh houses in rural areas and 4.50 lakh houses in urban areas had been proposed. About 383 houses at Jamboor and 80 houses in Madhenadu had been constructed by the Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Ltd. on the sites developed on the government land. Each house built on 30 x 40 sq feet dimension has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 9.85 lakh. Barring 35 houses at Karnangeri village, none of the ‘ready-to-occupy’ houses had been allotted by the victims. At Jamboor, Infosys Foundation was constructing 200 houses for the rehabilitation of flood victims. In total, about 800 people had lost their houses in the calamity while the houses of many suffered minor and partial damage who had been compensated based on the extent of damage, claim the officials. The flood victims of 2019 had been told to build houses on the land owned by them while the cost would be borne by the government. Another offer given to them was building houses on the sites developed by the government agencies and the cost would be released to the beneficiaries by the corporation based on the progress of work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/victims-of-2018-kodagu-floods-made-to-wait-longer-for-homes/article31655342.ece
23 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Bommai defends FIR||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Friday defended the FIR filed by the Sagar police against Congress national leader Sonia Gandhi. He said the police had registered the FIR on the basis of guidelines issued in a Supreme Court judgment on the course of action to be adopted when a complaint is lodged. The objections raised by the Congress can, however, be taken up only when the investigation is launched, he said. “This is the legal position”, he said. Recalling the FIRs filed against  journalist Arnab Goswami over his remarks against Ms. Gandhi about a fortnight ago, Mr. Bommai alleged the Congress was adopting double standards.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bommai-defends-fir/article31655367.ece
23 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘Nanjangud company will resume operations soon’||Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai indicated that Jubilant Generics Limited, the pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud which had become a COVID-19 hotspot, will resume operations soon with the guidelines by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Friday, Mr Bommai said the Health Department had written to ICMR, which had in response sent guidelines. Mr. Bommai said the district administration will take all the necessary steps before the premises is reopened with the stipulated restrictions. The firm had also written to the government seeking permission to resume operations in the light of its agreement with an U.S. company to manufacture and sell remdesivir, regarded as a potential therapy for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nanjangud-company-will-resume-operations-soon/article31655380.ece
23 May 2020||Raichur,KARNATAKA||Start COVD-19 test laboratory in Raichur immediately: Savadi||Expressing concern over the possible rise in COVID-19 cases in the coming days as buses and trains are re-starting regular services, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi on Friday directed the district administration to complete the pending work on the laboratory being set up to carry out tests for the pandemic in Raichur expeditiously. Addressing a meeting after reviewing the situation here, Mr. Savadi, who also holds the Transport and district in-charge portfolios, said that Raichur district, which had been classified as a green zone, reported 16 positive cases for the deadly virus after migrant workers started returning from Maharashtra to the district. “There is every possibility of the number of positive cases going up once the authorities re-start train services. Therefore, the district administration and the Health Department officials should complete the work expeditiously and start tests at the laboratory being set up at RIMS Hospital,” he said and added that, at present, samples are being sent to Kalaburagi, Ballari and Bengaluru for tests. On the difficulties people are facing due to the pandemic, Mr. Savadi said that the district administration and the Health Department have a responsibility to ensure proper health care and safety for the migrant workers who have returned to different parts of the district from Maharashtra. “Implement the guidelines strictly to avoid further spread of the virus. Considering the seriousness of the situation, the Police Department should work accordingly,” he added. Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar explained to Mr. Savadi that a total of 10,500 migrant workers who have returned to the district have been kept under institutional quarantine. Health check-up was conducted for 6,000 more people. As many as 16 persons have tested positive for the pandemic so far. Therefore, the process of identification of those having preliminary and secondary contacts is on, he added. Giving more details, District Health Officer Ramakrishna said that samples from 6,297 people have been collected and sent to the laboratories. Of these, results of 4,008 turned negative and reports for 2,273 samples are awaited. A house-to-survey survey covering 3,91,721 units has been completed. There are 3,94,739 houses across the district, he said. Raja Amareshwar Naik, MP, Basanagowda Daddal, MLA, N.S. Bose Raju, MLC, Adimani Veeralakshmi, zilla panchayat president, Lakshmikanth Reddy, CEO, C.B. Vedamurthy, Superintendent of Police, Durgesh, Additional Deputy Commissioner, Basavaraj Peerapur, Director of RIMS, and officers were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/start-covd-19-test-laboratory-in-raichur-immediately-savadi/article31655570.ece
23 May 2020||Raichur,KARNATAKA||Private transport services allowed||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Transport Laxman Savadi has said that private transport owners had sought permission to start services with a hike of 50 % in fare. But, the demand for hike of 50 % in fare has been declined. However, operators can run buses with an increase of only 15 % in fare. Probably, they will start bus services in a day or two, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-transport-services-allowed/article31655568.ece
23 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Cabinet will discuss Sonia FIR issue: KSE||K.S. Eshwarappa, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, said on Friday that a detailed discussion on the issue of an FIR being filed against Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi by the Sagar police would be held during the forthcoming meeting of the State Cabinet. He told presspersons that though he was personally pained by the criticism levelled by the Congress using its Twitter handle against the way in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi has handled the COVID-19 situation, he would respect the democratic rights of Congress leaders to express their views against the government. “When Indira Gandhi was Prime Minister, Atal Bihari Vajpayee who was in the Opposition then supported her on issues related to the nation’s interest. We expected similar cooperation from the Congress in the ongoing fight against COVID-19,” he said.  Mr. Eshwarappa said the complainant in this case had approached the Sagar police on behalf of a large number of people who were “hurt by the false charges” levelled against the Prime Minister and the Centre. “The legal system of the country that has given the Congress the right to criticise the government has also endowed the complainant a similar right to file complaints against any individual or organisation that indulges in spreading rumours and tries to mislead people. The police promptly discharged their duty and it is unfair to criticise them,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cabinet-will-discuss-sonia-fir-issue-kse/article31655354.ece
23 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Entry of relatives not allowed in quarantine centres: DC||G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, on Friday said that the entry of any relative or friend to quarantine centres in the district to give clothes, food or any other material was banned to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He was speaking at a meeting on precautionary measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at the Taluk Panchayat Hall at Kundapur in Udupi district. Mr. Jagadeesha said that many people were coming with tiffin boxes containing food and clothes to give to their relatives who had been housed in different quarantine centres in the district. But they would not be allowed entry to the centres. This was because there was a likelihood of COVID-19 being spread through empty tiffin boxes and used clothes returned by those inside the centres. “We cannot risk the health of 13 lakh people residing in the district by allowing this,” he stressed.  Legal action Mr. Jagadeesha said that some miscreants from Mumbai and other places were calling elected representatives such as MPs and MLAs and officers, and recording the calls and later releasing them on the social media. “Some people are calling from Mumbai, speaking like dons and releasing such recordings on social media. We will not be cowed down by them. Such calls should end now. We will take legal action against these persons and throw them into jails,” Mr. Jagadeesha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/entry-of-relatives-not-allowed-in-quarantine-centres-dc/article31655576.ece
23 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Rs. 3 lakh compensation each for families of two dead workers||The Labour Department has directed the Karnataka Labour Welfare Board to release compensation of Rs. 3 lakh each to the families of the two workers who died of burns at a private hospital in Hyderabad. A total of eight workers, including the two dead, who were working at a scrap tyre burning unit at Kadechur-Badiyal Industrial Hub in Yadgir district, suffered severe burns on March 10 when a boiler burst during work hours. All the injured were rushed to Raichur Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) at Raichur and later referred to Hyderabad for further treatment where Hussain and Arif died on March 13 and March 21, respectively. MLA Naganagowda Kandkur raised the issue on the floor of the House and urged the State government to release compensation to the families of those who died in the Hyderabad hospital and also pay hospital expenses to the injured workers. Considering the issue on humanitarian grounds, the Labour Department has passed the order directing the board to release compensation of Rs. 3 lakh each to the families of the dead workers and also pay 50 % of hospital expenses for the injured workers. It has also directed the factory owner to pay the balance 50 % of the hospital expenses for the injured workers. The Labour Department further directed the board to pay the entire hospital expenses if the factory owner fails to pay his share as directed and later, initiate legal action against him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-3-lakh-compensation-each-for-families-of-two-dead-workers/article31655571.ece
23 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Four child marriages prevented in Yadgir dist.||On timely intervention by a team of officials of the Women and Child Development Department, police and others, four child marriages were prevented in different village in Yadgir district on Friday. Following the complaint to Child Helpline number 1098, officials rushed to Kanekal, Wankasambra and Saidapur villages and prevented the marriages. Officials convinced the parents that law prevents child marriages and warned them of punishment if they violated the law. Prabhakar, Deputy Director of the department, told The Hindu over phone that the parents of all the girls confirmed that the girls are still minor and due to financial difficulties and other family commitments they decided to perform their marriage without knowing the law.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/four-child-marriages-prevented-in-yadgir-dist/article31655370.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Rs. 3.43 lakh collected from those not wearing mask||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has a new source of revenue: levying fines on citizens who don’t wear masks in public spaces. Since May 5, the civic body has fined 1,715 citizens and collected a total of Rs. 3.43 lakh. The highest amount of Rs. 1,16,800 was collected from 584 people in the East zone, followed by Mahadevapura zone where 277 citizens were fined a total of Rs. 55,400. In the West zone, the BBMP collected Rs. 46,200, while Yelahanka saw the least number of fines collected with Rs. 8,400 from 42 persons. Initially, the fine amount was set at Rs. 1,000, but was reduced to Rs. 200. A 40-year-old traffic constable from Pulikeshi Nagara Traffic Police Station, who had been deployed for bandobast duty during the lockdown, has tested positive for COVID-19. Contact tracing Investigations and contact tracing is on to ascertain how he may have contracted the infection, said B R Ravikante Gowda, Joint Commissioner (Traffic), Bengaluru. This is the second case of a police personnel in the city testing positive for COVID-19. In the first week of May, a head constable attached to Begur Police Station had tested positive and is now on the road to recovery, sources said. The constable from Pulikeshi Nagara Traffic Police Station is asymptomatic. “He tested positive during the ongoing special drive to test police personnel for COVID-19 as we are on the frontline in the fight against the virus,” said Mr. Gowda. He has been admitted to Victoria hospital. According to sources, his family is in his hometown and he has been staying alone in the city. Pulikeshi Nagara Traffic Police Station has been sanitised and several personnel working there sent to quarantine as they were primary contacts. Police stations sealed Two police stations in K.R. Pet in Mandya district were sealed on Thursday evening after a police personnel tested positive for COVID-19. Nearly 30 police personnel have been placed under quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/rs-343-lakh-collected-from-those-not-wearing-mask/article31655339.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Man arrested||Sleuths arrested a man from Ivory Coast for allegedly peddling drugs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/man-arrested/article31655336.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Strict lockdown on Sunday’||The lockdown on Sunday (May 24) will be strictly enforced, said Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao The State government's recent order relaxing lockdown norms had said the relaxation does not apply for Sundays when strict lockdown will be in place. “Prohibitory orders will be imposed from Saturday 7 p.m. to Monday 7 a.m., during which time the lockdown will be strict and complete in the city,” Mr. Rao said. The police will barricade roads. Only essential services will be allowed during this time. “Those travelling for any non-essential work will be booked and their vehicles seized,” he said. There will be no public transport on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/strict-lockdown-on-sunday/article31655338.ece
23 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||550 trees near Thottappally estuary axed||Despite opposition from different quarters, around 550 trees, mostly casuarina trees, close to the Thottappally estuary were axed on Friday. The trees were cut down based on a State government decision after an observation that the trees were impeding the flow of floodwaters from the Kuttanad region. Local residents, environmentalists, fishermen organisations and various political parties opposed to the tree feeling were thwarted by the police. Police deployed Fearing protests, police personnel, including from other districts, were deployed in large numbers in and around Thottappally. People in the area were not even allowed to venture out of their houses until the cutting of trees was completed by 9 30 a.m. Earlier, a high-level meeting held in May 2019 decided to cut trees in the land in the possession of the Irrigation Department by invoking various sections under the Disaster Management Act. It had also given its nod for the Irrigation Department to go ahead with the planned removal of mineral-rich sand from the estuary. Following this, attempts to cut trees were made, but without success due to stiff local resistance. “After the initial attempts failed, the issue came before the State government. It directed the district administration to take necessary measures to axe trees. The trees were cut by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel as directed by the District Disaster Management Authority,” said an official. Those opposed to the tree felling alleged that it was a prelude to extracting more mineral-rich sand from Thottappally. The trees were chopped amidst brewing protest against the transportation of sand removed from the Thottappally estuary to the Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd (KMML) unit at Chavara. Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran said that the State government was trying to convert Thottappally into a mineral sand-mining site. District Congress Committee president M. Liju said the desiltation of the leading channel of the Thottappally spillway was making slow progress. “The cutting of trees and large-scale extraction of mineral sand from the estuary will result in environmental issues,” Mr. Liju said. Justified Meanwhile, District Collector M. Anjana justified the actions stating that it was necessary to prevent flooding during the upcoming rainy season.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/550-trees-near-thottappally-estuary-axed/article31655750.ece
23 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Two houses destroyed in elephant attack||A herd of elephants destroyed two houses at Aranappara near Tholpetty in the district in the wee hours of Friday. The houses of Thimman at Naikatty Kattunayakka tribal hamlet under the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary (WWS) and Ayisha of Cholayil at Aranappara under the North Wayanad forest division were partially destroyed by the herd. On receiving information, a team of Forest officials rushed to the spot. They were detained by a group of villagers, who demanded protection from recurring wildlife attacks and adequate compensation for the losses. Later, V. Ratheesh, Forest Range Officer, Begur range, and P. Sunilkumar, assistant wildlife warden, WWS, held a discussion with the villagers and assured them that adequate compensation would be given to the house owners and steps would be adopted to mitigate man-animal conflict in the area.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-houses-destroyed-in-elephant-attack/article31655642.ece
23 May 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||One case in Wayanad||One more person from Wayanad district was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. The 53-year-old women of Kottathara in the district reached the Kochi international airport from Dubai on May 20. She was admitted to a private hospital in Kozhikode for treatment the same day. Later, she was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and was shifted to the hospital attached to the Government Medical College, Kozhikode. Youth held The Sulthan Bathery police arrested a 30-year-old youth on Friday morning for allegedly crossing the Muthanga inter-State check-post on the Kerala-Karnataka border with a fabricated document. A. Binoy of Thottada in Kannur district was arrested while he was crossing the border on a bike, sources said. Later, he was released on a self-bond.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-case-in-wayanad/article31655645.ece
23 May 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Surge in cases leaves Kannur worried||Kannur witnessed a surge in the number of COVID-19 patients as 12 more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Friday while seven persons tested positive in Kasaragod. Of the 12 patients in Kannur, six had returned from abroad. They include a 34-year-old mother and her four-year-old child from Mattannur, who returned from Dubai on May 17. A 24-year-old tribeswoman from Ayankunnu panchayat reportedly contracted the virus and is now admitted to Kannur Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. Health officials have expressed concern over the development as it was not clear how she contracted the virus. Nearing her due date, the pregnant woman was initially admitted to Kannur District Hospital on May 12 after she developed hypertension and respiratory illness. But her condition deteriorated and she was referred to the hospital attached to the medical college, where her swab test was conducted. She also gave birth via caesarean to a healthy baby with no infection. Dr. Shaj, District Surveillance Officer, said health officials had taken the list of people who might have come into contact with the woman. A total of 9,897 persons are in observation in the district. Among them 9,790 are in home quarantine. In Kasaragod Seven persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod district on Friday. They include a 57-year-old man from Puthige panchayat who returned from Maharashtra, and four residents of Kumbala. There are now 2,648 persons under observation in the district. Of them, 2,161 are in home quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/surge-in-cases-leaves-kannur-worried/article31655641.ece
23 May 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Special buses to bring students from Karnataka||District Collector D. Sajith Babu has said that the district administration would arrange bus facilities for students stuck in Karnataka during the lockdown to appear for SSLC and Plus Two examinations in Kasaragod district. The Collector said candidates appearing for the examination should register themselves on the web portal covid19jagratha.kerala.nic.in. Registered students should reach Manjeswaram Thalapady border check post before 10 a.m. on May 25. They would be transported to the respective schools in special KSRTC buses arranged by the district administration, he said. The Sub Collector will be issue passes to registered students. Even if there is a delay in getting the pass, the students should report to the Thalapady border check post before 10 a.m. on May 25, said Mr. Babu. There are 297 students in Karnataka who are taking the Class X examination. Of them, 33 students have informed that they will arrange their own transportation. The remaining 264 students of Class X and the Plus Two students from Karnataka have to register on the portal for permission to travel to their respective schools. The Manjeswaram Assistant Educational Officer  (9496358767) and the Principal of Government Higher Secondary School, Bethoorpara (9539412753) have been appointed nodal officers to clear registration doubts of students. The Collector said no student appearing for the VHSE exam was left stranded in in Karnataka.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-buses-to-bring-students-from-karnataka/article31655639.ece
23 May 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Migrants prevented from walking back to Bihar||About 20 migrant labourers, including women, who tried to set out on a long march on foot and on bicycles back to their home State of Bihar, thousands of kilometres away, were stopped by the police at Kalikadavu in Kasaragod on Friday. They were residing at Chandera, on the Kasaragod-Kannur border. One of the workers said while steps had been taken to send back workers from Rajasthan, there were no initiatives so far to help them return to Bihar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/migrants-prevented-from-walking-back-to-bihar/article31655683.ece
23 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Quarantine violations on the rise; police crack the whip||The police have tightened the noose on those found violating home quarantine norms, with 20 cases getting registered in the district on Friday. While the City police registered 18 cases, the Rural police registered two. All the offenders were shifted to institutional quarantine and charged with IPC Sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and 271 (disobedience to quarantine rule), in addition to relevant provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. The City police also conducted a surprise check and seized seven private buses on the charge of flouting physical distancing norms. “We are leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that quarantine protocols are strictly complied with. There are 2,125 persons in quarantine in 1,235 households in the city. We have deployed 75 motorcycle patrol teams who visit these households twice a day to ensure that there is no violation of quarantine rules,” said District Police Chief (Kochi City) Vijay Sakhare. Besides, the Station House Officers concerned also visit quarantined people and educate them about the tele-medicine platform of the police named Suraksha, show awareness videos about quarantine protocol, and help them install the COVID Safety mobile app that helps the police keep track of quarantined people and detect violations, if any. The police also deploy drones, examine CCTV footage from quarantine zones, and take neighbours of quarantined people into confidence for reporting any violations. Nearly 500 violations have been noticed. The renewed vigour of the City police in cracking down on quarantine norm violators came on a day the State registered the biggest spike in COVID-19 cases on a single day since the outbreak of the pandemic. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik said people returning from other States should undergo mandatory quarantine, failing which stringent action would be taken against them. He added that the Rural police were closely watching those in home quarantine through their Happy@Home mobile app and urged people to report those found violating quarantine norms. There are 3,588 persons in home quarantine and 434 in institutional quarantine within the Ernakulam Rural police limits.  We have deployed 75 motorcycle patrol teams who visit households twice a day to ensure that there is no violation of quarantine rules Vijay Sakhare District Police Chief (Kochi City)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/quarantine-violations-on-the-rise-police-crack-the-whip/article31655663.ece
23 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||e-platforms for farmers to sell produce||The State government is considering a network of innovative agritech start-ups involving young entrepreneurs to help farmers sell their produce online under the Subhiksha Keralam project. The objective is to develop a grassroots-level approach for the marketing and distributing of farm produce and rejuvenate the agricultural sector in the aftermath of the COVID-19 crisis. “We want to encourage young entrepreneurs help farmers earn better price and visibility for their produce. The government wants to avoid middlemen,” V.S. Sunil Kumar, Minister for Agriculture, told The Hindu on Friday. Farmers’ cluster The agritech start-up will develop a cluster of farmers at the local-body level and procure farm produce from the farmers in the area. The customer can order the produce from the online platform where the details of the produce are uploaded and it will be delivered at the doorstep of the customer. The government will ensure that the online platform sell the produce at reasonable rates. Besides procurement and marketing, the start-ups will share with the farmers knowledge about innovative agricultural practices and marketing techniques. “We had launched a similar project on a pilot basis at Thrissur and it is working efficiently. The farmers involved are getting better rates for their produce while the customers get reasonably priced fresh farm produce,” said Mr. Sunil Kumar. The Minister said local-level online networks would be able to expand the marketing and distribution mechanism at the grassroots level unlike major online delivery platforms that offer their services mainly in cities and a few second-tier towns. Direct money transfer The local bodies have to ensure maximum marketing of the produce at the regional level itself. Marketing centres can be launched at the panchayat and municipality levels. The system should ensure direct transfer of money to the farmers after their produce reaches the market, according to the guidelines approved for Subhiksha Keralam. The government has directed agencies like Horticorp, Vegetable and Fruit Promotion Council Keralam, farmer produce societies, Matsyafed, Milma, Consumerfed and Supplyco to procure the produce remaining after the sale at the regional level to help farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/e-platforms-for-farmers-to-sell-produce/article31655686.ece
23 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fort Kochi gently awakes from lockdown slumber||Lockdown relaxations coupled with the commencement of roll-on roll-off (ro-ro) services in the Fort Kochi-Vypeen sector from Friday have resulted in tourists and others frequenting the famed streets of Fort Kochi heritage zone and the historic beachfront. The locale wore a deserted look for the past two months, but for a fisherman or two trying their luck at netting fish. Among the foreign nationals spotted on the beach was Kei, a techie-cum-agriculturist from Japan. “I have been stranded here since March and am staying with a friend at a homestay in Fort Kochi. Kerala is very safe as compared to other metro cities, and the people are very kind. But some make fun and refer to me as Corona, probably mistaking that I am from China. I do not care much for them though,” Mr. Kei said. So, does he not get bored? “Sometimes, and I frequent the beachfront to take a break. I also get to see the sunset,” he said. A little distance away was a filmmaker couple — Arthur and Simona. “We are filmmakers. I hold a US passport and she a Dutch one, and we keep travelling,” Mr. Arthur said. Kerala handled the COVID crisis better than the others, so much so that we would rather be here than in the US,” he added. Delving into the positives of the lockdown, Mr. Athur spoke of how dust had settled down and people were breathing fresher air, getting to see the Himalayas from many States in north India. “People are getting to see their organic essence, how to connect with the planet.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fort-kochi-gently-awakes-from-lockdown-slumber/article31655656.ece
23 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Tele-consultation still on unsteady ground in the State||Though the State is getting ready to come out of the lockdown imposed to contain COVID-19, tele-consultation in hospitals is likely to continue for a while as people are not yet confident of visiting hospitals for minor ailments. Some private hospitals have evolved their own platforms while a few doctors have started using other platforms for consultation. The Indian Medical Association (IMA), which is against tele-consultation because of the possible unhealthy fallouts in patient care and the likelihood of medico-legal issues, has made it clear that tele-consultation should either happen on a platform of a professional body or on one approved by the State government. Temporary provision IMA State president Abraham Varghese says the association would not support doctors who use private platforms for tele-consultation. The Medical Council of India has only temporarily provided a clause to include tele-consultation and it may be removed once the COVID-19 situation becomes more manageable. The IMA has a protection scheme for its members that is applicable in the new circumstances in case of any likely litigation on the medical care being delivered. But, it would be offered only if tele-consultation is made on a platform of a professional body or on one approved by the State. Problems could arise at an individual doctor's level or a hospital’s level, he says. Some hospitals have provided a platform for telemedicine with facilities on the doctor’s desktop or at their telemedicine consulting room. Such consultations are still on though the hospitals have opened for general consultation, says Sanjeev Singh, medical superintendent of a leading private hospital here. “We are not charging for tele-consultation.” New procedure Some others have evolved a new procedure. Those who want to consult the doctor are given a time slot after a digital payment at a major hospital here. The video call helps doctors get a closer look at the patient’s symptoms, says Sunny Orathel, its medical superintendent. There are 30-40 calls a day, he says. Unless the doctors get to see the patient, consultation is just a general guideline not a professional advice, says Sachidananda Kamath, former president, Indian Association of Paediatrics. Clinical examination is the essence of good diagnosis and it cannot replace digital consultation, says Dr. Kamath. According to gastroenterologist Mathew Philip, telemedicine is most useful for review of patients already undergoing treatment at a hospital since their records can be checked and advice given. However, it would be difficult to guide patients who have developed new symptoms, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/tele-consultation-still-on-unsteady-ground-in-the-state/article31655680.ece
23 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC orders cleaning of railway culverts||The Kerala High Court has directed the district administration to complete the jetting of the 23 railway culverts along the Perandoor canal to prevent flooding during monsoon. It ordered the Southern Railway Area Manager to grant all assistance for the execution of the work. The Kochi Corporation should immediately desilt, clean, and restore the nearly 2.5-km stretch of the Thevara-Perandoor canal from the Perandoor bridge to the Chittoor lake and the nearly 2-km stretch from the GCDA, Kadavanthra, to Kammattipadam before May 29. The work shall be done using the resources of the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-orders-cleaning-of-railway-culverts/article31655662.ece
23 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Metro MD promoted as Additional Chief Secretary||The State government has promoted Alkesh Kumar Sharma, managing director of Kochi Metro Rail Limited, to Additional Chief Secretary. The State has declared the post of MD, KMRL, as equivalent in status and responsibility to Additional Chief Secretary, and he will continue in the current post. Mr. Sharma, a 1990 batch IAS officer, joined KMRL as the MD on September 27 last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/metro-md-promoted-as-additional-chief-secretary/article31655658.ece
23 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Appeal for blessings brings trouble||“Blessings” were what an audacious youngster sought from the excise department before engaging in illegal brewing of arrack and putting up the process on the social media. Soon, however, he was in for more than what he had bargained for, with the men in uniform turning up at his house and registering a case under the Abkari Act. Shinomon Chacko, 32, a resident of Kidangoor in Aluva, had made a Facebook post complete with a picture announcing his intention to illegally brew country liquor using pineapples, which he claimed to have brought in bulk from his wife’s house at Muvattupuzha. Not stopping at that, he went on to ask for the blessings of everyone, including the excise department. The post was widely shared on the social media and came to the notice of the Excise Commissioner who immediately alerted the Ernakulam Deputy Excise Commissioner. Shortly thereafter, an excise team led by Circle Inspector Sojan Sebastian tracked down the house of the person from where five litres of raw material for illegal brewing was found in a store room attached to the kitchen. The accused was charged under Sections 8 (1) and (2) of the Abkari Act. Illegal brewing has soared exponentially across the State ever since liquor outlets and bars were closed at the start of the country-wide lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/appeal-for-blessings-brings-trouble/article31655653.ece
23 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Train with migrants leaves for W. Bengal||The first special train for migrant labourers from the district left the Kollam railway station for West Bengal with 1,452 passengers on board on Friday night. The labourers had requested the district administration to facilitate the travel to their native States and a list was prepared by officials after the mandatory medical screening. The travellers included those who had been living in Kollam for several years and employed in various pandemic-hit sectors including hospitality. During the past couple of months, the district administration had ensured accommodation and food for around 9,000 migrant workers residing in Kollam. Their COVID-19 screening was completed on Thursday and all the passengers were issued certificates by the DMO. Along with thermal screening, the workers had to answer a set of questions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-with-migrants-leaves-for-w-bengal/article31655751.ece
23 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two test positive in Kottayam||Two more persons, who returned to Kottayam from Abu Dhabi and Maharashtra respectively, tested positive for COVID-19 here on Friday, taking the total number of patients in the district to eight. Health Department officials said a 25-year-old man from Melukavu, near Erattupetta, and a 32-year-old from Vellavoor tested positive for the virus. The youth from Melukavu returned from Abu Dhabi on May 18 and was undergoing institutional quarantine at a COVID care centre in Gandhinagar. The second person, on the other hand, was in home isolation after returning from Mumbai by road on May 19. Both were shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam. In view of the steady rise in the number of patients, the District Health Department has strengthened surveillance to ensure that the returnees strictly adhere to the quarantine guidelines. Besides the eight patients, a Thiruvananthapuram native who returned from Maharashtra is also undergoing treatment in Kottayam. Meanwhile, 10 persons including seven returning from the Gulf countries completed their mandatory quarantine period and left the COVID isolation centre at Kothanallur here on Friday. Nine more persons, who returned from the overseas destinations earlier this month, are also set to leave the centre here on Saturday on completion of the quarantine period. At present, as many as 708 people including 251 people from Gulf countries are staying in the 46 quarantine centres set up by the district administration here. With 52 inmates, St Alphonsa Boys Hostel in Choondacheri has the highest number people in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-test-positive-in-kottayam/article31655752.ece
23 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Online conference held||The Department of Mechanical Engineering at the Mar Baselios Christian College of Engineering and Technology, Kuttikanam, hosted a two-day online conference on Advances of Mechanical Engineering on May 5 and 6. The event was conducted in association with the Institution of Engineers India. Fr Gigi P. Abraham, director of the institution, inaugurated the event and Edin Michael delivered the keynote address.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/online-conference-held/article31655748.ece
23 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Healthcare worker among five patients in Kozhikode||A health-care worker from Vadakara, who is right now employed at the Kannur district hospital, was among the five persons diagnosed with COVID-19 in Kozhikode district on Friday. This is the highest spike in the number of cases here in recent days. A release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said the others were a 55-year-old native of Arikkulam who reached the Calicut International Airport from Abu Dhabi on May 7, a 46-year-old native of Thikkodi who returned from Kuwait on May 13, and a 42-year-old native of Chalappuram in Kozhikode city and a 32-year-old native of Azhiyoor, both of whom landed at the Kannur airport by a Kuwait-Kannur flight on May 20. The 39-year-old health-care worker had been staying at the hospital earlier and is undergoing treatment there now. His body fluid samples were sent to the lab when he exhibited COVID-19 symptoms and they tested positive on May 20. The Arikkulam native had been quarantined at a COVID care centre and was shifted to the first-line treatment centre at Lakshadweep Guest House after samples tested positive for the virus on May 18. The Thikkodi native too was shifted there after test results confirmed the infection on May 21. Both the Chalappuram native and the Azhiyoor native were shifted to the Kannur Medical College soon after they exhibited symptoms at the screening at the airport. The number of people under surveillance went up to 5,735, including 889 expatriates.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/healthcare-worker-among-five-patients-in-kozhikode/article31655644.ece
23 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID-19 takes the lives of 160 NoRKs||At least 160 Non resident Keralites (NoRKs) have succumbed to the COVID-19 pandemic in different parts of the globe. Among them, 60 people have died in the UAE and 40 in the United States. The number of deaths of NoRKs due to COVID-19 across the six countries that make up the Gulf Cooperation Council has crossed the 100 mark. The United Kingdom has recorded the death of 12 NoRKs. The majority of them hailed from Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Malappuram and Thrissur districts.  GCC countries The total number of cases in the GCC (UAE, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain, and Oman) is 2 lakh with nearly 850 deaths. Deaths have gone unreported due to overlapping between comorbidity and COVID-19 mortality. Despite India extending support to the GCC nations by sending medical teams and health-care professionals, the situation in the UAE, Saudi Arabia and Kuwait has been a cause for concern for Kerala because of the huge expatriate workforce in these countries. The disruption of industrial and commercial activity in the UAE and Saudi Arabia will have a lasting impact on the State. Non-Resident Indians are at the risk of losing their jobs in the GCC nations as many projects have been postponed and expenses pruned.  Fall in oil prices Besides, the fall in oil prices has made a disastrous effect on the revenues of Saudi Arabia. Already these countries have adjusted existing curfews and eased travel restrictions within their territories. Saudi Arabia has imposed 24-hour lockdown in Mecca and its vicinity to combat the spread of the deadly virus. The UAE has also eased nationwide curfew though its Health Department is focussing on regions with labour camps and habitats of low-income workers. Kuwait has suspended work in public places until May 31. Incidentally, Bahrain has reopened its airport for transit passengers but has banned the entry of foreigners and non-residents. The GCC nations have also asked residents to tone down their Id celebrations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-19-takes-the-lives-of-160-norks/article31655664.ece
23 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||More private buses resume service in Kozhikode||Complying with the State government’s social distancing protocol, more private buses resumed service in Kozhikode district on Friday. The services are being run in spite of the opposition by a section of bus owners who are unhappy with the government’s “cold response” to their list of demands, including a special welfare package to save the ailing sector. Though four buses which ran maintaining the social distancing guidelines for passengers on Wednesday were attacked by the rivals, it is yet to discourage the entry of more operators who wish to cooperate with the government’s directive. As of now, there are more than 50 private buses in service connecting the city with rural areas. The KSRTC too has resumed some of its services. Police and Motor Vehicle Department officials said that they would carry out inspections to ensure that the services were being operated in a safe way by sticking to the social distancing protocol. Meanwhile, the bus operators who restarted service said they were facing huge losses with the limited number of passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/more-private-buses-resume-service-in-kozhikode/article31655649.ece
23 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Woman held on sexual abuse charge||The Thamarassery police on Friday arrested a teacher who allegedly showed an obscene video on her mobile phone to a 12-year-old girl in her neighbourhood. The 35-year-old suspect was remanded in judicial custody and sent to the Manjeri sub jail. The incident took place on May 16. A case was registered on the basis of the parents’ complaint on May 19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/woman-held-on-sexual-abuse-charge/article31655648.ece
23 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Restaurant staff booked||The city police on Friday booked six Indian Coffee House staff, including its manager, who allegedly violated lockdown regulations and facilitated the entry of people from outside to dine without following physical-distancing norms. Though the management said the entry was only given to corporation officials who were on duty, the claim was found false in a preliminary investigation conducted by the police. The Coffee House unit located near the Kozhikode beach was reportedly accommodating large number of people without following guidelines of the Health Department and the State government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/restaurant-staff-booked/article31655646.ece
23 May 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||SFI donates WISK to Tirur hospital||Students Federation of India (SFI) workers at MES College of Engineering, Kuttippuram, developed a walk-in sample kiosk (WISK) for mass collection of samples from people with symptoms of COVID-19. They donated the WISK cabin to Government District Hospital at Tirur. It cost them Rs. 50,000. Inspired by the models developed in Korea, the students took three weeks to fabricate a WISK of their own. They said that the tests could be safely done in two minutes. The SFI alumni of the college donated the fund required for making the kiosk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sfi-donates-wisk-to-tirur-hospital/article31655647.ece
23 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Aryavaidyan P.K. Warrier turns 99||Aryavaidyan P.K. Warrier, veteran Ayurvedic physician and managing trustee of Kottakkal Arya Vaidya Sala, turned 99 on Friday. He celebrated his birthday quietly with his family at Kailasamandiram, the headquarters of Arya Vaidya Sala at Kottakkal. As it was the lockdown period, Dr. Warrier avoided even the special birthday puja at Arya Vaidya Sala’s Viswambhara Temple. There were fewer than 20 members around him including his daughter Subhadra Ramachandran, nephews P. Raghava Varier and P. Madhavankutty Varier, and nieces Saraswati S. Varier and K. Lekha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/aryavaidyan-pk-warrier-turns-99/article31655688.ece
23 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||One in Pathanamthitta||The number of COVID-19 patients in the district went up to eight on Friday with a Non-Resident Keralite (NoRK) hailing from Oonnukal testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. The 30-year-old man came to Thiruvananthapuram on an Air India flight from Dubai on May 21 and was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital there. However, the test results of all 173 samples received on Friday were found negative for COVID-19. A total of 29 quarantined people, including seven COVID-19 patients, remained under observation in hospitals in the district, an official bulletin here said. As per the bulletin, four of them are at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, 11 at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, four at the General Hospital, Adoor, and 10 at various private hospitals. The district’s maiden Firstline Covid Treatment Centre started functioning at the Menanthottom hospital at Ranni on Thursday. Inaugurating the centre, Raju Abraham, MLA, said firstline treatment centres were designed to treat COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms. He said the centre had 45 bath-attached rooms with 90 beds. He said the administration was planning to open seven more such centres in the district. 6,350 persons screened Meanwhile, the 43 surveillance squads of the Health Department screened 6,350 people for fever and other symptoms of COVID-19 at five border points on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-in-pathanamthitta/article31655753.ece
23 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Sabarimala festival planned from June 19||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) is planning to conduct the 10-day annual festival of the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple along with the rituals in the Malayalam month of Midhunom that begins on June 15. TDB president N. Vasu told The Hindu on Wednesday that the board consulted the Tantri (chief priest) about conducting the temple festival that had been deferred in the wake of the lockdown. The annual festival was scheduled to begin on March 29. The temple custodian (TDB) and the Tantri had got the freedom to defer or cancel a temple festival or ritual if the situation warranted so, he said. Tantri Kandararu Maheswararu Mohanararu said he suggested that the TDB conduct the 10-day festival as continuation of the next monthly rituals. The five-day monthly rituals in Midhunom would be performed from June 15 to 19. The Tantri said the ceremonial flag-hoisting would be held on June 19 forenoon. The Utsavabali riteswill be held on all days from June 20 to 27. The Pallivetta will be performed at Saramkuthi on the trekking path on June 27 evening. Arat ceremony The Arat ceremony will be held in the Pampa on June 28 forenoon. Mr. Vasu expressed hope that the government would be able to permit regulated entry for devotees to Sabarimala by mid-June.  The temple custodian (TDB) and the Tantri have the freedom to defer or cancel a festival or ritual if the situation warrants N.Vasu TDB president||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sabarimala-festival-planned-from-june-19/article31655681.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Downpour-battered capital a pointer to days ahead||Steady downpour in the early hours of Friday inundated low-lying regions in the State capital, laying bare the defects in the storm water drainage system yet again, and offered a glimpse of what the city could face during the fast-approaching monsoon season. Adding to the city’s woes, the Killi and Karamana rivers overflowed their banks in several places. Forced to raise five shutters of the Aruvikkara dam on Friday morning following in-flow, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) had warned people residing on the banks of the Karamana river to be careful. Low-lying areas such as SS Kovil Road, Attakulangara, Melarannoor and Manikanteswaram road were inundated in the downpour. The Attakulangara-Killipalam bypass resembled a river in spate, with storm water overflowing the drains and flooding both lanes. Smaller roads leading off the bypass into the Chala market and residential colonies such as Yamuna Nagar remained waterlogged for hours. Bid to unclog “Water usually rises here during the rains, but not so much and not so fast as it did this time,” said Bhagavathi Shuppammal, 80, who sells earthen pots on Kothuval street. “This is a low-lying area and the drains get clogged during the rains,” she said. By 10 a.m., Corporation staff were seen trying to unclog the drains here. storm water had deposited trash all along Kothuval street. “We had built a step inside the shop when the area got waterlogged before. So this time, water did not enter all the way. Still, the front portion was waterlogged when I came in at 5.30 a.m.,” said Vijayarangan of Saraswati Traders. Anxious vigil The situation was worse for neighbourhoods along the banks of the Karamana and the Killi rivers which overflowed their banks in many places. On CS Road, Jagathy, residents were busy bailing out water from their homes. “Once the river is in spate, the canal passing along our neighbourhood overflows,” said Suma Anil Kumar, a resident. Residents of Karakkad lane near Jagathy were seen anxiously watching the water level rise along the boundary walls of the river. “If the water overflows the wall, we are in trouble. Water has already entered a few houses along the bank,” a resident said. Inadequacies of the drainage network were visible at Melarannoor too where the main road and compounds of houses lay under water. “Water started flowing in by 5 p.m. I got up at 3 p.m. to collect drinking water and it was dry then,” recalled Sivakumar, a resident. Frequency goes up “Heavy thunderstorms are normal for May. The frequency of such weather phenomena also goes up during this season,” K. Santhosh, Director, IMD Meteorological Centre, said. By Friday noon, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) issued a note pointing out that the flooding along the Killi river was unconnected to the raising of dam shutters at Aruvikkara. “This is due to heavy rain in the city area,” the KWA noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/downpour-battered-capital-a-pointer-to-days-ahead/article31655707.ece
23 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Elaborate planning for exams||With the dust settling over the dates for the remaining Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC), higher secondary education (HSE), and vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) examinations, the State has moved on to the nitty-gritty of the process. Special seating arrangements will be made for students in containment zones to sit for the exams to be held from May 26 to 30, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at a press briefing on Friday. Students coming from other States will have to follow the 14-day quarantine period. Special arrangements will be made for these students too to appear for the exams. Special facilities will also be provided for students coming from households where people are in home quarantine. The Chief Minister said all students would undergo thermal screening at the exam centres. Medical attention would be provided to those in need of it in the schools. As many as 5,000 infrared thermometers would be purchased for conducting thermal screening. The students reaching home after the exams should take a bath before interacting with family members. All schools that were exam centres would be disinfected utilising the services of the Fire and Rescue Services. Sanitisers and soaps would be made available. Teachers would have to wear gloves. Answer scripts would be stored in the exam centres for seven days for quarantining. Mask distribution The Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, has been tasked with providing students information on health practices related to the exams and masks at their homes. Masks for HSE and VHSE students will be distributed through the National Service Scheme. Mr. Vijayan said 10,920 students (1,866 SSLC students, 8,835 HSE students, and 219 VHSE students) had applied for exam centre change. Question papers for students who are allowed the centre change would be ensured at the new centre. He highlighted that arrangements for conducting the examinations in exam centres in the Gulf region and Lakshadweep had been made. Nod for conducting the exams in Gulf schools had been received. The Chief Minister stressed that all students would get opportunities to appear for the exams and pursue higher studies. If a student was not able to appear for the exams on the announced dates, s/he could appear for the regular exams to be conducted along with the Save-a-Year (SAY) exams without losing out opportunities for higher education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/elaborate-planning-for-exams/article31655674.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||The quarantined being closely monitored||A total of 511 persons who have come from abroad as well as other States are staying in the 28 institutional quarantine centres of the city Corporation. Only those not having the stipulated facilities required for quarantine at their homes are shifted to institutional facilities. The civic body is providing them food, clothing, and other facilities for free. Periodic cleaning and disinfection is being carried out in these centres. The responsibilities of each of these centres have been divided between the standing committee chairpersons and councillors. In addition, a team led by the health officer and consisting of two health supervisors, health inspectors, junior health inspectors, sanitation workers and volunteers are working round the clock to ensure safe quarantine. The ward-level committees and the local area committees under these keep track of those on quarantine. For every 200 houses, there is a five-member local area committee. Help desk The Corporation is also using a mobile application for quarantine monitoring. Stickers have been affixed on houses where people are under quarantine. The civic body has set up a help desk for those in quarantine to reach out and clear doubts. Help desk numbers – 9496434409, 9496434410.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/the-quarantined-being-closely-monitored/article31655705.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||564 reach capital on trains from north India||The State capital received 564 people who came in four special trains from New Delhi (two services), Jalandhar and Jaipur on Friday. While many among them came from COVID-19 red zone areas, none of the passengers displayed any symptoms of the disease. Like the Thiruvananthapuram Central railway station, the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport also witnessed a flurry of activity. While 180 passengers arrived from Dubai late Thursday, another flight from Manama touched down late Friday with 182 passengers. While a bulk of them – 175 people – were Keralites, there were also six Tamil Nadu natives and one person who hails from Andhra Pradesh. 570 off quarantine Among those who travelled in the Dubai flight, two people were hospitalised after displaying various symptoms. The district administration placed 4,589 people under observation on the day, while removing 570 people off the quarantine list after having completed the mandated self-isolation period. There are currently 5,288 people who were being monitored in the district as part of the COVID-19 containment efforts. These included 4,589 people who were under home quarantine. With 17 symptomatic people being hospitalised, the number of those who were being treated in hospitals has gone up to 64. Besides, 635 people were being monitored in 19 corona care centres established in various parts of the district. Special rain Meanwhile, the City police continued their special drive to detect violations of the norm to wear masks outdoors. As many as 608 people were charged with petty cases for the offence. Nine others were also booked under the provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 131 cases, arrested 120 people and seized 53 vehicles. Through Inchivila Ninety-five people, 44 of them women, entered Kerala through the interstate border checkpost at Inchivila in the district on Friday. Ninety-one people came from Tamil Nadu, three from Madhya Pradesh and one person from Andhra Pradesh. Seventeen of them whose travel originated in red zone areas were recommended home quarantine. DPC meeting Meanwhile, the District Planning Committee (DPC) carried out an overview of the COVID-19 prevention activities being taken up by the local bodies in the district. In view of the increasing number of cases and more people being in home quarantine, the meeting decided to strengthen the monitoring activities of the local bodies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/564-reach-capital-on-trains-from-north-india/article31655701.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Same old story on S.S. Koil Road||Much like during most recent spells of rains, the S.S. Koil Road at Thampanoor was inundated on Thursday night. The stretch witnessed the latest case of flooding, even as a long-delayed project for the construction of storm water drains has remained incomplete for some months. Early last year, the city Corporation had begun the work on a storm water drainage system under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) project. But, the work has been moving in fits and starts, as the project has been beset with delays. BSNL utility lines Mayor K. Sreekumar, who visited the flooded stretch on Friday, blamed the delay in shifting the utility lines by Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. (BSNL). “The utility lines through the Overbridge-Thampanoor main road pass perpendicular to the S.S. Koil road, blocking the storm water drain. Although much of the work on the drains has been completed, the project cannot be finished until the utility lines are shifted. The Corporation has been asking them to shift these lines for several months. I spoke to the officials today also and they have promised to do it soon,” said Mr.Sreekumar. Height is an issue The topography has also been a challenge as much of the water from the main road near Sreekumar Theatre, which is at a higher level, would flow into S.S. Koil road, located at a lower level. Officials said the issue would not be solved with just the construction of a storm water drainage. The height of the S.S. Koil Road, which is under the Public Works Department (PWD), has also to be raised.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/same-old-story-on-ss-koil-road/article31655703.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Norms for online class in colleges||Setting in motion steps to commence the next academic year on June 1, the government has released guidelines for the conduct of classes in higher education institutions through the online instructional mode. In a communication on Friday, Director of Collegiate Education V. Vigneshwari directed college Principals to persist with the online instructional mode until the resumption of regular classes when deemed appropriate.  Arrange facilities The onus has been placed on the Principals to ensure strict adherence to the academic calendar as well as the participation of all students. They have been tasked to arrange adequate facilities for those students who lacked access to online platforms. The guidelines laid down by the Health Department in containing the COVID-19 pandemic will have to be complied with during the commencement of normal functioning of the colleges. While the norms will have to be upheld during the conduct of the upcoming exams, the colleges have been directed to arrange exam centres at the locations of convenience of the students. Anticipating similar challenges in the future, the government also directed colleges to explore uncharted paths in online learning. Television, direct-to-home (DTH) and radio channels could be launched on the lines of VICTERS educational channel, hosted by the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE), for mass transmission of academic sessions.  Principals asked to continue online instructional mode until resumption of regular classes||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/norms-for-online-class-in-colleges/article31655669.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Debris-choked rivers posing a ‘hazard’||Debris accumulated in rivers and streams during the 2018 and 2019 floods and which has not yet been cleared poses a ‘threatening disaster situation’ in several districts when the State is expected to receive excess rainfall during the coming southwest monsoon. The Disaster Management Department has now sanctioned Rs. 11.83 crore for clearing the debris and silt on a war footing from rivers, streams, and canals. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that the 2020 edition of the southwest monsoon is expected to set in over Kerala around June 5. Lockdown delay Debris removal has been delayed on account of the lockdown, an official said., adding, “the work could not be undertaken owing to restrictions on labour-intensive activities.” Funds have now been sanctioned for removing the debris accumulated during the two floods in the districts of Idukki, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Palakkad, Pathanamthitta, and Kollam, officials said. The District Collectors had requested funds for undertaking the work and restoring the carrying capacity of rivers and other watercourses. “It is noted that in most districts, there remains uncleared debris from the 2018 and 2019 floods that could not be removed as the State entered into tackling COVID-19 since early January 2020. Hence there exists a threatening disaster situation owing to the reduced carrying capacity of the rivers and rivulets if excess rain occurs in the 2020 monsoon season,” the Disaster Management Department noted in a May 19 order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/debris-choked-rivers-posing-a-hazard/article31655684.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID crisis may offer HLL Lifecare a breather||The pivotal role being rendered by HLL Lifecare Limited in complementing the Central government’s COVID-19 containment efforts is expected to offer a lifeline to the company that has been listed for disinvestment. The company is now acting as the nodal agency of the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry in procuring and distributing medicines and allied accessories. This significant role is expected to make it integral to the functioning of the Union Health Ministry to tackle exigencies in future too, sources said. Most importantly, while announcing a stimulus package to buttress various sectors from the COVID-19 impact recently, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said that four public sector undertakings (PSUs) would be retained in all strategic sectors. While the announcement came as a rude jolt for many PSUs and drew flak from employees and the industry, the announcement has come as a blessing in the case of HLL Lifecare that is making an all-out bid to be in the public sector itself. Given its track record and significance, the chances of the Centre reversing its decision to divest its stakes in the company cannot be ruled out. The company is sufficiently armed to reach out all over the State and has adequate resources for enhancing the production of various products that are imperative in the virus control operations, the sources said. The company posted an operating profit of Rs. 50 crore in 2019-20 and it has so far handled purchases for about Rs. 2,000 crore since the fight against the virus began. Braving resistance On being identified by the NITI Aayog for disinvestment along with a number of other Central PSUs, the preliminary procedures have been completed with a specific target, braving the stiff resistance of trade unions. Bidding process Sources privy to the procedures told The Hindu that a high-level meeting held in January on disinvestment had discussed the Preliminary Information Memorandum that offers an overview of the company and the bidding process to prospective investors for placing their expression of interest. While the procedures were moving as per a schedule laid by the Centre, the pandemic came as a bolt and stymied the entire process. And now the Centre may have a rethink on shedding its stakes, the sources said.  The company is playing a pivotal role in complementing the Centre’s COVID-19 containment efforts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/covid-crisis-may-offer-hll-lifecare-a-breather/article31655682.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Storm water enters petrol pump’s tank||Tension prevailed at a petrol pump at Mannarakonam, near Vattiyurkavu, on Friday when several motorists complained of engine failure of vehicles soon after they refilled their fuel tanks at the outlet. It later emerged that storm water resulting from the heavy downpour in the region had seeped into a storage tank of the petrol pump and contaminated the fuel reserve. Owner to pay damages Close to 30 vehicles, including four-wheelers, were apparently damaged. A few motorists took their vehicles to workshops and were told about the presence of water in the fuel tank. They rushed to the petrol pump and demanded compensation. The outlet owner pacified the customers by agreeing to foot the bill for repairing the vehicles. The motorists said they would seek legal recourse if the owner did not fulfil his promise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/storm-water-enters-petrol-pumps-tank/article31655702.ece
23 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cartoon wall against COVID||A cartoon wall was done up near Keltron in the city as part of ‘Break the Chain’ campaign on Thursday. Minister for Social Justice K.K. Shylaja inaugurated the cartoon wall. Such walls will come up in all cities in the State, the Minister said. Messages abound The cartoon wall has messages on using soap and masks, maintaining social distancing, and not spitting in public for mass awareness among the people for containing the spread of the pandemic, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cartoon-wall-against-covid/article31655700.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Meat prices fixed||Demanding exorbitant rates for meat and fish would invite stern action, District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said on Friday. The district administration has also fixed prices for different types of meat, he said. Chicken (live): Rs. 135 to Rs. 150; Chicken (meat): Rs. 180 to Rs. 200; Mutton: Rs. 680-Rs. 700; Buffalo: Rs. 300-Rs. 350; Beef: Rs. 300-Rs. 330. Fish prices would be decided by Matsyafed, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/meat-prices-fixed/article31655709.ece
23 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State Central Library set to reopen||The State Central Library (Public Library) at Palayam that remained closed since the lockdown has announced it is reopening. Fine due on books since the lockdown began will not be charged till further notice. Services that result in crowding or interaction between people will not be available. The library will be open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. The reference room, magazine section, and reading rooms will not function. New membership too will not be granted till further notice. Date of return Books could be returned from Monday. With over 1 lakh members, the date of return had been staggered on the basis of the last digit of membership numbers, beginning with ‘0’ on Monday and going on to ‘9’ on June 5. Those unable to return books on the stipulated days could hand them over on June 9 and 10. Members should carry their photo identity cards. They should wear masks. Those with fever, cough, and cold would not be allowed in. Children below 10 years of age and those above 65 would not be allowed. Those who reached the State from other States or abroad would be denied entry. Members could renew or reserve books online through the library website. For details, call 9446511208, 9446520430.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-central-library-set-to-reopen/article31655710.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No ‘free pass’ travel on private buses||Even as the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) scaled down its intra-district ordinary services on Friday due to poor patronage, private bus operators have frozen travel of ‘free pass’ holders in their vehicles. The KSRTC’s move was spurred by poor patronage in the intra-district sector. “Both the KSRTC and the private buses are running at loss due to limited services and social distancing norms and we have temporarily frozen the travel of free pass holders,” general secretary of the Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation Lawerence Babu said. Hence, all people boarding the private buses would have to take tickets to fetch revenue for the operators. Mr. Babu said the decision would be applicable even to police personnel and media personnel commuting using free passes. The ones to be exempt would be those availing themselves of concession in fares. “We will provide the concessional fare to the students,” he added. Compared to the 1,432 services operated in 14 districts on Thursday, the KSRTC operated only 1,371 services on Friday due to poor commuter response to the 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. ordinary services. Of these services, 584 were in the Thiruvananthapuram zone, 497 in Ernakulam zone, and 290 in Kozhikode zone. The highest of 383 services were operated in Thiruvananthapuram district, followed by 165 in Ernakulam district, and 130 in Kollam district. The State-owned fleet’s collection from the ordinary services went up from Rs. 35,32,465 on Wednesday to Rs. 56,77,456. The distance covered by the 1,432 buses was 2,41,223 km and the passengers ferried were 3, 24,288. On Wednesday, 1,319 buses deployed were able to cover only 2,12,310 km and carry 1,74,299. The earning per km has gone up from Wednesday’s Rs. 16.64 to Rs. 23.11.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/no-free-pass-travel-on-private-buses/article31655665.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KTU - supplementary exam registration underway||The APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has commenced registration for the eighth semester BTech supplementary examinations. The deadline for registration through the student login portal is May 25. Students who appeared for BTech regular and part-time and BDes and BArch examinations in December last can also currently apply for revaluation and answer script copies. Details onwww.ktu.edu.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ktu-supplementary-exam-registration-underway/article31655668.ece
23 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Treasuries to clear bills up to Rs. 5 crore||Directions have been given to treasuries to clear bills amounting up to Rs. 5 crore, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac said in a release here on Friday. The pending bills in queue and those waiting for ways and means for approval and such others amounting up to Rs. 5 crore would be cleared soon. Now payments have been restricted for bills amounting up to Rs. 5 lakh.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/treasuries-to-clear-bills-up-to-rs-5-crore/article31655667.ece
23 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Three of family test positive in Thrissur||Three members of a family tested positive for COVID-19 in Thrissur district on Friday. The 30-year-old son of a COVID-19 patient who had reached the district from Dammam, Saudi Arabia, his 24-year-old wife, and their one-year-old baby tested positive on Friday. They had reached Kothaparambu from Dammam on May 20. 8,112 under observation Meanwhile, the number of persons under observation in the district has gone up to 8,112 persons. Victim laid to rest The body of Khadeejakutty of Ancahngadi, wife of Pokkakkillathu Muhammed, who died of COVID-19 at the Chavakad Taluk Hospital, was buried by maintaining the protocol on Friday. The body was laid to rest at Juma Masjid, Adathiruthy. Only five persons attended the funeral function in accordance with the norms. Relatives were not allowed to attend the function. Khadeejakutty, who had arrived here from Mumbai, died on Wednesday. She was staying in Mumbai and was coming to Chavakkad in a car with three relatives. She developed breathlessness when she reached Perithalmanna. Her son took her in an ambulance to the Chavakkad Taluk Hospital. Her body fluid samples were sent for test and the positive result arrived on Thursday. Contact tracing The Health Department is preparing a list of people who had come in contact with her. Quarantined Five persons, including three who had travelled with Kahadeejakutty from Mumbai, her son, and the driver of the ambulance in which she was taken to the Chavakkad hospital, are in quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-of-family-test-positive-in-thrissur/article31655651.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Weekend relaxation in lockdown for Id-ul-Fitr||Muslims in the State will celebrate Id-ul-Fitr on Sunday after completing 30 days of Ramzan fasting. Kazis in the State confirmed the Id day as the Shawwal new moon was not sighted anywhere on Friday evening, the 29th day of Ramzan. No Id-gahs or prayer gatherings will be held anywhere in the State in view of the lockdown. Muslim leaders called upon the people to do the Id prayers at their homes. They also asked the people not to violate the lockdown norms in the name of Id-ul-Fitr. Madin Academy chairman Syed Ibrahim Khaleel Bukhari, who is also one of the major Kazis in the State, called upon the people to cooperate with the government regulations. “It is our responsibility and part of our faith. The vigil we maintained during the holiest month of Ramzan by closing down mosques and staying at home should continue through Id-ul-Fitr as well,” he said. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in the capital, announced some relaxation in the lockdown restrictions during the weekend for the Id. People could go about their businesses till 9 p.m. Shops and establishments could remain open till 9 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. On ordinary days, they would have to close by 7.30 p.m. People could expect some measure of mobility and other relaxations on the total lockdown day on Sunday. However, he urged the Muslims not to assemble for prayers. They should comply with physical distancing while observing Ramzan. The CM reminded them that Ramzan was the season of giving. He urged the believers to help the needy and also to contribute to the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund. He conveyed his Id greetings to citizens. Mr Vijayan said it was too early to allow places of worship for marriages, even with a limited attendance of not more than 50 persons. He said the Guruvayur temple would remain closed to events, including marriages. He said any opening of the temple now would cause tightlines, rush and overcrowding. Such measures would undermine the State’s containment strategy and cause community transmission of the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/weekend-relaxation-in-lockdown-for-id-ul-fitr/article31655666.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Five shutters at Aruvikkara raised||Heavy downpour forced the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) to open five shutters of the Aruvikkara dam in the early hours of Friday, causing water levels in the Karamana river to rise, triggering apprehension among communities living along its banks. The shutters were opened between 2 a.m. and 4 a.m. after alerting the disaster control room at the Collectorate and the police station, a KWA official at Aruvikkara said. Four shutters were opened by 1.25 metres and the fifth for by 1.5 metres due to the heavy inflow. The KWA also issued a warning to people residing on the banks - especially Kundamankadavu, Kaladi, Sastri Nagar, Thamalam, Vellaikadavu, and Thiruvallam, to be careful. With the inflow decreasing later in the day, two of the shutters were closed. By evening, two shutters were kept open by one metre each and another, by 20 cm. Mandatory level Unlike the Peppara dam, the dam at Aruvikkara is essentially an overflow weir where the water has to be constantly maintained at a certain level to ensure uninterrupted water supply to city regions, a KWA official said. The dam has a maximum water level of 46.6 metres. “Whenever water level rises, we have to open the shutters to release the water,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/five-shutters-at-aruvikkara-raised/article31655708.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Testing times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/testing-times/article31655661.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fishing in floodwaters||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fishing-in-floodwaters/article31655690.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For labour rights||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/for-labour-rights/article31655678.ece
23 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||V-P lauds Sathya Sai Trust||The Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation in Puttaparthi won appreciation from Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Friday for its efforts to help those in need during the nationwide lockdown. Speaking over phone with Sri Sathya Sai Central Trust (SSSCT) managing trustee R.J. Rathnakar on Friday, Mr. Naidu commended the organisation for helping the district administration and coming to the aid of migrant workers at several places in the State. He also enquired about the welfare of the people living on the Sathya Sai main campus and the COVID-19 situation in Puttaparthi. More than 2,000 stranded workers and students were sent to their homes following all the precautions prescribed by the Government of India, Mr. Rathnakar told Mr. Naidu. The trust has donated Rs. 12 crore to PM CARES, Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and district administration put together. Mr. Rathnakar told Mr. Naidu that most of the services will now be shifted to digital platforms and steps were being taken to make sure that the hospitals were run in a fully sterile atmosphere with minimal chances of infections, thus giving confidence to both the staff and to the patients. He also said that 100 community kitchens were operating in various States and serving the needy, especially stranded migrant workers. Sri Sathya Sai Organisation has distributed 1.6 million kg of groceries to 1.10 lakh families and food packets to 1.2 million people, Mr. Rathnakar told Mr. Naidu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/v-p-lauds-sathya-sai-trust/article31655790.ece
23 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man flees with RTC bus from Dharmavaram depot||An RTC Express bus was reportedly stolen from Dharmavaram bus depot during the lunch hour on Friday, and despite a hot chase given by RTC officials, the accused hailing from Bengaluru, managed to flee with the vehicle . The vehicle was finally intercepted near KIA Motors India cars manufacturing unit, nearly 40 km away at Erramanchi. The RTC officials informed the police which managed to apprehend the person, identified as Muzzammul Khan, 38. The bus and the accused were brought to Dharmavaram police station in the evening. RTC Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni said the bus had gone to drop migrant labourers and returned to the depot during lunch hour. “The vehicle was outside the main gate of the depot, where the driver seems to have parked and gone for lunch and the accused got a chance to drive the vehicle away,” Mr. Sumanth said. An internal inquiry was being conducted if there was a security lapse or negligence on the part of the driver. There was a lone woman security guard at the gate, who claimed that the bus was taken out of the depot and parked outside by the driver. The accused seems to be in an inebriated condition when he was nabbed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-flees-with-rtc-bus-from-dharmavaram-depot/article31655216.ece
23 May 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||High demand for air tickets in city||Air tickets are in great demand with the Centre announcing operation of domestic airlines with effect from May 25. The seats on all flights from Visakhapatnam to Hyderabad are booked in less than 12 hours after the airline operators, opened their online bookings. The seats on flights to other destinations from Visakhapatnam are also in high demand for the first day after revival of the flights. The flights to other destinations like Chennai and Bengaluru are 80% booked, so far, says a travel agent.  ‘Touch-free entry’ Meanwhile, Visakhapatnam International Airport has already made arrangements for touch-free entry and exit of passengers and the officials have leveraged technology for checking the credentials of passengers and scanning their luggage. “Passengers are advised to go for web check-in before coming to the airport. It is mandatory for them to download the Arogya Setu app on their smartphones. Passengers, who are unable to download the app or go for web check-in, will be assisted by the airlines concerned to do so on arrival at the airport,” Airport Director M. Raja Kishore told The Hindu on Friday. “We (Airports Authority of India) are also planning to open a kiosk, where the employees of the airlines concerned will generate the PNR No. of the passenger, who does not have a smartphone, in the machine and issue a boarding pass,” he said. “Air India, IndiGo, SpiceJet and Air Asia have opened bookings. Fourteen flights will operate from the airport on the first day of operation. About 50% of passengers are booking their tickets through agents, for hassle-free refunds in case of cancellation. We are also issuing paper boarding passes to our clients through mail,” says Muralikrishna of Travel IQ. Meanwhile, possible quarantine concerns are making prospective passengers to think twice before booking their tickets. There are some who think, it is safer to travel by car, after the restrictions are lifted, instead of sitting next to strangers in a plane in the context of COVID-19. A young man from Visakhapatnam, who obtained a government job in Goa a few months ago, and booked his ticked for May 26, two months ago by a flight through Bengaluru and the return flight from Vizag to Goa on June 1. The ticket to Vizag was cancelled by the airline in view of the lockdown. Now, the government has announced resumption of flights but possible quarantine worries have put him in a quandary on whether to travel or stay back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/high-demand-for-air-tickets-in-city/article31655824.ece
23 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apollo on a healthy mission||The Apollo Group’s Total Health unit at Aragonda, 25 km from here, has intensified its awareness campaign on COVID-19 in Tavanampalle, Irala, and Bangarupalem mandals, covering a population of about three lakhs. The campaign included thermal screening of suspect cases in about 250 villages, delivery of essential medicines at the villages for patients suffering from diabetes, hypertension and renal failure, in a move to prevent them from going out during the lockdown. Deputy Medical Director S. Rajagopal said that the concerted effort of the medical and paramedical teams of the Apollo Hospital at Aragonda and the primary health centers and the frontline staff of the police and revenue departments in leading the COVID-19 awareness campaign yielded highly satisfactory results in the three mandals, with not a single positive case being reported so far. “We have put up over 1,000 banners at all educational institutions, bus stops and arterial junctions in the target area, sensitising the public about face masks, sanitisers, hand-wash and social distancing," he said. Yoga practice Managing Director (Total Health) J. Subbanna said that highlight of the awareness campaign was to involve the rural public in yoga practices to boost their immunity levels. “We have made exclusive videos on yoga practices to boost immunity through experienced yoga masters. The digital content was widely circulated to the public in our target area through WhatsApp groups. The Government of India’s Ayush schemes such as Rakshyogna were made to reach the public through demonstrations,” he said. In order to prevent the old people and patients from moving out during the lockdown, the Total Health’s mobile healthcare units were deployed at the target villages. “Apart from rendering the out-patient services, the mobile units are extensively used to educate the public on do's and don’ts through public address system. About one lakh cotton masks were distributed in the rural areas so far,” Dr. Subbanna observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/apollo-on-a-healthy-mission/article31655792.ece
23 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dy. CM launches anti-liquor drive in arrack brewing hub||Deputy Chief Minister Kalattur Narayanaswamy on Friday launched an awareness campaign against the ill-effects of illicitly distilled (ID) liquor at Rasanapalle village, which has earned the dubious distinction of being the manufacturing hub of arrack. Dubious distinction Manufacturing the contraband and its trade have been the way of life in this village as the residents have been associated with the vocation since generations. Frequent raids by enforcement agencies have failed to convince them to mend their ways. The contraband prepared here is not only supplied to various areas in the State, but also to the neighbouring Tamil Nadu. A few years ago, Rasanapalle hit the headlines when a group of miscreants working for the ID liquor traders attacked excise officials and damaged government vehicles. Mr. Narayanaswamy, who also holds the excise portfolio, urged the residents to shun the trade. “The ID liquor trade has caste a shadow on the development of the village, despite a slew of welfare schemes introduced by the government,” said the Minister. Oath administered The Minister asked gram volunteers to undertake a door-to-door campaign and educate people to stay away from the illicit trade. “The residents should accord a priority to education of their children, rather pushing them into the brewing business,” the Minister said after administering an oath to the villagers. . Additional SP (Enforcement Bureau) Rishant Reddy urged the villagers to alert the officials in case they faced any threat from the arrack traders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/dy-cm-launches-anti-liquor-drive-in-arrack-brewing-hub/article31655816.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KRMB approves release of 2 tmcft to A.P.||Three days after directing Andhra Pradesh to stop drawing water from all systems originating from Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar reservoirs, stating that the State has already drawn more water than the approved quantity, the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has approved release of 2 tmcft water to it from Nagarjunasagar for drinking needs. The decision was taken after the meeting of the three-member committee of the board, comprising member-secretary A. Paramesham and Engineers-in-Chief of A.P. and Telangana C. Narayana Reddy and C. Muralidhar, respectively, here on Friday. A.P’s requests In the water release order, Mr. Paramesham stated that A.P. had requested in its letters on May 19 and 20 the release of 2 tmcft water to Nagarjunasagar Right Canal to meet the drinking water needs of Guntur and Parakasam districts. Utilisations made by the two member States till May 21 from the two common reservoirs was discussed at the meeting before approving the release of water to A.P. The board official said the two States had mutually agreed to the water release to be utilised till May 31, the conclusion of the current water year. The board, however, made it clear that the issue of sharing water drawn during the surplus period was to be addressed by a technical committee appointed by the Ministry of Jal Shakti. “Depending on the final decision on the issue, eligible shares of water for the two States may vary,” the river board said in its latest order. Further, the board also observed that the Chief Engineers of the two common reservoirs shall be responsible for meeting the requirements of both the States. Water delivered to each State would have to be reported “invariably as a joint statement.” Meanwhile, according to the engineers of Nagarjunasagar project, they have already received a request from their A.P. counterparts to release 7,000 cusecs of water into NS Right Canal from 5 a.m. on May 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krmb-approves-release-of-2-tmcft-to-ap/article31655807.ece
23 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight cases reported from East Godavari||Eight persons, including the wife and son of a 53-year-old man who died of COVID-19 on Wednesday, have tested positive for the virus in East Godavari district on Friday. The 53-year-old man, who worked at a hotel, had died while being taken to hospital, said M. Raghavendra Rao, Superintendent of the Government General Hospital in Kakinada. Tests conducted on his body found that he was carrying the virus, Dr. Rao said, adding that the body was laid to rest in accordance with COVID-19 protocol on Thursday. The deceased hails from Gollala Mamidada village of Pedapudi mandal in the district. On Friday, eight persons, believed to be primary and secondary contacts of the deceased man, tested positive for COVID-19. “Eight persons have tested positive for COVID-19, and all of them had contact with the 53-year-old deceased man. Two of them are the wife and son of the deceased. The other six persons belong to Pedapudi mandal and work at the hotel where the deceased used to work,” the Kakinada Revenue Divisional Officer told The Hindu . District authorities have conducted tests on 130 persons, believed to have had contact with the deceased person, and with others who have tested positive on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/eight-cases-reported-from-east-godavari/article31655784.ece
23 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire stations in State to be modernised||Home Minister M. Sucharitha on Friday announced that Rs. 28 crore would soon be released for the modernization of 29 fire stations across the State. Ms. Sucharitha, accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister Pilli Subash Chandrabose, inaugurated the building of the East Godavari District Fire Office here on Friday. The State Government spent Rs. 1 crore on the construction of the building. Ms. Sucharitha said that a decision has been taken to modernise all the firing stations and the plan was being executed by providing the building infrastructure for all the fire stations. Director General (Fire Services) A.G. Anuradha has shared the plans of the State Government and equipment available with the fire services wing. Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop and Kakinada MP V. Geetha were present||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-stations-in-state-to-be-modernised/article31655793.ece
23 May 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||No fresh cases in Nellore, Prakasam||Health authorities heaved a sigh of relief as no fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. The first set of patients, a majority of who had returned from Delhi, and their primary contacts, were cured of the disease and the number of active cases was coming down when the two south-coastal districts saw a surge in fresh cases due to a large number of people visiting the Koyambedu market in neighbouring Tamil Nadu, a major COVID-19 hotspot. A majority of the 90 patients being treated in SPSR Nellore district came from Sullurpeta as traders developed symptoms after returning from Chennai. Most of the patients who tested positive were in the age group of 21 to 40 years. The authorities implemented the containment action plan with full vigour in the town, 80 km from Chennai, with the number of total confirmed cases going up to 201. As many 396 persons have so far been sent to 13 quarantine centres. It was a remarkable turnaround for Nellore as the district had reported one death and 18 positive cases on Thursday. 5 active cases in Prakasam In Ongole, authorities had almost triumphed in their fight against the pandemic with the first batch of 60 patients being cured of the disease and discharged from hospital, when a day later, three persons who had returned from Chennai tested positive. Two other persons who had returned from Maharashtra also tested positive for the virus. In Ongole, the number of active cases now stands at five. Meanwhile, Ongole MP Magunta Srinivasula Reddy along with Prakasam Collector P. Bhaskar distributed essential commodities to patients who were cured of the disease in the red zone area of Islampeta ahead of Eid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-fresh-cases-in-nellore-prakasam/article31655787.ece
23 May 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. lifts restrictions on intra-State travel||People who are travelling to other districts in Andhra Pradesh can travel without any permission. Instructions have been given to the officers concerned not to intercept vehicles on district borders. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, after a review meeting with the officials concerned, gave the green signal to allow APSRTC and private buses, autos and cabs. Ministry of Railways is making arrangements to run special trains from June 1. “Due to lockdown rules and to prevent the spread of COVID-19, restrictions have been imposed on vehicular traffic, public movement on roads and inter-district transportation for the last two months. But, the restrictions were lifted from Friday,” a senior police officer told The Hindu . “People can travel across the State without any permission, but should carry ID cards and follow COVID-19 protocol,” the officer said. If any police personnel harasses or behaves impolitely and resort to corruption at the checkposts, public can complain. “An DSP rank officer was suspended for misbehaving with the public at a checkpost on Friday,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-lifts-restrictions-on-intra-state-travel/article31655814.ece
23 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan’s rule riddled with failures, says Oppn.||Opposition parties took aim at the ruling YSR Congress Party ahead of its completion of one year in office, by holding agitations against a recent hike in electricity tariff. Srikakulam MP Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu, former Srikakulam MLA Gunda Lakshmi Devi and TDP Srikakulam district president G. Sirisha headed a protest, alleging that the government was imposing a heavy financial burden on the people with the hike in electricity tariff. “The government has no moral right to celebrate its first anniversary of coming to power as its rule has been riddled with failures,” the leaders alleged. BJP Srikakulam district president Attada Ravi Babji, the party senior leaders Pudi Tirupati Rao, Pydi Venugopalam and others used digital platforms to register their protest over hike in electricity charges. “All the leaders and cadres displayed placards in their homes and circulated the party’s stand on the hike in electricity tariff through social media platforms. We are also strongly opposing the sale of government lands as it is not the way to generate income for the exchequer,” said Mr. Ravi Babji. CPI(M) district secretary Bhaviri Krishna Murthy and CPI district secretary Sanapala Narasimhulu alleged that over 100% increase in electricity charges came as a real shock to the people when they were all reeling in distress due to the prolonged lockdown and resulting loss of livelihood. “The YSRCP has no moral right to celebrate one year of its rule as it has created a mess of the administration. All of its decisions, including shifting of the capital to Visakhapatnam, have failed to evoke a positive response,” said Mr. Narasimhulu. Minister responds Lashing out at the Opposition parties, Roads and Buildings Minister Dharmana Krishnadas claimed that they were unable to come to terms with the effective administration of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “In spite of all financial difficulties, the government was able to introduce 40 new schemes. That is why all sections of the society are jubilant. They will participate in the celebrations of the one-year anniversary on Saturday,” said Mr. Krishnadas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagans-rule-riddled-with-failures-says-oppn/article31655796.ece
23 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Safety norms: industries to submit compliance report||The district administration has asked all major industries to submit a detailed report on the arrangements on their premises in compliance with the safety norms. In the aftermath of the gas leak tragedy in Visakhapatnam, a high-level committee inspected all the major industries including Aurobindo Pharma, Reddy Laboratories, Nagarjuna Agrichem Limited and others. Senior officials of APPCB and industries and fire departments have inspected around 100 industries and submitted a preliminary report to Collector J. Nivas. They briefed the Collector about the steps needed to ensure strict compliance with the safety norms. With the rapid development in and around Pydibhimavaram industrial zone, people are prone to danger in case of major accidents . “We are collecting data of previous accidents . The respective industries have been told to furnish the details to ensure absolute safety of people and workers. I will visit a few industries shortly to have a first-hand information ,” said Mr. Nivas. The fire officials said many industries had failed to obtain the ‘No Objection Certificate’, despite repeated reminders. “It can attract a fine up to Rs. 50,000 and three months of jail for the concerned ,” said an official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/safety-norms-industries-to-submit-compliance-report/article31655817.ece
23 May 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant woman delivers on train||Kamala, a migrant woman, delivered a baby boy on the Shramik Special Train. Both the infant and mother are doing well and they were given necessary medicines, officials of the South Central Railway (SCR) said. According to Vijayawada DRM P. Srinivas, the woman along with her husband, Suraj, boarded train No. 06108 at Coimbatore on Thursday. The couple, who migrated to Tamil Nadu in search of job, were travelling from Coimbatore to Rewa in Madhya Pradesh. When the non-stop train was between Jolarpet and Katpadi stations, Kamala developed labour pain. Co-passengers helped her deliver. Meanwhile, the onboard RPF personnel alerted the Vijayawada railway staff, who stopped the train for medical emergency. They arranged a medical team from Railway Hospital, Vijayawada, which provided medical aid to the woman. Woman examined “A medical officer examined Kamala and the newborn and confirmed that both are healthy. The railway officials offered lactogen, ORS packets, diapers, milk, water bottles, coconut water, bread, fruits, soaps, sanitiser and clothes to the woan,” the DRM said. The cellphone number of an RPF woman head constable was given to Ms. Kamala to help her en route, if necessary. “Ms. Kamala, her husband Suraj and other passengers thanked the railway officers for their gesture. Food, water and fruits were given to the passengers at Vijayawada station,” the DRM said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-woman-delivers-baby-on-train/article31655230.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protests in Tirupati, Kadapa against ‘anti-labour’ policies||A slew of protests by various trade unions and political organisations against the Central Government’s ‘anti-labour’ policies rocked the city of Tirupati on Friday. Members of the National Federation of Postal Employees (NFPE) and All India Postal Employees Union Group ‘C’ staged a demonstration at the Tirupati Head Post Office for two hours, flaying the Centre for “breaking the back of the workers” and also for opening up core and strategic sectors like defence production, space research, power, civil aviation, coal and minerals to private players. Claiming that the COVID-19 pandemic gave the Centre an opportunity to cover up its financial mismanagement, the protesters said that the Centre was trying to unilaterally impose reforms on the nation. The union’s Tirupati division president B. Chandrasekhar and secretaries B. Venkatramaiah and B. Munaswamy Naik led the protest. “The department should distribute masks and sanitisers to the postal field staff in view of the risks involved,” State circle secretary B. Sridhar Babu said. Leaders of AITUC, CITU and IFTU, led by AITUC State general secretary G. Obulesu and CITU district secretary Kandharapu Murali, staged a joint demonstration at Gandhi Circle. He called the Rs. 20 lakh crore package ‘a jugglery of numbers’ and demanded that Rs. 10,000 be deposited into the account of every worker rendered jobless. ‘Need a rethink on strategy’ In Kadapa, members of the Insurance Corporation Employees Union (ICEU) staged a demonstration by following social distancing norms at the LIC Divisional Headquarters on Friday. “Though wonders can be created with Rs. 20 lakh crore, the ‘feel good factor’ is hardly evident in the society, which is why the Centre should go for a rethink on its strategies and policies,” said LIC Employees Union Divisional General Secretary A. Raghunatha Reddy. Observing that even top industrialists had expressed reservations against the Centre’s ‘anti-labour’ policies, he said companies like LIC should be given the discretion to frame its own labour policies.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/protests-in-tirupati-kadapa-against-anti-labour-policies/article31655799.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 persons discharged in Chittoor||Four persons from Rayalaseema districts undergoing treatment at the State COVID-19 Hospital on the SVIMS campus were discharged on Friday. Patients will several comorbidities are normally sent to this hospital for treatment. Similarly, 11 more patients hailing from Chittoor district were discharged from SVR Ruia Government General Hospital. The discharged patients include a 71-year-old from Ananthapuram, a 58-year-old from Kadapa and two from Chittoor district, aged 51 and 38 years, hailing from Tirupati Rural and Madanapalle. SVIMS Medical Superintendent Dr. Ram stated that nasopharyngeal samples were taken from 300 persons at the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) located in the hospital. Similarly, 11 COVID-19 cases admitted to Ruia’s isolation ward were discharged after they tested negative after undergoing treatment. The discharged persons include four from Pichatur, two from Nagalapuram, one each from Satyavedu, Nagari, Srikalahasti, V. Kota and Tirupati. The discharged patients were given a warm farewell, along with a directive to undergo home quarantine for fourteen days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/15-persons-discharged-in-chittoor/article31655788.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||149 people stranded in Kuwait reach Tirupati||An Air India flight on Friday brought 149 passengers stranded in Kuwait, most of them belonging to the Rayalaseema region, as part of the Vande Bharat Mission. The Kuwait–Hyderabad–Tirupati flight landed at Renigunta airport at around 1.50 a.m., more than two hours behind the scheduled. Of the 149 passengers, only one got down at Shamshabad airport in Hyderabad. Maintaining the social distance, the passengers were allowed in batches of twenty each into the airport lobby, where they were welcomed by Chittoor Joint Collector (Development) Veera Brahmam and Revenue Divisional Officer Kanaka Narasa Reddy. The passengers were given sanitisers and masks. According to airport Director S. Suresh, all the passengers underwent the immigration and customs proceedings at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad.  Aarogya Setu app The passengers filled in the self-declaration forms and underwent fever screening conducted by a medical team led by Renigunta PHC chief Madhusudhan Rao. Renigunta village secretariat staff gave them new SIM cards and got the ‘Aarogya Setu’ app installed on their cellphones. The baggage, which were disinfected by Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) sanitary staff, were later handed over to the passengers. “All the passengers will be put under quarantine in their respective districts, after undergoing swab tests,” said Raja Sekhar, Special Deputy Collector in-charge of the reception. Meanwhile, the A.P. Tourism quarantined seven persons hailing from Chittoor district, two from Anantapur and one each from Chennai and Kurnool locally, while the rest were sent through RTC buses accompanied by police escort and special officers from the respective districts. Special buses As many as 116 passengers were sent to Kadapa in four buses, while another bus with 22 passengers on board proceeded to Visakhapatnam. Six passengers each alighted in East Godavari and Nellore, five in West Godavari, four in Vizag and one in Krishna district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/149-people-stranded-in-kuwait-reach-tirupati/article31655819.ece
23 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP questions Minister over aid to priests||The JSP on Friday demanded that Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivasa Rao reveal the number of people who are likely to benefit from a government scheme that aims to provide financial support of Rs. 5,000 to temple priests. The party also sought to corner the Minister over his alleged mix-up of the words ‘Archaka’ and ‘Purohit’. “Archakas offer their services in temples, surviving on income they get through public offerings. Purohits conduct marriages, funerals and other domestic rituals and have no fixed income. It is unfortunate that the Endowments Minister is unaware of this basic difference,” said JSP district leader K. Kiran Royal. “JSP chief Pawan Kalyan had demanded support for purohits, to which Mr. Vellampalli had retorted that the State Government had already announced support for archakas,” Mr. Kiran said. He sought to know how many archakas the government would support out of the 38,000 who had applied for financial support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-questions-minister-over-aid-to-priests/article31655789.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘ReStart’ to revive MSME sector launched||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has launched a new programme christened ‘ReStart’ to support the MSME sector in the State. The programme is expected to benefit 98,000 units that provide employment to more than 10 lakh people. The government will spend Rs. 1,100 crore on revival of the sector. Special fund As part of the package, the Chief Minister released Rs. 450 crore towards the first instalment at a review meeting on Friday. In addition, a special fund of Rs. 200 crore would be created to provide input capital loan to the firms at low interest rates. The initiative is aimed at putting the MSMEs back on track. The government has already announced that the minimum power demand charges of the MSMEs for the months of April, May and June, amounting to Rs. 188 crore, will be waived. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the previous government did not pay industrial incentives worth nearly Rs. 828 crore to the MSMEs during the period 2014-2019. In order to strengthen the sector, the government came up with a revival package, he said, and added that this was one sector that provided employment to the locals. The Chief Minister further said that the government identified around 360 products to be purchased from the MSMEs, and payments towards it would be cleared in 45 days. Of the total purchases, almost 25% would be done from the micro and small enterprises, 4% from the SC/ST community enterprises, and 3% from women entrepreneurs, he said. Asking the district Collectors to lay special focus on the sector and assign a Joint Collector exclusively for its development, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that 97,428 MSMEs provide employment to about 10 lakh people. Skill development With this initiative, over 72,531 micro, 24,252 small and 645 medium industries would benefit, the Chief Minister said, adding, “Make a skill gap study with the industries and accordingly impart the required skill sets among the youth through the Skill Development Colleges.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/restart-to-revive-msme-sector-launched/article31655222.ece
23 May 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||KRMB asks State not to go ahead with LI schemes||The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB), in a letter, has ordered the Andhra Pradesh government not to go ahead with the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme and other projects mentioned in G.O. 203, which have become a bone of contention between the two Telugu States. The KRMB further said it was writing the letter as per the directive of the Union government. ‘No approval’ KRMB member Harikesh Meena, in a letter to the Special Chief Secretary, Water Resource Department, Andhra Pradesh government, said the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti (Water Resources) directed the board to instruct the A.P. government not to go ahead with the projects that were not “appraised” by the KRMB and the Central Water Commission (CWC), and also not sanctioned by the high-power Apex Council. Mr. Meena said, “Since no new projects can be taken up on the Krishna river without the appraisal of the KRMB and without obtaining sanction from the Apex Council on the River Water Resources constituted as per the the A.P. Reorganisation Act (APRA), 2014, the action of the Government of Andhra Pradesh to accord administrative approval to the new projects listed in G.O. 203, dated May 5, was violative of Section 84 and Para 7 of the 11th Schedule of the APRA.” The letter observed that the Detailed Project Report (DPR) of the projects listed in G.O. 203 had not been submitted by A.P. to the KRMB and the CWC for appraisal. The Apex Council, under the Act, consists of the two Chief Ministers of the Telugu States and the Union Irrigation Minister. ‘Highly inappropriate’ Meanwhile, the A.P. State Water Users Associations’ Federation (APSWUAF), in a statement, said the letter was highly inappropriate. “The KRMB is an independent body and should behave in the appropriate manner,” federation president Alla Venkata Gopala Krishna Rao said. A meeting of the board, which also had representation from Andhra Pradesh, should have been convened to discuss the matter before despatching the letter. The letter should have also mentioned the similar charges Andhra Pradesh made against Telangana five year ago, he said. A.P.’s complaints The A.P. government had taken to the notice of the board about the new projects taken up by the Telangana government “violating” the Sections listed by the board in the letter, he added. The A.P. government had taken to the notice of the CWC and the KRMB about the Palamuru-Rangareddy and Dindi lift irrigation schemes as early as June 11, 2015. The A.P. government had also requested the CWC to look into the violations of the Telangana government in enhancing the allocations to the Kalwakurthi scheme from 25 tmcft to 40 tmcft on August 1, 2015. The CWC and the KRMB, which were silent to the complaints of the A.P. government, were now finding fault with it for merely granting administrative approval, he said. There were five projects that were being executed by the Telangana government that violated the sections mentioned in the KRMB letter, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krmb-asks-state-not-to-go-ahead-with-li-schemes/article31655804.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP misleading people on power tariff: Malladi Vishnu||Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu on Friday accused the Opposition Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders of trying to mislead people on the power tariff issue. Addressing a press conference, the ruling party leader said because of the lockdown, the power bills had increased. Admitting that it had caused problems to some sections, he said keeping that in view the government had extended the last date for payment of the power tariff bills till June 30. The MLA said the cost of per unit had been increased from Rs. 9.05 paise to Rs. 9.95 only where the consumption had crossed 500 units. The government was ready to explain the issue to the people but the Opposition, meanwhile, tried to mislead them by resorting to a disinformation campaign. ‘No moral right’ The YSRCP leader said the TDP, during its rule, had thrice increased power tariff and RTC bus fares and it had lost the moral right to criticise the government on the power tariff issue. Mr. Vishnu also recalled the ‘”violence used against farmers protesting against power tariff hike in Basheer Bagh in Hyderabad in the past” and said the same people were now talking about fairness and unfairness. Mr. Vishnu said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the people’s representatives and the department officials to go to the people and explain to them about the facts related to the power tariff bills. ‘No difference in tariff’ He said there was no tariff difference between last year and this year’s bills. An additional 90 paise per unit was charged only from people whose power consumption had crossed 500 units, Mr. Vishnu reiterated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-misleading-people-on-power-tariff-malladi-vishnu/article31655300.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Electricity billing faulty, say taxpayers||The Tax-Payers' Association (TPA) has written a letter to APTransco Chairman and Managing Director urging him to take necessary steps so that the AP SPDCL would withdraw the 'erroneous bills' immediately. The association has also wanted that the electricity bills were recalculated by taking actual number of days into consideration (without limiting to 60) and as per slabs removing 'mischievous' 'pro rata' basis. Also, abolish the application of new tariff for the period of lockdown as a majority of the consumers are with no Income, and abolish the penalties and reconnection charges to those who are unable to pay during the lockdown period, the association demanded. TPA president V. Sambi Reddy and secretary M.V. Anjaneyulu said that the AP SPDCL followed the wrong method to calculate the bill. Instead of taking actual number of days from the date of the last bill served in March 2020 to the date of bill in May 2020, the AP SPDCL has taken the number of days between the said two dates as 60 days. The units consumed taken in calculation of bill for the entire days from the date of last bill served in March 2020 to the date of bill in May 2020 which is for more than 60 days, and the number of days taken while calculating as 60. This is a major contradiction. Owing to this, less number of days taken, per day consumption of units has shown high which is not real. This high unit of per day consumption resulted in the wrong calculation of bill, they pointed out.  'Wrong calculation' The actual number of days between the date of bill served in March 2020 and May 31, 2020 for which old tariff is applicable has not been taken for calculation. Instead, less number of days taken for calculation. While calculating the bill for the month of March and thereafter, AP SPDCL is expected to calculate as per the slabs given in the tariff orders but introduced 'pro rata' base while calculating charges. It is meaningless to break the units in the slabs in the name of 'pro rata basis' after separated the units for the months. And also, the reason for this 'pro rata' basis is unknown. These are some reasons which made the bills high. "This kind of calculation was only to extort money from the consumers more than what they are really bound to pay. It is not correct," they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/electricity-billing-faulty-say-taxpayers/article31655296.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Order for payment of full salary issued||The State government has issued orders to pay salaries / wages / remuneration / honorarium without deferment from May 2020, which is payable in June. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, in G.O. 44 dated Friday, said the government decided to pay full salaries / wages to minimise the hardship to the persons drawing salaries / wages / remuneration / honorarium from the government / universities / corporations / PSUs / State autonomous bodies and boards. However, all the applicable type of recoveries / deductions will be duly enforced. Separate orders will be issued regarding recoveries / deductions pertaining to the months of March and April, and contribution to the CM Relief Fund by the employees. Also, separate orders will be issued, based upon the improvement in the flow of the revenues to the State Exchequer, regarding payment of the salaries / pensions already deferred, she said. The Chief Secretary said that Union Ministry of Home Affairs, after assessing the prevailing situation, issued instructions to continue the lockdown till May 31 along with certain relaxations and asked the State Governments to implement the orders after reviewing the prevailing conditions in their respective States. The Central government’s order enabled restoration of economic activities, excepting those specifically prohibited in either ‘in toto’ or partly in certain localised areas. “It is anticipated that the relaxation of lockdown will restore the flow of revenues to the State Exchequer,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/order-for-payment-of-full-salary-issued/article31655802.ece
23 May 2020||vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC sets aside GO on colours to panchayat buildings||The High Court has set aside the G.O. MS. No.623 dated April 23, 2020 holding the adding of three colours contained in the YSR Congress Party flag to paint the Gram Panchayat (GP) buildings as a gross violation of its directions. The court also directed that contempt proceedings be initiated against the Chief Secretary of the Government of Andhra Pradesh and Principal Secretary and Commissioner of Panchayat Raj Department and listed May 28 for further orders. Through G.O. No.623, the government sought to paint the GP buildings with terra cotta, green, blue and white colours so as to reflect the common agrarian nature of the State. During the hearing into a PIL (No. 110 of 2020 filed by Suryadevara Venkata Rao of Guntur on Friday, Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice N. Jayasurya said the court in its hearing into earlier PILs (No.s 177 of 2019 and 18 of 2020) on the same matter ruled that the practice of painting GP or other government buildings akin to the colours of the flag belonging to the party in power must be stopped. SLPs dismissed They also pointed out that painting the said buildings with party colours was tantamount to misutilisation of the government money by using government properties for political gain and it was in violation of the election laws and also rule of the law of the State. Besides, the Supreme Court had dismissed SLPs filed by the government against the order of the HC, which gave three weeks time to the government from the date of lifting of the lockdown for removing the colours that were already applied to the buildings. Chief Justice Maheswari and Justice Jayasurya insisted that green, blue and white colours reflect the colours of YSRCP flag and no serious endeavour was made by the respondents to ensure that the colour combination was not similar to that of flag and offices.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hc-sets-aside-go-on-colours-to-panchayat-buildings/article31655806.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown helps complete maintenance works of Godavari rail-cum-road bridge||Taking advantage of the suspension of train services during the lockdown, the South Central Railway (SCR) has completed the track maintenance works undertaken at the iconic second rail-cum-road bridge across the Godavari River at Rajamahendravaram, 43 years after the structure was commissioned. The bridge, with 34 spans across the river, is the third longest rail-cum-road structure in the country , after the Digha-Sonpur bridge across the Ganges near Patna and the Bogibeel bridge on the Brahmaputra river in Assam. The 3-km bridge built by Braithwaite, Burn & Jessop Construction Company in 1977 across the Godavari River streamlined the movement of trains on Chennai-Vijayawada-Vizag-Howrah route, which was earlier catered by Sir Havelock Bridge, the first bridge on the same river, which went on to become a heritage structure. ‘Challenging task’ The renewal works involved laying of tracks on six spans with PSC deck slabs, wherein the four-decade-old tracks needed to be replaced with fresh set of pre-fit lengths of tracks . The automated process was carried out in the least possible time, said Vijayawada DRM P. Srinivas. “The work was carried out with precautions after stopping the movement of trains completely on the bridge. Movement of traffic was also regulated on the bridge owing to the lockdown. Taking up the works was a challenge as the rail traffic on the lower deck and road traffic on the upper deck needed to be stopped,” the DRM said. SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya, who monitored the works, appreciated Mr. Srinivas, team of engineers and the workers . The work has been pending since years for want of blockage of trains as the bridge is the key to South East rail link of India, bridging two sides of the Godavari River on Vijayawada-Visakhapatnam section, the railway officials said. The bridge connects Kovvur in West Godavari with Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lockdown-helps-complete-maintenance-works-of-godavari-rail-cum-road-bridge/article31655822.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP seeks ban on online games||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State vice-president S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy on Friday wrote a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy urging him to take necessary steps and impose a ban on online rummy and other games. Mr. Reddy said that the youth were being misguided by the advertisements issued by the online gaming companies. The youth were being lured by attractive advertisements issued by the online gaming companies, which were promising lucrative returns on investment they make. Even educated youth have become addicted to online betting.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bjp-seeks-ban-on-online-games/article31655297.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Task force constituted to attract investments||The government has constituted a task force for attracting investments with Minister for Industries and Commerce Mekapati Goutham Reddy as its chairman, according to a G.O. issued by Special Chief Secretary R. Karikal Valaven. It was stated in the G.O. (RT No. 107) that economic issues and supply chain constraints caused by COVID-19 promoted many countries to do a rethink on their investments in China. Reports indicate that the US, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Vietnam, and Singapore are likely to diversify their supply chains from China, and India could emerge as an alternative investment destination. The task force is intended to take advantage of this situation and act as a forum for attracting investments on a long-term basis. The task force has Mr. Valaven as vice-chairman; and Special CS (water resources) Adityanath Das, Principal Secretary (finance) S.S. Rawat, Secretaries Gopal Krishna Dwivedi (mines), N. Srikant (energy) and Kona Sasidhar (IT), and Director of Industries and Economic Development Board CEO J.V.N. Subramanyam as members. The task force is supposed to meet every month to review the progress of investment proposals, examine incentive packages requested by the investors, and get them processed in accordance with the government policies, fast-track clearances for power and water, and resolve any issues thereof.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/task-force-constituted-to-attract-investments/article31655295.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant worker dies on highway||Anil Shankar (45), a migrant worker who was trekking on the highway, reportedly died of sun stroke. He was a native of Kushmandi village of West Bengal. Shankar, along with 18 others, who migrated to Tamil Nadu for work, started walking from Chennai to their native place a few days ago. When they reached Atkur village on the outskirts of Vijayawada, he suddenly collapsed on Thursday evening. “The villagers alerted the Atkuru police who shifted the body to Government Hospital mortuary. A case under Section 174 Cr.P.C (Suspicious death) has been registered. The remaining workers were shifted to a shelter home,” Gannavaram Circle Inspector K. Srinivas said on Friday. The forensic doctors will submit a report on the cause of death, the CI said. Four days ago, a migrant worker Sk. Minarul (23), of Ramnagar village, West Bengal, died in a road accident at Gannavaram, while returning from Tamil Nadu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/migrant-worker-dies-on-highway/article31655304.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||JSP: probe ‘harassment’, death of activist||The JSP has urged the Director General of Police (DGP) to order an inquiry into the harassment of Unnamatla Lokesh Naidu, a Janasainik, allegedly by the Tadepalligudem police, and his subsequent suicide. Charge against MLA In a complaint lodged with the DGP on Friday, JSP general secretary T. Sivasankara Rao said that officials of the Tadepalligudem Police Station, particularly the Circle Inspector, had summoned Lokesh Naidu to the station late in the evening on May 18 and interrogated him in connection with a “fabricated complaint” lodged by a lorry driver, allegedly at the behest of MLA Kottu Satyanarayana. “The CI had used abusive and filthy language, adopted third degree method of interrogation and warned Lokesh Naidu,” Mr. Sivasankara Rao alleged in his complaint. Explaining the circumstances that had led to the incident, he said a joint statement was issued by political parties on “rampant sand smuggling” at Tadepallegudem on May 17. Responding to it, Mr. Satyanarayana had exhorted the parties to prove the allegation by seizing any lorry that was involved in the clandestine activity. Following the call, Lokesh enquired with a lorry driver whether he was having a valid bill to transport sand. As the driver produced a valid bill, Lokesh Naidu went away. Mr. Sivasankara Rao alleged that the MLA, however, could not tolerate a responsible citizen’s initiative. “The MLA devised a plan and made the lorry driver lodge a complaint with the police. He also instructed the police officer to act upon the complaint,” the JSP leader alleged. “When the police officer terrorised him to surrender before the MLA, Lokesh, a man with self-respect, found no option but to commit suicide,” the JSP leader alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jsp-probe-harassment-death-of-activist/article31655809.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC union seeks return of CCS amount||Leaders of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Employees' Union (EU) on Friday urged Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah to direct the corporation management to return the amount of around Rs. 280 crore of employees’ money that was diverted and spent for other purposes. In a statement, EU leaders Y.V. Rao and P. Damodar Rao said the workers had set up a Credit Cooperative Society (CCS)and deposited monthly contributions with an aim to use the money collected at the time of need by the workers. But the management had used the money promising to pay monthly interest which had not been happening. In letters submitted to the Minister, Principal Secretary, Transport and Roads and Building M.T. Krishna Babu and APSRTC Vice-Chairman and Managing Director Madireddy Pratap, the leaders said during the lockdown period, the retired employees of the RTC were facing serious financial problems. They had deposited their hard earned money in the CCS and had been using the interest earned on it for their monthly expenditure. But with the management’s ‘failure’ to pay the interest on the money used, the retired employees deprived of their monthly income. They also appealed to the Minister to send back RTC employees whose services were being utilised as COVID-19 volunteers in different places in view of the lockdown, to their parent department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rtc-union-seeks-return-of-ccs-amount/article31655298.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Atheist leader Goparaju Vijayam passes away||Social activist and atheist leader Goparaju Vijayam died at Atheist Centre here in the early hours of Friday. He was 84. He was suffering from Alzheimer’s for the past sometime. He was the fourth child of social reformers Gora and Saraswathi Gora. A professor in political science, he had worked to promote peace and environmental causes. His body was donated to the NRI Hospital for the purpose of medical research. Born in 1936 at Machilipatnam in Krishna district, he had travelled extensively around the world and played a vital role in strengthening the humanist and atheist movements, secular spirit, critical thinking, and free inquiry. He was the Executive Director of the Atheist Centre founded by his parents in 1940. After schooling at Mudunuru and then in Patamata in Vijayawada, Vijayam pursued a degree course from SRR and CVR College in the city and went on to complete MA in political science from Andhra University in Visakhapatnam in 1961-63. He had also worked as a lecturer in the university before leaving for the US in 1968 where he went to the Martin Luther King School of Social Change, Chester, Pennsylvania, to study the problems of minorities, black communities and the relevance of non-violent social change and Gandhian movement. Marriage sans rituals Vijayam married Sumathi in a Harijan basti (a hamlet of untouchables then), which is currently Varalakshminagar in the city, in 1966. The marriage was a social event with no rituals except exchanging of garlands made with vegetables. The dining session involved communities from the lowest rung of the social ladder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/atheist-leader-goparaju-vijayam-passes-away/article31655811.ece
23 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Case registered against food stall owner||Officials of the Legal Metrology Department have registered a case against the retailer and the supplier for allegedly collecting excess charges from a customer. A customer, Satish of Krishnalanka, ordered a food item from Tirumala Foods, through Swiggy on Friday. The supplier collected 32% excess amount than the MRP printed on the order, said IGP Legal Metrology M. Kantha Rao. Investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/case-registered-against-food-stall-owner/article31655303.ece
23 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auto drivers flouting norms||Despite strict instructions, many autorickshaw drivers in the city are flouting norms issued during the lockdown 4.0. Social distancing is going for a toss as the drivers are plying vehicles with packed crowd at many places in the city. While there is a limit for allowing just two passengers, some drivers are seen carrying five, six and even seven persons in the three-wheeler at a few areas in the city. A few drivers were even found without wearing face masks. Especially the drivers who were ferrying construction labourers were seen with at least six passengers in their vehicles, while some others were seen taking four/five people. ‘Sharing basis’ An auto driver from Satyam Junction said, “In Vizag, most people board autorickshaws on a sharing basis. In such situation, we cannot just ply with two people. In such case, we will get Rs. 20 to Rs. 30 for a trip.” A few drivers were seen strictly following norms asking their customers too to wear masks. “We are cleaning our vehicles daily without fail. I am using sanitiser and mask. Since many people depend on autorickshaws, we should not let them down,” said S. Ravi, an auto driver from the city. Meanwhile, many people are reluctant to board autorickshaws as a precautionary measure. Instead they are preferring to use their own vehicles or asking someone to pick them up. ‘Action will be taken’ “Even it is a mini or big auto, the passenger limit is just two. In the first two days, our men have been informing the drivers about the limit and the guidelines, since many drivers many not know it. But if they are found again, action will be initiated as per law. Moreover if an autorickshaw is seen plying during curfew hours, we are seizing it,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police (Zone II) M.R.K Raju.  ‘Follow norms’ Meanwhile, District Collector V. Vinay Chand instructed autorickshaw drivers, maxi cab, cab and taxi drivers to follow social distancing norms to avoid possible spread of coronavirus in the district. He issued guidelines to be followed while on duty, on Friday. Mr, Vinay Chand said that apart from the driver, only two passengers should be allowed to board the vehicle and they should not ply in the containment areas. After every trip, the driver should clean the vehicle with 1% sodium hypochlorite solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/auto-drivers-flouting-norms/article31655833.ece
23 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social distancing goes for a toss at bus station||Social distancing went for a toss at the RTC bus station here on the second day after the government resumed the APSRTC intra-State bus services. Ignoring all the basic norms, a number of passengers jostled to board a few number of buses at the Dwaraka Bus Station here on Friday. Not many were seen even covering their faces with masks. Many passengers were embarrassed and expressed displeasure with the situation during the COVID-19 crisis. APSRTC Regional Manager, M.Y. Danam said that passengers were waiting at bus station to board buses going towards Srikakulam. When the buses arrived, several passengers rushed to board the buses even though they are all reserved. “It happened only to just a couple of buses going towards Srikakulam on Friday. However, we made sure they maintain social distancing inside buses and wear masks. We also made announcements urging passengers to follow norms,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-bus-station/article31655836.ece
23 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reservation counters open at 34 locations in Waltair Division||The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) has commenced operation of Passenger Reservation System (PRS) counters at 34 locations over the division and also initiated operations of Yatri Ticket Suvidha Kendra (YTSK) counters at 10 locations. While 90% of the tickets on the special trains are being booked online, the public are turning up at the counters for the remaining berths. Refund counters for the cancelled tickets are also planned to be operated, in a phased manner from Monday. Adequate measures have been taken for social distancing by drawing circles at the counters. We are creating awareness to the public to use masks and maintain personal hygiene to avoid transmission of coronavirus, says Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava. Passengers have to follow the respective State health protocol for COVID-19 prevention and no blanket and linen will be provided in the train and passengers may make their own arrangements, he added. The division has produced 37,000 masks and 1,600 litres of sanitiser, which was distributed to staff, officers and contractual staff engaged in railway premises. The reservation will be done for the special trains that were announced from June 1 to 30. These trains will be run with reserved berths with normal Mail/Express and Superfast train fare. 2nd class fare will be charged for the passengers travelling in General Second Class coaches with reserved berths. No concessional train tickets will be allowed except four categories of Divyangjan and 11 categories of patient concessions. The division has run eight Shramik Special trains, to Bihar, UP and Odisha, which carried more than 10,000 migrant workers. The division is also running parcel express trains and goods trains to ensure the supply of essential commodities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/reservation-counters-open-at-34-locations-in-waltair-division/article31655826.ece
23 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Utilise sops doled out by Centre judiciously: BJP||Appreciating the Union government’s gesture to increase the FRBM limit from 3 to 5%, following requests from the States to tide over the difficult times, MLC P.V.N. Madhav said on Friday that “the same should not be used to implement Navaratnalu, the flagship programme of the State government.” The increase in the FRBM limit would give the State additional resources amounting to Rs. 4.28 lakh crore, and it should be used judiciously for development of the ailing sectors, Mr. Madhav told the media here. The Centre doled out many sops to the States to counter the adverse market situation due to COVID-19, but it was now the responsibility of the State government to utilise them properly. “It will be wrong to use them for freebies, as it drags the State deeper into a debt trap,” he pointed out. “The Centre, like the States, is also facing a sharp decline in revenues. But despite the hardship, it is extending generous support to the States in this hour of need,” he claimed. Thrust areas The State government should now focus on promoting welfare of the migrants, plug loopholes in food distribution, and increase job creation through investments, he added.  “The State government intends to sell lands in parcels. But the sale proceeds should not be used for the Navaratnalu programme,” he said. Sale of cheap liquor would not benefit the State, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/utilise-sops-doled-out-by-centre-judiciously-bjp/article31655813.ece
23 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left unions oppose move to amend labour laws||A protest was staged jointly by the CITU and the AITUC, demanding that the Centre give up its ‘anti-labour’ policies, at the AITUC office at Maddilapalem here, on Friday. AITUC district secretary G. Vamana Murthy and CITU Zone president V. Krishna Rao alleged that the Union government and some State governments were trying to amend the labour laws to favour the managements at the cost of the interests of workers. They said attempts were being made to privatise PSUs apart from terminating the services of contract and outsourcing workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/left-unions-oppose-move-to-amend-labour-laws/article31655828.ece
23 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 53 crore will be advanced to MSMEs in district: Collector||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy launched the ‘restart package’, a programme for the financial strengthening of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), through video conference on Friday. District Collector V. Vinay Chand informed the Chief Minister that there were 779 MSME claims in the district and Rs. 53.37 crore would be advanced to them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rs-53-crore-will-be-advanced-to-msmes-in-district-collector/article31655827.ece
23 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sripada Venkanna passes away||Sripada Venkanna (84), who was associated with a number of cultural bodies in the city, died here on Friday. He is survived by two sons. He was associated with most of the cultural bodies in the city like Sangeeta Kalasamithi, Visakha Music Academy, VMDA, Kala Bharathi and Thyagaraja Aradhana Trust.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sripada-venkanna-passes-away/article31655830.ece
23 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister distributes provisions to the poor||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao distributed essential commodities to the poor at Seva Nagar (6th ward) on Friday. He distributed rice, red gram, oil and vegetables to the poor. Zonal Commissioner Ramu was present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minister-distributes-provisions-to-the-poor/article31655831.ece
23 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RUSA members inspect AU||Members of Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) inspected the development activities being carried out at Andhra University with the RUSA funds here on Friday. The team visited the varsity and interacted with Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasada Reddy.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rusa-members-inspect-au/article31655834.ece
23 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade unions protest 12-hour duty for staff||Leaders of trade unions such as AITUC, CITU, INTUC and others staged a protest over the proposed increase of working hours from eight to 12 hours in various industries. They alleged that the Centre was trying to dilute labour laws under the guise of increasing production and reviving the economy, which was badly affected due to the lockdown. AITUC Vizianagaram district secretary Bugata Ashok, CITU leader G. Appala Suri, AIFTU leader Reddi Narayana Rao and others staged a protest at the Vizianagaram Collector’s office. Mr. Ashok asked the government to ensure payment of wages for all workers for the period of the lockdown and full payment of salaries for government employees. He also sought direct transfer of money into the accounts of workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/trade-unions-protest-12-hour-duty-for-staff/article31655797.ece
23 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police use drone cameras to keep an eye on public||The police department is using drone cameras to monitor people’s movement in public places such as Rythu Bazaar, GT Road and Clock Tower areas. The department is identifying those who are not following COVID-19 protocol, such as maintaining social distancing and wearing masks. Superintendent of Police B. Raja Kumari is taking ‘special classes’ for youngsters and others who are being seen in public without wearing masks in spite of repeated announcements by the police. “Wearing masks is very important as people’s movement in public places has increased significantly due to the relaxations allowed in Lockdown 4.0,” Ms. Raja Kumari said. She added that the department would not hesitate to impose fines on those violating protocol. Meanwhile, she distributed sunglasses and hats to police personnel to protect themselves from the sun. She said that all the officials and police personnel would be rewarded suitably for working relentlessly to ensure that the lockdown was implemented.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/police-use-drone-cameras-to-keep-an-eye-on-public/article31655795.ece
23 May 2020||VJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Refund for cancelled rail tickets from May 25||The Indian Railways will refund money to passengers who booked advanced reservation tickets for which train services were cancelled due to lockdown from March 22. Money will be refunded through Passenger Reservation System (PRS) counters from May 25. Passengers have been requested not to rush to the counters, and follow the COVID-19 guidelines. In all, 90 PRS counters have been opened in 82 locations across the South Central Railway (SCR), SCR Chief Public Relations Officer (CPRO) Ch. Rakesh said on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/refund-for-cancelled-rail-tickets-from-may-25/article31655305.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bearing the brunt||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/bearing-the-brunt/article31655307.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Smooth sailing ahead?||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/smooth-sailing-ahead/article31655801.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD changes name of its web portal||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has refurbished its web portal in a bid to make it more devotee-friendly, ensuring better view and smooth browsing experience. The portal will be launched on Saturday (May 23). The name of the new portal has also been changed from https://ttdsevaonline.com to https://tirupatibalaji.ap.gov.in. The website is used for booking Arjitha Sevas, darshan, accommodation, besides contributing to the e-hundi and other donations. The TTD management has urged the devotees to take note of the change in the name of the web portal and opt for online transactions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ttd-changes-name-of-its-web-portal/article31655219.ece
23 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||SCCL resumes production in all its underground mines||Despite the coronavirus-induced production disruptions, the Kothagudem Area of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) has charted out an ambitious action plan to bolster its coal production to meet its annual production target of 145.50 lakh tonnes in 2020-21 fiscal. The State-owned coal mining giant has resumed production in all its underground mines after lifting the pandemic-forced nearly 50-days layoff from the first shift of Thursday. During the layoff period, the mechanised sections of as many as five underground mines and all the open cast projects (OCPs) continued production without any break across the coal belt region in 11 areas of the company spanning across various districts in the State, sources said. The entire operations in a total of 22 underground mines/departments with an estimated workforce of 22,000 remained suspended during the layoff period. However, the Kothagudem Area consisting of two each underground coal mines and OCPs has achieved its stipulated annual output target of 133.75 lakh tonnes for 2019-2020 within the set timeframe, SCCL sources said. Safety norms “We have focused our attention on ensuring the safety and health of the workforce while pursuing our growth plans to ramp up coal production and achieve the set output target of 145.50 lakh tonnes this fiscal,” said the SCCL’s Kothagudem Area General Manager Narasimha Rao. Continuous efforts are underway to motivate the workforce strictly adhere to the company’s advisories on prevention of coronavirus in the form of displaying banners and administering pledges, he told The Hindu .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sccl-resumes-production-in-all-its-underground-mines/article31655625.ece
23 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Family members take away boy’s body from mortuary||The body of a 14-year-old boy kept at the mortuary of the District Headquarters Hospital in Kothagudem was taken away by his family members without the knowledge of the Duty Medical Officer (DMO), creating a flutter in the State-run hospital on Friday. The boy, a native of a tribal hamlet in Julurupadu mandal, was admitted to the hospital with acute stomach ache, akin to symptoms of suspected poisoning on Thursday afternoon. He died during the course of treatment late in the afternoon. His body was shifted to the hospital’s mortuary for postmortem the same evening. The parents of the boy reportedly pleaded with the DMO to handover the body of the boy without performing autopsy as they do not suspect any foul play in his death. However, the DMO refused to accept their plea, citing rules. A little later, some relatives of the boy in alleged connivance with a sanitation worker of the hospital took away the body to their native place in Julurupadu mandal, where they buried it. The police, accompanied by a two-member doctors’ team, reached the burial site and exhumed the body in the presence of the mandal Revenue officials on Friday evening. Meanwhile, the Hospital Superintendent Dr Ramesh told newsmen in Kothagudem that a detailed inquiry has been ordered to probe the alleged role of a sanitation worker behind the incident.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/family-members-take-away-boys-body-from-mortuary/article31655633.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,TELANGANA||NGT stays Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme||The southern bench of the National Green Tribunal has directed Andhra Pradesh not to proceed with the Rayalaseema Lift Scheme and appointed a joint committee to submit a report on whether the project will have any environment impact regarding the availability of the source of water and whether it will have any social impact on the members of the sharing States. The committee has been directed to submit a report within two months. The order came on an application filed against the implementation of the scheme. The applicant sought a stay on the project claiming that the action of the State of Andhra Pradesh by initiating the project without obtaining prior Environmental Clearance (EC) was illegal and against the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, and Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974. The applicant also sought a detailed study to look into the adverse effects on Krishna river, the flora, fauna, livelihood of people in Telangana and the downstream of the Srisailam project due to the Rayalseema Lift Scheme initiated by Andhra Pradesh. The bench of judicial member K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta noted that the main question was whether the project requires prior environmental clearance or not. Observing that in a similar matter, the Principal Bench of the NGT had constituted an expert committee to look into the provision, the bench said it has not been mentioned in this application the purpose for which the scheme was launched by Andhra Pradesh, adding that only the State government or its agency can provide the details. “However, considering the fact that it is in the initial stages, we feel it appropriate to direct the State of Andhra Pradesh not to proceed with the scheme till we get the report from the joint committee appointed by this Tribunal for this purpose and further orders passed by this tribunal in this matter,” the bench said. It also appointed a joint committee to ascertain whether prior EC is required, other prior clearances or permissions to be obtained, whether such permissions have been obtained by Andhra Pradesh among others. “The committee shall also consider the question as to whether the proposed exploitation of natural resources namely, water by this project, will have any environment impact regarding the availability of the source of water and whether it will have any social impact on the members of the sharing States and submit a report to this tribunal within a period of two months,” the bench ordered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ngt-stays-rayalaseema-lift-irrigation-scheme/article31655631.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Don’t dump migrants at State borders: High Court||The Telangana High Court on Friday instructed the State government to ensure that migrant workers intending to go back to their home-states were not dumped in any district border areas. In a PIL petition over the plight of hundreds of migrant workers, who were seen walking on the Medchal stretch of the Hyderabad-Nizamabad national highway, the HC said looking after those workers was the government’s foremost duty. Different wings of the government should make concerted efforts to shift the migrant workers walking to their home-states to bus stands or railway stations nearby. Form there, they could take the buses or trains to reach their destinations. Issuing the interim directions, the bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the orders should be complied with strictly. The court would take serious note of any omission or inefficiency on the part of the State in the matter, the bench said. The High Court bench directed the government to inform it of the concrete steps taken to redress the grievances of the migrant workers and the status of enforcement of the court direction on the matter in a week. Professor Rama Shankar Narayan Melkote, who filed the PIL plea, stated that the Centre was operating a number of trains to transport migrant labourers to different states from Lingampally, Bollarum and Ghatkesasr in Hyderabad. But the State official machinery was forcibly shifting workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha by buses to the Telangana-Maharashtra borders, especially to Adilabad district. This was irresponsibility, arbitrary and discriminatory on the part of the government, the petitioner said. While these workers were being dumped at Adilabad, several workers were seen daily walking under the scorching sun, some carrying children, on the Nizamabad-Hyderabad national highway. Some women were carrying infants while travelling on foot, the petitioner’s lawyer Vasudha Nagaraj said. Advocate General B. S. Prasad told the bench that the government had provided all facilities for the safe travel of migrant workers. Every 10 km on the highway, food and water were made available to the workers. He said that only in one instance, 20 workers had travelled by a private van to reach Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh and they had safely reached their destination. Even then, coming to the rescue of workers wishing to return to their states should be the prime responsibility of the government, the bench remarked. The High Court bench instructed government officials to ascertain the exact number of labourers walking to their destinations on the Medchal stretch on the Hyderabad-Nizamabad highway. All these workers should be taken back to Medchal, accommodated in local marriage halls and provided with food and water. Not a single worker should be dumped at State borders, the High Court bench said in the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dont-dump-migrants-at-state-borders-high-court/article31655598.ece
23 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Remaining SSC exams to be conducted from June 8||The remaining papers of the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) examinations will be held from June 8 to July 5, according to the new schedule announced by the government. As per the original schedule the SSC exams started on March 19 but they were postponed after three papers were conducted in view of the lockdown. The remaining 8 papers will be now conducted after the High Court gave its clearance a few days ago. A statement from the government said that 2005 additional centres are being readied in addition to the 2,530 centres where the exams were held before the lockdown. Information on new centres will be given to students in a few days. “We are ensuring that all these new centres are within half a kilometer range of the previous exam centre of the students,” Education Minister Sabita Indra Reddy said. She said an additional 26,422 employees are being mobilised for the smooth conduct of the exam keeping in view all the safety measures. Only one student will be allowed per bench and students will be admitted into the exam hall one hour before the scheduled time. RTC buses will also be arranged for the convenience of exam takers. As per the directions of the High Court, officials have ensured that at least two days gap between each exam. Moreover, all the teachers on the invigilation duty will be wearing masks, using sanitisers and gloves during the exam time. As per the new schedule, Social Studies Paper-1 will be held on June 8, English Paper-II on June 11, Maths Paper-1 on June 14, Maths Paper-II on June 17, Science Paper-1 (Physical Sciences) on June 20, Science Paper-II (Biological Sciences) on June 23, Social Studies Paper-1 on June 26 and Social Studies Paper-II on June 29. Oriental Main Language Paper-I (Arabic and Sanskrit) will be held on July 2 and Oriental Main Language Paper-II (Arabic and Sanskrit) and Vocational Course (Theory) on July 5. All the exams will be held from 9.30 a.m. to 12.15 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/remaining-ssc-exams-to-be-conducted-from-june-8/article31655620.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||3 more succumb to COVID in TS||Three more patients succumbed to COVID in Telangana on Friday, taking the toll in the State to 48. This is the fourth day in a row that that the State is reporting COVID deaths. Besides, 62 more samples tested positive for coronavirus on Friday. This is the second highest number of positive cases this month. The highest was 79 recorded on May 11. The new cases include 42 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area , one from Rangareddy and 19 are migrants. Of the total 1,761 cases detected till date, 670 are active cases, 1,043 were discharged, and 48 died. Health Minister Eatala Rajender, who spoke to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday, discussed the surge in positive cases with arrival of migrants. He said that foreign returnees with health complications like cancer and kidney diseases are facing difficulty during the 14 days of quarantine at hotels and should be given the option of home quarantine provided they test negative after seven days of quarantine at hotel. A total of 19 migrants tested positive. Nine persons, who returned from Mumbai, tested positive in various parts of Jagtial district on Friday. Official sources said that five persons tested positive from Dharmapuri mandal, two from Kodimial mandal and one each from Kathalapur and Gollapalli mandals. All the persons have been shifted to Hyderabad for treatment. Three persons from Narayanakhed in Sangareddy tested positive. A person from Garigegam of Sirgapur mandal in Narayankhed area, who migrated to Hyderabad about two decades ago, returned to the village on May 10 and was shifted to Gandhi Hospital on May 19 with symptoms, tested positive. Officials have shifted 26 persons who came in contact with him to isolation. His wife, son and daughter also tested positive and were shifted to Gandhi Hospital.    (With inputs from our correspondents in Karimnagar and Sangareddy)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/3-more-succumb-to-covid-in-ts/article31655586.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||45 Basthi Dawakhanas opened across city||A total of 45 additional Basthi Dawakhanas (neighbourhood clinics) were launched across the city without much fanfare on Friday. They were launched at Begumpet, Chandrayangutta, Goshamahal, Musheerabad, Jubilee Hills, Malakpet, Mehdipatnam, Yusufguda, Secunderabad, Qutbullahpur, Alwal, Kapra, Moosapet, Gajularamaram, Kukatpally, Chandanagar, Rajendranagar, Hayatnagar, Saroornagar, L.B. Nagar, and R.C.Puram circles. The clinics have added to the 123 already-existing Dawakhanas and 85 urban health centres, thereby taking the total number to 253 in the city. Launching the clinics at Sultan Nagar of Erragadda and Yadagiri Nagar of Vengalrao Nagar, Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao said that the government aimed to provide quality and accessible primary health services through the clinics. Mr. Rama Rao inspected the medical facilities at the clinics, and got his body temperature and blood pressure checked. He encouraged people to avoid private clinics and get treatment at Basthi Dawakhanas. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, while launching the clinics at Parimala Nagar of Kushaiguda and Ashok Nagar at Mallampally, said that the government aimed to reach the target of three Basthi Dawakhanas in each ward. Samples may be collected at the clinics for diagnosis of 57 kinds of diseases, and sent to the Telangana State Diagnostics for results. More serious cases will be referred from here to the tertiary hospitals for treatment. Besides, the clinics offer 150 kinds of medicines free of cost, he said. Of the 45 newly-added, 22 are in Hyderabad district, three in Sangareddy, five in Rangareddy, and 15 in Malkajgiri. Roughly, each clinic caters to 5,000 to 10,000 population.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/45-basthi-dawakhanas-opened-across-city/article31655595.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KRMB approves 2 tmc ft water release to AP||Three days after directing Andhra Pradesh to stop drawing water from all systems originating from Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar reservoirs, stating that the State has already drawn more water than the approved quantity, the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has approved release of 2 tmc ft water to it from Nagarjunasagar for drinking needs. The decision was taken after a three-member committee meeting of the board comprising Member-Secretary of the board A. Paramesham and Engineers-in-Chief of AP and Telangana C. Narayana Reddy and C. Muralidhar, respectively, here on Friday. In the water release order, Mr. Paramesham stated that AP had requested release of 2 tmc ft water to Nagarjunasagar Right Canal to meet the drinking water needs of Guntur and Prakasam district by writing two letters on May 19 and 20. Utilisations made by the two members States till May 21 from the two common reservoirs was discussed at the meeting before approving the release of water to AP. The board official said the two States had mutually agreed for the water release to be utilised till May 31, the conclusion of the current water year. The board, however, made it clear that the issue of sharing of water drawn during the surplus period was to be addressed by a technical committee appointed by the Ministry of Jal Shakti. “Depending on the final decision on the issue, eligible shares of water for the two State may vary”, the river board said in its latest order. Further, the board has also observed that the Chief Engineers of the two common reservoirs shall be responsible for meeting the requirements of both the States. Water delivered to each State would have to be reported “invariably as a joint statement”. Meanwhile, according to the engineers of Nagarjunasagar project, they have already received a request from their Andhra Pradesh counterparts to release 7,000 cusecs of water into NS Right Canal from 5 a.m. on May 23.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/krmb-approves-2-tmc-ft-water-release-to-ap/article31655626.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Proposals for new EMCs to be called soon||Proposals for setting up new electronic manufacturing clusters will be invited shortly from States under the Modified EMC 2.0 Scheme, secretary of Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology Ajay Prakash Sawhney said on Friday. The new scheme will become operational soon, he said, after IT and Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao highlighted the need for the Centre to sanction new EMCs at the earliest as the few such existing facilities in the State were fast running out of space. Stating that he had also written to the Union IT Minister on the issue, Mr. Rao underscored the need to encourage more product companies, particularly in the context of the window of opportunity to accelerate the digital transformation that COVID-19 necessitated. Even while pointing to how States can do more in terms of reinventing governance by adopting more digital strategies, the Minister said that the Centre should also consider States to have their own satellites to promote online education. Mr. Rao, Mr. Sawhney, Telangana IT and Industries secretary Jayesh Ranjan, STPI director general Omkar Rai and industry leaders were participating at a virtual conference on ‘Digital Revolution in Post Covid Era: Touching Lives and Enriching Businesses’ organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII). Digital revolution, the Minister said, can only be possible if digital or even non-digital solutions can be accessed by common man. This will make him believe in technology and create a social impact.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/proposals-for-new-emcs-to-be-called-soon/article31655588.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘76% guest workers did not get govt. aid’||Why did migrant workers decide to return to their native places during lockdown, when the State government announced and distributed dry ration, cash and instructed employers not to cut their wages? This is a question lingering in the minds of many who saw the ‘disturbing’ visuals of lakhs of migrant workers marching towards their home-states with children in tow, braving hunger, heat and blistered feet. Answers to many such questions have been found in a survey conducted by the Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Hyderabad campus, in collaboration with the Rachakonda Police Commissionerate. The survey was done on a sample size of 10,672 migrant workers in eight police station limits. TISS undertook a mapping exercise of socio-economic vulnerabilities and made a rapid assessment of the needs of migrants in April. As many as 89.5% of migrant workers did not receive wages during the lockdown period and 76% did not receive the 12 kg rice and Rs. 500 announced and distributed by the Telangana government from April 1. As 97% of migrant workers did not have ration cards in Hyderabad, they could not get rations from the PDS. About 68% of migrant workers sent monthly remittances home and 67% reported living in rented space. In the absence of daily and monthly wages, it was a huge burden. Food and direct cash were the most frequently reported needs of migrants, followed by arrangements for travel home. The purpose of the survey was to capture the migrant workers’ socio-demographic profile, economic and current health status, perceived most important needs and immediate assistance needed from the government. A brief 35-item schedule was developed by TISS faculty team that could be accessed on a smart phone by the data collector. While the survey was going on, the Rachakonda Commissionerate took the responsibility of ensuring distribution of dry ration kits and organising medical camps in survey areas, said deputy director of TISS U. Vindhya. Recommendations Professor Vindhya said that based on the survey findings, TISS along with NGOS Dhaatri Trust and Swadhikaar made some recommendations to the government and sent them to the Chief Secretary through a letter dated May 14 and appealed for immediate action. These include increasing the number of Shramik special trains to various states, implementation of Building and Other Construction Workers’ (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act of 1996, release and utilisation of Building and Construction Workers’ Fund for immediate relief, transport, compensatory wages, safety and medical needs of stranded migrant workers and those returning home. The report also suggested that the government implement the inter-state Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act 1979, instructions to the district authorities to coordinate with MROs, and local police to transport migrants to nearby towns/cities and provide transport to railway stations after health check-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/76-guest-workers-did-not-get-govt-aid/article31655596.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Move to ban 27 pesticides hailed||The Pesticide Action Network (PAN) India has welcomed the draft order issued by the Centre banning 27 pesticides, which are already banned in several other countries, in the country. Appreciating the Centre’s move, the network has requested the Agriculture Ministry to review all other pesticides registered in India with the same criteria used for assessing the 27 chemicals and issue stringent regulatory measures including possible ban of more hazardous pesticides. In a statement, director of PAN India Jayakumar Chelaton, consultant Narasimha Reddy Donthi and assistant director Dileep Kumar said the Agriculture Ministry has issued a draft order intending to ban 27 pesticides on May 14 and sought comments and suggestions from those who are likely to be affected by the decision. The notification has stated that an expert committee set up by the Minister has recommended that 66 insecticides/pesticides banned or withdrawn in other countries continue to be used in India and 27 of them involve risk to humans and animals. The network functionaries said the 27 listed pesticides are highly hazardous with potential to cause severe health problems such as hormonal changes, carcinogenic, neurotoxic, reproductive and developmental health effects as well as environmental impacts such as toxic to bees. Many of them also reported to have data deficient for regulatory purposes and better alternatives are available for all of them. To be banned The list of pesticides, according to the draft order, proposed to be banned include insecticides, fungicides and weedicides: 2,4-D, acephate, atrazine, benfuracarb, butachlor, captan, carbendazin, carbofuran, chlorpyriphos, deltamethrin, dicofol, dimethoate, dinocap, diuron, malathion, mancozeb, methimyl, monocrotophos, oxyfluorfen, pendimethalin, quninalphos, sulfosulfuron, thiodicarb, thiophante methyl, thiram, zineb and ziram. Some of them are already addressed by State-level regulations/bans in India. Monocrotophos was banned briefly by Adilabad District Collector and Ooty District Collector due to rampant illegal use and toxicity potential on food, environment and farmers in 2019. Maharashtra prohibited monocrotophos and acephate in 2017. The PAN India functionaries said quoting the draft order and requested the Centre to ban all the 27 pesticides without any delay.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/move-to-ban-27-pesticides-hailed/article31655611.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call to maintain distance while exchanging Id greetings||Home Minister Mohammad Mahmood Ali on Friday appealed to the Muslim community to maintain physical distancing while exchanging greetings on Id instead of hugging, which is tradition, and offer Id prayers at home. The Minister conducted a review meeting ahead of the festival with top officers of the police department, including Director-General of Police M Mahender Reddy, Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar, Cyberabad Police Commissioner V C Sajjanar and Rachakonda Police Commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat. He said that Muslims were fasting and praying at home during Ramzan and had also cooperated with the police to contain the spread of novel coronavirus and stayed indoors during the night curfew. The Home Minister appealed to them to continue in the same spirit on Id and offer prayers at home. He also said that it was the culture of Muslims to exchange Id greetings by hugging one another, have sheer khurma , and visit relatives. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr Ali urged the Muslim community to ‘maintain distance’ while exchanging greetings on Id.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/call-to-maintain-distance-while-exchanging-id-greetings/article31655608.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Come to rescue of fruit, vegetable farmers: HC||Telangana High Court on Friday directed the government to explore options of transporting perishable commodities like fruits and vegetables produced in the State to other parts of the country through trains. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy hearing a PIL petition said the government should direct the agricultural market yards to initiate measures to help fruit and vegetable growers. The markets should help these farmers to sell fruits and vegetables produced by them in other parts of the country. Hassle-free movement The bench asked Assistant Solicitor General N. Rajeshwar Rao to inform the court about the hassle-free movement of commodities from Telangana to other States. The bench also directed both the Central and the State governments to come to the rescue of fruit and vegetable farmers as they were struggling to sell their produce due to nation-wide lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the coronavirus pandemic.  Produce stuck A retired veterinary doctor K. Narayana Reddy filed the PIL petition stating that seasonal fruits produced by farmers of the State had got stuck in various markets in the State. The farmers were waiting for transportation of the fruits and vegetables to their regular markets in Delhi, Punjab and north-eastern States. The petitioner’s counsel Ch. Naresh Reddy said since trucks were still off the roads due to lockdown rules, the government should help out the farmers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/come-to-rescue-of-fruit-vegetable-farmers-hc/article31655614.ece
23 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress complains against ‘horse trading’ in Nizamabad||The Congress party has urged the Election Commission to take stern action against Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leaders, including MLC candidate K. Kavitha, for their alleged involvement in ‘horse trading’ of MPTCs, ZPTCs, municipal councillors and corporators, to win the MLC elections from Nizamabad Local Bodies. In a representation to Chief Electoral Officer Shashank Goel here on Friday, TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy, former minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir, Congress candidate V. Subhash Reddy and Ramareddy ZPTC N. Mohan Reddy alleged that the ruling party was brazenly indulging in ‘horse trading’ in violation of Code of Conduct. Kavitha Kalvakuntla, daughter of Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao, is the TRS candidate for the Nizamabad MLC Elections (Local Bodies). To ensure her election at any cost, Housing Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy, Government whip Gampa Goverdhan and other MLAs have been luring elected representatives from various parties, Congress alleged. Mr. Shabbir Ali said TRS does not have sufficient numbers to win the elections and the ruling party leaders were threatening or luring the elected representatives of other parties to join TRS to ensure Ms. Kavitha’s victory in violation of the model Code of Conduct and a threat to democracy. The Congress leaders submitted the complete list of MPTCs, ZPTCs, municipal councilors and corporators who had defected to TRS and urged the CEO to disqualify them. The CEO has reportedly assured that he would direct the Nizamabad District Collector, who is also the Returning Officer, to submit a report in this regard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-complains-against-horse-trading-in-nizamabad/article31655617.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bridge on the Godavari gets maintenance overhaul||The South Central Railway (SCR) has completed comprehensive track maintenance work on the iconic second rail-cum-road bridge across the Godavari, near Rajahmundry, in one of the biggest rail maintenance operations of the Indian Railways during the COVID-19 lockdown. The 36-hour track maintenance work on the bridge was undertaken after 43 years from the time the bridge was commissioned in 1977. The work had been pending as the bridge is critical to the south-east rail link, bridging the two sides of the mighty Godavari river on the Vijayawada-Visakhapatnam railway section, said General Manager Gajanan Mallya on Friday. Mega track renewal maintenance work on the three kilometre long bridge involved laying of track on the six spans with PSC deck slabs, removing the old ones with fresh set of pre-fit lengths of rail track along with sleepers. Slabs were also checked for cracks. The fully automated and mechanised process required minimal physical labour and was carried out by using the modern PQRS (Plasser Quick Relating System) cranes. Deep screening of the track length for comprehensive cleaning of the ballast stones beneath the track to segregate accumulated wastes such as mud, broken pieces of stones etc., was taken up for the first time. All six spans of deck slabs (beam like support between two piers on either side) are on a sensitive six degree curve, making it tough to handle maintenance tasks within limited time. Another obstacle was to provide for auxiliary track (temporarily laid supplementary track) to enable movement of PQRS cranes for undertaking the huge work. A separate iron plate type platform to store the 8,000 ballast bags was installed to fill the underbelly of the track and sleeper. Physical checks and deep screening of the 180 metre length of approach to the bridge was also done. The General Manager complimented DRM (Vijaywada) P. Srinivas and his team for executing the important maintenance work with precision, said Chief PRO Ch. Rakesh. The rail-cum-road bridge with 34 spans (28 spans with steel girder and six spans with PSC deck slabs) is the third longest rail-cum-erad structure in India, next only to the Digha-Sonpur bridge across the Ganges near Patna and Bogibeel Bridge across the Brahmaputra in Assam. Built by Braithwaite, Burn & Jessop Construction Company, it streamlined train movement on the vital Chennai-Vijayawada-Visakhapatnam-Howrah sector, earlier catered by the first Godavari bridge, more popularly known as the Sir Havelock Bridge, now a heritage structure. Another bridge which added to the chain later, is the pre-stressed concrete Bow String Arch shaped third bridge across the Godavari at Rajahmundry, which is considered a marvel of engineering.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/bridge-on-the-godavari-gets-maintenance-overhaul/article31655629.ece
23 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSCHE to jack up financial aid to colleges for NAAC accreditation||The Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) is contemplating to enhance financial assistance to colleges and prepare them to apply for accreditation with the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). The issue was discussed and agreed upon in principle at a webinar organised in association with NAAC and Commissionerate of Collegiate Education (CCE) Telangana. Representatives of 78 government degree colleges participated in the webinar attended by TSCHE chairman T. Papi Reddy, Commissioner for Collegiate Education Navin Mittal and TSCHE vice-chairman and webinar coordinator V. Venkataramana. NAAC executive committee member Y.L. Srinivas suggested that TSCHE provide at least Rs. 2 lakh assistance to colleges for preparatory needs to seek NAAC accreditation, which is now mandatory for funding. He also assured NAAC’s help in improving quality in government colleges in Telangana.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/tsche-to-jack-up-financial-aid-to-colleges-for-naac-accreditation/article31655593.ece
23 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dip in number of migrants at Medchal||For the first time in nearly two months since the exodus of migrant workers from urban areas began, there was a dip in their numbers at Medchal. “Today, we processed nearly 800 people with the largest tranche of 250 workers from Uttar Pradesh reaching here,” said a police official supervising the transit operation of the migrating workers. The workers are moved to a function hall before they are put on special trains for their journey home. The road junction near the Outer Ring Road has been a halting station for the migrant workers on their way to Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar and other northern states. “It is the first time when these bags are not empty. The number of people who stopped here ranged between 8,000 and 10,000 today that the number has declined substantially,” said Hyamvati, an Integrated Child Development Services official at the site, pointing to the women and children’s kits being distributed by the organisation. However, the reasons the workers are exiting the city remain similar. “For one month the thekedar (contractor) gave us rations but he stopped paying us for the past one month and is not picking up the phone,” said Hanslal, who used to work as a labourer in the Gowlidoddi area of Hyderabad. He and seven others were waiting to travel to their hometown of Chindwara in Madhya Pradesh via Nagpur. “Will not come back till this coronavirus fear disappears. We don’t want to be trapped in another lockdown. We had a difficult time getting food. I used to send money to my parents but now I have to look for some money,” said Raj Kumar, who does putty work. He and his friends were on their way to their home-town near Balaghat in MP. While the number of workers at the Medchal transit halt declined, some of them appeared to have moved to Kamareddy. “Today, we arranged five buses for transport of migrant workers to various States from Kamareddy. We moved away from Medchal as a number of workers are hiding in lorries for their journey. We are persuading them to get down and are arranging buses for them with proper documentation,” said Mukti Bosco of Healing Fields Foundation, who has been arranging transport for migrant workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dip-in-number-of-migrants-at-medchal/article31655603.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Money allotted to physically challenged persons’ welfare is meagre, says HC||Can a District Welfare Officer take care of all physically challenged persons in the district during the lockdown with Rs. 10,000 allocated by the government? A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy raised this question on Friday while the hearing of a PIL petition on the plight of physically challenged persons during lockdown. The bench sought to know from Advocate General B.S. Prasad what was the rationale behind allocation of such sum. For 40,000 advocates in the State, the government created a corpus fund of Rs. 25 crore while Rs. 1crore was sanctioned to look after the needs of 7,81,327 physically challenged persons, the bench observed. An amount of Rs. 1 crore was a pittance and that would compel this disadvantaged section of society to depend upon the mercy of donors, the bench said. The bench was hearing a PIL petition filed by Karnati Ganesh seeking a direction to government to come to the rescue of the persons with special needs and issue passes to caretakers attending on them. “We end up paying Rs. 4,000 for monthly groceries in a shop while government allocated Rs. 10,000 each to District Welfare Officer responsible for taking care of physically challenged persons,” the bench said.  ‘Sorry state of affairs’ This would compel the people from disadvantaged section to depend upon generosity of other people, the bench said noting that “this is a sorry state of affairs”. The rights and interests of such people with special needs cannot be compromised by the government during lockdown situation. Over 20,000 physically challenged persons live in Warangal while the District Welfare Officer concerned was given Rs. 10,000 for their welfare. “How does the government think the officer would provide essential commodities to physically challenged persons during lockdown,” the bench asked Advocate General B.S. Prasad. The persons with special needs have the right to life guaranteed under the Constitution and the government had to protect them. “Ask the government to release more money immediately for the benefit of such people,” the bench said. The HC also asked the government to trace the letter addressed by the Director of Department of Disabled Welfare Senior Citizens to the Chief Secretary requesting for creation of a special fund. The AG told the bench that Rs. 1 crore was allotted specially for the welfare of physically challenged persons during the lockdown. Apart from this, all white ration card holders were being given Rs. 1,500 and 12 kilos of rice. In case of any trouble, physically challenged persons can approach the local officers for help, the AG said. The matter was posted after a week for next hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/money-allotted-to-physically-challenged-persons-welfare-is-meagre-says-hc/article31655612.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Owaisi criticises Centre’s foreign policy||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen president Asaduddin Owaisi on Friday demanded that Prime Minister Narendra Modi come clean on reported acts of transgressions by China along the Line of Actual Control and criticised the Centre for the migrant crisis in the country. Mr Owaisi was addressing the public through social media on the occasion of Jumatul Vida, the last Friday of Ramzan. In a pointed question to the PM, Mr Owaisi said, “My question to the Prime Minister of India is: in Ladakh, how much land has China’s army grabbed till now? Tell us now. The country wants to know why is China doing so many transgressions?” In the past ‘three or four months’ there had been 170 such transgressions by China out of which 130 were in Ladakh, he said. “When it comes to China, these BJP and RSS people are mute,” he said as he accused them of ‘selective amnesia’ and also sought to know if ‘Ladakh will become the new Kargil’. Criticising the Centre’s Foreign Policy, Mr Owaisi said that Prime Minister of Nepal KP Sharma Oli reportedly stated that COVID – 19 pandemic in India was more dangerous than in China or Italy. “Nepal which is our years-old friend has issued its map which shows parts of our country. What is your foreign policy? They (Centre) have no response. Nobody knows what they are doing,” he said. Mr Owaisi criticised the Centre for its handling of the migrants crisis and said that Telangana had sent back 1 lakh migrants and spent Rs. 6 crore for this. The Hyderabad MP criticised the Centre’s economic package and said, as per media reports, it was only 0.75% of GDP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/owaisi-criticises-centres-foreign-policy/article31655609.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Realty sector has not received gains from RBI announcements: CREDAI||The real estate sector is not too enthused with the announcement of RBI Governor on Friday about the further reduction in the repo rate to 4% as its earlier reductions have not been passed on the real estate sector. The repo rate is the key interest rate at which the RBI lends short term funds to commercial banks and this in turn helps the banks to lower the EMI burden for their borrowers. CREDAI president Satish Magar said on Friday they expected more stringent measures from the RBI booster to revive the economy. The move of moratorium extension by three more months is a short-term piece meal solution to a long term problem, he said. “Government now needs to ensure that banks are forthcoming and pass on the benefits to the real estate sector. Currently there is a dearth of income in the sector owing to the Covid crisis. Real estate industry remains the second largest employer after agriculture. Prolonged slowdown in the sector will have a direct impact on survival of 269 allied industries. Hence, it is critical for the government and RBI to take immediate measures to provide economic relief,” he said. Real estate sector can act as a catalyst in resurrecting the economy, backed by stringent fiscal and non-fiscal measures. The interest rate need to be reduced with firm liquidity measures backed by one-time restructuring of loans to help the real estate sector from crumbling. “This is the need of the hour,” he said. CREDAI Hyderabad president M. Ramakrishna Rao has said that so far banks have not passed on the benefit of loans at lower interest rates to customers - real estate sector as well as those aspiring as well as those who availed home loans. This has given rise to confusion if the RBI decisions are binding on the banks. A PIL has also been filed by CREDAI seeking clarity. It is for the RBI to ensure that its announcements are implemented at the ground level to see the desired impact on economy, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/realty-sector-has-not-received-gains-from-rbi-announcements-credai/article31655630.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Buses for government staff||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation has arranged as many as 30 buses for employees of the State government in Hyderabad from Saturday. “There are no particular routes that these buses will be operating on. The State government employees need to show their ID card and they can enter the bus. Previously, there were bus passes. But since counters are closed, they can board the bus by showing the ID card. The buses have been arranged for Secretariat employees as well as employees of some other government offices,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/buses-for-government-staff/article31655610.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Biodiversity day celebrated||The State government gave a call to the citizens on the occasion of International Day for Biological Diversity to celebrate every Friday as ‘Green Friday’ by watering plants and taking care of them. The call was given in view of the protection and conservation needed for the saplings planted as part of the Haritha Haaram programme. People and people’s representatives participated in the celebration of the day, by watering the plants of Haritha Haaram, a statement said. Recorded message The Telangana State Forest Development Corporation observed the day, by providing foodgrains and water to the wild life in forest areas across the State. Water was provided in earthen saucers at strategic locations, while foodgrains such as jowar, rice, and rice flour were sprinkled at various locations. Grains and water were also kept at parks, and on rooftops of offices and houses too. At the celebrations in the State Biodiversity Board, Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy delivered a recorded message, and mentioned biodiversity as crucial for survival of organisms. Principal Secretary Rajat Kumar attended as chief guest.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/biodiversity-day-celebrated/article31655604.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Natco to donate drug for US varsity clinical trial||Natco Pharma is supporting a clinical trial to prevent symptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infections by donating Chloroquine Phosphate tablets through its marketing partner in USA, Rising Pharmaceuticals, to a study conducted by Columbia University, New York. The Hyderabad-headquartered drug maker in a release on Friday said that after its recent donation to a global clinical trial conducted by the CROWN (COVID-19 Research Outcomes Worldwide Network) Collaborative at the Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, the company has now committed to support Phase 2 of a clinical trial at Columbia University. The trial aims to determine the effectiveness of Chloroquine Phosphate in preventing COVID-19 infection in healthcare workers with moderate to high risk of exposure to the virus. Researchers at Columbia University are conducting this study to assess Chloroquine Phosphate as prophylaxis against COVID-19 in healthcare workers. The Phase 2 trial will enrol 350 volunteers who work in direct patient care roles at Columbia University Irving Medical Center and who have contact with patients who may have COVID-19. The release said that Natco has been supplying Chloroquine Phosphate tablets, a USFDA approved drug, through its marketing partner to the US since 2011.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/natco-to-donate-drug-for-us-varsity-clinical-trial/article31655587.ece
23 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH students call for online protests||Youth for Inclusive and Sustainable Society (YISS), University of Hyderabad, has called for online protests on seven demands it has put up before the administration to safeguard students’ interests. The students demanded ‘No-Detention Policy’ and extension of evaluation policy for final year and outgoing students to ongoing students, including those of integrated courses. Students also wanted notification of Ph.D and M.Phil seats in accordance with UGC guidelines. It wanted the administration to provide Rs. 1,000 as UoH Students’ Assistance for May and June apart from waiving off mess charges for those from poor backgrounds. Students also demanded that the online entrance exams be conducted through National Testing Agency and not private players. When JNU had successfully done it, why can’t UoH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-students-call-for-online-protests/article31655592.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||T-Hub selects 10 start-ups||Ten start-ups have been short-listed by T-Hub for the fintech accelerator programme that was launched in November in partnership with National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) and Department of Science and Technology (DST). The programme is designed to enhance faster product development and scale-up the short-listed start-ups. It will be offered in virtual mode due to the current COVID-19 situation, T-Hub said on Friday. In a release, the technology start-up incubator said 20 start-ups were selected from over 150 applications received from across the country. The short-listed start-ups will receive training and guidance from T-Hub and NPCI through a curriculum of activities, specifically designed to support product development and growth in digital payments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/t-hub-selects-10-start-ups/article31655627.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Traffic on ORR increases||Vehicle rush on the Outer Ring Road has been steadily increasing after its opening to public since the midnight of Wednesday, a statement by HMDA said. In the 24 hours up to Thursday midnight, a total of 44,220 vehicles travelled on the ORR, of which 22,867 were cars and 21,353 other vehicles.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/traffic-on-orr-increases/article31655605.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hot weather to continue||Day temperatures continued to soar across Telangana with Khammam topping the charts for the second day at 45.8 degree C on Friday. While it is the highest so far this season, the twin cities recorded another high of 42.7 degree C even as other towns continued to be scorched. Adilabad recorded 45.3 degree C followed by Nalgonda recorded 45 degrees C, Nizamabad 44.9 degree C, Ramagundam 44.4, Bhadrachalam and Hanamkonda and Karimnagar too recorded 44 degree C, according to the India Meteorological Officer here. The forecast for Saturday is heat wave conditions likely to continue with temperatures to be higher than the normal. For Hyderabad, it is likely to be around 43 degree C.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/hot-weather-to-continue/article31655601.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four held for selling fruit-ripener||Four persons were held by the Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (North) for selling banned Ethylene chemical powder, which is used in ripening mangoes. They seized 3,392 Ethylene ripening packets (each packet containing 100 sachets) worth Rs. 7 lakh and a goods vehicle.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/four-held-for-selling-fruit-ripener/article31655599.ece
23 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||by SCERT||The State Council of Educational Research Training (SCERT), Telangana, in collaboration with C-DAC, Hyderabad, is organising three-day training through webinar on “Cyber Security and Safety” from May 27 to 29. It is available on SCERT Telangana official Youtube channel. Registrations can be done onwww.infosecawareness.in/tech-trv, a press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/by-scert/article31655602.ece
23 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Ryots vow to go by diktat on crop pattern||Welcoming State government’s decision on regulated cropping pattern from the ensuing vaanakalam (kharif) season, the villagers of Cherlapalli in Gangadhar mandal have passed a unanimous resolution to abide by the government decision and pledged to take up crops as directed for better profits. The villagers passed the resolution at the grama panchayat office under the leadership of sarpanch Swaroopa and ZPTC member Anuradha on Friday and said they would not defy the directions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ryots-vow-to-go-by-diktat-on-crop-pattern/article31655623.ece
23 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,TELANGANA||Inter-district passes not required: Police Commissioner||As per a release from Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena, people need not apply for passes for inter-district travel within the State from Friday. According to him, DGO Goutam Sawang has issued an order that people need not apply for passes and are free to travel within the State by observing the travel protocol, of one driver and two passengers in the back seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/inter-district-passes-not-required-police-commissioner/article31655632.ece
23 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Industry hamstrung by absence of labour, demand in Punjab||As labour exodus continues amid the ongoing lockdown, several sectors ranging from agro-processing, hosiery, engineering to auto components in Punjab are finding it difficult to get back on track in the absence of demand and shortage of labour.  ‘Difficult to get back’ Several industry players believe that unless demand is revived it would be difficult for the businesses to get back to normal. “The Central government had recently announced a financial package but it’s mostly to revive the supply chain, there has hardly been any focus to boost demand,” Narinder Bhamra, president of Fastener Manufacturers Association of India, told The Hindu . “Most of the industries engaged in the manufacturing of automotive components are shut in Ludhiana and even when we plan to restart, the problem of labour shortage is expected to hit us hard,” he said, adding that FMAI has written a letter to Union Minister Nitin Gadkari, asking the government to come to the rescue of the industry, which is involved in manufacturing of nuts, bolts, studs, rivets and screws. Amritsar-based rice miller Arvinderpal Singh said despite their best efforts to retain the workers, hailing from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, most of them are heading for their hometowns. “We offered them bonus and other benefits but the emotional call seems to be driving them towards home. The rice industry is labour intensive and requires skilled manpower but in the absence of labour, output will drop significantly,” he said. Similar sentiments were expressed by the woollen and synthetic industrial unit owners as they were looking forward to restart their operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/industry-hamstrung-by-absence-of-labour-demand-in-punjab/article31655553.ece
23 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Heath official held for ‘graft’ in Himachal||Himachal Pradesh Police has arrested a senior health official allegedly on corruption charges after an audio surfaced in which the accused was purportedly heard demanding a bribe of Rs. 5 lakh. The State police’s Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau arrested Director of Health Services Ajay Kumar Gupta late in the night of May 20 and booked him on corruption charges. Mr. Gupta was summoned by the police to its headquarters for questioning, after which he was arrested. “After the arrest the accused was taken to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital for medical check-up, where doctors found his blood pressure and insulin levels on the higher side. He has not yet been discharged. We will start questioning him once he is fit and discharged,” Shalini Agnihotri, Superintendent of Police, told The Hindu on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/heath-official-held-for-graft-in-himachal/article31655554.ece
23 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||A harrowing train ride for AMU students||The Howrah-bound Aligarh Muslim University students were in for a shock when they found that they had to board general bogies in 04198 Mathura Jn-Howrah Shramik Special on Thursday evening. “We were told by the university administration that the West Bengal government had made arrangements in the sleeper class for us. At the station, we were handed over tickets with Rs. 710 printed on them which is usually the price of a sleeper class ticket in a superfast train for this distance,” said Md. Farrukh, a final year student of political science, over phone. He alleged that they were promised five coaches but got only four. “Each coach has 18 seats and around 30-34 students. There is no way that social distancing could be followed. Male students vacated seats for female students and tried to sleep on the floor.” “As a student of political science, we study about the importance of federal structure in our country, but I am realising how it works on the ground during this journey,” he remarked. After the students tweeted and tagged higher officials in the West Bengal government and AMU administration, the train made a stop at Bilaspur in Madhya Pradesh and they were provided food and water, around 12 hours after they had boarded the train. But in the scorching heat, students were seeking cold water. “In 44 degrees heat, the water we got was undrinkable. We had to wait to let it cool,” said Ms. Praveen. “This experience also made us realise first hand the plight of migrant workers, who can’t even tweet,” said Mr. Farrukh. Also, the students were under the impression that the train will go via Mughal Sarai but later discovered that it would go via Kharagpur and take 30 hours to reach Howrah. When The Hindu spoke to the students on Friday evening, the train was about to reach Rourkela. “This was not communicated to us before boarding the train. We have been through Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, and have now entered Odisha,” Baby Parveen, a student of master’s in ELT, who hails from Asansol, said. “The bogies were not properly sanitised and we had to use sanitisers provided by the university administration. Many of us could not sleep the whole night and were feeling sick. Those who are keeping fast are feeling giddy. Once we ran out of water bottles that we brought with us, there was no provision for food and water,” she complained. Shafey Kidwai, AMU spokesperson, said the Vice-Chancellor and the Registrar spoke to the Railway officials and urged them to make arrangement for food and water. “As it was an arrangement made by the West Bengal government, we didn’t have much of a say. The university sent 210 students by buses to Mathura. Out of these, 70 students returned by the same buses to Aligarh as they didn’t find the arrangement up to the mark. But most of them were desperate to reach home by Id,” he said. Mr. Farrukh, who hails from Uttar Dinajpur, said none of their elected representatives took the calls but officials of the West Bengal government reached out to them. Help from officials “They expressed surprise over the fact that they were packed in general bogies and promised to provide relief.” One of them was Naveen Chandra, a 2018 batch IAS officer, posted as Assistant Collector Malda. “One of the students tagged me in a tweet,” Mr. Chandra told The Hindu. “It was not part of my official work. I just felt that they need to be helped. I called my colleagues in Odisha who found out that the train would halt in Rourkela. They agreed to provide food packets and cold water,” he said. They were also contacted by nodal officer Prabhat Kumar Mishra who expressed shock over the arrangements and promised buses at Dankuni and Behrampur stations to take students to their respective districts in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/a-harrowing-train-ride-for-amu-students/article31655551.ece
23 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||RSS man praises doctors at AMU for saving his life||The COVID-19 pandemic has exposed some of the old divides in society but it has also bridged some frictions as well. One of them came to light on Friday in Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College when a 60-year-old businessman and RSS pracharak went home after successful treatment of the virus. “When I was admitted to JNMCH, I had some doubts, but the hospital staff took very good care of me. Meri tan, man, dhan se sewa huyi ,” Shyam Sundar told The Hindu.  Describing the doctors and paramedical staff at JNMCH as “ desh bhakts ” (patriots) and warriors in the fight against coronavirus, he equated them with “ devtas ” (gods), whose feet should be touched. “When I came here on May 13, I was in a very bad condition. I needed artificial oxygen but today I feel completely healed,” he said. A front-line hospital in the fight against COVID 19, JNMCH was under fire from certain BJP leaders. A local MLA even held it responsible for the spread of the virus in the city.  Principal praised Mr. Sundar hailed the principal, Shahid Siddiqui, for giving personal attention to every patient. “Every day, he would ask me, Shyam Babu, how are you.” Prof. Siddiqui said Mr. Sundar was an elderly person but, thankfully, he didn’t have any co-morbidities. “When he was admitted, he had bilateral pneumonia and fallen oxygen saturation. He was given high flow oxygen for a couple of days.” On how he might have got infected, Mr. Sundar said he might have contracted the virus from the chain of prominent real estate businessman who passed away because of the infection.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/rss-man-praises-doctors-at-amu-for-saving-his-life/article31655549.ece
23 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||No curbs on industries but traffic throttled||Though the Haryana government has allowed industries to work with full strength and permitted the opening of the shops, markets and private companies, the restrictions on the movement across Delhi-Gurugram border continues hampering the smooth running of commercial and industrial establishments. However, the actual implementation of the restrictions on the border has slackened. Demanding free mobility within the National Capital Region, NCR Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Gurugram) president H.P. Yadav demanded that the States should stop the blame-game and fight the problem collectively. “Most of the people working in Gurugram are not being allowed to come from Delhi and the neighbouring districts of Haryana. If uninterrupted mobility is not allowed, it will be difficult to run the industry and the trade establishments smoothly,” said Mr. Yadav, in a press statement. Echoing similar sentiments, Manesar Industries Welfare Association vice-president Manmohan Gaind said the entire National Capital Region should be treated as one entity and free movement of people and vehicles be allowed. He said that more than half of the owners of various industries in Manesar belonged to Delhi and were not being allowed to come to Gurugram. “We had a meeting with the authorities in this regard two weeks ago and submitted them a list of the owners seeking passes, but the passes are not issued as yet. Though we agreed to their proposal for weekly passes, the passes have not been issued. The people from the neighbouring districts of Haryana are also allowed only after May 18,” said Mr. Gaind. Chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council, North, Virender Uppal, also wrote to Chief Minister Manohar Lal a week ago, saying that the garments industry was facing several challenges due to the restrictions on the movement of the labourers across the borders. “Presently, the inter-State movement of workers is restricted and there is very little clarity on the procedures for their movement passes,” read the letter. However, the situation on the ground presents a different picture and the implementation of the cross-border restrictions has been relaxed. Sub-Inspector Vijay Singh said the volume of traffic had gone up following the opening of the industries, private companies and commercial establishments, making it impossible to check every vehicle. “If the vehicles are stopped for checking, then it leads to long snarls. Also, most of them, anyway, have movement passes or cite medical emergency. Though we try and stop vehicles to make enquiries, it is not possible to carry out the checking all through the day,” said Mr. Singh. The Delhi Police team manning another check-point a few metres behind the Gurugram Police on Delhi-Gurugram Expressway also claimed that the vehicles were not checked throughout the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/no-curbs-on-industries-but-traffic-throttled/article31655545.ece
23 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Workers’ union accuses RWAs of harassing domestic helps||The Gharelu Kamgar Union (GKU) has accused the residents’ welfare associations here of imposing “highly discriminatory and condemnable directives” on domestic workers and has demanded an immediate intervention of the administration into the matter. GKU convener Maya John, in a press statement, said that despite the easing of lockdown, the plight of domestic workers in Gurugram continued. “Several RWAs in the city have allowed the domestic workers to resume work, but such a move comes with highly discriminatory and condemnable directives aimed at purportedly containing the spread of COVID-19 infections,” said the statement. The directives issued by the RWAs bar domestic workers from touching lift buttons and direct the employers to escort domestic workers to and from their respective flats, so that it can be ensured that they do not touch the buttons. Moreover, the guards have been directed to strongly monitor the movement of the domestic workers. “The most appalling directive at many residential societies is mandatory CBC blood test which is required to be done by the domestic workers, though this test is nowhere related to COVID-19. These directives highlight the way domestic workers are repeatedly being harassed by the RWAs,” said the statement. The GKU has sent a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner that was also copied to the Chief Minister of Haryana and the Prime Minister. The GKU demanded that the Gurugram administration should immediately intervene to stop the harassment of domestic workers on trumped up pretexts. It should also ensure that the domestic workers were paid wages for the entire duration of lockdown when the domestic workers were forced out of work, it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/workers-union-accuses-rwas-of-harassing-domestic-helps/article31655547.ece
23 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Extended work hours in Assam tea estates slammed||The All Adivasi Students’ Association of Assam (AASAA) has slammed the Assam government’s decision to extend the daily working hours across the State’s tea gardens from eight to 12 hours. The association said the “draconian” change in the working hours was inhumane, autocratic and pro-planters made on the flawed premise that making plantation workers toil more would fuel productivity. “Apart from undermining the rights of workers and dignity of human life, the decision mocks the struggles of students’ bodies and trade unions over the decades,” AASAA president Pradeep Nag told newspersons at Tangla in Udalguri district.  ‘Withdraw decision’ The Sarbananda Sonowal government must withdraw the decision or face an agitation, he added. The Adivasis, comprising more than 110 communities with origins in central India, are referred to as “tea tribes” in State government documents although they have been demanding the elusive Scheduled Tribe status. Assam also has the “ex-tea tribe”, meaning Adivasis who are no longer associated with plantation work. The two categories of Adivasis together comprise about 20% of Assam’s population and are a major electoral force across at least 35 of 126 Assembly and four of 14 Lok Sabha constituencies. The community was considered loyal to the Congress until a majority of them began switching allegiance to the Bharatiya Janata Party since the 2014 parliamentary polls. Rival Adivasi organisations too have expressed dissatisfaction over the extended working hours. They resented that the stakeholders of the Adivasi society were not taken into confidence while arriving at the decision. Assam had on May 8 followed other BJP-ruled States in approving labour reforms in a bid to boost the economy hit by the COVID-19 lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/extended-work-hours-in-assam-tea-estates-slammed/article31655552.ece
23 May 2020||JAIPUR,||First flight from London lands in Jaipur||The first special international flight from London, carrying 148 Rajasthani expatriates, arrived at Sanganer international airport here on Friday amid strict security measures. The family members stood at the airport’s exit gate to catch a glimpse of their loved ones, as the passengers were whisked away for the mandatory 14-day quarantine. The airport has started operating after almost two months of closure. About 2,000 overseas Indians living in Canada, Russia, Philippines, Kazakhstan, Georgia and Tajikistan are expected to return here by 13 Air India flights till June 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/first-flight-from-london-lands-in-jaipur/article31655555.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||Healthcare employees in city wear black ribbons to work||Doctors working in various hospitals across the city wore black ribbons to work on Friday as a sign of protest against the government’s decision to cancel the 14-day quarantine for all healthcare workers, after they work on COVID-19 duty for the same number of days. A Delhi government order on May 18 had stated: “Regular quarantine of healthcare workers after performing duty in COVID-19 areas is not warranted.” The Delhi government issued the order following a similar central government order on May 15. Before the order, all healthcare workers in the Capital who were on COVID-19 duty were quarantined for 14 days after they had worked for 14 days. ‘Families at risk’ “We have been working hard defying all odds. Cancelling our quarantine is an injustice to our families and even to our community. We need quarantine so that we can work with mental peace without putting our families back home at risk,” a group of healthcare workers at Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital, sporting black ribbons on their arms, said in a video. The Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association India (FORDA) had called for the protest. Shivaji Dev Barman, president of FORDA, said that many patients do not show any symptom and by not quarantining healthcare workers, their family and friends will be exposed to the virus. Dr. Barman said that FORDA had written to the Union Health Minister and the Delhi Health Minister to restore quarantine for all healthcare staff, but neither Minister had responded to them so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/healthcare-employees-in-city-wear-black-ribbons-to-work/article31655540.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fire engulfs over 200 houses in Kirti Nagar||Over 200 houses were gutted in a major fire that broke out at a JJ cluster in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar on Thursday night. Officials said that no casualty was reported in the incident. According to the Delhi Fire Service (DFS), a total of 30 fire tenders were pressed into service. The fire was brought under control and a cooling operation was undertaken following that. “We got a call regarding a fire at a JJ cluster in Kirti Nafar at 11.30 p.m. A team of firefighters rushed to the location and later more staff and engines from other stations had to be pressed into service,” said a DFS official. During the operation, the fire also led to minor explosions of small LPG cylinders. The flames were doused by 3 a.m., the officials said. The cause of the fire was yet to be ascertained, they added. In another incident, a 50-year-old man died after his car caught fire on a flyover in Mangolpuri area here, the police said on Friday. The deceased has been identified as Ram Kishan, a resident of Karala, they said. On Thursday, the police were informed that a car had caught fire on a flyover. The vehicle was later found on a flyover near Kali Mata Mandir, Outer Ring Road, a senior police officer said. The body of the driver was found inside the car. He was declared brought dead after he was rushed to a hospital, the officer said. The vehicle was carrying some plastic material. It has a CNG kit and the cause of fire was yet to be ascertained, they said. A case under relevant sections of the IPC has been registered at Mangolpuri police station and an investigation is under way, the police added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/fire-engulfs-over-200-houses-in-kirti-nagar/article31655544.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Official death toll based on audit panel report’||The difference in the numbers of COVID-19 deaths and burials as reported by the Delhi government and the municipal corporations respectively, may be attributed to the fact that the deaths mentioned in the government’s health bulletin are first certified by a Death Audit Committee, a government official said on Friday. In response to an inquiry by the Health Secretary on the number of cremations or burials that had taken place so far, the North and South Delhi Municipal Corporations, in a submission on May 17, stated that a total of 559 COVID-19 positive and COVID-19 suspected deaths had been processed. Of these, 426 have been identified as COVID-19 positive and 133 as COVID-19 suspected deaths. These categorisations are made based on information provided by hospitals, civic body officials said. On the other hand, as of Friday, the government has only reported 208 deaths from the disease. The total number of deaths reported by the Delhi government has been less than the figures from the hospitals. On May 14, the Delhi government stopped releasing hospital-wise figures for COVID-19 deaths in the city. A government official said that all hospitals sent death reports to a Death Audit Committee appointed by the Delhi government on April 20. “The committee goes through the reports and only the ones that fall into the criteria mentioned in the ICMR [Indian Council of Medical Research] guidelines will be certified as COVID-19 deaths,” the official said. These deaths are mentioned in the health bulletin released by the Delhi government every day. The Delhi government spokesperson did not respond to multiple calls and messages||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/official-death-toll-based-on-audit-panel-report/article31655542.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||Doctor at NDMC HQ tests positive for virus||A doctor working at a dispensary on the ground floor of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) headquarters tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. The doctor is the third NDMC employee to be infected. The dispensary has been sealed and the doctor is under home quarantine, NDMC spokesperson said. “The senior allopathic doctor have been showing symptoms since the last two-three days and he tested positive on Friday. The rest of the NDMC office is functioning,” the spokesperson added. The dispensary had four doctors and about 15 healthcare workers. It catered to NDMC employees as well as the public. “Contact tracing is being done using computer records of the patients who met the doctor. The entire ground floor will be sanitised,” the spokesperson said, adding: “Around 200 people came to consult just two allopathic doctors every day. The doctor could have been infected at the dispensary, but we are looking into it.” The rest of the healthcare workers are asymptomatic and they are under observation, said officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/doctor-at-ndmc-hq-tests-positive-for-virus/article31655546.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea to scrap death audit panel||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to entertain a plea seeking direction to the Delhi government to come out with actual figures related to COVID-19 cases and deaths, and to scrap the death audit committee. The court disposed of the petition filed by All India Lawyer’s Union, asking it to approach the court again at an appropriate time. The petition sought direction to the Delhi government to publish the data related to confirmed COVID-19 cases and deaths, through a daily bulletin every 24 hours, based on the figures being provided by various government and private hospitals in the city. The petition stated that the Delhi government constituted a Death Audit Committee on April 20 and the figures are being released by the committee after collecting the data. It said there was discrepancy between the actual information being provided by various hospitals and figures being released by the Delhi government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/hc-rejects-plea-to-scrap-death-audit-panel/article31655539.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital sees the hottest day of the year||The maximum temperature in Delhi on Friday settled four notches higher than normal for this time of the season, at 43.8 degrees Celsius, making it the hottest day of the year so far. At Palam weather station, the mercury settled a few notches higher at 45.4 degrees Celsius in the afternoon, while the Lodhi Road station recorded a high of 44.4 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature was 23.7 degrees Celsius, three degrees below normal. The temperature led to heatwave-like condition across the city. The Met Department said that temperatures are likely to rise further. The forecast for Saturday reads “possibility of thundery development, gusty winds with heatwave-like conditions. Maximum temperature likely to settle at 44 degrees; minimum at 24 degrees”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-sees-the-hottest-day-of-the-year/article31655548.ece
23 May 2020||Mumbai,||Airport gears up for flights to resume||When airlines resume flights from May 25, only Terminal 2 of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) in Mumbai will be opened up for passengers. Since airlines will be operating just one-third capacity of their aircraft, officials said this would help all stakeholders — airline staff, airport employees and passengers — to follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) without any difficulty. Air India, Air Asia India, IndiGo, SpiceJet and Vistara will resume services from May 25. GoAir, which entirely operates from Terminal I, has opened bookings only from June 1. “All airlines will begin operating from Terminal 2. Thermal screening of passengers at all entry gates will be mandatory before they enter the terminal,” a Mumbai International Airport Limited spokesperson said. CSMIA plans to maintain physical distancing through clear markings ensuring a minimum 1.5 m distance between each passenger. Markings have been made across Terminal 2, and will be made in Terminal 1 too. Airport staff will be deployed at the entry gate, check-in counters, self-check-in kiosks, security checkpoints, food courts, lounge area and the boarding area. Officials said seating arrangements at the food court and terminal building have been reshuffled. As per the SOP issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation, no food will be served on board and consuming eatables on board will also be prohibited since it would require taking off the masks. Water bottles will be placed in the aircraft galley. Mumbai airport will offer food and beverage options to passengers, which will also be available as takeaways. Temporary quarantine centres have been created at the departure visitors’ lounges. On Friday, the airport continued to be sanitised and disinfected. Passengers will be advised to use fewer baggage trolleys, which will be sanitised every four hours.  16 flights to Delhi On Monday, the maximum number of flights from Mumbai will operate to Delhi (16), followed by Bengaluru (11), Chennai (8) and Kolkata (7). Four flights will go to Cochin and one each to Ahmedabad and Goa. Within Maharashtra, two flights will be operated to Nagpur from Mumbai and Delhi each, despite the mayor saying no to flights.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/airport-gears-up-for-flights-to-resume/article31655527.ece
23 May 2020||Mumbai,||Governor acts on ABVP complaint, pulls up State for cancelling exams||A day after the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) wrote to Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari against Higher and Technical Education Minister Uday Samant, the latter on Friday sent a letter to the Chief Minister taking objection to the minister’s communication with the University Grant Commission (UGC) on cancelling final-year exams. The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-affiliated student wing has followed the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party in visiting Raj Bhavan to complain against the State government. Mr. Koshyari, a former BJP leader and RSS volunteer, reacted quickly after the ABVP demanded his intervention on May 21. “Not conducting the final year examinations by the universities amounts to breach of the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines,” he said, in a letter to the CM. He even asked Mr. Thackeray to issue suitable instructions to the minister for his “unwarranted intervention,” which, according to him, was in “violation of UGC guidelines and the relevant provisions of the Maharashtra Public Universitis Act, 2016.” The Governor said the minister did not apprise him before recommending the cancellation of final-year examinations to the UGC. The ABVP is against Mr Samant’s stand of May 17, where he informed the UGC he was not in favour of conducting final-year examinations this year, “considering the pandemic situation in Maharashtra and that the feasibility of conducting the exams of approximately 8 to 10 lakh students across the State and India by maintaining safety protocols seems very challenging.” The ABVP has opposed the minister on the ground that awarding degrees without examinations raises questions over the quality of degrees, universities and education in general. Mr. Koshyari, in his letter, too said it is not “ethical or appropriate” to award degrees to final-year students without conducting their examinations, which is a violation of the Universities Act. The Governor also said that when students received degrees without appearing for examinations, it would have an adverse impact on their higher studies, gradation and employability. The Governor said the Ministry of Home Affairs has granted exemption from the lockdown to State Education Boards, Central Board of Secondary Education and Indian Certificate of secondary education to conduct Standard X and XII exams. He also said the UGC has issued guidelines on lockdown measures covering important dimensions related to examinations, academic calendar and so on, for adoption by universities. Reacting to Mr Koshyari's letter, Mr Samant said that the governor has misunderstood his letter to the UGC. "I have barely conveyed my opinion to the UGC to which I have received no reply yet. We as a government are committed to protect the future of our students. I will personally speak with the Governor to solve the confusion," he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/governor-acts-on-abvp-complaint-pulls-up-state-for-cancelling-exams/article31655532.ece
23 May 2020||Mumbai,||BJP faces brunt of trolls||The Maharashtra unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday faced criticism on social media for organising an agitation against the State government over its alleged failure to check the spread of COVID-19. #MaharashtraDrohiBJP was the top trending hashtag on Twitter. It was started in response to the BJP’s Maharashtra Bachao campaign. Leaders from the Shiv Sena, the Congress and the Nationalist Congress Party criticised the BJP leaders for wearing black masks and holding placards criticising the government. Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray tweeted, “One political party state unit has set a new low and a new world record- the only party in the world to indulge in politics and in spreading fear, hate and division when the world has forgotten all of it to help each other. This party has forgotten the pandemic.” In another tweet, Mr. Thackeray posted a picture of children holding BJP flags and wrote, “Absolutely shameful, what lust for power politics can make leaders do. Making kids stand in the heat, with their masks lowered, not covering the face for a political protest when we need to keep them safe and indoors. Corona ko bhul gaye, politics pyaara hai.” Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the State was using paid trolls to push its agenda. Mr. Fadnavis tweeted, “Maharashtra has highest number of patients and deaths due to corona. The state government is paralysed and live in virtual world.” ‘History will not forget’ Revenue Minister and Maharashtra Congress president Balasaheb Thorat tweeted, “What is the logic behind making Maharashtra a war zone by organising protests at a time when state is fighting the battle against corona? We have our entire lifetime reserved for playing politics. History will never forget BJP’s action today.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bjp-faces-brunt-of-trolls/article31655530.ece
23 May 2020||Mumbai,||HC rejects professor Saibaba’s parole plea||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Friday rejected the application filed by former Delhi University professor G.N. Saibaba seeking parole to meet his terminally ill mother. Professor Saibaba, who is wheelchair-bound, is serving a life sentence at Nagpur jail for his alleged Maoist links. The application was filed by the professor’s brother on his behalf. Senior advocate Mihir Desai, appearing for professor Saibaba, said the application was filed on April 2, but the jail authorities rejected it on April 24 saying that his brother and wife are taking care of his mother. The authorities also said his mother lives in a containment zone, that professor Saibaba is likely to abscond if granted parole, and that he is convicted under an anti-terror law. A Division Bench of Justices R.K. Deshpande and Amit Borkar rejected the plea primarily because the place in Hyderabad he intends to visit has been declared a containment zone. The court granted him liberty to apply for parole once again after the area is declared free of COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-rejects-professor-saibabas-parole-plea/article31655535.ece
23 May 2020||Mumbai,||Start helpline for pregnant women: HC to State, BMC||The Bombay High Court on Friday asked the Maharashtra government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to consider starting a separate helpline for pregnant women after the lockdown ends. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Dutta and Justice S.S. Shinde gave the direction while hearing a petition where a pregnant woman was refused admission to JJ Hospital and denied admission in Dholkawala Hospital on April 27 because she did not have a report which certified her to be COVID-19-negative. The court was informed that the woman was refused admission in two other hospitals as well as a maternity home, following which she delivered a child at home with the help of a midwife. The petition sought directions to the State and BMC to set up appropriate measures to handle cases related to pregnant women. The State, however, refuted the petition saying five pregnant women were admitted to the hospital since April 27 and that there had been no slip-up on its part in attending to them. The BMC said it had a COVID-19 helpline. The petitioners, however, demanded a separate helpline for pregnant women, to which the BMC submitted that it would not be possible as there is a shortage of staff, with a dozen doctors working in three shifts on the COVID-19 helpline. Senior counsel Anil Sakhare appearing for BMC said the helpline number (1916) is provided for all patients, including pregnant women. The court said, subject to the situation improving, the corporation may explore the possibility of providing an exclusive helpline for pregnant women. The court disposed of the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/start-helpline-for-pregnant-women-hc-to-state-bmc/article31655536.ece
23 May 2020||Mumbai,||Plea against burials near residential areas rejected||The Bombay High Court on Friday dismissed a petition challenging a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) circular on burial of COVID-19 patients in cemetries close to thickly populated residential areas. The petition by Bandra residents claimed there was a high chance of contamination if the bodies of these patients were buried in cemeteries close to residential areas. The circular, dated April 9, had identified 20 burial grounds. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Dutta and Justice S.S. Shinde dismissed the petition and said there was no scientific proof to support the apprehension of the petitioners that the novel coronavirus could spread through cadavers. The Bench also took into consideration the arguments by advocate Pratap Nimbalkar representing Navpada Masjid, and Santacruz Golibar Dargah Trust — which manages private Muslim cemeteries — and the replies filed by the State government and the BMC. Isolated spots identified Mr. Nimbalkar informed the High Court that all precautions were taken by the Trust, and it had identified isolated spots. The State said burial at the cemeteries was not likely to spread the virus in the vicinity, and quoted a WHO report to say, “WHO has declared that the novel coronavirus is not air-bound, and hence, transmission of the virus from burial ground to people living in the vicinity is highly impossible”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/plea-against-burials-near-residential-areas-rejected/article31655538.ece
23 May 2020||Mumbai,||Video shows no physical distancing on special train||A video, supposed to have been shot on a workmen’s special local, and showing passengers not maintaining physical distancing, went viral on Friday. While authorities refused to comment on the video, railway unions said staff had complained to them about crowding. The Railways have been running workmen’s special trains for staff during the lockdown by attaching a light engine to passenger coaches. Since Thursday, local trains have also been run for staff.S hivaji Sutar, Chief Public Relations Officer, CR, said they were looking into the matter. “We are not in a position to comment on the video as we have not authenticated it,” he said. The video shows a compartment with all seats occupied and many standing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/video-shows-no-physical-distancing-on-special-train/article31655528.ece
23 May 2020||Pune,||Announce Rs. 50,000 crore relief package for daily wagers: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State unit president Chandrakant Patil on Friday demanded a Rs. 50,000-crore relief package for daily wage earners hit by the lockdown from the State government. Mr. Patil also expressed dissatisfaction with the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for failing to curb the spread of COVID-19. “Along the lines of the package announced by the Centre, the State government should also declare a big package to provide relief to daily wagers like autorickshaw drivers, domestic helps and others whose activities have come to a standstill owing to the lockdown. So far, the State has not given a single rupee to daily wage earners,” said Mr. Patil, at the party’s ‘Mera Angan, Mera Ranangan (my home, my battlefield) – Save Maharashtra’ campaign. Protest in strongholds Mr. Patil, who wore a black mask as a symbol of protest, took out a demonstration in his hometown of Kolhapur. Other BJP leaders, including Eknath Khadse, participated in the protest in their respective strongholds and held placards criticising the State’s performance. Senior BJP leader and Pune MP Girish Bapat claimed his party was not interested in playing politics during a pandemic, but held the State government responsible for failing to control the spike in cases. He said, “We had not launched a single agitation against the government for the last two months since the start of the outbreak. We will continue to cooperate with the government. However, as elected representatives, it our duty to point out loopholes in handling this crisis and give them direction.” Denying that there was a political colour to their protest, Mr. Bapat said the government had not yet announced any relief measures for daily wagers and demanded a monthly subsidy of Rs. 10,000 for them. Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol and Pune BJP unit chief Jagdish Mulik attributed the failure to check the rise in cases to an alleged lack of coordination between the city’s top authorities. However, the BJP, with over 100 corporators, has absolute majority in the municipal corporation. ‘Ludicrous allegations’ Ramesh Iyer, Pune city Congress general secretary and party spokesperson, said, “Mr. Bapat’s statements on the civic administration’s failure is ludicrous as the BJP dominates the civic body. Is the MP saying that his party colleagues are inefficient?” Mr. Iyer wanted to know why the BJP remained silent so long and had launched an agitation at this critical moment. He said, “What has been Mr. Bapat’s contribution in checking the spread of the virus within Pune city? Despite being Pune MP, he was nowhere to be seen, and has woken up after 60 days. Why hasn’t he been helping the State government and local authorities by coordinating with the Centre?” Mr. Iyer said senior BJP leaders had rarely ventured out to take stock of the situation in Pune’s red zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/announce-rs-50000-crore-relief-package-for-daily-wagers-bjp/article31655534.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||China scraps GDP target, hikes defence spending||China has for the first time in 30 years scrapped announcing an annual GDP target, underlining the severe economic challenge facing the world’s second largest economy in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We have not set a specific target for economic growth for the year, mainly because the global epidemic situation, and economic and trade situation, are very uncertain, and China’s development is facing some unpredictable factors,” Premier Li Keqiang said on Friday at the start of the annual session of the National People’s Congress (NPC), or Parliament. The NPC, scheduled for March 5, had been delayed on account of the COVID-19 outbreak. The NPC’s 3,000 or so legislators, barring the top leadership of the Communist Party, attended the session in Beijing’s Great Hall of the People wearing masks. The holding of the NPC has been seen in China as reflecting a return to some normalcy after more than three months of lockdown following the outbreak in Wuhan. The country still faces enormous economic challenges, confronting a slowdown at home and a collapse of external demand. China’s economy contracted by 6.8% in the first quarter, the first contraction since the end of the Cultural Revolution in 1976. Mr. Li said rather than a target for growth, the focus would be on “ensuring stability on the six fronts and security in the six areas”. The “six fronts” were employment, the financial sector, foreign trade, foreign investment, domestic investment, and expectations, while the “six areas” referred to job security, basic living needs, operations of market entities, food and energy security, stable industrial and supply chains, and the normal functioning of primary-level governments. The policy priority this year will be on job creation, with reports of widespread job losses during the first quarter. Mr. Li announced a target for 9 million new jobs in 2020. Modernisation of PLA China on Friday also announced it would hike defence spending by 6.6%, down from 7.5% last year. This would bring the proposed military budget to around $179 billion. Much of the spending will fund the ongoing modernisation of the People’s Liberation Army (PLA), and particularly on the expansion of the PLA Navy and the PLA Rocket Force, which have been garnering an increasing share. The Army has been downsized by 300,000 with a current active force of around 2 million. Last year, China unveiled its first homegrown aircraft carrier, while two more are in construction. China in 2019 also unveiled its most advanced intercontinental ballistic missile, the Dongfeng-41, with an estimated 14,000 km range, capable of reaching the U.S. “The modernisation process has been on track,” said Lt. Gen. S.L. Narasimhan, Member, National Security Advisory Board. “This is a good hike given the performance of the economy.” This year’s budget will lift China’s spending to around four times India’s budget of $44 billion, excluding pensions of $18 billion. While China does not specify the spending on pensions, the expense is shared by the Ministry of Veteran Affairs as well as provincial governments. Compared with India, China also spends less on defence imports given its indigenous defence industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-scraps-gdp-target-hikes-defence-spending/article31655207.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||New security law will tighten Beijing’s grip on Hong Kong||A draft legislation on national security tabled before China’s Parliament on Friday will for the first time allow Beijing to draft national security laws for Hong Kong and also operate its national security organs in the Special Administrative Region (SAR). The draft law, expected to be passed next week by the National People’s Congress in Beijing, has been criticised by democratic parties in Hong Kong as undermining the “one country, two systems” model that gives the SAR a high degree of autonomy. Article 23 Since the return to China in 1997, Hong Kong has been governed by the Basic Law, which allows the territory “to enjoy executive, legislative and independent judicial power, including that of final adjudication”, barring matters of defence and foreign affairs. Article 23 of the Basic Law requires Hong Kong to pass national security legislation, but past attempts to do so were shelved when the moves triggered wide protests. The new legislation will require Hong Kong’s Legislative Council (LegCo) to pass legislation “as soon as possible”, although it does not specify a time-frame. More importantly, it will likely allow Beijing to bypass LegCo if it chooses to, declaring that the NPC’s Standing Committee “is authorised to draft laws related to the establishment and completion of... the legal system and enforcement mechanisms for the preservation of national security”. Necessary measures The new legislation said the move is aimed at “preserving national security” and called on Hong Kong “to employ necessary measures to counter, lawfully prevent, stop and punish foreign and overseas forces’ use of Hong Kong to carry out separatist, subversive, infiltrative, or destructive activities.” The law will also for the first time allow China’s national security organs to formally operate in Hong Kong. Paragraph four states that organs “relevant for the protection of national security are to set up institutions” in Hong Kong. Martin Lee, a leading pro-democracy politician and barrister who helped draft the Basic Law in the 1980s, said the legislation was a contravention of the “one country, two systems” model as envisioned by Deng Xiaoping. “The Basic Law makes it quite clear that only LegCo can make and repeal laws. Beijing is afraid that the Hong Kong legislature may be controlled by democrats after elections in September, so they want to set a dangerous precedent of allowing Beijing to legislate for Hong Kong,” he said at a Heritage Foundation webinar. “When they lose control of the legislature, they can still pass laws. This is against the Basic Law, no doubt about it. Under Xi Jinping’s ‘one country, two systems’, the Communist Party will have complete administrative power over Hong Kong. This is the exact opposite of what was promised.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/new-security-law-will-tighten-beijings-grip-on-hong-kong/article31655209.ece
23 May 2020||Tehran,||Fight to liberate Palestine is Islamic duty: Iran’s Khamenei||Iran’s supreme leader said it was an “Islamic duty” to fight for the “liberation of Palestine” in a landmark speech on Friday amid rising tensions with regional arch-enemy Israel. Ayatollah Ali Khamenei lashed out at Western governments and their Arab “puppets” for supporting the Jewish state, in his first ever address marking Quds (Jerusalem) Day. The 80-year-old leader also appeared to confirm for the first time that Iran has helped to provide Palestinians with arms. The remarks came at the end of a week that saw Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu launch a Twitter tirade against Mr. Khamenei and reports that the two sides carried out cyberattacks on each other. “The aim of this struggle is the liberation of the entire Palestinian land” and “the return of all Palestinians to their country,” Mr. Khamenei said on state television. “The policy of normalising the presence of the Zionist regime in the region is one of the major policies of the U.S.,” he said. “Some Arab governments in the region, which play the role of U.S. puppets, have provided the necessary preconditions for this, such as economic ties and the like; these efforts are completely fruitless and sterile.” “Everyone must fill the hand of the Palestinian fighter and strengthen his back...We will proudly do our best in this way.” “One day we realised that the only problem of the Palestinian fighter... was the lack of weapons.” “We planned” to resolve this issue, and “the result is that the balance of power in Palestine has changed: today Gaza can stand up to the Zionist enemy’s military aggression and win.” Every year since the 1979 Islamic Revolution, Iran has marked Quds Day on the last Friday of Ramzan in solidarity with the Palestinians.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fight-to-liberate-palestine-is-islamic-duty-irans-khamenei/article31655200.ece
23 May 2020||Cairo,||In stunning reversal of fortunes, Turkey emerges as kingmaker in Libya||A string of victories by Turkish-backed forces in western Libya this week dealt a heavy blow to the ambitions of aspiring strongman Khalifa Haftar and signaled the arrival of Turkey as a potentially decisive force among the foreign powers battling for supremacy in West Asia’s biggest proxy war. On Monday, Libyan fighters backed by Turkish firepower captured a major air base west of Tripoli, the capital, used drones to destroy newly arrived Russian air defense batteries, and on Thursday pressed their offensive by ousting Mr. Haftar’s forces from a key town south of Tripoli. The triumphs marked a stunning reversal of fortunes for the UN-backed Tripoli government, which looked weak and badly besieged by Mr. Haftar until President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey sent troops and armed drones in January. “It’s Turkey’s Libya Now,” read the headline on a briefing posted by the European Council on Foreign Relations. Over a year ago, Mr. Haftar began an offensive to capture Tripoli and appeared to have the upper hand in the conflict, positioning his foreign sponsors, including Russia, to play a major role in Libya’s future. But on Wednesday, triumphant soldiers loyal to the government in Tripoli paraded through central Libya with a captured air defense system, built by Russia and financed by the United Arab Emirates, in a pointed humiliation of Mr. Haftar’s two most powerful foreign backers. Then, on Thursday, Mr. Haftar’s forces were driven out of Asaba, a small but strategic town they had held 60 miles outside the capital. The U.N. envoy to Libya, Stephanie Williams, warned the Security Council this week that the escalating fighting, driven by a flood of foreign-supplied weapons, warplanes and mercenaries, risked “turning the Libyan conflict into a pure proxy war”. Although Turkey’s dramatic gains this week appeared to change the course of the war, they were by no means conclusive. The fortunes of the players in the conflict have seesawed wildly since the fall of dictator Muammar Qadhafi in 2011. On Thursday, Mr. Haftar, 76, a self-styled field marshal and onetime CIA asset who has been compared by critics to Mr. Qadhafi, vowed to strike back with what his air force chief called “the largest aerial campaign in Libyan history” against Turkish targets in Tripoli. “All Turkish positions and interests in all cities are legitimate targets for our air force jets,” the air force chief, Saqr al-Jaroushi, said. In reality, Mr. Haftar’s next move will be determined by his sponsors in Moscow, Cairo and Abu Dhabi, where the leaders, who have backed his 14-month-old assault on Tripoli which has killed hundreds of civilians and displaced 400,000 people, were scrambling to assess their support for a stubborn ally who has repeatedly spurned political talks. Fathi Bashagha, the Tripoli government’s Interior Minister, told Bloomberg on Thursday that eight Soviet-era jets, escorted by two newer Russian fighter jets, had flown from a base in Syria to boost Mr. Haftar. A European official said he had received similar reports, but said it was unclear if the jets were Russian or Syrian. Any overt Russian military action would be a significant escalation for Moscow, which until now has exerted influence in Libya through mercenaries from the Wagner Group, the private army with close links to the Kremlin that played a key role in Mr. Haftar’s advance on Tripoli last fall. The European official said that the jets were most likely a signal from the Kremlin to Turkey to slow down its offensive and turn to a negotiated solution.    The victories by the Turkish-backed forces have given them air superiority over Tripoli, and have left Mr. Haftar’s forces in western Libya with just one final stronghold in Tarhouna, southeast of the capital. “We’ve had quite a change in the military balance,” said Wolfram Lacher, a Libya specialist at the German Institute for International and Security Affairs. “Taken together, this could have dramatic consequences for the morale of Haftar’s forces, and for the cohesion of his alliance.”NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/in-stunning-reversal-of-fortunes-turkey-emerges-as-kingmaker-in-libya/article31655211.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Will exit Open Skies Treaty, announces U.S.||The U.S. has given notice that it will exit the Open Skies Treaty (OST), an agreement that allows countries to monitor signatories’ arms development by conducting surveillance flights over each other’s territories. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who announced the withdrawal, said Russia had “continuously and flagrantly” violated the treaty. U.S. President Donald Trump said the deal could be amended or a new one could be made. “I think we have a very good relationship with Russia. But Russia didn’t adhere to the treaty, so until they adhere, we will pull out. But there’s a very good chance we’ll make a new agreement or do something to put that agreement back together,” he said on Thursday. The idea behind the OST, first proposed in the early years of the Cold War by former U.S. President Dwight Eisenhower, came to fruition decades later and was signed in 1992, during the George H.W. Bush presidency and after the Soviet Union had collapsed. The OST came into effect in 2002 under the George W. Bush administration and it allows its 34 signatories to conduct unarmed reconnaissance flights over the territory of treaty countries. The U.S. has used the treaty more intensively than Russia. Between 2002 and 2016, the U.S. flew 196 flights over Russia (in addition to having imagery from other countries) compared to the 71 flights flown by Russia, as per a BBC report. Chris Ford, a senior U.S. diplomat for non-proliferation, also cited changes to the security environment as a reason for the U.S. exiting the OST. The U.S.’s exit last year from another arms deal the West had signed with Russia — the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) treaty — as well as its imminent departure from the OST has raised the strong possibility that the Trump administration may not renew the New Start Treaty, an agreement signed by the Obama administration with Russia that caps Russian and U.S. nuclear arsenal. The New Start Treaty is due to expire next February. The Trump administration has been worried that extending New Start would negatively impact an arms deal with China and Russia. The State Department told the U.S. Congress earlier this year that it is concerned that China’s nuclear stockpile could be doubled if the New Start Treaty continued as is, without including China, as per a report in Foreign Policy magazine. Marshall Billingslea, the Trump administration’s Special Envoy for Arms Control, said, on Thursday, that the New Start Treaty suffered from “some serious verification inadequacies”, and that the U.S. intended to establish a new arms control regime which would include China. Meanwhile, Russia said it would continue to honour its commitments under the treaty. “As long as the treaty is in force, we intend to fully follow all the rights and obligations that apply to us,” Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Grushko told RIA Novosti news agency.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/will-exit-open-skies-treaty-announces-us/article31655214.ece
23 May 2020||Riyadh,||Sons of Khashoggi ‘forgive’ his killers||The sons of murdered Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi said on Friday they “forgive” the killers of their father, a move analysts said effectively grants clemency to five convicts on death row. Khashoggi — a royal family insider turned critic — was killed and dismembered at the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul in October 2018, in a case that tarnished the reputation of de facto ruler Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. The pardon is expected to spare the lives of five unnamed people sentenced to death over the murder in a December court ruling, which was lambasted by human rights groups after two top aides to the crown prince were exonerated. “On this holy night of this blessed month (of Ramzan)... we the sons of martyr Jamal Khashoggi announce we forgive and pardon those who killed our father,” the Washington Post columnist’s son Salah Khashoggi said on Twitter.     The announcement drew anger from Khashoggi’s fiancee Hatice Cengiz, who said “no one” had the right to pardon his murderers. “We will not pardon the killers nor those who ordered the killing.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/sons-of-khashoggi-forgive-his-killers/article31655202.ece
23 May 2020||Beijing,||China seeks India’s support for legislation||China has sought the support and understanding of India and other countries for its controversial decision to impose a new national security law on Hong Kong, saying the new draft legislation is aimed at containing the “secessionist” forces in the former British colony who have posed a “grave threat” to the country’s national security and sovereignty. In an apparent move to blunt any international backlash, China has sent demarches to India and other countries, explaining the reason for the draft legislation with a reminder that “upholding national security” in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region is “purely China’s internal affair and no foreign country can interfere in this matter”. “Hong Kong’s prosperity and long-term stability is in line with the common interests of the whole international community, including your country, as well as protection of your country’s legitimate interests in Hong Kong. “We hope that your government will understand and support China’s relevant practices,” it said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-seeks-indias-support-for-legislation/article31655212.ece
23 May 2020||Washington,||Trump slams studies that contradict him||“A Trump enemy statement,” he said of one study. “A political hit job,” he said of another. As President Donald Trump pushes to reopen the country despite warnings from doctors about the consequences of moving too quickly during the coronavirus crisis, he has been lashing out at scientists whose conclusions he doesn’t like. Twice this week, Mr. Trump has not only dismissed the findings of studies but suggested — without evidence — that their authors were motivated by politics and out to undermine his efforts to roll back restrictions. One of the studies, funded in part by his own government’s National Institutes of Health, raised alarms about the use of hydroxychloroquine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-slams-studies-that-contradict-him/article31655205.ece
23 May 2020||Washington,||Washington, May 22, 2020 (AFP) -||Investigators in the southern U.S. state of Georgia have arrested a man who filmed the fatal shooting of the black jogger, Ahmaud Arbery. The man was charged with felony murder and criminal attempt to commit false imprisonment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/washington-may-22-2020-afp/article31655204.ece
23 May 2020||Yangon,||Yangon, May 22, 2020 (AFP) -||A Myanmar news editor has been jailed for two years after his agency reported a COVID death that turned out to be false, his lawyer said on Friday. Chief editor Zaw Ye Htet was arrested on April 13, the day his news agency published the article.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/yangon-may-22-2020-afp/article31655215.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A ‘model State’ under great strain||On May 15, in the wee hours of the morning, the Ahmedabad police stumbled upon a body at the Danilimda BRTS stand. They took it to V.S. Hospital for an autopsy which revealed that Gunvant Makwana, 67, was a COVID-19-positive patient. Five days earlier, Makwana had developed a fever, cold and a cough. His family got him admitted to the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. The family said they learnt from the daily medical bulletin issued by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on May 13 that Makwana had tested positive for COVID-19. Makwana was discharged two days later as he had mild symptoms. He was asked to remain under home quarantine. How he turned up dead at a bus stop close to his home remains a mystery. The police said they told his son, Kirti Makwana, to collect his father’s body when the autopsy was completed. The family said they had no idea about his condition until then. Gujarat’s largest COVID-19 hospital, with a capacity of 2,000 beds, had not informed them that Makwana was being discharged, they said. “We came to know only from the police that he had passed away. We had no contact with him after he was admitted on May 10,” said Kirti. The tragic incident caused outrage in the State, which has reported over 12,000 COVID-19 cases and over 750 deaths. Under fire for the apparent mismanagement by the State health authorities, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani ordered a probe into the matter by a senior bureaucrat. However, this was not the first such incident. Earlier, on April 20, around 25 COVID-19 patients were forced to spend hours on a street after they were denied admission into the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital, prompting the Gujarat government to rush senior health officials there to resolve the matter. One of the patients, a woman, posted their story on social media. She said they had been waiting for hours without food to get admitted after testing positive for the virus. When the video was shared widely, officials rushed to the spot and promptly admitted the patients. They cited discrepancies in case papers for admission, which they said had made data entry a problem. On May 11, 44-year-old Umesh Tamaicha was admitted in the Civil Hospital after testing positive for COVID-19. Early morning on May 16, Tamaicha succumbed to the infection, but his family was informed about his death only about 10 hours after he died. “We were told about his death only in the evening. Till then, we had no idea about the treatment given to him and how and when his condition deteriorated,” said Kalpana, Tamaicha’s sister. The family did not receive his watch and mobile phone — both were allegedly stolen after his death. This too had happened at the hospital earlier — a woman’s gold jewellery, cash and mobile phone were all allegedly stolen after her death. Such horror stories have become routine at the Civil Hospital as the Gujarat government grapples with the pandemic. The State, touted as a “model of development” by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, is facing its worst crisis in recent memory. Preparing for ‘Namaste Trump’ On March 17, Ahmedabad recorded its first COVID-19 case. By the end of the month, the city had recorded fewer than 30 cases and three deaths. But since then, in just two months, the city, with a population of about 6.5 million, has recorded 9,724 cases and 645 deaths. Despite stringent lockdown measures in the city, the deadly virus has spread quickly. Over the last three weeks, about 250 cases have been reported daily in Ahmedabad. Though it is the second hardest hit city in India by the pandemic (the first being Mumbai) in terms of total cases and fatalities, in absolute numbers Ahmedabad’s mortality rate is nearly 6.5%, which is almost double the national average. In Gujarat, Ahmedabad accounts for nearly 74% of the total cases and 80% of the total fatalities. While the rapidly rising number of infections and deaths is a matter of concern for the people in Gandhinagar as well as in New Delhi, what is of particular concern is that the virus has spread through the lower-income areas in the walled city. Political events in Gujarat in February and March indicate that the State and civic authorities perhaps underestimated the ferocity of the pathogen in striking Ahmedabad in the initial phase of the outbreak. In late February, weeks before the pandemic gripped the city, there were frenzied preparations for the high-profile visit of U.S. President Donald Trump to Ahmedabad. A mega event, ‘Namaste Trump’, was scheduled at the Motera Stadium where President Trump and Prime Minister Modi were to address a crowd of 1.25 lakh people. The entire State government machinery and the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation were tasked with making arrangements for the ‘Namaste Trump’ event, scheduled on February 24. They spent half of January and the whole of February preparing for the President’s visit. This was despite the fact that nearly a month earlier, on January 30, the World Health Organization (WHO) had declared COVID-19 as a ‘public health emergency of international concern’. It was only on March 5, 10 days after Trump’s visit, that the Gujarat government woke up to the potential health crisis and announced its plan to combat COVID-19. According to the plan, the civic body and the State Health Department were to work together and screen people coming from abroad. Gradually, the ambit of screening was widened to include domestic passengers. Screening meant measuring a person’s temperature using a thermal infrared thermometer. From March 6 to March 22, as many as 6,000 passengers arrived at Ahmedabad airport. All of them were screened. Those who landed after March 15 were asked to remain quarantined at home for two weeks. A political drama unfolds During this month, however, the State government was preoccupied with something else. The Assembly was in session for the Budget and was to convene 26 times between February 24 and March 31. In addition, Rajya Sabha elections for four seats from the State were scheduled to be held on March 26. According to the numbers then, the Bharatiya Janata Party was expected to retain two of the three seats it held, while the Congress was set to increase its tally from one seat to two. Despite being short of numbers, the BJP was determined to retain all the three seats. Within a few days, five Congress MLAs resigned from the House, forcing the Opposition party to take its remaining MLAs to neighbouring Rajasthan to prevent poaching by the ruling party. While a potential healthcare crisis loomed on the horizon, a political drama began to unfold in the State. Just days before the first COVID-19 case was reported in Ahmedabad, the Gujarat government declared the virus an epidemic under the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897. As a precautionary measure, the government decided to shut all schools, colleges and educational institutions, swimming pools and multiplexes for two weeks starting from March 16. However, on March 14, two days after the WHO declared COVID-19 a pandemic, the Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare), Jayanti Ravi, told the media in Gandhinagar: “There is no epidemic. It is only a provision for legal empowerment for preventive action and empowerment.” On March 13, the Opposition party leader in the State Assembly, Paresh Dhanani, demanded that the government adjourn the Assembly session indefinitely as the COVID-19 threat was becoming worse. However, the government rejected the demand and continued the Assembly proceedings till March 23. During this period, there was barely any presence from the Opposition party as it had flown its legislators to Jaipur to prevent them from being poached. By the time the government finally adjourned the Assembly on March 23, the number of cases had started growing. Infections in the walled city According to a top medical practitioner in the city, while the authorities mainly focused on people returning from abroad, Ahmedabad was receiving its routine flow of visitors from Mumbai, Indore, Delhi and other places either by train or by road. “No one in the government at the State level or in the civic body could gauge the threat posed by inter-State travellers as potential virus carriers,” he said. By mid-April, the city had 350 confirmed cases of which 27 had come to the State through domestic travel and 15 through international. The rest were local transmissions in the lower-income areas which are thickly populated and highly congested. Many of these cases were traced to the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz held in Nizamuddin in Delhi. Highly congested localities such as Jamalpur, Raikhad, Saraspur, Shahpur, Dariapur, Danilimda, Behrampura and Asarva have emerged as major hotspots. These areas are mainly populated by poorer sections. Physical distancing is impossible in these areas. To make matters worse, rumours began spreading on social media and in these localities that the National Register of Citizens exercise was being carried out in the name of testing for COVID-19. Fear that had gripped these localities last year only grew deeper. People turned suspicious. Ahmedabad Municipal Commissioner Vijay Nehra, who was later transferred to the post of Commissioner, Rural Development, soon after the Centre reportedly censured the Chief Minister for failing to control the rapid spread of the virus, took the help of leaders such as Jamalpur MLA Imran Khedawala, Dariapur MLA Gyasuddin Sheikh, and Behrampura Municipal Councillor Badaruddin Sheikh to persuade community members to get tested. These leaders along with the health workers and medical teams of the civic body repeatedly visited societies and homes to track people with illnesses in order to get them tested. Consequently, Khedawala himself tested positive and recovered from the infection after a few days, while Sheikh, who also tested positive, succumbed to COVID-19. The entire walled city was declared a buffer zone and cordoned off. There was heavy deployment of police and paramilitary personnel. As the infection numbers surged, Nehra, who had adopted an intensive testing strategy as part of the containment strategy, warned on April 24 that the city may have as many as 8 lakh cases by the end of May. His statement created a flutter in Gandhinagar, prompting the Chief Minister to assure the people that the situation was under control. Delays in containing the spread However, on May 5, the situation turned alarming when the State reported as many as 441 cases and 49 deaths. In Ahmedabad alone there were 349 cases and 39 deaths. Sensing that things were spiralling out of control, the Centre directed the Rupani administration to quickly bring matters under control. The State government appointed Additional Chief Secretary Rajiv Kumar Gupta to supervise, monitor and coordinate works related to COVID-19 in the city. Another senior bureaucrat, Mukesh Kumar from Gandhinagar, was brought in to be the Municipal Commissioner since Nehra had to be placed under quarantine at home after coming in contact with an infected person. Chief Secretary Anil Mukim and Prime Minister Modi’s point person in Gujarat, K. Kailashnathan, rushed from Gandhinagar to the municipal corporation to take stock of the situation. Additionally, Chief Minister Rupani also made a statement that “Ahmedabad was his top priority” and requested Union Home Minister Amit Shah to send a team of experts from AIIMS to Ahmedabad. However, on the ground there is ample evidence that there were delays in containing the spread of the virus. Since April 30, fruit and vegetable vendors, shopkeepers and salesmen at grocery markets were identified, but screening and testing on a mass scale was done only after Gupta was roped in by the State administration. On May 16, the government said that out of 35,000 people identified as ‘super spreaders’, approximately 6,500 were tested. Of them, 709 were found to be infected. Earlier, around 350 ‘super spreaders’ had tested positive. In all, over 1,000 ‘super spreaders’ have tested positive indicating that there is a serious problem. Second, it was only on May 6 that the civic body ordered all private clinics, nursing homes and hospitals to open in the next 48 hours or lose their licence, to allow screening and checking of people. “More than 60% of those dying of COVID-19 have co-morbidities like diabetes, hypertension and heart-related ailments,” Principal Secretary Ravi said. “Co-morbidities and delayed hospitalisation due to late diagnosis have played havoc as more than 25% of those who died succumbed to the infection within two days of hospitalisation,” said an infectious disease expert who is on the panel of experts of the State government. Burden on government hospitals Ahmedabad had imposed stringent lockdown measures. It shut down all essential services except milk parlours and pharmacies when the number of cases began increasing. But the burden of tackling the rising numbers, like everywhere else in India, has fallen on government hospitals. The Ahmedabad Civil Hospital became the primary hospital for COVID-19 treatment in the city. Plagued by mismanagement and lack of adequate staff, both doctors and paramedical, the hospital has recorded almost 50% of the State’s total deaths due to COVID-19. “Senior doctors have stayed away from treating COVID-19 patients as they fear contracting the virus. So, the entire burden is on resident doctors, juniors and paramedical staff,” a doctor at the hospital said. Subsequently, testing was reduced substantially despite the rising number of cases. “The positivity rate in Ahmedabad is more than 20%. This means 20% of the total samples test positive. That’s massive,” said the infectious disease expert. He recommended enhancing testing to gauge the magnitude of the epidemic in the city. When Kalpana’s brother Umesh Tamaicha tested positive, the family said it had to force the health authorities to test his wife and two daughters. “Umesh’s wife tested positive and we admitted her in a private hospital. One daughter also contracted the infection but she is quarantined at home. Thankfully both are asymptomatic,” said Kalpana. Similarly, when a local Congress leader, Habib Mev, died of COVID-19, his family too said they had to beg the municipal authorities to get tested. Right now, the city’s main COVID-19 centres have nearly reached their capacity. Private hospitals requisitioned under the Epidemic Diseases Act are at loggerheads with the municipal authorities about charges fixed by the administration for providing treatment to the infected persons. The days ahead will be extremely crucial for the city as lockdown measures are being relaxed everywhere except in containment zones.  We came to know only from the police that he had passed away. We had no contact with him after he was admitted on May 10 Kirti Makwana Son of Gunvant Makwana who was COVID-19 positive and found dead at a bus stop   Co-morbidities and delayed hospitalisation due to late diagnosis have played havoc as more than 25% of those who died succumbed to the infection within two days of hospitalisation. Infectious diseases expert||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-model-state-under-great-strain/article31655198.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Lower the temperature, defuse the issue||The inauguration of a road from Dharchula to Lipu Lekh (China border) by India’s Defence Minister Rajnath Singh (an event over videoconferencing on May 8) has now been followed by Nepal’s charge claiming that the stretch passes though Nepalese territory. This road follows the traditional pilgrim route for the Kailash-Mansarovar yatra. This is an arduous walk, which I did in 1981, the year the yatra re-started after about 25 years, when India and China agreed to reopen the pilgrim route via Lipu Lekh. The conversion of the trekking route to a metalled road is a boon to both pilgrims and traders. Explaining Nepal’s stand The controversy has given Nepal’s Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli an opportunity to hide his government’s incompetence and failure to meet the basic needs of the people, and to divert attention away from the rising tide of opposition from within his own party. His intemperate remarks in the Nepalese Parliament are best ignored in the interest of preserving India-Nepal ties. Nepal deployed its armed police at Chharung, close to Kalapani, in its Sudoor Paschim. While there is nothing untoward in deploying the armed police, whose mandate is to man the borders of Nepal, it is the manner and timing of the deployment that raised eyebrows in New Delhi. The Nepalese contingent was dropped to the location by helicopters, very visibly. The Indo-Tibetan Border Police is also located in Kalapani since it is close to the India-China border. Indian forces are not there because of Nepal. The Nepalese government has raised the stakes further and has made a negotiated settlement more complex by authorising a new map extending its territory across an area sensitive for India’s defence.  The Sugauli Treaty The boundary delineation has a long history. Before the 1816 Treaty of Sugauli, the Nepalese kingdom stretched from the Sutlej river in the west to the Teesta river in the East. Nepal lost the Anglo-Nepalese War and the resulting Treaty limited Nepal to its present territories. The Sugauli Treaty stated that “[t]he Rajah of Nipal [Nepal] hereby cedes to the Honourable [the] East India Company in perpetuity all the under-mentioned territories”, including “the whole of the lowlands between the Rivers Kali and Rapti.” It elaborated further that “[t]he Rajah of Nipal [Nepal] renounces for himself, his heirs, and successors, all claim to or connection with the countries lying to the west of the River Kali and engages never to have any concern with those countries or the inhabitants there of.” The present controversy has arisen since the Nepalese contest that the tributary that joins the Mahakali river at Kalapani is not the Kali river. Nepal now contends that the Kali river lies further west to the Lipu Lekh pass. The British used the Lipu Lekh pass for trade with Tibet and China. The Survey of India maps since the 1870s showed the area of Lipu Lekh down to Kalapani as part of British India. Both the Rana rulers of Nepal and the Nepalese Kings accepted the boundary and did not raise any objection with the government of India after India’s Independence. As a reward for the military help rendered by Jung Bahadur Rana in quelling the 1857 uprising, the areas of Nepalgunj and Kapilvastu were restituted to Nepal soon thereafter. The British did not return any part of Garhwal or Kumaon, including the Kalapani area, to Nepal. India did not exist in 1816 when the Treaty of Sugauli was concluded. And India’s present borders, not just with Nepal, but with many of its other neighbours, were drawn by the erstwhile British regime. India inherited the boundaries of British India. It cannot now unravel the historic past. On the way to resolution The Nepal-India Technical Level Joint Boundary Working Group was set up in 1981 to resolve boundary issues, to demarcate the international border, and to manage boundary pillars. By 2007, the group completed the preparation of 182 strip maps, signed by the surveyors of the two sides, covering almost 98% of the boundary, all except the two disputed areas of Kalapani and Susta. It also ascertained the position of 8,533 boundary pillars. The remaining issues concerning the boundary are not difficult to resolve unless they are caught up in domestic or international concerns. The next steps are the approval of the strip maps by the respective governments (that of the Nepalese Government is still awaited), the resolution of the differences of opinion over Kalapani and Susta, and speeding up the erection of damaged or missing border pillars. India has successfully resolved far more intractable border issues with Bangladesh not so long ago, covering both the land and maritime boundaries. The land boundary settlement required an exchange of territories in adverse possession of the two countries, including the transfer of population, and a constitutional amendment (Number 100 of May 15, 2015) to give effect to the 1974 India-Bangladesh Land Boundary Agreement. The maritime boundary issue was even more difficult. India agreed to go to the Hague-based Permanent Court of Arbitration, knowing well that if the Court applied the principle of equity, India would lose up to four-fifths of the disputed area, as India had established its claim on a baseline that took into account the curved nature of the India-Bangladesh shoreline, thus boxing Bangladesh’s maritime claims to within Indian and Myanmar waters. The Court ruling accepted much of Bangladesh’s claim. Despite the Indian member of the tribunal giving an adverse entry, the government of India accepted the ruling. Compared to what was accomplished between India and Bangladesh, the India-Nepal border issues appear more easily solvable, so long as there is political goodwill and statecraft exercised on both sides. The way to move forward is to formally approve the strip maps, resolve the two remaining disputes, demarcate the entire India-Nepal boundary, and speedily execute the work of boundary maintenance.  Ties are unique India’s leadership and the Indian people have been conscious of the self-respect and pride of the Nepalese people. Jawaharlal Nehru wrote in The Discovery of India as also in Glimpses of World History that Nepal has been the only truly independent country of South Asia. Nepal, in turn, has in the past responded to India’s needs as a friendly neighbour. Its political leaders contributed to India’s struggle for freedom. The only time since Independence that foreign troops were deployed on Indian soil was when, in 1948-49, Nepalese soldiers under the command of General Sharda Shamsher Jang Bahadur Rana came to India’s northern cantonments, depleted by deployments in Jammu and Kashmir and Hyderabad. The people-to-people relationship between India and Nepal is unmatched. In the far corners of India, sometimes locals turn against those from other Indian States, but seldom against the Nepalese. It is the government-to-government relationship that generally lags. There is nobody in India that wishes ill for Nepal. For India’s Chief of Army Staff, General Manoj Mukund Naravane, to charge at an interaction at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, New Delhi, that Nepal, at someone else’s behest, has objected to India laying a road connecting the Lipu Lekh pass, was ill-advised. It widens the door for that someone else to foment more trouble. This is a matter best handled bilaterally, through quiet diplomacy. The Official Spokesperson of India’s Ministry of External Affairs, Anurag Srivastava, has said recently that India and Nepal have an established mechanism to deal with all boundary matters. He has affirmed that India is committed to resolving outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue, in the spirit of India’s close and friendly bilateral relations with Nepal. The best is to activate the existing mechanisms as soon as possible, before any further damage is done. The more the trouble festers, those who stand to gain by deteriorating India-Nepal relations will benefit. There is need for the two countries to lower the temperature and defuse the issue. They must invest time and effort to find a solution. Raking up public controversy can only be counterproductive to the relationship. Jayant Prasad is a former Indian Ambassador to Nepal||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/lower-the-temperature-defuse-the-issue/article31655191.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Notes on a digital currency plan, made in China||While the world is grappling with the fallout of COVID-19 and speculating on how far China can be blamed for the pandemic, a silent digital revolution is taking place in China. On April 29, 2020, the People’s Bank of China (PBoC), the country’s central bank, issued a cryptic press release to the general effect: “In order to implement the FinTech Development Plan (2019-2021), the People’s Bank of China has explored approaches to designing an inclusive, prudent and flexible trial-and-error mechanism. In December 2019, a pilot programme was launched in Beijing. To intensively advance the trial work of fintech innovation regulation, the PBoC supports the expansion of the pilot program to cover the cities of Shanghai, Chongqing, Shenzhen, Hangzhou, Suzhou, as well as Xiong’an New Area of Hebei, by guiding licensed financial institutions and tech companies to apply for an innovation test.” This expansion of the pilot marks the initiation of China’s central bank digital currency (CBDC). Christened Digital Currency Electronic Payment (DCEP), available via a mobile wallet app, pegged 1:1 with fiat currency, and designed to replace M0 (comprising currency issued by the PBoC less the amount held by banking institutions), this is the first such serious initiative in the whole world. Historically, monetary authorities everywhere have been sceptical of cryptocurrencies. Wild fluctuations in the value of cryptocurrencies, the implied challenge to the monopoly of central banks in issuing fiat currencies, the looming possibility of software bugs, the tainted shadow of the dark web have all been responsible for the unwelcome reception. In contrast, authorities were far more intrigued by CBDCs. In fact, the Basel-based Bank for International Settlement (BIS) has been conducting surveys on this issue for some time. The recent survey of 2019 (“Proceeding with Caution – a Survey on Central Bank Digital Currency”, BIS Papers No 101, January 2019) revealed that while in general, central banks have been proceeding cautiously towards introducing central banks digital currencies, some have been planning to issue a fiat digital currency in the short to medium term. In particular, the survey revealed that nearly 25% of central banks have the required authority to issue a CBDC, while a third do not, and 40% remain unsure. Logical outcome Chinese investors, however, were always enamoured of cryptocurrencies. With the bearish turn in the Chinese stock market in 2015-16, bitcoins became increasingly popular as an alternative asset class in China. As in media reports, in the recent past, China has emerged as the capital of the crypto ecosystem, accounting for nearly 90% of trading volumes and hosting two-thirds of bitcoin mining operations. The PBoC tried hard to curtail this exuberance but achieved limited success. According to the China Daily , by the end of 2017, the Chinese Cabinet approved the PBoC’s own digital currency development programme, conducted jointly with qualified commercial banks and institutions. The recent move to introduce the CBDC in China is a logical outcome of the efforts to curb and tackle its runaway cryptomarket practices. Or, the philosophy of the PBoC could simply have been, if you cannot beat them, join them. Advantages and a concern At a practical level, the benefits of CBDC are manifold. First, paper money comes with high handling charges and eats up 1% to 2% of GDP. Second, by acting as a powerful antidote for tax evasion, money laundering and terror financing, CBDCs can materially boost tax revenues while also improving financial compliance and national security. Third, as a tool of financial inclusion, particularly in emergencies, direct benefit transfers can be instantly delivered by state authorities deep into rural areas, directly into the mobile wallets of citizens who need them. On this count, it is noteworthy that the U.S. Congress recently debated the merits of implementing digital dollars in the context of the COVID-19 stimulus bill. Fourth, CBDCs can provide central banks an uncluttered view and powerful insights into purchasing patterns at the citizen scale. In the long run, it is believed that CBDCs will make cross-border payments fast and frictionless. That said, all these salutary benefits come packaged with a deep and abiding concern about the relentless rise of a surveillance state and the concomitant erosion in citizen privacy and anonymity. If face-recognition technology enables states to spy on the physical movement of citizens, will CBDCs be used to spy on every movement of their money? What is the design of DCEP, the Chinese CBDC? An earlier research paper by PBoC Deputy Governor Fan Yifei favoured a two-tier CBDC model where instead of directly interacting with the public, the central bank would involve financial intermediaries such as commercial banks. In tier 1, the central bank would interface with financial intermediaries. In tier 2, the financial intermediaries would interface with the general public. Such a model is accretive in that it preserves the power of existing financial systems and extends their influence further. It is believed that the DCEP uses a DLT architecture (with central controls) which preserves the primacy of the monetary authority, unlike private cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin (BTC) and Ethereum (ETH) that are truly decentralised. Signals from the move What may China be signalling with the launch of DCEP? It is possible that China has decided to use DCEP as its silver bullet to slay three dragons. First, on the world economic stage, it may want DCEP to challenge the hegemony of the U.S. dollar as the default global reserve currency. Second, in its war with American BigTech, it may want to showcase DCEP as its weapon of choice to counter FB or Facebook’s Libra, which is planning to offer a common cryptocurrency to 2 billion-plus FB users across the world. Third, and still in the realm of speculation, it may wish to use the DCEP to clip the wings of AliPay and WeChatPay, gigantic fintech duopolies that control 90% of the China’s domestic digital payments, and whose ambitions may one day pose a threat to the aura and authority of the central bank. From gold to silver to paper to digital, the march of currencies goes on. China has rolled the dice on central bank digital currencies, challenging other nations to follow. Welcome to the future of money. Partha Ray is Professor of Economics at the Indian Institute of Management Calcutta. Santanu Paul is Co-founder and CEO of TalentSprint, an edtech company||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/notes-on-a-digital-currency-plan-made-in-china/article31655194.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Time after time||The RBI has once again stepped up to the plate at the right time with measures that will reduce the cost of capital and ease the financial burden on businesses due to the extended lockdown. With Friday’s repo rate cut of 40 basis points, the RBI has shaved off 1.15 percentage points from the rate chart in the 58 days since the lockdown began, bringing the repo rate down to 4% and the reverse repo rate to 3.35%. With this, it does appear that the central bank may have played out its rate cut card for now as prudence would dictate that it reserves some leverage for the future if economic conditions deteriorate even further. In fact, there are those who believe that the latest cut may be no more than a sentiment booster as economic activity is at its nadir and there are not many investment proposals on the anvil that may benefit from the lower interest rate. Existing borrowers may be the only beneficiaries of the rate cut at this point in time. That said, the RBI deserves a pat on the back for listening to feedback over some of its moves initiated earlier during the lockdown. Thus, the extension of the repayment moratorium on loans is a welcome measure. A large proportion of commercial borrowers have availed themselves of the moratorium but retail borrowers have not taken to it in a big way. Yet, going forward, there may be more opting for it given that the extended lockdown has left many a business in a shambles and salaries have either not been paid or are being disbursed with delays. The RBI has also shown empathy by allowing accumulated interest on working capital loans to be converted into a term loan repayable by the end of this fiscal. Borrowers would otherwise have been faced with the daunting prospect of paying up their interest dues in one shot at the end of the moratorium period. The extended period given may however still not be enough as it will offer borrowers only about seven months from the end of the moratorium period during which they will have to crank up their businesses and service their loans. The RBI could have put off accumulated interest repayment by one year; it might well find itself in a situation where it is forced to offer another extension in the next few months. The increase in group exposure limit for banks to 30% from 25% will help large corporate borrowers who may find themselves handicapped in raising funds from the markets now. There was some disappointment in the markets that the RBI did not relax norms for loan restructuring by lenders. The central bank has played its cards well here because there is no way of knowing the true extent of distress now, and hence it will be difficult to propose the right restructuring norms. Chances are that this may well form part of the RBI’s next announcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/time-after-time/article31655186.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Cold neighbourhood||India and Nepal have reached a flashpoint over the Kalapani territorial issue that appears to threaten the basis of their special relationship, which has nurtured open borders and the free movement of people. Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli took New Delhi by surprise this month with an aggressive posture on the issue, especially over the inauguration of a motorable road to the Lipulekh pass, near the disputed Kalapani area, which is used by Indian pilgrims to Kailash Mansarovar. For India, the Lipulekh pass has always been part of the road to Tibet, and was mentioned as one of the border passes for trade in a 1954 agreement with China, which was also reaffirmed in another trade agreement in 2015. Since 1981, when China re-opened the Kailash-Mansarovar pilgrimage route for Indians, they have also used the pass to walk into Tibet. The road built now follows the same alignment, and would essentially cut down their travel time by three days each way. As a result, the government has been even angered by Nepal’s strong protests, followed by fiery speeches by Mr. Oli and Foreign Minister Pradeep Gyawali, threatening to send more forces to the India-Nepal border. The Nepali cabinet’s decision to adopt a new political map that claims not only Lipulekh but other areas that are in Indian territory that have been claimed by Nepal invoking the 1816 Sugauli treaty with the British, was described by India’s MEA as “artificial”, “unilateral” and “unacceptable”. Tensions have also been fuelled by Mr. Oli’s jibe that the “Indian virus looks more lethal than the one from China” and the Indian Army Chief’s contention that Nepal raised the dispute at the “behest of an external force”, namely China. Boundary disputes are common ground for countries that have an ancient history and shared borders, and the Kalapani issue is one such dispute that India and Nepal have resolved to sort out. It is unfortunate that the respective Foreign Secretaries, tasked by Prime Minister Modi and then Nepal leader Sushil Koirala in 2014 to discuss the matter, have failed to find an acceptable date for a meeting since then. India must concede it has dragged its feet on the issue: even two weeks ago, when matters came to a boil in Kathmandu, the MEA’s response that it would convene the meeting after the pandemic had been dealt with, was unnecessarily dismissive of an issue important to Kathmandu. Mr. Oli’s government had raised it last November as well; its offer to send a political envoy to New Delhi was rebuffed. It is clear that the struggle within the ruling Nepal Communist Party has spurred Mr. Oli’s more combative posture. Given the importance of ties with Nepal, often romanticised as one of “ roti-beti ” (food and marriage), India must not delay dealing with the matter, and at a time when it already has its hands full with the pandemic and a faceoff with China in Ladakh and Sikkim.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/cold-neighbourhood/article31655187.ece
23 May 2020||Mumbai,||RBI extends moratorium by 3 months||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has extended the moratorium on repayment for term loans by another three months till August 31. All other conditions for the facility remain unchanged, that is, the loan will not be classified by the lender as ‘non-performing’ and there will not be any impact on the individual credit score. “In view of the extension of the lockdown and continuing disruptions on account of COVID-19, it has been decided to permit lending institutions to extend the moratorium on term loan instalments by another three months, i.e., from June 1, 2020 to August 31, 2020. Accordingly, the repayment schedule and all subsequent due dates, as also the tenor for such loans, may be shifted across the board by another three months,” the RBI said. In end March, the regulator announced the moratorium for a three-month period — March 1 to May 25. The banking regulator has also extended the interest payment deferment for working capital loans by another six months. Rajnish Kumar, chairman, State Bank of India, said borrowers who did not opt for the moratorium in March would also be allowed to avail themselves of the facility for the next three months. Mr. Kumar said only 20% of SBI borrowers had availed of the loan moratorium. “Moratorium extension is the need of the hour. We are extending moratorium to all borrowers across all segments,” said Padmaja Chunduru MD CEO Indian Bank. On the issue of moratorium to non-banking finance companies, Mr. Kumar said the bank would extend the facility on a case-by-case basis, depending on the cash flows of non-banking institutions. Banks had decided to extend moratorium to NBFCs in case these firms face negative cash flow, that is, if cash outgo is higher than the inflows. NBFCs had extended the repayment moratorium to their customers, but faced difficulty in getting one for themselves from banks. “The uncertainty associated with the pandemic, normalisation of economic activity and relaxation made in social distancing makes it imperative that policy response is calibrated and swift,” the SBI Chairman said. “In this context, extension of moratorium till August 31, enlargement of the Large Exposure Framework, and the option to convert accumulated interest for moratorium period into term loan are welcome measures. On the export side, increase in export credit period to 15 months from one year and buttressing EXIM Bank through a Rs. 15,000-crore line of credit is also timely. “Overall, successive measures by RBI and the Centre indicates the desire to go full throttle to support the economy in current unprecedented times,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/rbi-extends-moratorium-by-3-months/article31655173.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Recovery contingent upon virus intensity declining, tapering off’||Rajiv Kumar , Vice-Chairperson, NITI Aayog, expects to see a recovery in demand starting this festival season. Edited excerpts from an interview:  The recently-announced economic package focuses on supply-side liquidity. Do you think additional steps are needed to spur demand? Demand is not only consumption demand. Aggregate demand is made up of investment, intermediate and consumption demand. If all our liquidity measures are successful, and the businesses are able to revive themselves, then aggregate demand will rise. What we want to do is to increase demand, not through helicopter money but through productive use of the money so that the investment aspects of the recovery are more emphasised than just the consumption aspect because a sustained recovery can take place only in that case. That’s the objective of this stimulus. Most industries, including auto and tourism, have expressed disappointment with the package... Debt moratorium was given to all. A large segment of these industries also fall within MSMEs; for example, in the hotel industry, 93% of the rooms belong to the unorganised sector or, in other words, the MSME sector. They can all make use of the Rs. 3 lakh crore credit line extended by the government. Similarly, restaurants and dhabas can surely make use of the collateral-free credit facility. But nonetheless, the Finance Minister has said if necessary, she’ll come out with industry-specific packages as well. What is your assessment of impact on the economy? I think it is very courageous of people to make forecasts in a situation like this when there are so many unknowns at the moment. And therefore, I would not like to hazard a guess.  When do you expect to see recovery in demand?  I think the recovery should start around the Dussehra-Diwali season. There is good reason to believe that that’s when the demand will pick up. By that time, the intensity of the virus will also have declined and tapered off and industrial capacities will also be back to normal. But this is entirely contingent on the virus and global conditions. We have seen a lot of salary cuts and job losses. See, with the economic activity suffering, as a negative impact of a significant magnitude in this quarter and maybe in the next as well, employment will be affected. Employment and growth are two sides of the same coin. So there cannot be any denial that it will be affected but the government is trying to take care of it by allocating a record amount under MNREGA so that those people who go back to their rural origins and find themselves without a job can be absorbed in productive activities. Also, a reduction in the EPFO rates, and willingness of the government to pay the EPFO subscription for both employer and employee does show the government’s sensitivity that they are wanting to take on some of the burden for units to keep workers on board. The agricultural reforms that have been announced will lead to the opening of an entirely new momentum in the agriculture and agro-processing activities as farmers will now be free to sell anywhere. I visualise a real thrust in the agro-processing sector, agro exports and logistics... there, I think, some large employment will be generated. In addition, our infrastructure projects will regain their momentum soon. When the real estate and construction industry picks up that will also help absorb labour.  Any specific recommendations that NITI Aayog is working on? Two very specific things we are looking at: one, we are trying to attract companies which may be moving out of China, and targeting them and trying to bring them to India; and the second is about identifying some eight or nine export sectors where government can help in ramping up exports, thereby improving our balance of payment position plus helping employment. Many, including former FM P. Chidambaram, have called for more cash in the hands of the poor... Despite all the difficulties, we have put money in the hands of the people by transferring cash to the Jan-Dhan accounts of 20 crore women, to farmers through the PM-Kisan Yojna and by increasing the MGNREGA fund to a record level of over Rs. 1 lakh crore. It is not as if the government has ignored the issue of minimising distress in the present crisis.  What we want to do is to increase demand not through helicopter money but through productive use of money||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/recovery-contingent-upon-virus-intensity-declining-tapering-off/article31655177.ece
23 May 2020||Mumbai,||FM wants banks to slash lending rate after RBI’s action||Hours after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) reduced interest rates, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman conveyed to public sector banks in no certain terms that the government expected banks to reduce lending rates, which was required to kick start the economy. The Finance Minister met the chief executives of PSBs over video-conferencing in a pre-scheduled meeting to review credit flow to productive sectors of the economy. “The FM wants interest rate transmission. She wanted banks to cut rates as quickly as possible so customers are benefited,” said the chief executive of a public sector bank who attended the meeting. “The Finance Ministry is aware that transmission of interest rates has not happened fully,” the official told The Hindu . Bankers said lending rates are set to come down after Friday’s RBI rate cut. Some of the large lenders, including SBI, convened a meeting of the asset-liability committee to take a view on the interest rates. According to bankers, the FM tried to understand the ground situation as far as lending was concerned, and wanted to ensure that the loan guarantee scheme for MSMEs reached all entities needing it. “Since March 1, banks have sanctioned Rs. 6 lakh crore of loans. Our bank has sanctioned Rs. 15,000 crore, of which Rs. 12,000 crore has been disbursed. Over 1.36 lakh customers have been benefited,” said A.K. Goel, MD and chief executive officer of UCO Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/fm-wants-banks-to-slash-lending-rate-after-rbis-action/article31655170.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Reserve Bank says GDP to contract; markets slip into red||Equity indices dipped into the red on Friday after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) Governor Shaktikanta Das said that GDP growth in the current financial year is expected to be in negative territory. The benchmark Sensex closed at 30,672.59, down 260.31 points or 0.84%. During the day, it was down almost 460 points to touch a low of 30,475. Prior to the RBI statement, the benchmark had touched an intraday high of 31,107.91, gaining about 175 points from the previous day’s close. The broader Nifty settled the day at 9,039.25, down 67 points or 0.74%. The losses were primarily led by banking and financial stocks as Sensex constituents such as HDFC, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and Bajaj Finance, along with Reliance Industries contributed the maximum to the day’s fall. “The extension of moratorium would be negative for lenders, even though, to some extent, the rate cut will be helpful for credit growth and also bring down the costs for banks and NBFCs,” said Lalitabh Shrivastawa, deputy vice-president, research, Sharekhan. Weakness, a key concern He added that currently, weakness in the growth outlook has been the key concern of the Monetary Policy Committee. Incidentally, the BSE Bankex and BSE Finance were the top losers among the sectoral indices, shedding 2.44% and 3%, respectively. Overall, more than 1,350 stocks ended in the red against 932 that declined. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net sellers at Rs. 1,354 crore with their domestic counterparts selling shares worth Rs. 344 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/reserve-bank-says-gdp-to-contract-markets-slip-into-red/article31655180.ece
23 May 2020||Mumbai,||No relaxation in debt recast dismays banks||Banks were disappointed as the central bank gave no indication on relaxing debt restructuring norms, despite requests from lenders. As per Reserve Bank of India guidelines, banks have to make higher provision for restructuring debt which are standard assets, which means lenders had to set aside higher amount of capital. “This does not mean RBI will not offer the relaxation later. They are aware of the situation. Companies are yet to start operations. Once they start, we will be in a better position to assess their need and loans could be restructured accordingly,” said a CEO of a large public sector bank. However, banking and financial sectors were the worst hit in the markets on Friday as RBI kept mum on the moratorium, with stocks such as Axis Bank, Bajaj Finance, HDFC, IndusInd Bank, HDFC Bank and ICICI Bank featuring among the top losers in the Sensex pack. The BSE Bankex and BSE Finance indices were the worst performers among the sectoral indices, shedding 2.44% and 3%, respectively. “RBI has not announced any relief on the restructuring of loans to address the risk of rising asset quality issues in the banking sector, which has come as a disappointment for equity markets,” said Gaurav Dua, senior VP, head, Capital Market Strategy & Investments, Sharekhan by BNP Paribas. Apart from relaxations in debt recast norms, banks were expecting dilution in asset classification norms. At present, an account becomes non-performing asset if repayment is due for more than 90 days. “Going forward, we expect a one-time restructuring by RBI and a change in asset quality norms from 90 days to 180 days. This relaxation should be given along with a well-laid out calendar of returning to the current norm of 90 days in the next two years,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, Group Chief Economic Adviser, SBI. RBI has, however, permitted lenders to convert accumulated interest on working capital facilities over the total deferment period (i.e. March 1, 2020 up to August 31, 2020) into a funded interest term loan to be fully repaid during the current fiscal ending March 31, 2021. “Given that the economy would take considerable time to recover, a higher EMI will be difficult to honour. A one-time restructuring would have enabled a more certain recovery,” said Abizer Diwanji, Partner & Leader Financial Services — EY India. RBI also permitted lendersto reassess the working capital cycle of a borrower up to an extended period till March 31, 2021 to provide necessary leeway to lenders to make an informed assessment about the impact of the pandemic on the entity. “Such changes in credit terms permitted to borrowers to specifically tide over COVID-19’s fallout will not ... result in asset classification downgrade,” the central bank added. RBI has also extended the resolution timeline of stressed assets as it exempted the six-month period from the calculation of the 30-day review period and 180-day resolution period, if the review/resolution period had not expired as on March 1, 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/no-relaxation-in-debt-recast-dismays-banks/article31655171.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Class action suit against Infosys in U.S. dismissed||Technology firm Infosys on Friday said a class action lawsuit filed against the company and some of its current and former employees in a U.S. court has been voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiff. The case was filed in the eastern district of New York. In a regulatory filing, the company said, “On May 21, 2020, the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the lawsuit without prejudice.”  The complaint was brought on behalf of a class consisting of persons or entities who purchased the firm’s publicly-traded securities between July 7, 2018 and October 20, 2019, and alleged claims for violations of the U.S. federal securities laws. A U.S.-based shareholder rights’ litigation firm had filed a case, on behalf of its clients, alleging Infosys had made false and misleading statements to the market and used improper recognition of revenue to boost short-term profit. The plaintiff also alleged CEO Salil Parekh skipped standard reviews of large deals to avoid accounting scrutiny.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/class-action-suit-against-infosys-in-us-dismissed/article31655168.ece
23 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Amazon India creates 50,000 ‘seasonal roles’||Amazon India on Friday announced that it had opened almost 50,000 seasonal roles to meet the surge in demand from people relying on the e-tailer’s service. There will be a variety of roles in fulfilment centres and delivery network, including part-time, flexible work opportunities as independent contractors with Amazon Flex, the firm said. These associates will assist in picking, packing, shipping and delivering customers’ orders more efficiently. “One thing we’ve learned from the COVID-19 pandemic is how important a role Amazon and e-commerce can play for our customers as much as for small businesses and the economy,” said Akhil Saxena, VP, customer fulfilment operations, APAC, MENA & LATAM, Amazon. “We want to continue helping customers all over India get everything they need so they can continue to practice social distancing. “To enable this, we are creating work opportunities for close to 50,000 seasonal associates across our fulfilment and delivery networks,” he said. “This will also keep as many people as possible working during this pandemic while providing a safe work environment for them,”  This will keep as many people as possible working during the pandemic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/amazon-india-creates-50000-seasonal-roles/article31655178.ece
23 May 2020||MUMBAI,||KKR to invest Rs. 11,367 cr. in Jio for 2.32% stake||Private equity major KKR has agreed to buy 2.32% stake in Reliance Industries’ wholly owned digital subsidiary Jio Platforms Ltd. for Rs. 11,367 crore, making it KKR’s largest investment in Asia. With this transaction, Jio Platforms assumes an equity value of Rs. 4.91 lakh crore and an enterprise value of Rs. 5.16 lakh crore. Over the last month, leading technology investors such as Facebook, Silver Lake, Vista and General Atlantic had announced aggregate investments of Rs. 78,562 crore in Jio Platforms. Commenting on the deal, Mukesh Ambani, CMD, Reliance Industries, said, “We are looking forward to leveraging KKR’s global platform, industry knowledge and operational expertise to further grow Jio.” Jio Platforms, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries, is a next-generation technology platform focused on providing high-quality and affordable digital services across India, with more than 388 million subscribers. Henry Kravis, co-founder and co-CEO of KKR, said, “We are investing behind Jio Platforms’ impressive momentum, world-class innovation and strong leadership team.” KKR is making the investment in Jio from its Asia private equity and growth technology funds.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/kkr-to-invest-rs-11367-cr-in-jio-for-232-stake/article31655182.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Maruti, Chola partner for vehicle finance||Maruti Suzuki has partnered with Cholamandalam Investment & Finance Company Ltd. to offer customised vehicle financing to buyers, including an offer to ‘buy now pay later’. The offer will allow buyers the flexibility to pay EMIs after 2 months of availing the loan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/maruti-chola-partner-for-vehicle-finance/article31655175.ece
23 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Key ICC meet on May 26||The International Cricket Council’s Nominations Committee is set to formalise the election procedure for the post of chairman at a meeting on May 26. Shashank Manohar’s four-year stint as the first independent chairman would have ended at the ICC Board’s annual meeting in June. However, with the pandemic forcing postponement of the annual meeting, Manohar has agreed to an extension till August. And, the sub-committee headed by Manohar is set to decide timelines for the election. Around 90 former ICC directors may secretly propose a candidate; eligible nominees are then sought out and their interest ascertained; a list is then presented to the ICC Board for final selection. The meeting has gained importance with Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) president Sourav Ganguly indirectly throwing his hat in the ring. On Thursday, two Cricket South Africa (CSA) executives, including former captain Graeme Smith, now Director of Cricket, supported Ganguly’s candidature. However, with neither Smith nor acting chief executive Jacques Faul having a say in the process, CSA chief Chris Nenzani was quick to issue a clarification that CSA’s official stand on the next chairman is yet to be decided. BCCI treasurer Arun Dhumal on Friday stated it would “prefer an Indian” at the helm. Interestingly, Ganguly only recently fulfilled the criterion of being a director. It is understood the former India captain attended the last ICC Board meeting in March only as a BCCI representative. Director now “Since the official communication by the BCCI hadn’t nominated him as director, he had to be referred to as BCCI representative. “But after the meeting, the BCCI completed the formalities and he has been inducted as an ICC director,” said a source. As a result, the ICC Board meeting on May 28, primarily to discuss the possibility of staging the T20 World Cup in Australia in October-November, will be Ganguly's first as an ICC director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/key-icc-meet-on-may-26/article31655311.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,||‘If it’s all safety and no thrill, there’s no point of Dakar’||International racer Aravind K.P., who became the second Indian ever to complete the Dakar Rally last year, feels danger is part of the challenge of the blue-riband event despite two deaths in this year's edition. Dakar Rally is considered as one of the most dangerous and gruelling motorsport events on the planet. With the deaths of riders Edwin Straver and Paulo Goncalves in the 2020 edition, the event's safety came into question once again. “I feel if it's all safety and no thrill then, there's no point of Dakar. Everybody comes there completely prepared. I think they are trying to bring in norms regarding top speed currently, with the situations they've had. Sometimes it's also the human error. Majority of the riders get to the finish line. So it's all part and parcel of the game," said the Sherco TVS racer during an Instagram live session with Sportstar . Aravind also felt the lack of corporate backers in motorsport is halting its progress in the country. “Indian corporates don't invest in motorsport. People in our country don't promote or understand the culture of racing. This is sad,” said Aravind. The 33-year-old rider from Udupi, however, was thrilled to see a lot of Indian youngsters taking up racing as a career. Change in trend “Right from the start of my time with TVS in 2006 to now, I see a change in trend. The racing scenario is growing in India. People are taking it up as a career. “The youngsters are doing great. In MRF supercross, you can see kids from age three up to 16. So the future looks bright,” he said.  I feel if it’s all safety and no thrill then there’s no point of Dakar||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/if-its-all-safety-and-no-thrill-theres-no-point-of-dakar/article31655325.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Adapting to the new normal||COVID-19 has disrupted the lives of sportspersons, leaving them unsure of how things will pan out once the pandemic subsides. With the sports world dealing with the challenges of resuming competitive action, eminent speakers at a webinar, organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (Sports) on Friday, spoke of the importance of adopting and adapting to the ‘new normal’. Dr. Fabian Ulrich, head of International Relations and Strategic Projects, German Football Association, said there were risks involved in conducting the Bundesliga, but “so far the rewards have been greater than the risks”. “It was another experience for players,” he said. “They felt blessed to resume playing. Of course, they missed the great atmosphere, but there’s no alternative to that. It was also a burden shared [with sponsors]. Moreover several creative measures were undertaken to engage with the fans.” International paddler Sharath Kamal said all National Sports Federations (NSFs) and IOC should be more proactive in laying out a clear path. “NSFs and IOC should take the first step to make it easier for everyone to support. We need to collectively plan,” he said. “The government is an active stakeholder in sports. We can’t do without them. It’s time they are more sensitive and engage with all stakeholders. For three years, the GST in sponsorship hasn’t been addressed,” said Vivek B. Singh, co-owner of Procam International, which organises the Mumbai Marathon. Deepthi Bopaiah, executive director of GoSports Foundation, said it’s a tough time for all sportspersons. Anxiety and hope “There are two kinds of emotions — anxiety and hope. It is important they be more creative and keep their morale high,” she said. Vidushpat Singhania, managing partner, Krida Legal, said he expects “structural reforms” when sporting action resumes in India. Suhail Chandhok moderated the show.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/adapting-to-the-new-normal/article31655383.ece
23 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Govindraj’s wait for higher pension continues||For former fast bowler, Devraj Govindraj, the wait continues! He was part of the Indian team on its successful twin tour to West Indies and England in 1971 without actually playing in any Test. He felt the BCCI made a mistake in the count of his First Class games to consider him eligible for pension. “As per BCCI’s norms, declared in 2012 for the benefit of first-class cricketers, there were two schemes — one-time cash benefit of Rs. 25 lakh and also a monthly pension of Rs. 40,000 for those who had played 75 First Class games,” the 73-year-old told The Hindu on Friday .  “In my case, though I played 77 First Class games between 1964-75, I am not getting the benefits as BCCI erred in counting and fixed my matches at 73,” Govindraj has written in a letter to the BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, along with details. Different slab “Hence, I am getting monthly pension of Rs. 22,500 under a different slab,” he said. “It is two months since I wrote to the BCCI chief. Possible due the lockdown, the issue may is pending. “I am sure Ganguly will respond positively soon as pension is my only source of income,” said Govindraj. “Frankly, the pension which I am getting was okay at the start. But, with cost of living going up and no own place to stay, it is now difficult,” said the fast bowler. Help from friends He even worked as a bus driver in London transport after being with the Indian team on that 1971 tour. “I am lucky to have some good friends who are helping me a lot in this hour of crisis,” he added. In fact, the fast bowler had made such an effort earlier too but did not get any response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/govindrajs-wait-for-higher-pension-continues/article31655578.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Well-prepared to resume: Chandhok||With the government permitting the opening of sports facilities, albeit without spectators, the motorsport community is waiting for further clarity before the vroom of engines is heard on race tracks across the country. The Sports Authority of India had formulated a Standard Operating Procedure, categorising sports as non-contact, medium/minimum contact, full contact and water sports, but there was no mention of motorsport. Vicky Chandhok, former FMSCI president and vice-president of the Madras Motor Sports Club (MMSC), told The Hindu , “We need to find out more about which category motorsport falls in. Also, with two tracks in Tamil Nadu, we need to wait and see what regulations the State government here comes up with.” Chandhok, however, said that they are well-prepared to resume racing activities once clearer regulations are out. Usually, the month of June is when the national racing championships resume at full steam with races in Coimbatore and Chennai. This year, Chandhok expressed hope that racing and rallying activities can get back on track by September. The South India Rally, a part of the FIA APRC, was scheduled to be run in March in Chennai before it was postponed. “In terms of social distancing, I think both the rallying and racing community can adhere to it,” said Chandhok. Narain to mentor gamer Meanwhile, India’s first Formula One driver Narain Karthikeyan has decided to take the country’s fastest gamer, 16-year-old Amith Kutty, under his wing. “Amith will be testing for NK Racing Academy in our karting programme once the lockdown is lifted. We will evaluate his capabilities, train and ultimately push him to a race seat in the Rotax Max national championship,” said Narain. The academy on Friday announced a tie-up with Ultimate E, an eSports organisation co-founded by racing stars Aditya Patel and Armaan Ebrahim to identify talent and help gamers transition to race tracks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/well-prepared-to-resume-chandhok/article31655328.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Now playing: vintage Indian cricket reels on YouTube||Going down the rabbit hole of entertaining cricket videos on YouTube, the black and white reels of Indian cricket — dating back to the 1940s — stand out. Jairaj Galagali, at his study in California, introduces each video in a deep baritone before playing the Films Division reel of the match/series. Galagali has no connection with the Films Division. The IIT-Bombay graduate from Karnataka worked at ISRO before shifting in 1996 to the USA, where he’s now a director with Oracle. In his spare time, he has painstakingly retrieved and released vintage reels of Indian Test cricket on his YouTube channel ‘Jai Galagali’. It is satiating cricket fans, more so in the absence of live sport during the lockdown. To beat a crisis Galagali’s hobby began around four years ago in the midst of a family crisis. As a coping mechanism, he turned to P.G. Wodehouse and cricket videos. “Our world was shaken up. I had to keep myself sane,” he tells The Hindu over phone from California. “But I found hardly any cricket videos of the ’60s and before, which I had watched as a kid, so I decided to do something.” That started an interesting and frustrating journey, with several international calls to retrieve precious Films Division reels from the government with permission and payment. Fortunately, they were digitised in the DVD format, but in the absence of any indexing or demarcation, identifying the reels was a gigantic task. “It was like visiting an archaeological spot where nothing shows up in order,” says Galagali. Treasure trove Following bureaucratic delays, the videos were shipped to America, a moment that brought “tears of joy” to Galagali. The treasure trove covers legendary moments of India cricket, such as the debut of his childhood hero B.S. Chandrasekhar, Tony Greig cradling G. Viswanath after a century, West Indies’ tour in 1948-49, Pakistan’s visit in 1952, the 1977-78 tour of Australia (sourced from Australia) and much more. Galagali is overwhelmed by his growing followers, who span generations. One boy wrote to him after showing the 1964-65 Australia series to his ill grandfather. “He’s down with dementia, but the clip brought back a flood of memories,” he wrote. Surprise message A day after uploading the Madras Test of 1973, Galagali received a surprise message from the Pataudi family. “I can’t thank you enough. You brought back so many memories of my dad,” wrote the late Tiger Pataudi’s daughter Soha. Galagali’s immediate aim is to prioritise the older decades first. “The generation that watched the likes of Nari Contractor, Subhash Gupte, Lala Amarnath is fading fast,” he explains. “This is my gift to them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/now-playing-vintage-indian-cricket-reels-on-youtube/article31655323.ece
23 May 2020||Coimbatore,||Gaayathri has taken the lockdown in her stride||The lockdown can be frustrating for those who dream big. But rifle shooter Gaayathri Nithyanandam, who has an eye on the Tokyo Olympics, wants to stay calm and positive during this tough period. “The lockdown is for own your safety and good health. It has not affected me much,” Gaayathri told The Hindu.  The 23-year-old from Coimbatore looked solid after securing a double gold in the South Asian Games in Nepal last December. “It was very special, and boosted my confidence,” she said. Obviously, she wanted to carry her good form into the ISSF Shooting World Cup in Delhi in March, but the pandemic put paid to her hopes. “It didn’t really hurt me, as I strictly follow the 90/10 principle. Life is made up of 90% that we can control, and the rest we cannot. The current situation is beyond our control, so why brood over it. I have taken it in my stride, and am enjoying the days learning new skills and spending valuable time with my family,” she added.  Gaayathri is being guided by junior India coach Satguru Das. “I start my day with holding training and dry firing — shooting without bullets to help you with your muscle memory. This helps me stay connected with the game. “Evenings are spent on fitness, through online sessions for the Olympic Core Team organised by the National Rifle Association of India. It involves various aspects to help stay fit and to improve balancing skills. It’s been on for the past 25 days,” she said. “I am also working on improving my scores. I enjoyed some good scores during practice and in competitions, and I want to keep hitting them. I want to keep doing my part sincerely and be in the zone. I will continue to work hard for more gold and glory,” summed up the champion shooter.  I will continue to work hard for more gold and glory||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/gaayathri-has-taken-the-lockdown-in-her-stride/article31655434.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India Open to be held in December||The revised calendar of the Badminton World Federation (BWF) has scheduled the $400,000 India Open badminton from December 8 to 13.  Besides the India Open, originally scheduled in March, the country will also host the annual $170,000 Syed Modi India International at Lucknow from November 17 to 22. However, this World Tour Super 300 tournament clashes with the cash-rich $1,350,000 Indonesia Open, a World Tour Super 1000 event. The $90,000 Hyderabad Open, a BWF Tour Super 100 event, has been allotted the August 11-16 slot. Apart from the World Tour events, BWF’s premier team competition, the Thomas and Uber Cup Finals, will be held from October 3 to 11 at Aarhus, Denmark.  Revised schedule:   Sept. 1-6: Taipei Open (Taipei City); Sept. 8-13: Korea Open (Seoul); Sept. 15-20: China Open (Changzhou); Sept. 22-27: Japan Open (Tokyo); Oct. 13-18: Denmark Open (Odense); Oct. 20-25: French Open (Paris) and New Zealand Open (Auckland); Oct. 27-Nov. 1: Macau Open (Macau); Nov. 3-8: China Open (Fuzhao); Nov. 10-15: Hong Kong Open (Hong Kong); Nov 17-22: Indonesia Open (Jakarta) and Syed Modi International (Lucknow); Nov. 24-29: Malaysia Open (Kuala Lumpur) and Korea Open (Gwangju); Dec. 1-6: Thailand Open (Bangkok); Dec. 8-13: India Open (New Delhi); Dec. 16-20: BWF World Tour Finals (Guangzhou).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/india-open-to-be-held-in-december/article31655313.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bernard’s take on tennis scholarship||Even though there are some stunning examples like Mahesh Bhupathi, Somdev Devvarman, Sanam Singh and Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan capitalising on the US College path to strengthen their careers on the professional tennis circuit, there is a perception that Indian talent gets lost with the good life in the US and forgets tennis. Coach Alex Bernard, who has a world-class tennis academy in Portugal and has also been running the US Athletes services to connect players to colleges, put things in perspective in an Instagram chat with coach Sureshkumar Sonachalam. “We have to see how many players go to the US with an idea to make it professional. The US College path opens the door for your career, not just tennis,” said Bernard, who is familiar with the Indian circuit as he has regularly been visiting the country. “Being from France, I learnt English in the US. I had the best four years of my life,” recalled Bernard. “If your focus is to break into the top-100 or top-50, then such players can hesitate,” he said, suggesting that the rest would be better off in college, cutting down on the expenses rather than enduring the struggle in the lower levels of the professional circuit. “The competition is high, and you get top-500 level play every day in college,” he said. “If you have the level, you will break through into the professional career on your return, the way Arjun Kadhe has done. After returning from the US, he reached the top-400 in no time,” pointed out Bernard.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bernards-take-on-tennis-scholarship/article31655475.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen in knockouts with last-round win||Facing a must-win situation, World champion Magnus Carlsen produced a final-round victory over Alireza Firouzja to enter the knockout phase of the Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge chess tournament on Thursday. Winning with black After losing the penultimate league round to Daniil Dubov, Carlsen was in danger of losing out on a knockout spot. But the Norwegian favourite carved out a 50-move win with black.  The results (11th round):   A. Firouzja (FIDE, 4.5) lost to Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 6); Wesley So (USA, 6) drew with Hikaru Nakamura (USA, 7.5); Wei Yi (Chn, 2.5) lost to Alexander Grischuk (Rus, 5.5); Sergey Karjakin (Rus, 7) drew with Ding Liren (Chn, 6); Daniil Dubov (Rus, 5.5) drew with Levon Aronian (Arm, 5.5); Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 4) drew with Yu Yangyi (Chn, 6).   10th round: Carlsen lost to Dubov; Nakamura bt Duda; Aronian drew with Karjakin; Yu bt Wei; Grischuk lost to Firouzja; Ding drew with So.   Ninth round: Wei drew with Nakamura; Karjakin drew with Carlsen; Yu drew with Grischuk; Duda lost to Liren; So drew with Aronian; Dubov drew with Firouzja.   League standings (after 11 rounds): 1. Nakamura (7.5); 2. Karjakin (7); 3-6. Yu, So, Carlsen, Ding (6 each); 7-9. Dubov, Aronian, Grishcuk (5.5 each); 10. Firouzja (4.5); 11. Duda (4); 12. Wei (2.5).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/carlsen-in-knockouts-with-last-round-win/article31655314.ece
23 May 2020||DUBAI,||‘Back to Cricket Guidelines’||The International Cricket Council (ICC) on Friday recommended a slew of radical measures, including appointment of chief medical officers, a 14-day pre-match isolation training camp and use of gloves by umpires while handling the ball, as international cricket plotted its return from the coronavirus hiatus. The ‘Back to Cricket Guidelines’ has also asked for the formulation of an adequate testing plan during practice and match situation. It has stated that players should not hand over caps, jumpers etc. to the umpires between overs. The ICC has called on respective boards to provide a safe workplace for the cricketers and recommended maintaining a 1.5m distance (or as directed by the respective governments) between players at all times, and thorough sanitisation of personal equipment. As far as bowlers are concerned, the apex body has issued specific guidelines considering their workload and the risk they run of getting injured. Recommendations include having a larger squad for reduced workload. Training periods The ICC suggested format-specific training periods for bowlers, allowing them a minimum of 5-6 weeks of training, with the last three weeks involving bowling at match intensity in order to facilitate return to T20Is. The minimum preparation period for ODIs has been set at six weeks, while for Tests, it recommended a preparation time of up to 2-3 months with the last 4-5 weeks involving bowling at full throttle. Using these guidelines, the ICC advised affiliates to work in tandem with their respective governments to work their way back into cricketing activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/back-to-cricket-guidelines/article31655316.ece
23 May 2020||Melbourne,||Chances of India touring Australia is 9/10: CA chief||There is a 9 out of 10 chance that India will make the trip Down Under for a four-Test series later this year, Cricket Australia chief executive Kevin Roberts said. “I guess there’s no such thing as certainty in today’s world so I can’t say 10, but I’m going to say nine out of 10. Who would know whether we can have crowds I’d be surprised if we can’t get the Indian tour away,” said Roberts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chances-of-india-touring-australia-is-910-ca-chief/article31655321.ece
23 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Whole fat dairy products offer some health benefits, says study||It’s the stuff of dreams, for some people at least. A study now claims that consumption of whole fat dairy products actually offers some protection from metabolic syndrome (MetS), diabetes and hypertension across races. A multi-centric study has showed that higher intake of whole fat dairy is associated with a lower prevalence of MetS and most of its component factors, especially, a lower incidence of hypertension and diabetes. The results were published in the paper, Association of dairy consumption with metabolic syndrome, hypertension and diabetes in 147812 individuals from 21 countries by Bhavadharini B, Dehghan M, Mente A, et al., in a recent issue of BMJ Open Diabetes Research & Care . Several cohort studies have already shown higher dairy intake is associated with lower risk of MetS, diabetes, and hypertension. “To date, most studies were conducted in North America and Europe, with limited information from other world regions (China, India, South America, and Africa),” the paper said. The aim was to study whether there was a link between eating dairy products and the onset of MetS (defined as a cluster of five conditions: high blood pressure, abdominal obesity, elevated triglycerides, low HDL cholesterol, and high blood sugar); diabetes and hypertension, in a population that was healthy at the start of the study. The study was conducted as part of the PURE study being conducted in 21 countries, including India, on five continents. A higher intake of total dairy (at least two servings per day, compared with zero intake) was associated with a lower prevalence of MetS. Higher intake of whole fat dairy consumed alone, or consumed jointly with low fat dairy were associated with a lower MetS prevalence. In contrast, higher intake of low fat dairy was associated with a modestly higher prevalence of MetS. “We also looked at why this might be happening,” said V. Mohan, founder, Madras Diabetes Research Foundation, and one of the authors of the study. This could be because of the effects dairy has on angiotensin converting enzyme that controls blood pressure; peroxisome proliferator activated receptors that play a role in gene expression, hepatic de novo lipo genesis or the liver’s synthesis of fat, hepatic and adipose fatty acid oxidation, again a function of the liver, and inflammation. “Further, there are some gut microbiomes that yoghurt or cheese fermentation makes available, and they improve insulin sensitivity,” he added. Will these benefits also accrue to those who already have diabetes or hypertension? “Well, there is some evidence to show that dairy products help in causing satiety, so people don’t stuff themselves. There are known, definite health benefits with gut microbiota. But we need to do a randomised clinical trial to see if there are specific benefits for them,” Dr. Mohan explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/whole-fat-dairy-products-offer-some-health-benefits-says-study/article31655309.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Dramatic description||The story of Garuda, given in the Mahabharata, is presented dramatically by Vedanta Desika, in his Garuda Panchasath, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. When Garuda emerged out of the egg, he shone so brightly that the devas took fright, says Desika. They prayed to Garuda to reduce the intensity of his brightness. Desika prays that Garuda should get rid of the heat of samsara. Desika’s description of Garuda’s childhood reminds us of the mischievousness of children in general. Children tend to throw things around just for fun. They love to play with water. They also like going up and down stairs. From Desika’s Garuda Panchasath, we find that Garuda was no different, except that his childish acts were altogether on a different scale. Mighty bird that he was, even as a child, he did things impossible even for an adult. A child throws things around and breaks them, and so did Garuda. But what did he fling? It was mountains that he broke as if they were playthings! Instead of emptying vessels of water, he disturbed the very oceans. And like a child running up and down stairs, Garuda moved from the netherworld to the world of Brahma. Desika prays that Garuda’s naughty acts as a child should destroy our problems. When Garuda sets forth to fetch nectar, his mother Vinata equips him for the task. The raiment she provides is good conduct; jnana is the weapon she gives her son. Her blessings constitute his army. In the Ramayana, Dasaratha is reluctant to send Rama with Viswamitra, but relents. But for a man who was so worried about his son, why did he not send an army with Rama for His protection? That was because Dasaratha blessed Rama before He left, and what greater protection can anyone have than the blessing of parents?||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/dramatic-description/article31655269.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 07:26 IST,||Sudoku - May 23, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-23-2020/article31656112.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A film lost in time||Ghoomketu , the film — much like the titular character — doesn’t quite know what it wants to be. It aims to bite off more than it can actually chew. Is it a spoof of the film industry or a celebration of it? Or is it a film that just uses one too many a starry cameo — Amitabh Bachchan, Ranveer Singh, Sonakshi Sinha, Nikkhil Advani, Chitrangada Singh — to somehow stay afloat when there is little by way of imagination, inventiveness, and exuberance to the script and the telling. Nawazuddin Siddiqui plays Ghoomketu, a young writer from Mahona village in Uttar Pradesh, who runs away to Mumbai with a screenwriting Bible in hand and gives himself 30 days to make it big in Bollywood. His Bua (Ila Arun) is the co-conspirator while father Dadda (Raghuvir Yadav) and Chacha (Swanand Kirkire) exert political pressure on the police to find him and have him sent back. This creates a second strand involving a corrupt cop Badlani (Anurag Kashyap). Needless to say, the two keep criss-crossing. Now how did the family manage to exercise such clout? That question is still hanging in the air for me, as are many others. There is lot that feels utterly half-baked, like the Badlani track. And, the portions which show promise and potential — the village bits — get sidelined at the alter of Bollywood. Misra tries to go for the deliberately whimsical in trying to deal with the film industry but can’t quite pull it off and ends up using tired old tricks of the trade — star cameos, recreating popular film songs and scenes, split screen conversations between characters, simulating old black and white Hindi films for some scenes, using silent films-like inserts for others and caps it all with an inane item song, shot within a bioscope, which talks about speed breakers and compares a woman’s body parts to a car’s heaving chassis. You can figure out the rest. Surrounded by innumerable caricatures for characters, Siddiqui is earnest and tries to make the most of being the centre of the film’s universe. However, if there is any life, liveliness and urgency to Ghoomketu , it’s in the triumvirate of Raghuvir Yadav, Swanand Kirkire, and Ila Arun, especially Arun who is sense and sensibility, all heart, mind and fun. The loud, angry skirmishes of these siblings could have easily lapsed into a parody but feel real because of the performers’ lived-in energy. Completed in 2014, the film has taken six long years to see the light of day and the hoariness and disconnect shows. Especially in the figure of Ranveer Singh, who hardly looks the way he used to. Not just the Indian cinema or its stars, but also the polity, society, government, and we the people have changed by leaps and bounds since then. Ghoomketu than, is oddly lost to its audience in another time and world. Ghoomketu is streaming on Zee 5||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-film-lost-in-time/article31655510.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A taste of the old||In these trying times, stories of courage and kindness keep our spirits up. My friend Ashish was telling me on the phone how he and his friends and family had been feeding some 2,500 labourers every day. Indeed, there are people across the country who have been doing what they can to make a difference to people’s lives. What talking to Ashish (who also runs a picturesque resort in a place called Sonapani in the Kumaon hills), I asked him about his food delivery business. Ashish and his partners run Café Lota in Delhi, Roots and some other outlets, and had started a superb food service called Melting Pot Tiffins. This had been suspended, he said. But I think our conversation enthused him, and he wrote back to say that he was resuming it. It is not as elaborate as it once was, but Melting Pot Tiffins offers some delicious food. The dishes — neatly packaged in plastic containers in a cardboard carton — are called Lota Special Lockdown meals, and are delivered between 12 noon and 9 pm from Café Lota. You can also pre-order and pick them up from the restaurant, which is next to Pragati Maidan, between noon and 6 p.m. (9990247940 for WhatsApp messages; 7838960787). The menu offers some signature regional dishes and a collection of small plates (between Rs. 200 and Rs. 275): idlis with gun powder, a chaat prepared with two kinds of muttar , beetroot kababs, chicken idlis, fish chops. The main meals include favourites from Bihar, Rajasthan, and Kerala, among others. On the menu are Rajasthani Chicken Mokul, kurkuri bhindi, jeera rice and bajrey roti (Rs. 680); DIY Do Muttar Key Chaat, Paneer Pasanda and Tawa Pudina Parantha (Rs. 635); besan key gattey kurkuri bhindi , gatta pulao and khoba roti (Rs. 475); Anand’s Fish Chop, Toddy Shop Fish Curry, red rice, appam (Rs. 800); beetroot Shikhampuri, Kachcha Aam Prawn Curry, flat appam, red rice (Rs. 820). My dinner was superb. One of the meals was Bihari and consisted of crispy aloo methi, aloo chokha, baigan chokha, teekha pyaaz and sattu ka paratha (Rs. 540). Then there was molgapodi idli , Suriyani chicken stew, flat appam and red rice (Rs. 700). The chokhas were nice and spicy, and the aloo methi was delicious and went very well with the sattu filled parathas. Of course, the crunchy onions added to the taste. Both the Kerala mango prawn curry and the chicken stew were sublime — the curries were light and fragrant, and the prawns and chicken wonderfully succulent. I enjoyed the Kerala chicken stew and flat appams too. The fish chop (created by chef Anand, hence the name) was, again, excellent. Chef Udit of Café Lota tells me that they use rahu, which they boil and mash, then turn into patties, sautéed with a coating of crusty semolina. The chicken idlis were interesting too — minced chicken steamed and garnished with curry leaves and chillies. The chicken was meltingly soft, and the south Indian spices gave it a nice touch. I hope Lota’s Lockdown meals bring succour to people’s lives. “There is nothing like comfort food during these trying times,” Café Lota says. True, that.  The writer is a seasoned food critic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-metroplus/a-taste-of-the-old/article31655514.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Why Indian honey bees need some love||Every year in August, the Kaas plateau in Maharashtra explodes into bloom. As the tourists descend, so do hundreds of tiny visitors. The ‘buzz’ is loud, as all four of India’s indigenous honey bees — the Apis cerana indica, Apis dorsata, Apis florea and Trigona (stingless bee) — collect nectar and pollen. “Every few weeks, the colours change as new flowers bloom, but the pollinators remain the same,” says Vinita Gowda, assistant professor of Biological Sciences at IISER (Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research) Bhopal, who studies these industrious foragers as part of her research into pollination and plant biology. What she can’t understand is why, in the villages around Kaas, farmers ignore their winged neighbours and, instead, rear a foreign bee, the Apis mellifera. “I can’t believe the local bees won’t pollinate their farms [or produce honey],” she exclaims.  Honey trap  The story of the Indian honey bee is complicated. In 1976, when the first National Commission on Agriculture report came out, they were given their due. “A road map for beekeeping was laid out as an agricultural input [external sources that aid farming, such as fertiliser] because pollination is 40 times more important than honey. But with the focus shifting to large holder agriculture, these plans remained on paper,” says Sujana Krishnamoorthy, Executive Director of Under The Mango Tree (UTMT), a non-profit that trains small farmers in beekeeping. Attention was once again diverted from local bees when subsequent governments began to concentrate on just honey. India began to import the Mellifera in 1983, when beekeeping as a cottage industry was announced. In the last decade or so, honey production has reportedly grown by 200%, aided by initiatives like the Honey Mission — launched in 2017, in line with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for a Sweet Revolution. Last year, the market was worth approximately Rs. 1,730 crore, according to market research company IMARC, and is estimated to double in the next five years.   A s ticky problem   However, making a case for the Mellifera is much like revisiting the jersey cow vs the Indian cow debate. Yes, the European honey bee can produce anywhere between 20 kg and 40 kg of honey per colony per year, as compared to the Cerana’s low output of 7 kg to 10 kg, but it has its drawbacks. It requires a lot of maintenance, carries pathogens, and is only suited to a few areas in India (it can’t tolerate high temperatures or rain). “These bees require a lot of flora, so monoculture farming is preferred. They are good for commercial apiculture, which practises migratory beekeeping — where 700-800 boxes are moved [from large mustard fields to apple orchards],” explains Krishnamoorthy. “But the reality is that 86% of our farming community is made up of small farmers; the Mellifera is not ideal for them. We’ve seen countless examples where the government has brought in boxes and, within months, the bees abscond because there isn’t enough flora.” Interactions with organisations such as the National Bee Board haven’t helped. “The government is looking at numbers and scale. But which farmer can spend Rs. 3 lakh to buy 50 boxes [a bee box costs Rs. 3,500 and the Mellifera another Rs. 3,000]. Instead, give a small farmer Rs. 2,000 of support for boxes [UTMT’s cost Rs. 1,000] and training to transfer bees from the wild, and you give them a low-cost way of adding to their yields,” she adds.  Sweetening the deal  Moving beyond the “productivist agenda” to concentrate on the bees’ most important function — cross-pollination and maintaining ecological balance — is how we can bring the conversation back to our local foragers. “Indigenous bees have evolved here, they know the plants and are better able to adapt to environmental changes,” says Gowda. UTMT has been making inroads in the last decade. Initiatives that were once met with scorn — farmers thought they were crazy “because bees lived in forests and not boxes” — have now spread across Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, where they work with 67,000 farmers. Manilal Waghera from Gujarat, is a case in point. He remembers days when they extracted honey by squeezing hives and killing bees. Now a master trainer, with 11 bee boxes, he says, “Ever since we started, 99% of the villagers have reported better yields.” To date, UTMT has the “largest eco-system [with an institution] of Cerana beekeepers — around 1,000, with over 3,000 bee boxes”, says Krishnamoorthy, adding that the recent HCL Foundation Grant of Rs. 5 crore will be used to expand into newer districts.   The official move   The government is slowly taking note. Though the ratio is still 80:20 in favour of Mellifera, they are looking at pollination as an important part of beekeeping. “Several agencies, including the National Bee Board, are working towards implementing beekeeping as a pollination support system,” says BNS Murthy, Horticulture Commissioner of India. “Going forward, we must balance both Cerana and Mellifera; we need to understand their individual advantages. Under the Indian Council of Agriculture Research, we have an all-India research project on honey bees, spread across 20 centres.” The news is welcome, since local bee populations are coming under threat — because of excessive land clearing and use of pesticides. In Netrang taluka in Gujarat, a UTMT survey team found no indigenous bees left. “We are concentrating on conservation now, spreading awareness about unsustainable honey hunting practises to bees’ impact on farming,” says Krishnamoorthy. “If we don’t protect our bees now, then in 10 years’ time we might have to buy them through mail order, like in the US.”  “Studying the behaviour of bees is important. [Did you know] that the Cerana doesn’t travel more than 700 m, or that if there is paddy field in the way, they are unwilling to cross it? All these is important in terms of conservation of bees and addressing pollination as an ecosystem service” — Hema Somanathan, IISER Thiruvananthapuram, group leader of Bee Lab||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/why-indian-honey-bees-need-some-love/article31655114.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||The return of the||If I had to describe my dressing style as a season, it would be ‘Summer’, so it is surprising that I only discovered the kaftan after moving to Dubai five years ago. When the sea of billowing, beautiful kaftans at iftars and suhoors made sense. So for my fist Eid here I pulled out a kaftan that was actually upcycled from a white chikan duputta my mom had bought 20 years ago—originally made for a beach holiday, it was the perfect fit as many of the kaftans worn in Dubai are Made in India. “Indian aesthetics have always appealed to the Middle Eastern market, and the quality and finish of the kaftans that come from India are comparable to those by international design houses and better priced,” says Dubai based Mukta Shahdadpuri aka The Style Circuit, who has hosted pop-ups for Tarun Tahiliani, Shivan and Narresh and Anushka Khanna. Dubai-based influencer Rosemin Manji often posts pictures of herself in Delhi-based design studio D’Ascoli’s silk digital-printed kaftans and at Abu Dhabi’s Ataya (a landmark exhibition held prior to Ramadan under the patronage of HH Sheikha Shamsa Bint Hamdan Bin Mohammed Al Nahyan), Anita Dongre’s stall is always a major draw. For designers like Malini Ramani, Payal Singhal and Namrata Joshipura, regulars on the Dubai pop-up circuit, kaftans are always a strong part of their line-up. But it isn’t just Dubai; this breezy and forgiving robe is positioned for a comeback across the world, courtesy the pandemic. Boho to ‘wedding-ready’ Singhal has included kaftans in her collection since 2010 – her embroidered versions are suited to occasion wear, especially those priced around Rs. 49,286 on her website. She also has laid-back digital kaftan-tunics, made for beach holidays (around Rs. 8,719) and notes that there has been a surge in clients taking to the silhouette. At this time of the year, as summer is taking off, global designers from Gucci to Pucci have always highlighted the kaftan. After all, while its origins can be traced back to the Mesopotamian era, this silhouette first achieved high fashion status in the Swinging 60s when Yves Saint Laurent, Balenciaga and Dior included it in their collections. Over a decade later, Elizabeth Taylor wore a Gina Fratini multi-colored, kaftan-style dress to her second wedding to Richard Burton. Perhaps following in her chic footsteps, two years ago Sonam Kapoor Ahuja turned to an ivory chikan kaftan by Abu Jani Sandeep Khosla for her wedding reception afterparty. Adding “new bride” glamour to its bohemian vibe, Bollywood’s favourite fashion girl layered it with uncut diamond neckwear. Jetsetters have pulled off the beach to ballroom upgrade with the right accessories. Beaded, metal or precious jewellery – anything goes, thanks to the kaftan’s exotic personality. “I’m surprised more Indian designers have not looked at this style until recently, while international designers have them as wardrobe staples,” observes Singhal. From celebrity drawing rooms Growing up, many of us may have seen our mothers and grandmothers wear kaftans as housecoats. Perhaps the rise of resort wear as a category made the kaftan haute? Ask Malini Ramani, one of our first resort wear designers, for whom kaftans, jumpsuits and paréos are a staple. “Blending style, sophistication and comfort, it can be worn as sleepwear, on the beach or to a black-tie event. What could be more versatile?” she asks, also pointing to its popularity in this time of social distancing. It helps that a picture of actor Kareena Kapoor Khan at home in a block-printed yellow Masaba Gupta kaftan went viral, with fashion magazines immediately pronouncing it “the coolest ‘at home’ outfit’’. Popular labels include Anupama Dayal, Shivan and Narresh and Anjali Patel’s Verandah, while couture darlings Sabyasachi and Anamika Khanna have given it a formal feel with craft-based embellishments and sequins. “Kaftans can also be paired with pants, which is one of my signature looks and a chic alternative to a kurta,” says Anjali Patel, referring to another go-to #WFH silhouette. The upgrade The kaftan is as, if not more, flexible than the kurta. Ramani is already full of ideas on how she will be taking this ‘destination’ essential forward: from new lengths, to adding pockets, to matching them with masks and scarves. Verandah’s Anjali Patel also sees reinvention happening around this shape. Her label is known for their vintage oversize take on the kaftan but now she will add more structured shapes, and shorter, belted and maxi-dress styles. Kaftan dresses also feature in the much-anticipated H&M x Sabyasachi collection, expected to drop at the end of summer. With a dash of daring, courtesy slits and other details, this style is inclusive, working for all shapes and sizes, says Gupta, adding, “The days of the kaftan being associated with a house gown are over. It will all change now. The house gown is the new runway gown!” The writer is a former editor, luxury consultant and author.   “I think any designer who doesn’t consider loungewear as a key category anymore is kidding themselves. It may be the only thing people lean towards, at least until the end of this calendar year.” Masaba Gupta||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/the-return-of-the/article31655138.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Upbeat in the lockdown||The other day, I was chopping farm-fresh chow chow dressed in an old nightie, practising a curated medley of Sivaji Ganesan songs from Andaman Kadhali , Vietnam Veedu and Rajapart Rangadurai . As I was checking if I had put on too much foundation and preparing to go live on FB, I found myself meditating on the good that has come out of the lockdown. The first word that came to my mind was arangetram . No, I’m not referring to K Balachander’s movie featuring Pramila. Something scarier. The real thing. And my heart sang for America. (And not any of the songs I was practising.) Here was the US going through its worst period in modern history, and there was a glittery silver lining on that grey cloud-mass of gloom that had gone completely unnoticed. The significant drop in arangetrams , thanks to present conditions. From Saratoga to New York from Barrow to Key West, my sources tell me the irrepressible, all-pervasive nattuvangam , pounding away mercilessly on wooden floors since 1981, has temporarily fallen silent. Except in webinars. Be that as it may, the US should celebrate this joyous windfall while it lasts. Then I thought of book launches. While many people think the ozone hole has mended itself thanks to the drop in vehicular emissions and industrial pollution, they have not factored in the almost total disappearance of author gases. Every year, a toxic combination of literary, pulp and performance poetic-fumes escape with impunity from the unlatchable mouths of writers and moderators via mics and podiums across the country during the 6,54,361 or so book launches we are made to endure. If you can see the Matterhorn from Chintadripet now, let me assure you, it is thanks to a writer of literary fiction not talking. Among the activities I least look forward to each year is standing in queue at some random wedding reception, and waiting endlessly to meet the bride and groom who have been made up to look like Punch and Judy. Telling them, ‘I haven’t got you a gift. Watching your mother and father dance to Mera Kaala Chashma four times in one night at the sangeet , eating Hakka noodles with manga thokku and drinking ‘Black Label’ that tasted like Three Roses Tea with a dash of industrial alcohol doesn’t deserve a gift. You’ll be hearing from my lawyer,’ has stopped being fun years ago. Well, looks like I don’t have to. For the foreseeable future. I don’t know if this is common in other parts of the world but there is an ancient Telugu custom that I was exposed to that made my hair go grey when I was 16. It is that diabolical rite where a ‘relation’ calls on a Sunday (it has to be Sunday) at about 8 am and innocently says, ‘We are in the neighbourhood. Could we drop in for five minutes?’ As soon as you acquiesce, you realise the ‘we’ is the caller and the better part of his taluk . And said five minutes could stretch into the coming Ugadi . All hopes of meditating in the shavasana pose, dressed in nothing but your blue-checked Sangu Mark lungi , circa 2003, and watching Veerasamy to get over your hangover are dashed. Take that, baabai , pedda naanna , and pinni . My gates are closed. Entry-lu Verboten-lu! So, in conclusion, let’s be positive. I will be back next fortnight with another life-affirming story. Meanwhile, no overseas cousins and aunts this winter. Jai Hind to that. Krishna Shastri Devulapalli is a satirist. He has written four books and edited an anthology.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/upbeat-in-the-lockdown/article31655140.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Shot in quarantine||Filmmaker Satish Raj Kasireddi was working on a series for Netflix when the Indian government announced a three-week lockdown on March 24. “I was getting restless, and this was a war-like scenario. That led me to think about how filmmakers were working during times of war — they continued to do their job,” he says. The Netflix series was inevitably delayed, but Kasireddi ended up conceptualising (and co-producing, alongside Priyanjoli Basu and Ahab Jafri) Lockdown Shorts , an anthology of short films by a lineup of young, independent filmmakers working at home, during lockdown. Among them is Arif Ali, brother of Bollywood director Imtiaz Ali and Kolkata-based filmmaker Sourya Deb. Keeping it simple The idea is to utilise whatever resources one can acquire at or near home and make a short film, no more than five minutes long. Terence Hari Fernandes, one of the 10 directors featured in Lockdown Shorts , says, “A lot of people involved in this first batch have a solid history of independent filmmaking, doing projects with low budgets, and not much by way of resources. So they are used to working under constraints.” The films are now ready for release on a streaming platform; the team is currently in talks with several players (none have responded to our queries). Meanwhile, the search for future films continues.  Lockdown Shorts is one of several projects, both in India and around the world (see box), where filmmakers are challenging themselves to create art while confined to their immediate environments. Singer and actress Andrea Jeremiah (from Vada Chennai ) is set to star in a single-actor short film called, quite simply, Lockdown , directed by Aadhav Kannadasan (actor and writer known for Ponmaalai Pozhudhu and Kaalidas ). Surviving solitude Rahul Riji Nair, who works in the Malayalam film industry, recently released Survival Stories on YouTube — a collection of eight shorts (all but one written by Nair himself) made under lockdown. In these stories, characters find themselves trapped in different ways and have to overcome considerable barriers. “I think the idea of survival is particularly relevant right now,” says Nair. “Filmmakers are thinking, ‘In the absence of cinema halls, will OTT platforms take over everything?’ And like any other artiste, I also have my own fears and concerns.” The film starts off as horror and ends up resembling a genteel comedy, all within five minutes or so. An impressive feat, considering the circumstances — Nair speaks about adapting to a process where dozens of people were remotely working on the post-production. In the last film, we meet an old dog after he is abandoned at his house. We see the poor fellow drinking out of potted plants, parched. When a neighbour tips over a bucket, then calls out to the dog, the audience holds its breath: will man’s best friend be rescued? “Jayakrishnan Vijayan, who shot that film, has a nice bond with that dog (it is his neighbour’s),” Nair says, adding, “He knew when it takes a nap, and shot the dog-fainting scene at just the right time.” Clearly, the lockdown has tested our resourcefulness in more ways than one — and filmmakers are rising to the challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/shot-in-quarantine/article31655148.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Journeys in India, Covid class||Let me present two scenarios. In the first, an exhausted child is asleep on the suitcase his mother is dragging along behind her as she treks home across hundreds of kilometres. In the second, the Uttar Pradesh government is accusing the Congress of a “scam” because of 1,049 buses arranged to transport workers, only 879 are “buses”, while the rest are autos and — horror of horrors — even school buses and ambulances. As I write this, both scenarios are playing out in parallel, filling one with impotent rage but also with shame that we alone among nations have failed to treat our workers with dignity and compassion. One marvels that a government capable of organising Kumbh Melas for 100 million people nonchalantly “forgot” to make arrangements for workers before the lockdown was announced. But so it was. And like the unfolding of a comedy noir, even as restrictions are lifted one by one each day, the workers are still trudging home. Why, they might still be on the road when the lockdown lifts on May 31 and the rest of us begin our shopping expeditions. But who then will man the boutique counters and wait tables at restaurants? I suspect the same government that’s now debating the definition of a bus will organise air-conditioned transport to haul workers back. But will the old jobs still exist in a post-pandemic world? I see visuals from China of restaurant tables shrouded in transparent tents enclosing solitary diners. From the US, there are images of bars with L-shaped partitions between stools. Near my own home, a vegetable market has come up with stalls partitioned by asbestos sheets and aisles separating shoppers, a far cry from the higgledy-piggledy jumble we used to call a mandi . We have no script, no tools to survive in the new social order that is being birthed, and we’re obviously making up the lines as we go along. Like Sir Bedivere in Morte d’Arthur , I feel like saying, “For now I see the true old times are dead, when every morning brought a noble chance.” Indeed, there will be nothing noble or uplifting in our collective scramble to stay safe. With no cure or vaccine in sight yet, I wonder how we will negotiate quotidian life. Already I sense a great tentativeness in inter-personal encounters. As soon as someone comes too close, we automatically reach for masks and avoid eye contact, unsure whether it is more impolite to be masked or unmasked. Hands are stretched out and as quickly withdrawn and hugs die unborn. For people suffering from allergies as I do, sneezing in public seems like an offence, and I feel compelled to apologise and launch into explanations. Will we dare cough in public again? I am amused to think that an organism named SARS-CoV-2 might finally imbue Indians with a vague understanding of private space. I would like to believe that we will finally start queuing without attaching ourselves to the person in front with umbilical affection. And spitting! Will we allow that great Indian need to hack and thwack in public spaces continue unabated? It is fascinating to think that a virus might literally rewire social mores. In Oregon, US, a strip club has morphed into a drive-through café, where masked, gloved and G-stringed hostesses double up to pole-dance on the kerb and deliver food to cars. I wonder, will masquerade balls make a comeback, this time with gloves on? Perhaps the element of danger, which once came from the risqué behaviour a mask allowed, will now lie in not knowing if you’re dancing with a Covid positive partner. As the idea of being jammed in a plane or auditorium with hundreds of snifflers gets increasingly repugnant, I do believe we might now politely exchange test results as we once did visiting cards before we accept proximity. I can see posh dinner party RSVPs asking you to tick a Covid -ve box before you accept. One thing, however, is certain. Even as irony coughs itself to death, what should change will not. Crowded and unsanitary slums will not be rebuilt. Working class amenities won’t improve. Public transport won’t be ramped up. Migrant workers will trudge back to their shabby rooms and millionaires will build in-house ICUs. But worry not. The nomenclature will change: we will now call ourselves Covid haves and Covid have-nots. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/journeys-in-india-covid-class/article31655117.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Unboxing dancers||With venues closed for the foreseeable future due to the ongoing pandemic, dancers are looking for alternate stages. In Boxed, an online series curated by Chennai-based veteran dancer Anita Ratnam, they find the freedom to choose where they would like to dance. Even if it is a bathtub, a kitchen or a flight of stairs. In the first two weeks of lockdown, Ratnam noticed that many dancers were taking to Instagram, performing from their living rooms. “I was interested in what this period means for young dancers — especially those between the ages of 20 and 39 — who have just finished training and want to express themselves,” she says. To give them a platform, she and her team at Narthaki came up with the concept of Boxed . Each 15-minute episode features five dancers, performing their original choreography for two minutes each, in a space of their choice. They also explain why they chose that particular spot. No boundaries Explaining the name of the series, Ratnam says, “We are all boxed into our homes. What can we do to acknowledge our immediate space? So I asked artistes to choose the space they wanted. Costumes were not allowed, nor could they use the music of their [individual] form. The idea was not to reach for anything that they were comfortable with.” Instead, various music clips were sourced directly from composers and shared with the dancers. In the weeks leading up to the series, they received over 300 applications. “My initial instinct was to keep it open only to classical dancers. Since it is such a structured art form, many artistes struggle to go beyond that framework. I wanted to get them to push their boundaries,” says Ratnam. However, with entries including a Cirque du Soleil acrobat, a flamenco dancer from southern Spain and a Tango dancer from Argentina, she decided not to limit the participation. Why not go the Live route? “We wanted the series to be technically sound and have better production value. The dancers are instructed to film their performance from various angles, so it can be edited to give a cohesive look at their form,” she says. The other reason is that artistes need to be compensated for their time and talent. “One of the most distressing things for me is that during this lockdown, dancers have been giving away their art for free. Which is why both the performers and the production team involved in Boxed are given a token honorarium,” she says. So far, two episodes are available on Instagram. The show features everyone from ballet dancer Weijun in Malaysia to Bharatanatyam dancer Divya Ravi in the UK, and Belgium-based Bollywood dancer Tompiewompie to Kathak artiste Roopa Krishnamurthy. The current plan is to have two episodes out every alternate weekend. “However, with the number of entries we have, we can go on for a while,” concludes Ratnam. WatchBoxed 3.0 and 4.0on Instagram @anitaratnam on May 30 and 31||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/unboxing-dancers/article31655126.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||In Idol pursuit||As much as the term “unprecedented” is overused during a pandemic, it is the closest word to describing the finale of long-running music competition, American Idol . Usually hosted in a studio space to roaring audiences and star judges in attendance, finalist Dibesh Pokharel, aka Arthur Gunn, was standing in his tasteful back porch on Sunday, as host Ryan Seacrest was about to announce season 18’s winner. On the other side of the splitscreen was Just Sam, the R&B/pop crooner moniker of Harlem contestant Samantha Diaz. Seacrest sat in a studio, opened an envelope to announce Just Sam as the winner, and the last glimpse we get of Gunn is his family – four sisters, his mother and dad – walking over to celebrate his second place finish. Before the finale aired, the Nepali-origin singer said over the phone from Wichita, “My approach to this was, as an artiste, musician and singer, there are many platforms out there and this was one I should try out. I was just trying to experiment what it would be like to be a part of this.” As is the case with most American Idol finalists, their journey into music stardom has often just begun regardless of whether they win the grand prize or not. Finalists such as Jennifer Hudson, Adam Lambert, Katherine McPhee and Chris Daughtry are still widely known for their music, sometimes overshadowing the actual winners. The 22-year-old probably knows this, which is why the fans he’s accrued in the US, Nepal and India are a big deal. After all, Gunn – born and raised in Kathmandu and having immigrated with his family to the US about six years ago – released his Nepali language album, Grahan, in 2018 and has close to 2.8 lakh subscribers on YouTube. Post- Idol , these fans have bumped his channel’s total views up to over 14 million. Songs like ‘Nyano Ghar’ have over five million views on YouTube and two lakh plays on Spotify, but as is the case with Idol contestants, their covers are what get them a following. When Gunn and his backstory were highlighted early in the competition, he found new fans. He’s quick to realise this time is crucial, which is why he has already put up a snippet of his new song ‘Love is my Redemption’ on YouTube. “So far, I’ve been hearing from a lot of people in India and Nepal and all over the world. It feels really motivating, and gives me that positive energy that I can do this,” he concludes. American Idol Season 18 airs in India Monday to Friday at 9 pm on Star World, with repeats every Saturday and Sunday at 11.30 am.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/in-idol-pursuit/article31655142.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Finding opportunity in crisis||One of the most severely impacted industries from the coronavirus pandemic is global fashion. With $2.5 trillion in global avenues revenues, and employer to millions of people worldwide – in India apparel is said to employ anywhere from 45 to 65 million – it faces an unprecedented crisis. To discuss the state of the global fashion industry, The Hindu Weekend spoke to Imran Amed, founder and CEO of The Business of Fashion. In a Zoom interview with columnist Gayatri Rangachari Shah, Amed discussed the report, its implications for India, leadership in a time of crisis, and how fashion could reap opportunity in these extraordinary times to re-invest itself.  Read a summary of the interaction on weekend.thehindu.com and watch the video on Instagram @thehinduweekend||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/finding-opportunity-in-crisis/article31655128.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Bread garden: Following sourdough and banana breads, the latest is the bread garden, most often on focaccia. Bakers are using onions, herbs and other ingredients to make vibrant and lush gardenscapes, creating a comforting canvas of carbs. Don’t miss Teri Culletto’s (@vineyardbaker) series of focaccia gardens inspired by Vincent van Gogh. Follow #breadart on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/instapick/article31655150.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Your theatre calendar||Take a virtual trip to the theatre with plays that are being streamed online.Camera Obscuras, written and directed by Vinay Sharma, looks at the dark, yet humorous, side of life as we know it. On May 29 at 8 pm. Tickets at Rs. 200 on in.bookmyshow.com. Or watchOur Lady of 121st Streetby Stephen Adly Guirgis, staged by the LAByrinth Theater Company in New York. For one night only, it reunites eight of the original cast members, and features Laurence Fishburne. From 5.30 am on May 24, on labtheater.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/your-theatre-calendar/article31655152.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Need a laugh?||As part of The Circuit’s #SitDownComedy digital fest, Kaneez Surka brings back herImprov Games. Abish Mathew, Rahul Subramanian, Urooj Ashfaq, Supriya Joshi, Aadar Malik and Saurav Mehta will perform jokes, scenes and skits — made up on the spot — based on the audience’s suggestions. On May 27 at 8 pm on Zoom. Tickets at Rs. 299 on insider.in. For kids, the International Clown Festival goes online with 30-minute shows every Tuesday and Friday. Join Flubber @ 5 pm on in.bookmyshow.com. Free entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/need-a-laugh/article31655154.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Keep it moving||Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, get your groove on with hip-hop classes from Attakkalari, for beginners, intermediate and expert levels. From 5 pm to 6 pm. Each session is priced at Rs. 200. Details on attakkalari.org, tickets on in.bookmyshow.com. The All Heart Dance Fest is an online festival featuring 48 workshops by 38 dance instructors in various forms. Proceeds will go to the Spreading Hope Foundation in aid of daily wage workers. Today and tomorrow, and May 30 and 31. Tickets from Rs. 500 on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/keep-it-moving/article31655156.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Monaco Grand Prix: Regarded as the most difficult circuit in Formula One, the race was set to take place this weekend. On what is traditionally the biggest day of the year in motorsports, ESPN will stream presentations of some classic editions from 2018 and 2019. In addition, the day will have four hours of competition in the F1 Esports Virtual Grand Prix Series. Tomorrow, on the ESPN app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/talking-point/article31655158.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Quiz away||Go head-to-head with Bollywood fans in the ninth edition of Quiz for a Cause. So brush up on your knowledge of Hindi films, actors and stories behind the scripts. On May 24, from 3.45 pm to 5.30 pm. Register at Rs. 49 on insider.in. Top five participants will win subscriptions to Storytel India, an audio and e-book platform. For those who miss pub quizzes, do them the Aussie way with Quiz Meisters. Watch the live stream on Facebook and fill in your answers at thequarantinequiz.com. Every Friday at 2.30 pm IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/quiz-away/article31655160.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Get fit, virtually||Take 40 minutes each day for the next 40 days to take up the SOHFIT Challenge. The virtual fitness course — which has gained popularity over the lockdown — combines fitness, clean eating and community along with expert coaching. The workouts will include both bodyweight and options with equipments. Communicate with trainers via WhatsApp, get your form checked and follow a personalised meal plan. At Rs. 14,160 (inclusive of taxes) per person. The next edition is set to begin on June 8. Register at sohfit.com/40daychallenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/get-fit-virtually/article31655162.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||On Saturday, our Instagram Live series features Sendhil Ramamurthy, who most recently made an appearance in Mindy Kaling’s Netflix show, Never Have I Ever . He will talk about playing Mohan, and his other roles in sci-fi and espionage series. At 7.30 pm. On Sunday, Rebekah Blank, who launched Atmosphere Kombucha and founded Fab Cafe (a unit of Fabindia), will talk about the new beauty foods with columnist and wellness expert Vasudha Rai. At 5 pm. Tune in to both sessions on @thehinduweekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/lockdownwithweekend/article31655164.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Music on your mind||Never had the time to learn about Blues and Jazz? HivePad and Furtados School of Music are organising a free introduction to the musical genres, where experts will share details on the history, techniques and influences, besides trivia and fun facts. On May 23 at 5 pm. Register on insider.in. Or sign up for a free online rap workshop with MC Heam of The Dharavi Dream Project. Explore the history of hip-hop and music, lyricism, flow, style, and technical skills. Details and registration on thedharavidreamproject.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-weekend/music-on-your-mind/article31655166.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Unboxing dancers||With venues closed for the foreseeable future due to the ongoing pandemic, dancers are looking for alternate stages. In Boxed, an online series curated by Chennai-based veteran dancer Anita Ratnam, they find the freedom to choose where they would like to dance. Even if it is a bathtub, a kitchen or a flight of stairs. In the first two weeks of lockdown, Ratnam noticed that many dancers were taking to Instagram, performing from their living rooms. “I was interested in what this period means for young dancers — especially those between the ages of 20 and 39 — who have just finished training and want to express themselves,” she says. To give them a platform, she and her team at Narthaki came up with the concept of Boxed . Each 15-minute episode features five dancers, performing their original choreography for two minutes each, in a space of their choice. They also explain why they chose that particular spot. No boundaries Explaining the name of the series, Ratnam says, “We are all boxed into our homes. What can we do to acknowledge our immediate space? So I asked artistes to choose the space they wanted. Costumes were not allowed, nor could they use the music of their [individual] form. The idea was not to reach for anything that they were comfortable with.” Instead, various music clips were sourced directly from composers and shared with the dancers. In the weeks leading up to the series, they received over 300 applications. “My initial instinct was to keep it open only to classical dancers. Since it is such a structured art form, many artistes struggle to go beyond that framework. I wanted to get them to push their boundaries,” says Ratnam. However, with entries including a Cirque du Soleil acrobat, a flamenco dancer from southern Spain and a Tango dancer from Argentina, she decided not to limit the participation. Why not go the Live route? “We wanted the series to be technically sound and have better production value. The dancers are instructed to film their performance from various angles, so it can be edited to give a cohesive look at their form,” she says. The other reason is that artistes need to be compensated for their time and talent. “One of the most distressing things for me is that during this lockdown, dancers have been giving away their art for free. Which is why both the performers and the production team involved in Boxed are given a token honorarium,” she says. So far, two episodes are available on Instagram. The show features everyone from ballet dancer Weijun in Malaysia to Bharatanatyam dancer Divya Ravi in the UK, and Belgium-based Bollywood dancer Tompiewompie to Kathak artiste Roopa Krishnamurthy. The current plan is to have two episodes out every alternate weekend. “However, with the number of entries we have, we can go on for a while,” concludes Ratnam. WatchBoxed 3.0 and 4.0on Instagram @anitaratnam on May 30 and 31||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/unboxing-dancers/article31655497.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||The return of the||If I had to describe my dressing style as a season, it would be ‘Summer’, so it is surprising that I only discovered the kaftan after moving to Dubai five years ago. When the sea of billowing, beautiful kaftans at iftars and suhoors made sense. So for my fist Eid here I pulled out a kaftan that was actually upcycled from a white chikan duputta my mom had bought 20 years ago—originally made for a beach holiday, it was the perfect fit as many of the kaftans worn in Dubai are Made in India. “Indian aesthetics have always appealed to the Middle Eastern market, and the quality and finish of the kaftans that come from India are comparable to those by international design houses and better priced,” says Dubai based Mukta Shahdadpuri aka The Style Circuit, who has hosted pop-ups for Tarun Tahiliani, Shivan and Narresh and Anushka Khanna. Dubai-based influencer Rosemin Manji often posts pictures of herself in Delhi-based design studio D’Ascoli’s silk digital-printed kaftans and at Abu Dhabi’s Ataya (a landmark exhibition held prior to Ramadan under the patronage of HH Sheikha Shamsa Bint Hamdan Bin Mohammed Al Nahyan), Anita Dongre’s stall is always a major draw. For designers like Malini Ramani, Payal Singhal and Namrata Joshipura, regulars on the Dubai pop-up circuit, kaftans are always a strong part of their line-up. But it isn’t just Dubai; this breezy and forgiving robe is positioned for a comeback across the world, courtesy the pandemic. Boho to ‘wedding-ready’ Singhal has included kaftans in her collection since 2010 – her embroidered versions are suited to occasion wear, especially those priced around Rs. 49,286 on her website. She also has laid-back digital kaftan-tunics, made for beach holidays (around Rs. 8,719) and notes that there has been a surge in clients taking to the silhouette. At this time of the year, as summer is taking off, global designers from Gucci to Pucci have always highlighted the kaftan. After all, while its origins can be traced back to the Mesopotamian era, this silhouette first achieved high fashion status in the Swinging 60s when Yves Saint Laurent, Balenciaga and Dior included it in their collections. Over a decade later, Elizabeth Taylor wore a Gina Fratini multi-colored, kaftan-style dress to her second wedding to Richard Burton. Perhaps following in her chic footsteps, two years ago Sonam Kapoor Ahuja turned to an ivory chikan kaftan by Abu Jani Sandeep Khosla for her wedding reception afterparty. Adding “new bride” glamour to its bohemian vibe, Bollywood’s favourite fashion girl layered it with uncut diamond neckwear. Jetsetters have pulled off the beach to ballroom upgrade with the right accessories. Beaded, metal or precious jewellery – anything goes, thanks to the kaftan’s exotic personality. “I’m surprised more Indian designers have not looked at this style until recently, while international designers have them as wardrobe staples,” observes Singhal. From celebrity drawing rooms Growing up, many of us may have seen our mothers and grandmothers wear kaftans as housecoats. Perhaps the rise of resort wear as a category made the kaftan haute? Ask Malini Ramani, one of our first resort wear designers, for whom kaftans, jumpsuits and paréos are a staple. “Blending style, sophistication and comfort, it can be worn as sleepwear, on the beach or to a black-tie event. What could be more versatile?” she asks, also pointing to its popularity in this time of social distancing. It helps that a picture of actor Kareena Kapoor Khan at home in a block-printed yellow Masaba Gupta kaftan went viral, with fashion magazines pronouncing it “the coolest ‘at home’ outfit’’. Popular labels include Anupama Dayal, Shivan and Narresh and Anjali Patel’s Verandah, while couture darlings Sabyasachi and Anamika Khanna have given it a formal feel with craft-based embellishments and sequins. “Kaftans can also be paired with pants, which is one of my signature looks and a chic alternative to a kurta,” says Anjali Patel, referring to another go-to #WFH silhouette. The upgrade The kaftan is as, if not more, flexible than the kurta. Ramani is already full of ideas on how she will be taking this ‘destination’ essential forward: from new lengths, to adding pockets, to matching them with masks and scarves. Verandah’s Anjali Patel also sees reinvention happening around this shape. Her label is known for their vintage oversize take on the kaftan but now she will add more structured shapes, and shorter, belted and maxi-dress styles. Kaftan dresses also feature in the much-anticipated H&M x Sabyasachi collection, expected to drop at the end of summer. With a dash of daring, courtesy slits and other details, this style is inclusive, working for all shapes and sizes, says Gupta, adding, “The days of the kaftan being associated with a house gown are over. It will all change now. The house gown is the new runway gown!” The writer is a former editor, luxury consultant and author  “I think any designer who doesn’t consider loungewear as a key category anymore is kidding themselves. It may be the only thing people lean towards, at least until the end of this calendar year.” Masaba Gupta||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/the-return-of-the/article31655516.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Shot in quarantine||Filmmaker Satish Raj Kasireddi was working on a series for Netflix when the Indian government announced a three-week lockdown on March 24. “I was getting restless, and this was a war-like scenario. That led me to think about how filmmakers were working during times of war — they continued to do their job,” he says. The Netflix series was inevitably delayed, but Kasireddi ended up conceptualising (and co-producing, alongside Priyanjoli Basu and Ahab Jafri) Lockdown Shorts , an anthology of short films by a lineup of young, independent filmmakers working at home, during lockdown. Among them is Arif Ali, who is the brother of Bollywood director Imtiaz Ali and the Kolkata-based filmmaker Sourya Deb. Keeping it simple The idea is to utilise whatever resources one can acquire at or near home and make a short film, no more than five minutes long. Terence Hari Fernandes, one of the 10 directors featured in Lockdown Shorts , says, “A lot of people involved in this first batch have a solid history of independent filmmaking, doing projects with low budgets, and not much by way of resources. So they are used to working under constraints.” The films are now ready for release on a streaming platform; the team is currently in talks with several players (none have responded to our queries). Meanwhile, the search for future films continues.  Lockdown Shorts is one of several projects, both in India and around the world (see box), where filmmakers are challenging themselves to create art while confined to their immediate environments. Singer and actress Andrea Jeremiah (from Vada Chennai ) is set to star in a single-actor short film called, quite simply, Lockdown , directed by Aadhav Kannadasan (actor and writer known for his popular Tamil films Ponmaalai Pozhudhu and Kaalidas ).  Surviving solitude Rahul Riji Nair, who works in the Malayalam film industry, recently released Survival Stories on YouTube — a collection of eight shorts (all but one written by Nair himself) made under lockdown. In these stories, characters find themselves trapped in different ways and have to overcome barriers. “I think the idea of survival is particularly relevant right now,” says Nair. “Filmmakers are thinking, ‘In the absence of cinema halls, will OTT platforms take over everything?’ And like any other artiste, I also have my own fears and concerns.” The film starts off as horror and ends up resembling a genteel comedy, all within five minutes or so. An impressive feat, considering the circumstances — Nair speaks about adapting to a process where dozens of people were remotely working on the post-production. In the last film, we meet an old dog after he is abandoned at his house. We see the poor fellow drinking out of potted plants, parched. When a neighbour tips over a bucket, then calls out to the dog, the audience holds its breath: will man’s best friend be rescued? “Jayakrishnan Vijayan, who shot that film, has a nice bond with that dog (it is his neighbour’s),” Nair says, adding, “He knew when it takes a nap, and shot the dog-fainting scene at just the right time.” Clearly, the lockdown has tested our resourcefulness in more ways than one — and filmmakers are rising to the challenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/shot-in-quarantine/article31655498.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||In Idol pursuit||As much as the term “unprecedented” is overused during a pandemic, it is the closest word to describing the finale of long-running music competition, American Idol . Usually hosted in a studio space to roaring audiences and star judges in attendance, finalist Dibesh Pokharel, aka Arthur Gunn, was standing in his tasteful back porch on Sunday, as host Ryan Seacrest was about to announce season 18’s winner. On the other side of the splitscreen was Just Sam, the R&B/pop crooner moniker of Harlem contestant Samantha Diaz. Seacrest sat in a studio, opened an envelope to announce Just Sam as the winner, and the last glimpse we get of Gunn is his family – four sisters, his mother and dad – walking over to celebrate his second place finish. Before the finale aired, the Nepali-origin singer said over the phone from Wichita, “My approach to this was, as an artiste, musician and singer, there are many platforms out there and this was one I should try out. I was just trying to experiment what it would be like to be a part of this.” As is the case with most American Idol finalists, their journey into music stardom has often just begun regardless of whether they win the grand prize or not. Finalists such as Jennifer Hudson, Adam Lambert, Katherine McPhee and Chris Daughtry are still widely known for their music, sometimes overshadowing the actual winners. The 22-year-old probably knows this, which is why the fans he’s accrued in the US, Nepal and India are a big deal. After all, Gunn – born and raised in Kathmandu and having immigrated with his family to the US about six years ago – released his Nepali language album, Grahan, in 2018 and has close to 2.8 lakh subscribers on YouTube. Post- Idol , these fans have bumped his channel’s total views up to over 14 million. Songs like ‘Nyano Ghar’ have over five million views on YouTube and two lakh plays on Spotify, but as is the case with Idol contestants, their covers are what get them a following. When Gunn and his backstory were highlighted early in the competition, he found new fans. He’s quick to realise this time is crucial, which is why he has already put up a snippet of his new song ‘Love is my Redemption’ on YouTube. “So far, I’ve been hearing from a lot of people in India and Nepal and all over the world. It feels really motivating, and gives me that positive energy that I can do this,” he concludes. American Idol Season 18 airs Monday to Friday, 9 p.m. on Star World, with repeats on Saturday and Sunday at 11.30 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/in-idol-pursuit/article31655496.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Empty Old Delhi streets prelude to a solemn Id||The streets of Old Delhi bore a deserted look on the last Friday before Id as residents stayed indoors owing to lockdown restrictions due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Seeing the empty narrow streets and just a few people in Jama Masjid, the residents of the Walled City said that this Id would be a first of its kind with bare minimum of festivities. Shopkeepers, who are usually inundated with customers at this time of the year, said that restrictions on movement, implementation of curfew, and a depleted income forced most people to remain indoors. Mohammad Danish, a shopkeeper of a garments store opposite to Jama Masjid, said: “This street is usually always bustling with people and before Id we used to end up keeping our shops open till 12.30 a.m.-1 a.m. daily. There used to be a festive air with people everywhere. Now, with the curfew timings in place, people usually shut shop by 6.30 p.m., which also means that our business has been reduced to nothing.” Farman, a footwear seller, added: “With two months of lockdown, people have no money left to spend on buying new items. We have hardly had any sales. There are days when we earn Rs. 100-Rs. 200 only. It’s a very sensitive situation right now. People are of the opinion that if we cannot go to the Masjid for namaaz then what is the point of celebrating anything and shopping?” Several residents said that given the circumstances the country was reeling under, religious leaders had advised people to follow the guidelines issued by the government. “Life comes first and then comes nation. If the nation is under threat and does not survive then what will the people do? So, we have decided to remain indoors this Id and not step out to buy anything. For one month we have been observing Ramzan from within our houses which is also something that has never been done before. When we didn’t get to observe Ramzan like we do, what can we possibly celebrate?” said Shakir Siddiqui, a retired government official. Some like Rizwana Habib added that instead of spending their money on shopping this Id, they were helping the poor and needy. “The usual celebration and shopping is absent. But several people are donating money to help the poor and needy by providing them food and clothes. Some even paid the school fees for children whose parents could not afford it due to the lockdown,” said Ms. Habib, who runs a primary school in Chawri Bazar. Mohammad Nafis, a resident of Lal Kuan said: “Brotherhood between people irrespective of their religion is of utmost importance. So, for the sake of all and for humanity at large, it has been decided that we stay away from the usual festivities.” With the characteristic revelry missing from the streets, a contingent of police and security personnel marched through the lanes with loudspeakers, reiterating the need for people to remain indoors.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/empty-old-delhi-streets-prelude-to-a-solemn-id/article31655491.ece
23 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||There is no respite, say Haryana hoteliers||Hit hard by the COVID-19-induced lockdown, hoteliers in Haryana have alleged that there is “no breather” from the State and central governments to the industry and they may be forced to switch their business “as a last resort” in case the situation prevailed for long. Speaking to The Hindu , Hotel and Restaurant Association of Haryana president Colonel (Retd.) Manbeer Choudhary said they had given four representations to the Chief Minister Manohar Lal but “there is no respite”. He said the level of frustration among the hoteliers was so “high” that a few of them were even mulling selling off their properties or seeking the Change of Land Use (CLU) to switch business. “In Haryana, we have the CLU system and presently we have licences for running hotels. But if we want to change the activity, we need the permission from the government,” said Mr. Choudhary. He added a few of the hoteliers in Gurugram were willing to open their premises for PG accommodation to make up for the losses, but he had advised them against it as it was illegal. Mr. Choudhary, however, added he had asked the hoteliers to wait till June 1 as the things were likely to improve. He said that “neither the State nor the Centre had come to their help”, but the Reserve Bank of India had gone a “good job” by deferring the EMIs for the industry as such. Mr. Choudhary added the hoteliers were not seeking any “cash transfers”, but they stood at “cross roads” and needed “support”. He said the national association of the hotel industry too had met the union leaders in this regard. Mr. Choudhary said the government could help the hotel industry by waving off the fixed electricity load charges for six months since there was no business and reducing the property tax charges and the Goods and Services Tax rate. “If the GST is reduced, the consumer will spend more,” said Mr. Choudhary. In a fresh representation to the Chief Minister on Thursday, the association has demanded that hotels be allowed to resume operations from June 1. ‘Steps not implemented’ He rued that the announcements made by the government were also not implemented on the ground. “The 25% waiver announced on fixed electricity charges is still not implemented. I got an electricity bill of Rs. 18 lakh for my hotel during lockdown and the department asked me to deposit the complete bill,” said Mr. Choudhary. He also questioned the rationale behind opening domestic flights, but not allowing hotel bookings. “They talk about bringing industry from China, but they fail to handle even the existing industry. The government is least concerned about the ground realities,” alleged Mr. Choudhary, without mincing any words.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/there-is-no-respite-say-haryana-hoteliers/article31655482.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fruit seller ‘robbed’ of crates of mangoes; video goes viral||A fruit seller was allegedly robbed of mangoes worth thousands of rupees on Thursday in Shahdara’s Jagatpuri. The police have registered a case after the video of the incident went viral. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Shahdara) Amit Sharma said that a case under Sections of robbery has been registered. A senior police officer said that on Thursday, the fruit seller kept his cart under the shade of a tree and placed crates of mangoes under the cart. A while later, a few rickshaw pullers came and stood under the tree as well. “The fruit seller asked them to leave as they were blocking the view of his cart. An argument broke out between them and more rickshaw pullers joined after which the fruit seller left and moved his cart elsewhere. However, the seller forgot to take his crates of mangoes,” said the officer. After sometime, a few persons came and asked the rickshaw pullers if they were selling the mangoes. “The rickshaw pullers said that it wasn’t theirs, after which people started taking the mangoes,” the officer said. In the video of the incident, which went viral, people can be seen fleeing with mangoes in their hands. The police said that they reached out to the fruit seller, who wasn’t willing to give a written complaint. But after persuasion, he filed a complaint. Based on it, a case on charges of robbery was registered on Friday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/fruit-seller-robbed-of-crates-of-mangoes-video-goes-viral/article31655485.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||Respond to petition seeking early hearing in Jamia violence case: HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday asked the Centre to respond to a plea for early hearing on a petition seeking setting up of a judicial commission to look into the violence of Jamia Millia Islamia University protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act last December. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan asked the government and Delhi Police to file their reply to the plea and listed the matter for hearing on June 5. The application seeking early hearing of the petition was filed in a pending petition seeking action against the police for brutally attacking students and residents of Jamia and against the ruthless, and excessive use of force and aggression unleashed by police and paramilitary forces on students within the university. The plea said the government imposed complete lockdown across the country on March 24 due to the spread of COVID-19 during which movement of people is restricted. However, several students from the university have been called to the police station and by the Crime Branch. ‘Made to sit for hours’ It said the students are made to sit there for hours in the name of investigation being conducted by the police and the harassment of the students at the hands of the police has not stopped even with the current situations in the country . The court had earlier issued notice to the Centre, Delhi government and police on the main petition and sought responses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/respond-to-petition-seeking-early-hearing-in-jamia-violence-case-hc/article31655477.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police request adherence to lockdown restrictions||Delhi Police personnel met with imams and maulanas of Mosques on Friday and requested them to urge followers to maintain social distancing norms and lockdown guidelines during the celebration of Id. Delhi Commissioner of Police S.N. Shrivastava has asked senior police officers to hold meetings with the Muslim community and apprise them of the orders regarding prohibition of religious gatherings. Joint CP (Souther Range) said that outside force may be provided in the evening hours to enforce night curfew effectively. Delhi Police Public Relations Officer M.S. Randhawa said, “We are reaching out to people with a request to maintain lockdown guidelines during celebration.” A police officer said they held a meeting with clerics and sensitised them about the guidelines that need to be followed over the next two days and on Id. “We have requested them to spread the message and ensure no gatherings happen at Mosques or any other place. We are also putting up posters with an appeal to the public to follow lockdown orders,” said the officer. “We have also briefed the beat staff to ensure lockdown orders are followed in market areas. Markets should function in odd-even pattern and shopkeepers must ensure social distancing and have hand sanitisers at entry point. We request the public to avoid coming out of their homes, unless necessary,” added the officer. Meanwhile, a total of 324 policemen have been found COVID-19 positive till Thursday.  We request the public to avoid coming out of their homes, unless necessary Police officer||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/police-request-adherence-to-lockdown-restrictions/article31655489.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||DU open book exam is not viable: CoC||A Committee on Courses (CoC) of the History Department at Delhi University resolved that open book examinations as proposed for final semester students were not a viable option, Head of the Department, Sunil Kumar wrote in a letter to Vice Chancellor, Yogesh Tyagi on Wednesday. While the CoC recognised that there was a need to announce results without inordinate delay, it highlighted various issues such as infrastructural constraints, technological obstacles, economic hardships, dislocation of students and challenging household environments among other concerns. In fact, in a survey, students had categorically stated that such an exam would be unfair especially given that they were taught for a different mode of assessment altogether. Instead, the CoC proposed that for UG students the average marks in the previous five semesters make up 75% of the sixth semester marks. The remaining 25% be counted from internal evaluation in the sixth semester. A similar mode could be used for PG students. Similar suggestions have been made by the sociology department as well as teachers of the economics departments.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/du-open-book-exam-is-not-viable-coc/article31655493.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||DUSU demands end to ‘forced rent extraction’||Delhi University Students’ Union (DUSU) demanded an end to the “forced rent extraction from pandemic-stricken students” on Friday. Following multiple requests for help from students, who were being coerced by owners of paying guest facilities, DUSU office-bearers appealed to owners to stop harassing student tenants for rent and ensure the safety of their belongings. The union appealed to all flat and PG owners to “refrain from high-handed demands and involuntary extraction of monthly rentals.” Pradeep Tanwar, vice president of DUSU, said, “We held multiple conversations with the PG and flat owners of Kamala Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, and other areas where a sizeable proportion of DU’s day scholars reside. We have sized up the matter and are continuously monitoring the situation. We will not allow any forced extraction of rent from the pandemic-stricken students. We will also make sure that the belongings of students, who left the national capital in haste, are also well taken care of by the owners of the rented accommodations.”   We will make sure that the belongings of students, who left the national capital in haste, are well taken care of by the owners of the rented accommodations    Pradeep Tanwar  Vice president of DUSU||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dusu-demands-end-to-forced-rent-extraction/article31655492.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||Rent waiver only if contract has ‘force majeure’ clause||The Delhi High Court has remarked that if the rent contract contains a ‘force majeure' clause providing for some sort of waiver or suspension of rent, only then the tenant could claim the same in circumstances such as the outbreak of a pandemic, like the current COVID-19 outbreak. Justice Prathiba M. Singh also said that the question of waiver, suspension or any remission in the rental payments would operate differently for each category of agreements. ‘Force Majeure’ is defined by Black’s Law Dictionary as “an event or effect that can be neither anticipated nor controlled”, the High Court said. The term includes both acts of nature such as floods and hurricanes, and acts of people such as riots, strikes and wars. If, however, there is no contract at all or if there is no specific force majeure clause, then the issues would have to be determined on the basis of the applicable law, the court said while rejecting some Khan Market tenants’ plea seeking suspension of rent payment.  The court said that the petitioner tenants are also not ‘lessees’ as an eviction decree has already been passed against them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/rent-waiver-only-if-contract-has-force-majeure-clause/article31655479.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||Revisit rules on RS passes for freelance scribes: HC||The Delhi High Court has said that it would be advisable for the Media Advisory Committee (MAC) of the Rajya Sabha to “revisit” its rules of restricting the issuance of passes to journalists under the freelance category to only sessional passes. Justice Navin Chawla made the observation while dismissing the plea of Anil Chamadia, a freelance journalist, seeking direction to the MAC to issue a permanent pass to him for covering the proceedings of the Rajya Sabha. Mr. Chamadia had challenged the decision of MAC taken in the meeting held on July 06, 2017 discontinuing its earlier practice of issuing an annual pass to the journalist under the freelance category. He had argued that issuance of only sessional passes to freelance journalists would restrict their right to access information when the Parliament is not in session. He contended that non-issuance of an annual pass would deny the freelance journalist of first-hand access to information.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/revisit-rules-on-rs-passes-for-freelance-scribes-hc/article31655476.ece
23 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIIMS RDA seeks action after death of mess worker||A day after his death of an All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) mess worker, his sample has tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. The hospital has closed the mess after his death. AIIMS Doctors’ Association said that the worker was admitted in the hospital with COVID-19 like symptoms and died hours after he was brought in. The association is now seeking resignation of hostel superintendent and senior warden of the hostel stating that the hostel administration failed to implement COVID-19 preventive measures on the campus. Orders inspection Meanwhile, the High Court on Friday ordered immediate inspection of a night shelter, managed by Delhi Government’s DUSIB, at AIIMS where 22 people have tested positive and directed the Delhi Chief Secretary to examine the situation and take corrective measures without any delay. The court also wondered when the night shelter was within the AIIMS premises, why they were shifted to far off hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/aiims-rda-seeks-action-after-death-of-mess-worker/article31655494.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||DMRC – FOB brief||A foot overbridge constructed by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) connecting Samaypur Badli metro station and Badli railway station, was opened for public movement, officials said on Friday. “The 88 metre-long FOB connects the concourse of the Samaypur Badli metro station on the Yellow Line with the platforms 1 and 2 of the Badli railway station of Northern Railway,” the DMRC said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/dmrc-fob-brief/article31655480.ece
23 May 2020||Gurugram,||COVID-19: Gurgaon reports one more death; 37 new cases take Haryana tally to 1,067||A COVID-19 positive patient died in Gurugram on Friday, taking the number of fatalities in Haryana to 16 as 37 new cases surfaced in the State, officials said here. This was the second death due to COVID-19 reported in Gurugram in two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/covid-19-gurgaon-reports-one-more-death-37-new-cases-take-haryana-tally-to-1067/article31655483.ece
23 May 2020||Noida,||Gautam Buddh Nagar: 5 new COVID-19 cases, 5 discharged, active cases 88||Five more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Gautam Buddha Nagar on Friday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 307, officials said. Also, five people were discharged from hospitals after recovery.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/gautam-buddh-nagar-5-new-covid-19-cases-5-discharged-active-cases-88/article31655487.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- brief||Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, and BJP MLA from Rohtash Nagar, Jitendra Mahajan, were detained by police when both sought to give a memorandum to the DM of Shahdara district against what they alleged was the failure of the Delhi govt. to provide free ration to the poor. Both were taken to the Jyoti Nagar police station later and let off.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-brief/article31655486.ece
23 May 2020||New Delhi,||Nizamuddin Markaz:HC to hear on May 26 plea for release of foreigners from quarantine||The Delhi High Court on Friday said its Division Bench will hear next week, a plea seeking release of 916 foreign nationals, who participated in the religious congregation at Nizamuddin and are held in institutional quarantine since March 30 despite being tested negative for COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nizamuddin-markazhc-to-hear-on-may-26-plea-for-release-of-foreigners-from-quarantine/article31655495.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Bread garden: Following sourdough and banana breads, the latest is the bread garden, most often on focaccia. Bakers are using onions, herbs and other ingredients to make vibrant and lush gardenscapes, creating a comforting canvas of carbs. Don’t miss Teri Culletto’s (@vineyardbaker) series of focaccia gardens inspired by Vincent van Gogh. Follow #breadart on Instagram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/instapick/article31655499.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Your theatre calendar||Take a virtual trip to the theatre with plays that are being streamed online.Camera Obscuras, written and directed by Vinay Sharma, looks at the dark, yet humorous, side of life as we know it. On May 29 at 8 pm. Tickets at Rs. 200 on in.bookmyshow.com. Or watchOur Lady of 121st Streetby Stephen Adly Guirgis, staged by the LAByrinth Theater Company in New York. For one night only, it reunites eight of the original cast members, and features Laurence Fishburne. From 5.30 am on May 24, on labtheater.org.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/your-theatre-calendar/article31655500.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Need a laugh?||As part of The Circuit’s #SitDownComedy digital fest, Kaneez Surka brings back herImprov Games. Abish Mathew, Rahul Subramanian, Urooj Ashfaq, Supriya Joshi, Aadar Malik and Saurav Mehta will perform jokes, scenes and skits — made up on the spot — based on the audience’s suggestions. On May 27 at 8 pm on Zoom. Tickets at Rs. 299 on insider.in. For kids, the International Clown Festival goes online with 30-minute shows every Tuesday and Friday. Join Flubber @ 5 pm on in.bookmyshow.com. Free entry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/need-a-laugh/article31655501.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Keep it moving||Every Monday, Wednesday and Friday, get your groove on with hip-hop classes from Attakkalari, for beginners, intermediate and expert levels. From 5 pm to 6 pm. Each session is priced at Rs. 200. Details on attakkalari.org, tickets on in.bookmyshow.com. The All Heart Dance Fest is an online festival featuring 48 workshops by 38 dance instructors in various forms. Proceeds will go to the Spreading Hope Foundation in aid of daily wage workers. Today and tomorrow, and May 30 and 31. Tickets from Rs. 500 on insider.in.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/keep-it-moving/article31655502.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||Monaco Grand Prix: Regarded as the most difficult circuit in Formula One, the race was set to take place this weekend. On what is traditionally the biggest day of the year in motorsports, ESPN will stream presentations of some classic editions from 2018 and 2019. In addition, the day will have four hours of competition in the F1 Esports Virtual Grand Prix Series. Tomorrow, on the ESPN app.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/talking-point/article31655503.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Quiz away||Go head-to-head with Bollywood fans in the ninth edition of Quiz for a Cause. So brush up on your knowledge of Hindi films, actors and stories behind the scripts. On May 24, from 3.45 pm to 5.30 pm. Register at Rs. 49 on insider.in. Top five participants will win subscriptions to Storytel India, an audio and e-book platform. For those who miss pub quizzes, do them the Aussie way with Quiz Meisters. Watch the live stream on Facebook and fill in your answers at thequarantinequiz.com. Every Friday at 2.30 pm IST.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/quiz-away/article31655504.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Get fit, virtually||Take 40 minutes each day for the next 40 days to take up the SOHFIT Challenge. The virtual fitness course — which has gained popularity over the lockdown — combines fitness, clean eating and community along with expert coaching. The workouts will include both bodyweight and options with equipments. Communicate with trainers via WhatsApp, get your form checked and follow a personalised meal plan. At Rs. 14,160 (inclusive of taxes) per person. The next edition is set to begin on June 8. Register at sohfit.com/40daychallenge.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/get-fit-virtually/article31655505.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||On Saturday, our Instagram Live series features Sendhil Ramamurthy, who most recently made an appearance in Mindy Kaling’s Netflix show, Never Have I Ever . He will talk about playing Mohan, and his other roles in sci-fi and espionage series. At 7.30 pm. On Sunday, Rebekah Blank, who launched Atmosphere Kombucha and founded Fab Cafe (a unit of Fabindia), will talk about the new beauty foods with columnist and wellness expert Vasudha Rai. At 5 pm. Tune in to both sessions on @thehinduweekend.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/lockdownwithweekend/article31655506.ece
23 May 2020||May 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Music on your mind||Never had the time to learn about Blues and Jazz? HivePad and Furtados School of Music are organising a free introduction to the musical genres, where experts will share details on the history, techniques and influences, besides trivia and fun facts. On May 23 at 5 pm. Register on insider.in. Or sign up for a free online rap workshop with MC Heam of The Dharavi Dream Project. Explore the history of hip-hop and music, lyricism, flow, style, and technical skills. Details and registration on thedharavidreamproject.org||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/music-on-your-mind/article31655507.ece
