29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Working with China to resolve LAC issue peacefully, says MEA||Indian and Chinese sides remain “engaged” through diplomatic and military channels in Delhi and Beijing and at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in order to resolve the situation along the boundaries in Ladakh and Sikkim, the government said on Thursday. Indicating that India would not accept U.S. President Donald Trump’s offer to mediate between the two countries, it said the matter was being discussed bilaterally. “We are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve the issue,” said Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) spokesperson Anurag Srivastava when asked about Mr. Trump’s assertion that he had conveyed to India and China his willingness to “mediate or arbitrate” on the “raging border dispute” between them. Position of PLA troops While giving no details of the nature and extent of the standoff, which has been going on for weeks, the MEA said the contact between both sides on the issue included talks in “Delhi and Beijing”. The spokesperson did not respond to questions about whether Chinese troops remained in areas patrolled by India, particularly in the Galwan valley. “India is committed to the objective of maintenance of peace and tranquillity in the border areas with China and our armed forces scrupulously follow the consensus reached by our leaders and the guidance provided. At the same time, we remain firm in our resolve to ensuring India’s sovereignty and national security,” Mr. Srivastava said. The MEA’s comments came a day after the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs said the situation at the LAC was “stable and controllable”. While declining to comment on the Chinese statement, the MEA spokesperson said the issues would be resolved according to five agreements on border management signed by India and China between 1993 and 2013. “Indian troops take a very responsible approach towards border management and strictly follow the procedures laid out in various bilateral agreements and protocols with China to resolve any issue that may arise in the border areas,” said Mr. Srivastava in the most extensive comments made by the government thus far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/working-with-china-to-resolve-lac-issue-peacefully-says-mea/article31699739.ece
29 May 2020||Vijayapura,||Farmers hoping for a good monsoon||Though Vijayapura district is still reeling under scorching heat, as May is about to end and monsoon, which normally arrives in the first week of June, about to set in, farmers are preparing land for sowing operations for the coming kharif season. Along with farmers, the Department of Agriculture is also making the required arrangements for taking up farming activities when the district starts receiving monsoon showers. According to officials, they have set a target 4.88 lakh hectares of land as sowing area this year. Of this, 39,000 hectares have been set aside for maize, 20,000 hectares for bajra, 300 hectares for millets, while 2.75 lakh hectares have been earmarked for tur. The district, meanwhile, has received some amount of showers during the pre-monsoon season. Though officials say that pre-monsoon rain may not of much help to farmers who are preparing land for sowing, horticulture farmers feel that the rain will bring some relief to their crops. For the kharif season, since tur is the major crop, farmers, at present, are preparing their land as the crop is essentially dependent on rainfall. Farmers are using tractors and bullocks for tilling and preparing land for the season. Since a large area in the district is still rain-fed, farmers cultivate such crops that require rainwater. They include tur and maize. Those who have irrigation facility opt for other crops, including sugarcane, that require a good amount of water. Amid this, the department officials said that they have already procured adequate quantity of seeds and fertilizers. Seeds would be sold through the Raita Samparka Kendras in the district. The officials said that 5,200 quintals of tur and 7,000 quintals of other seeds have been procured. Besides, 79,000 tonnes of fertilizers have also been procured. The distribution of seeds and fertilizers is expected to commence in the district in the first week of June. Farmers are hoping for a good monsoon this year to recover losses they incurred last year either due to floods or drought.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/farmers-hoping-for-a-good-monsoon/article31699943.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre reviews situation in 13 regions hit hard by virus||As Lockdown 4.0 nears an end, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba held a meeting on Thursday with Municipal Commissioners and District Magistrates of 13 regions which account for 70% of the total COVID-19 cases in the country. The areas of focus are Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata/Howrah, Indore, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur. The country registered 7,227 new cases and 175 fatalities, according to the State Health Departments. The overall tally stood at 1,65,242 cases, including 89,624 active ones, and 4,707 deaths. India now has the highest number of cases in Asia, surpassing the tally of Turkey.  A statement issued by the government noted that the Cabinet Secretary’s meeting had significance as the 13 regions are considered to be the worst affected. In the meeting, the Centre stressed that containment zones should be geographically defined based on factors such as mapping of cases, contacts and their geographical dispersion and demarcate a well-defined perimeter to enforce strict lockdown protocols.  “The measures taken by officials and staff of municipal corporations for cases management were reviewed at the meeting. The Central government has already issued guidelines on COVID-19 management in urban settlements. Highlights of this strategy include work on high-risk factors, indices such as confirmation rate, fatality rate, doubling rate, tests per million people, etc.,” the statement said. Later in the day, Union Home Minister Amit Shah spoke to all Chief Ministers to ascertain their views on extending the lockdown, scheduled to end on May 31, and the current COVID-19 situation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/centre-reviews-situation-in-13-regions-hit-hard-by-virus/article31699735.ece
29 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Biggest single-day spike with 84 cases||Kerala reported one of the highest COVID-19 case numbers till date when 84 persons tested positive on Thursday. All of these, except five, are imported cases of infection brought in by expatriates from abroad or Non-Resident Keralites returning from other parts of the country. Of the new positive cases, 48 are people who returned from other States, while 31 are expatriates who returned from abroad. The remaining five cases are infections acquired through “contact” from known or unknown sources of infection. These cases apart, a Telangana native, who died in the capital last night has also been confirmed as COVID-19 positive. This person, along with his family, had reached the capital after he boarded a wrong train from Rajasthan on May 22. With this, the number of deaths in the State has gone up to seven. Palakkad tops Kasaragod accounted for 18 cases, Palakkad (16), Kannur (10), Malappuram (8), Thiruvananthapuram (7), Thrissur (7), Kozhikode (6), Pathanamthitta (6), Kottayam (3), Kollam (1), Alapuzha (1) and Idukki (1). Three persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on Thursday. There are 526 COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in the State. Of the 1,088 cases reported so far in Kerala, 555 persons have recovered from the disease. The State has put 1,15,297 persons under surveillance, of whom, 1,14,305 are either in home or institutional quarantine. A total of 992 persons have been admitted to isolation wards in various hospitals for observation. On Thursday alone, 210 persons were admitted to hospitals. Palakkad has the maximum number of COVID-19 patients under treatment at 105. Kannur (93), Kasaragod (63) and Malappuram (52) are some of the districts with large number of cases. So far, 60,685 samples have been sent for PCR testing and of these, 58,460 have returned a negative result. As part of sentinel surveillance, 9,937 random samples have been tested, of which 9,217 samples have been negative. Six more hotspots Six new regions were designated as hotspots on Thursday, with three in Kasaragod, two in Palakkad and one in Kottayam. There are 82 hotspots in the State now.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/biggest-single-day-spike-with-84-cases/article31700020.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Monsoon onset in State likely on June 1||The southwest monsoon is likely to hit Kerala on June 1, thanks to a cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said. The IMD, in its onset date forecast on May 15, had said that the monsoon was likely to hit the State on June 5, four days after its normal arrival. The normal onset of monsoon over Kerala is June 1.  However, a cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal is likely to help in the faster progress of the monsoon, the IMD said on Thursday. According to the IMD, the country is likely to receive normal monsoon this year. Low-pressure area Special Correspondent adds from Thiruvananthapuram: Meanwhile, a low-pressure area has formed over westcentral Arabian Sea under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over westcentral and adjoining southwest Arabian Sea. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region by Saturday. “'It is likely to move towards the south Oman and east Yemen coast during the subsequent next 72 hours,” the IMD said. Meanwhile, the IMD has repeated its warning that a second low-pressure area is likely to form over southeast and adjoining eastcentral parts of the Arabian sea. A low-pressure area has also formed over westcentral Arabian Sea. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region during the next 48 hours. It is likely to move northwest towards the south Oman and east Yemen coast during next three days, the IMD said. Under the influence of this weather system, heavy rainfall is likely over parts of south peninsular India during May 28-31, with isolated heavy-to-very-heavy rainfall over Kerala and Lakshadweep during May 30-31. The IMD also predicted heavy to very heavy rainfall at isolated places over Tripura and Mizoram in the next 24 hours and heavy rainfall over Assam and Meghalaya.  A cyclonic circulation over the Bay of Bengal is likely to help in the faster progress of the monsoon. India Meteorological Department||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/monsoon-onset-likely-on-june-1/article31700016.ece
29 May 2020||GUNTUR,||SCS very much on the agenda: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday made it clear that he had never set aside the demand for Special Category Status to the State. “A day may come when the Central government needs our support and at that time, we will mount pressure on it. I strongly believe that if I stop asking for SCS, it will never come, and so I will continue to press the demand,’’ said Mr. Jagan in his address to industrialists and entrepreneurs on Day 4 of the week-long interactive sessions capping the one-year rule of his government. Explaining in detail industrial policies aimed at attracting huge investments in the State, he said a stable and strong government, and corruption-free governance are the strengths of Andhra Pradesh. “Our government neither boasts of its achievements nor goes back on its word. The previous government had spoken of easing of doing business but had not paid industrial incentives. It had also not cleared arrears amounting to Rs. 20,000 crore to Discoms. Our government has not only paid Rs. 450 crore of arrears of industrial incentives in the first phase, but also is paying the balance amount in the last week of June,’’ the Chief Minister said. On 75 % reservation to locals in jobs, he said this would help industries build a rapport with locals besides solving the problem of unemployment. ‘State best bet’ “Ours is a proactive government and the State of AP is endowed with abundant land, water, quality power and skilled manpower. We will never create any obstacles for industries. We are setting up 30 skill development centres across the State and are tying up with reputed and global firms,’’ the CM said. The State is blessed with a 972-km-long coastline, vast highways, rail network, four seaports, six airports, the CM said, adding A.P. is set for a restart of all its businesses post-lockdown. Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana, Advisor (Public Affairs), Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, and representatives of industry and CII were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/scs-very-much-on-the-agenda-jagan/article31699727.ece
29 May 2020||Tirumala,||TTD Board imposes ban on sale of lands||In a strong message to all the political parties, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) Board of Trustees on Thursday resolved to impose a blanket ban on the sale of all kinds of landed properties received in the form of donations. The ban would come into force with immediate effect, and under no circumstances would the lands, house sites, flats or any other endowed property be allowed for sale in the future. Speaking to media after a day-long marathon meeting conducted through digital platform for the first time in the history of the organisation, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy said the TTD was committed to safeguarding the properties of Lord Venkateswara. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had also expressed his deep anguish at the unwanted controversy that “eroded” the reputation of the illustrious institution and wanted a stringent regulation in place to protect its assets. Though the decision to auction the properties was taken during Telugu Desam Party (TDP) regime, desperate political parties were bent on pressing the panic button only to further their political interests. Hence the board resolved to request the State government to order an in depth inquiry into the entire episode and initiate action against all those involved in tarnishing the serene image of the institution. To protect TTD properties lying scattered in various States in bits and pieces, it had also been resolved to form a committee with member trustees, religious leaders and a couple of representatives from pilgrim fraternity to study and suggest ways and means to bring all kinds of non-viable assets back into public use and protect them from possible encroachment. The board also directed TTD authorities to formulate guidelines in the allotment of guest houses at Tirumala. Only those guest houses which were in a highly dilapidated condition and whose donors had expressed their disinclination in renovating the structures would be allotted under donation scheme. No fresh allotments would be encouraged. Darshan Mr. Reddy said board had taken stock of all the safety parameters to be adopted in allowing devotees for the darshan of presiding deity in the event of relaxation of restrictions by the Centre after May 31, when the current phase of lockdown ends, and also suggested some changes in the regulation of darshan lines. Besides giving a green signal for online admissions of students at all its educational institutions the board also resolved to develop an exclusive hospital for children at Tirupati on a par with SVIMS and BIRRD hospitals.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/blanket-ban-on-sale-of-properties-ttd/article31699675.ece
29 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Nine held for attack on health workers in U.P.||Nine persons were arrested on Thursday, a day after a team of healthcare workers and police personnel who had gone to cremate the body of a suspected COVID-19 victim were attacked by vilagers in Bhadohi district. A case was registered against 35 people and 50 unidentified others for attempt to murder, wrongful confinement, rioting and assault, said the Bhadohi police. Several sections of the Indian Penal Code and other relevant clauses of the Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act were slapped against the accused. Asked about the likely provocation behind the attack, Superintendent of Police, Bhadohi, Ram Badan Singh said that the villagers were opposed to the cremation of COVID-19 patients in the area. “However, the COVID-19 test of the deceased was not even conducted then. He just arrived from Mumbai a couple of days ago,” said the officer. The incident took place on Wednesday evening when the healthcare workers were on their way to the Ganga Ghat area in an ambulance. Premchand Chaudhary, an ambulance worker whose hand was injured in the incident, said when they reached Rampur village, residents stopped them 1 km from the location. A police vehicle carrying four personnel and two constables on a bike accompanied the ambulance then as the local police station sent reinforcements, said Mr. Chaudhary. Dramatic escape When they reached the village, the healthcare workers and the policemen were attacked and forced to flee the spot in a dramatic fashion. “The villagers surrounded us from all sides. If we didn’t have this vehicle [ambulance], our game was up,” Mr. Chaudhary told the local media. He said the villagers threw stones and bricks at them as they fled. The ambulance was also damaged in the attack. “We have to teach them [the accused] a lesson because they should not have done this. A religious rite has to be conducted and nobody has the right to do this [prevent it],” said SP Singh. The body of the deceased was cremated later in the day, said the police. The COVID-19 test result of the deceased is still awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/nine-held-for-attack-on-health-workers-in-up/article31699909.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Probe targeted only towards one end in riots case, says Delhi court||A Delhi court has remarked that investigation into a case related to the communal violence in north-east Delhi seemed to be “targeted only towards one end”, while asking the Delhi police to ensure fair investigation. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana, who was hearing an application for judicial remand of Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha, said perusal of the case diary revealed a “disturbing fact”. “The investigation seems to be targeted only towards one end. Upon enquiry from Inspector... they have failed to point out what investigation has been carried out so far regarding the involvement of the rival faction,” the judge remarked. The court directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police concerned to monitor the matter and ensure a fair probe. The court also extended the judicial custody of Mr. Tanha, who has been booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in the case, till June 25 after the police said that he was “actively” involved in the communal riots in Delhi. The police also drew the attention of the court to the statement of one witness, whose identity has been withheld for security reasons, making specific allegations against the JMI student. Mr. Tanha’s counsel Sowjhanya Shankaran argued that her client had been falsely implicated in the case. The Delhi police had arrested Mr. Tanha earlier this month over his alleged involvement in the riots. He was accused of being a part of the Jamia Coordination Committee, which had protested against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act.  They [police] have failed to point out what investigation has been carried out so far regarding the involvement of the rival faction Dharmender Rana Additional Sessions Judge||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/probe-targeted-only-towards-one-end-in-riots-case-says-delhi-court/article31699907.ece
29 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka for fewer flights from five States||The State government on Thursday decided to request the Civil Aviation Ministry to reduce the number of flights from five States with a high prevalence of COVID-19 cases — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan — to Karnataka. “There may not be adequate quarantine facilities in Karnataka if there is a huge turnout in a short span of time,” said Minister for Law and Parliamentary Affairs J.C. Madhuswamy on Thursday. The numbers were also turning out to be a burden on the testing infrastructure of the State, he added. Karnataka has had a spike in the number of cases ever since inter-State travel was opened up, with several returnees from States such as Maharashtra testing positive. Restrictions have also been imposed on people coming by road from Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, and Gujarat to ensure adequate quarantine facilities. Interestingly, while the Minister had said, soon after the Cabinet meeting on Thursday, that arrivals from high-prevalence States would be “banned”, it was later modified to say that it was only a request for reduction in the number of flights. After the resumption of domestic flight services, Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) in Bengaluru has handled 182 arrivals and 190 departures. The airport has received flights from high-risk States identified by the State government. On Thursday till 5.30 p.m, 33 flights arrived and 36 flew to various destinations. The Cabinet has not discussed any relaxation of the existing lockdown norms. Lockdown 4.0 will continue till May 31, the Minister added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/karnataka-for-fewer-flights-from-five-states/article31699766.ece
29 May 2020||MANGALURU,||Tension after cancellation of Shramik Special||There was tension for a while in Jokatte on the outskirts of Mangaluru after workers from West Bengal assembled there hearing about the reported cancellation of a Shramik Special Express scheduled to leave from Mangaluru Junction on Thursday. Nearly 4,000 workers from West Bengal have registered on the sevasindhu portal for their journey back to their native places on the Shramik Special Express. On Thursday morning, these workers, who are employed in the industrial units in the Mangaluru Special Economic Zone, assembled on Corridor Road in Jokatte. They said that they had waited long for the train and they wanted to walk back home, as they had vacated their houses and their contractor had not paid wages for the last three months. A team of police officials went to the spot and told them that efforts were being made by the State government in getting trains for them. “We have been working hard to send you all back to your native places. Bear with us,” a police officer told the workers. When the workers pointed that their house owners will not allow them back into their houses here, the officer asked them to bring such instances to his notice. While around 50 workers took shelter in the Jokatte Panchayat hall, the remaining were went back to their houses. District officials overseeing the issue of transportation of workers said that damage to a railway line because of the cyclone has led to the cancellation of trains to West Bengal. West Bengal is the only State to which a train is yet to leave from Mangaluru. So far, 24,553 workers have travelled on Shramik Special trains from Dakshina Kannada. As many as 1,443 labourers left on a Shramik Special train to Odisha from Mangaluru Junction on Wednesday night. “All the registered workers from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Rajasthan have been sent on such trains from the district,” an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tension-after-cancellation-of-shramik-special/article31699945.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,||12 deaths, 827 new COVID-19 cases in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported the highest number of deaths due to COVID-19 on Thursday, with 12 fatalities. This took the toll to 145. The total number of patients discharged stood at 10,548, including the 639 on Thursday, pegging the State’s recovery rate at nearly 55%. The number of active cases stood at 8,676. In another single-day spike, the State added 827 cases, taking the tally to 19,372*. Chennai accounted for 559 cases. With this, the city’s total number of cases climbed to 12,762, and its toll swelled to 106. Among the 827 new patients were a six-day-old infant in Chennai and a 10-day-old child in Dindigul. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said of the new cases, 117 persons had returned from other States. “Of the 10,548 persons discharged from hospitals, there were 643 people who had various co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, cancer and tuberculosis. “Some of them were admitted to the hospital for a maximum of one month and recovered,” he said. Among those treated and discharged were 1,159 children and 230 mothers and their newborns, he added. Eleven of the deaths took place in Chennai. Among them was a 36-year-old man, who had pulmonary tuberculosis and tested positive for COVID-19 on May 24. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 25 and died on May 27 due to cardiopulmonary arrest, hemoptysis and aspiration pneumonitis. A 44-year-old man from Tiruvannamalai was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital on May 15. He died on May 26 due to acute coronary syndrome, inferior wall myocardial infarction, first degree block, cardiogenic shock, diabetes and systemic hypertension. A 54-year-old man with diabetes and systemic hypertension was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of breathing difficulty and fever on May 26. He died on Wednesday due to severe acute respiratory syndrome. A 64-year-old man with diabetes and coronary artery disease was admitted to RGGGH on May 27. A COVID-19 test was done in a private hospital and the sample returned positive for the infection the same day. He died within five hours of admission of cardiopulmonary arrest and acute coronary syndrome. The Minister said that the State had been maintaining a mortality rate of 0.7%. “In some cases, private hospitals are referring patients to government hospitals at the last minute at night. We are unable to save them in half an hour. Early diagnosis is our strategy. We have issued strict protocols to private hospitals and have asked them to adhere to them,” he said. Apart from Chennai, there were 45 new cases in Chengalpattu, 38 in Tiruvallur, 19 in Kancheepuram and 16 in Tiruvannamalai. Among the new cases, 74 persons had returned from Maharashtra and 20 from Karnataka. Four persons, who returned from Delhi, Karnataka and Haryana by flights, haved also tested positive for COVID-19. The Minister added that till now, a total of 1,253 persons, who returned from other States, had tested positive for COVID-19 in T.N. - 936 from Maharashtra, 27 from Gujarat, 26 from Karnataka, 17 from Delhi, 19 from West Bengal, 10 from Kerala and 10 from Rajasthan. “Today alone, we have tested 12,246 samples. Till now, we have tested a total of 4,55,216 samples. The more we test, more cases are reported. We are transparent in declaring positive cases. There is no need to fear about the numbers, and this should not be politicised too,” he said. Dr. Vijayabaskar pointed out that many people were still not wearing masks in public places. “When we visit containment zones such as in Royapuram and Pulianthope, people put on a mask on seeing officials. We are continuously emphasising this for their safety,” he said. “If people find it so difficult to wear cloth masks and complain about not being able to breathe, think about doctors, staff nurses and laboratory technicians. Air conditioners are turned off in all hospitals. With the soaring temperature, medical and paramedical staff wear coveralls, goggles, head cover, N95 masks and double gloves. They have scars on the skin and behind the ears,” he explained. At RGGGH, which has taken up trials for convalescent plasma therapy, seven patients had received plasma and were making a recovery, he said, adding, “As part of the ICMR solidarity trial, a patient received remdesivir and is doing well.” The Minister said that special measures were being taken to contain COVID-19 in Chennai. All persons with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illness were being tested as per protocol. “We are going beyond ICMR guidelines and are testing pregnant women and home contacts of positive patients,” he said. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/12-deaths-827-new-covid-19-cases-in-tn/article31699800.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Don’t charge migrants bus or train fare, says SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday forbade the Railways and the State governments from exacting train or bus fares from stranded migrant workers waiting to return home amid the national lockdown. The court directed that the State from where workers started their journey and the State where they were headed should pool their travel expenses between them. Workers waiting for transport should be provided shelter, food and water by the State responsible. During train journey, Railways would be in charge of providing drinking water and meals. In case of bus journey, the State where they started from had to take care of their food and water. The court said that those found walking should be escorted to the nearest camps where they should be looked after. States should simplify and speed up the process of registration of migrant workers. After registration, they should be allowed to board buses or trains at the earliest. The receiving State, after the workers reached their native place, shall provide transport, health screening and other facilities free of cost. The court ordered States to set up help kiosks at places where migrant workers were stranded. ‘There are lapses’ A three-judge Bench observed in an 11-page order in the suo motu case: “State Governments/Union Territories are taking steps to do the needful but there are several difficulties and lapses which are being noticed in the process of registration, transportation and in providing water, food, shelter to these migrant workers.” “It is also seen that even after registration, the migrant workers have to wait for a period which may go from a week to month for their turn to board the bus / train. A large number of migrant workers are still seen proceeding on foot to different places.” When Solicitor General Tushar Mehta wondered aloud whether this would encourage more people to walk, the court said dryly that they were already walking home. Many had decided to walk because they got no word from officials even after registering for a transport back to their villages.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/dont-charge-migrants-bus-or-train-fare-says-sc/article31699725.ece
29 May 2020||Srinagar,||Security forces avert car-bombing in Pulwama||A 2019 Pulwama-style car-bombing by a suicide bomber was prevented in south Kashmir on Thursday, with security forces spotting the vehicle and later defusing over 40 kg of explosives. The militant, however, managed to escape. “Timely action by security forces averted a major tragedy. A suicide attacker jumped two checkpoints before leaving a vehicle behind late on Wednesday in the Ayegund area of Rajpora, Pulwama,” said Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar. “Explosives were fitted in the vehicle jointly by Hizb-ul-Mujahideen and Jaish-e-Muhammad militants. Experts will study them.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/security-forces-avert-car-bombing-in-pulwama/article31699737.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Hasty feet||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/hasty-feet/article31699906.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Capital reports 1,024 COVID-19 cases in a day||As many as 1,024 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 16,281, said a government health bulletin. This is the first time that the number of cases has crossed the 1,000 mark in a day. More than 1,000 new cases per day is the third stage of the COVID-19 outbreak, according to an action plan submitted to the Delhi government by a five-member expert committee in March. Four people working at the office of L-G Anil Baijal have also tested positive for COVID-19, a source said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/capital-reports-1024-covid-19-cases-in-a-day/article31699908.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Veerendra Kumar passes away||Rajya Sabha MP and former Union Minister M.P. Veerendra Kumar, 83, passed away following cardiac arrest at a private hospital here on Thursday night. A veteran socialist leader who saw many ups and downs in State politics, Mr. Veerendra Kumar was at present a leader of Loktantrik Janata Dal. He was also Managing Director of Mathrubhumi . He was a former Minister of State for Finance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/veerendra-kumar-passes-away/article31700018.ece
29 May 2020||Kozhikode :,||Veerendra Kumar passes away||Rajya Sabha MP and former Union Minister M.P. Veerendra Kumar, 83, passed away following a cardiac arrest at a private hospital here on Thursday night. A veteran socialist leader who saw many ups and downs in State politics, Mr. Veerendra Kumar was at present a leader of the Loktantrik Janata Dal. He was also Managing Director of Mathrubhumi . He was a former Union Minister of State for Finance and Labour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/veerendra-kumar-passes-away/article31700078.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Work hours order on hold||The State Cabinet on Thursday decided to put on hold the controversial decision to extend working hours in factories from the existing eight hours per day to 10 hours. The extension was demanded by industries to make up for the losses during lockdown, but was opposed by workers’ unions. The Cabinet has also decided to liberalise some of the conditions put in place for unorganised workers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/work-hours-order-on-hold/article31699765.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||BevQueue||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/bevqueue/article31700080.ece
29 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||128 new cases and one more death in State||One more death and 128 fresh COVID positive cases were reported in the State in the past 24 hours as on Thursday morning. The tally has gone up to 3,245 and the toll to 59. The death was reported in Kurnool district. Of the 128 fresh cases, 54 are of locals and 74 are of migrant returnees. During the past day 68 persons have recovered and so far 2,125 patients were discharged. Currently there are 1,061 active cases in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/128-new-cases-and-one-more-death-in-state/article31699726.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Infra work in border areas to continue||There will be no let up in the infrastructure development on the border with China despite the continuing standoff along the Line of Actual Control, a defence source told The Hindu on Thursday. Earlier in the day, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh was briefed by Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane on the current situation, it has been learnt. Mr. Singh had also reviewed the overall situation with the Chief of Defence Staff Gen. Bipin Rawat and the three Service Chiefs on two occasions, earlier this week on Tuesday and also last Friday, the source said. On both occasions, it was conveyed to the Services that the ongoing infrastructure development activities have to continue uninterrupted, the source said, adding that it has also been conveyed that there have to be enough troops on the ground.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/infra-work-in-border-areas-to-continue/article31699736.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Run buddy run||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/run-buddy-run/article31699741.ece
29 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Drones deployed for controlling locusts||The Civil Aviation Ministry has given permission to the Agriculture Department of the Rajasthan government to use remotely piloted aircraft systems for anti-locust operations in the large areas where the insect swarms have landed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/drones-deployed-for-controlling-locusts/article31699911.ece
29 May 2020||Patna,||Muzaffarpur rail station incident shocking: HC||The Patna High Court on Thursday took suo motu cognisance of a viral video on social media showing a baby playfully tugging a sheet partially covering his dead mother at the Muzaffarpur railway station in Bihar, and termed the incident “shocking and unfortunate”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/muzaffarpur-rail-station-incident-shocking-hc/article31699912.ece
29 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana to seal borders with Delhi, impose curbs||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday issued fresh orders to seal and strictly impose restrictions on the movement of people from Delhi to the State’s NCR districts. The Minister has issued the order in the wake of sudden spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/haryana-to-seal-borders-with-delhi-impose-curbs/article31699913.ece
29 May 2020||HUBBALLI,||Police intercept migrant workers on trucks||As many as 184 migrant workers, including their family members and children, who were proceeding to their native places on trucks were stopped by the Dharwad District Police on Thursday and subsequently sent home in public transport buses. According to the Dharwad District Police, these migrant workers had started their journey on two trucks from Chitradurga district and were proceeding to their native places in Raigad district of Maharashtra. They were intercepted at Varur-Agadi check-post.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/police-intercept-migrant-workers-on-trucks/article31699948.ece
29 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Gram panchayat polls in State postponed||Citing “exceptional circumstances” prevailing in the State following COVID-19, the State Election Commission (SEC) has postponed elections to 5,800 gram panchayats (GPs). The term of 5,800 rural local bodies of the 6,025 GPs would end in June-August.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/gram-panchayat-polls-in-state-postponed/article31699770.ece
29 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Some BMTC staff yet to report for duty||The BMTC’s plans to increase services and reduce its extent of losses is stymied by the absence of drivers and conductors, many of whom went to their hometowns during the lockdown and are yet to report for work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/some-bmtc-staff-yet-to-report-for-duty/article31699768.ece
29 May 2020||BENGALURU,||‘Chance of locust swarms in State low’||Though locust swarms have invaded parts of the neighbouring Maharashtra, the chances of them entering Karnataka are very low, according to Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil, who appealed to farmers not to panic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chance-of-locust-swarms-in-state-low/article31699769.ece
29 May 2020||MANGALURU,||Fishermen want beached vessel to stay put||Notwithstanding environmentalists and experts concern over the continued stay of dredging vessel Bhagvati Prem on Surathkal beach, fishermen in the region want the vessel to stay put. Though it may seem strange to those staying off the marine environment, fishermen have a reason behind their argument. None of the traditional fishermen who were picking up day’s catch said they were troubled by the beached vessel  .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/fishermen-want-beached-vessel-to-stay-put/article31699946.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 hospitals in State to get more beds||In view of the continuing surge in cases in Tamil Nadu, the Health Department is ramping up infrastructure in dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, health centres and care centres in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/covid-19-hospitals-in-state-to-get-more-beds/article31699802.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Lockdown helps Corpn. complete drain work||The COVID-19 lockdown has, by sharply reducing traffic, helped the Greater Chennai Corporation complete work on the stormwater drain network along the Velachery Main Road, normally a busy stretch. The road, between the checkpost and bypass junction, is narrow and crowded owing to the presence of a mall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lockdown-helps-corpn-complete-drain-work/article31699803.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Jayalalithaa’s relatives may be called for hearing||J. Deepa and J. Deepak, declared by the Madras High Court as Class II legal heirs of their aunt Jayalalithaa, are likely to be called for a hearing by the authorities in charge of the acquisition of Veda Nilayam, the former CM’s Poes Garden residence in Chennai. The siblings had submitted their objections to the government’s move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/jayalalithaas-relatives-may-be-called-for-hearing/article31699804.ece
29 May 2020||Thirunanthapuram,||Focus turns to Kerala as 84 test positive in a day||One more death and 128 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Andhra Pradesh on Thursday, but attention was focused on Kerala as the State reported one of the highest case numbers till date when 84 persons tested positive. All Kerala cases, except five, are imported infections, brought in by returning expatriates from abroad or non-resident Keralites. Of the new positive cases, 48 people returned from other States, while 31 were expatriates. The remaining five cases were infections acquired through “contact”, from known or unknown sources of infection. These cases apart, a Telangana native, who died in the capital last night was confirmed as COVID-19 positive. This person, along with his family, had boarded the wrong train from Rajasthan on May 22. Kasaragod accounted for 18 cases, Palakkad (16), Kannur (10), Malappuram (8), Thiruvananthapuram (7), Thrissur (7), Kozhikode (6), Pathanamthitta (6), Kottayam (3), Kollam (1), Alapuzha (1) and Idukki (1). Three persons were reported to have recovered from the disease on Thursday. There were 526 COVID-19 patients under treatment. Of the 1,088 cases reported in Kerala, 555 had recovered. The State had 1,15,297 persons under surveillance, of whom, 1,14,305 were on home or institutional quarantine. A total of 992 persons were in isolation wards in various hospitals for observation. On Thursday alone, 210 persons were admitted to hospitals. Palakkad had the maximum number of COVID-19 patients in treatment at 105, while Kannur (93), Kasaragod (63) and Malappuram (52) were other districts with significant cases. So far, among 60,685 samples sent for PCR test 58,460 had returned a negative result. As part of sentinel surveillance, out of 9,937 random samples that were tested, 9,217 were negative. In Karnataka, two days after issuing a circular permitting home quarantine of international and inter-State travellers after seven days of institutional quarantine, the State did away with the previously mandatory COVID-19 test for asymptomatic individuals. An official circular was issued late on Wednesday night. The new guidelines were based on recommendations from the State’s COVID expert committee. “There is not enough space in hotels,” the government said. “All elderly people (aged above 60 years) and those with co-morbidities (such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, asthma, heart ailment, renal disease among others) are required to be clinically evaluated diligently prior to shifting them for quarantine,” the circular stated. Meanwhile, 115 new cases were reported in the State on Thursday taking the total number of cases to 2,533. With another death and 128 fresh COVID-19 positive cases as of Thursday, the tally in Andhra Pradesh went up to 3,245 and the toll rose to 59. The new fatality was in Kurnool district which had the highest number of cases and deaths. Of the 128 cases, 54 were of locals and 74 were migrant returnees. . Tamil Nadu reported the highest number of deaths due to COVID-19 on Thursday, with 12 fatalities. This took the toll to 145. The total number of patients discharged stood at 10,548, including the 639 on Thursday, pegging the State’s recovery rate at nearly 55%. The number of active cases were 8,676.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Vijayawada and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/focus-turns-to-kerala-as-84-test-positive-in-a-day/article31699687.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India vaccine trials likely in Oct.||A novel coronavirus vaccine being developed in India will likely begin to be tested in people in October, K. VijayRaghavan, Principal Scientific Adviser to the government, said at a press briefing on Thursday. “A group is working on a vaccine on a flu backbone. Preclinical studies are likely to be completed by October after which it is likely to move on to human trials,” he said, without disclosing the identity of the company or group. Another vaccine group had developed a promising protein that would be ready to be tested by next February. India was looking at both indigenous as well as foreign collaborations, he added. NITI Aayog member V.K. Paul said six promising vaccine were candidates being developed from India. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech announced in April that it was part of an international collaboration of virologists at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and U.S. vaccine company FluGen to develop ‘CoroFlu,’ a nasally administered inoculant. In response to a question by The Hindu whether the tests of the Serum Institute-Oxford University vaccine candidate that showed the vaccine failed to check virus spread in monkeys but reduced severe disease were promising, Mr. VijayRaghavan said it was a matter of interpreting the “glass as half full or half empty”. The scale of the pandemic was such that it did not matter which company made a vaccine first, and there was enough room for promising vaccine candidates that would take a while to develop. Moreover, it was possible for vaccines to show limited efficacy in primates but be more protective in people. “It’s still early days,” he added. Dr. Paul, who is heading an empowered group on medical equipment and management plan to tackle the outbreak, said the results of a major sero-prevalence survey by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in 69 districts to estimate the level of infection in several districts were expected next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-vaccine-trials-likely-in-oct/article31699693.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Runaway’ trains haunt migrant workers||Amid severe criticism over the running of Shramik Special trains, another video went viral on Thursday, with travellers complaining about their train taking a longer route without prior intimation. The Railways, however, called the video “misleading”. In the video, the passengers travelling from Vasai, Maharashtra, to Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, alleged that it was their third day of travel, with the rain traversing several States, including Odisha, Chhattisgarh and Jhakharkhad. They also complained of lack of food and water. The spokesperson of Western Railways said the Sharmik Special mentioned in the video started its journey on May 21 and completed it on May 24. The train was diverted because of network congestion on the Uttar Pradesh-Bihar route. Replying to the video post on Twitter, Western Railways said, “It is stated that as 80% Shramik Special trains were headed to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, the Jabalpur-Satna-Manikpur route got congested, owing to which some trains were run on diverted routes for two days only. Now there is no congestion and trains are running on this route. Hence, it is misleading.” In a series of tweets on Wednesday, the Ministry of Railways said over 3,500 Shramik Special trains had so far been operated, and they had carried more than 48 lakh passengers. Nearly 80% of these trains were bound for various destinations in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. “Most of the destinations in Uttar Pradesh are around Lucknow and Gorakhpur and in Bihar around Patna. Convergence of trains on these destinations caused some congestion in a particular section of the network,” it said. In a separate release, the Railways said that since May 1, it had operationalised 3,736 Shramik Special trains, transporting 50 lakh migrant workers, and about 67 trains were in the pipeline. After complaints of passengers suffering for lack of food and water, the Railways said it had distributed over 85 lakh free meals and 1.25 crore free water bottles to migrants since May 1.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/runaway-trains-haunt-migrant-workers/article31699712.ece
29 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Drones deployed for controlling locusts||The Civil Aviation Ministry has given permission to the Agriculture Department of the Rajasthan government to use remotely piloted aircraft systems for anti-locust operations in the large areas where the insect swarms have landed. The locust attack has affected about 90,000 hectares in 20 districts of the State. Conditional exemption In an order, the Ministry said that the conditional exemption to use drones would be limited to equipment deployed by the nodal agency for aerial surveillance, aerial photography, public announcements and aerial spray of insecticide. Details of the drone flights and pesticide sprayed will be provided to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation. The drones will not be flown over eco-sensitive zones around national parks and wildlife sanctuaries, according to the order. Moreover, the drone operations will be restricted between sunrise and sunset. They will also not be used in adverse weather conditions such as heavy winds, rain, dust storms and low visibility. State Agriculture Commissioner Om Prakash told The Hindu on Thursday that the deployment of a drone on a trial basis in Jaipur district’s Samod village had proved the utility of the equipment in reaching difficult and inaccessible terrains. “Drones can spray insecticide from heights, and in places, where regular sprayers cannot reach. They can kill locusts which are perched on high trees ,” he said. Additional support Dr. Prakash said though the drones were not as effective as sprayers, which are usually mounted on tractors and fire tenders, they would be useful as an “additional support” for sprinkling the chemicals on the locust swarms at places like foothills and sand dunes. A drone can spray pesticide on a nearly 2.5-acre area during a flight of 15 minutes. The Agriculture Department has floated tenders for engaging 30 drones for locust control in the State. Dr. Prakash said the insects were landing on trees and foraging on leaves primarily because of lack of vegetation in agricultural fields after the rabi crop harvesting. They are likely to come down when they find greenery on the land. Over 800 sprayers-mounted tractors and 50 fire tenders have been pressed into service for locust control. Dr. Prakash said that about 200 teams were involved in daily survey of the affected areas and the farmers were being supplied with high-intensity insecticide free of cost.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/drones-deployed-for-controlling-locusts/article31699717.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. not hearing cries of migrant workers: Sonia||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday accused the Union government of not hearing the pain and the cries of poor migrant workers and appealed to the Centre to ‘unlock its treasury’ to tide over the difficulties faced by them because of the lockdown to flatten the COVID-19 curve. Launching a “Speak Up India” campaign on social media platforms, Ms. Gandhi asked the government to transfer Rs. 7,500 to the poor families for the next six months, pay Rs. 10,000 immediately, ensure free transport of migrant workers, free ration and provision of 200 days of employment under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Ms. Gandhi alleged that while the entire nation could feel the agony and pain of the migrant workers, the Union government could not. In a video message, she stated that after Independence, India had witnessed for the first time such a large-scale migration of people where workers were forced to walk thousands of kilometres without food, water or medicines. “Their pain, agony and sobs were heard and felt by every heart but not the government,” she said.  Crores of jobs had been lost, lakhs of businesses destroyed, factories shut and farmers were running hassled to sell their produce, she said. “The whole country has experienced this pain but the government perhaps does not have any idea about it.” She urged people to ‘speak up’ as the party plans to generate over 50 lakh online petitions to mount pressure on the government. Former party chief Rahul Gandhi said the COVID-19 storm had hit the poor, migrant workers and micro, small and medium business enterprises (MSMEs) the hardest. “Loans will not help, today people need money...,” he said. A host of Congress leaders, including Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and his Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel took part in the campaign.  Senior party leader Anand Sharma tweeted, “India has let down its poor ... The images of this struggle to stay alive shall forever remain a painful scar on the soul of the nation. #SpeakUpIndia”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/govt-not-hearing-cries-of-migrant-workers-sonia/article31699696.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Centre’s decisions have led to a spike in COVID-19 cases in States’||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren , grappling with the twin crises posed by lakhs of returning migrants and COVID-19, says the Centre should have consulted the States before allowing the Home Ministry to run trains. The Centre’s decisions have led to a spike in COVID-19 cases in the States, he says.  Tackling COVID-19 is a big challenge for States. What are the challenges Jharkhand is facing? We have just started facing the challenges COVID-19 poses. With the number of returning migrant workers increasing, the challenge is going to get tougher for us. As of now, only 450 COVID-19 positive cases have been detected in Jharkhand. Of them, four have died. The case fatality rate has been nominal. So far, Jharkhand has only conducted 53,000 tests. Is this the reason the number of positive cases in your State remains low? Absolutely not. Those who had been infected prior to the arrival of migrant workers have almost all recovered in Jharkhand. Now, a majority of infections are being detected among returnees. That’s why we are giving priority to test migrant workers. We have only four functional [COVID-19 testing] laboratories. Earlier, the situation was much worse — we were getting our samples tested in Kolkata. Now, things have improved. Testing capacity has been augmented in the State. How many migrant labourers from Jharkhand are stranded outside and how many of them want to return home? About 4.5 lakh migrant labourers have come by buses, trains and own arrangements. More than eight lakh migrant labourers from our State are stranded outside. We want all our workers stuck outside to be sent back to Jharkhand with safety and dignity. I was the first Chief Minister to advocate that migrants had the right to return. As of now, 166 trains carrying migrant workers have already reached Jharkhand, another 70-80 trains are scheduled. The Centre’s decision to go for a series of lockdowns has triggered one of the biggest internal migrations since Partition. Do you think the decision to impose the first lockdown was taken in a hurry? I have said earlier that it is not the right time to do a post-mortem. We have to fight COVID-19 first. However, I believe the Centre’s decisions are responsible for a spike in the number of positive cases in the States. Confining migrant workers outside their home States and not letting them return is a major reason behind the rise in the rate of infection. Besides, allowing labourers to return without putting a proper plan in place added to the confusion. Earlier, workers were being sent by Shramik Special trains with a proper schedule and States had plans in place to deal with returnees. Now, the situation has come to such pass that a train scheduled to reach Koderma reaches Ranchi [about 200 km south]. States are unable to cope with unscheduled train movements. Earlier, two States used to send and receive migrant workers systematically. Now, the Central government suddenly took a decision that it would make trains available to States. What is solution to this problem? The Centre should have consulted States before taking such a drastic step. First, the process of facilitating the return of migrant labourers should have been completed. Subsequently, other steps should have been thought of. Now, that process has been disrupted. Had the Railways run trains at full capacity and allowed people to return to their homes before lockdowns, do you think infections triggered by migrants would have been lower? That is an open secret. Many countries have allowed their citizens buffer time to return home. But in our country, States had to stop migrants from going home. The situation got worse. Now, many fronts have been opened for States to grapple with. We have to keep an eye on people quarantined, send incoming migrant labourers to quarantine, fix the healthcare system and address growing unemployment. These factors have unsettled State governments. Thankfully, we [Jharkhand] had prepared in advance. You won’t find any migrant workers walking on the road. We are running community kitchens every 20 km on National Highways to ensure no one stays hungry. How will you mobilise funds to provide jobs to migrant labourers when all of them return home? During consultations, I have emphasised that States should be given power to mobilise resources on their own and boost their finances. We are now seized of the matter, but it will take time. We have tried to provide jobs to all migrant workers by adding 10 lakh more to the workforce. Lockdown 4 is going to be over on May 31. What is your view on extending the lockdown? We have not taken any decision on this as yet. Our priority is to prevent people from dying from hunger as well as disease. This is an evolving situation.  We want all our workers stuck outside to be sent back to Jharkhand with safety and dignity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centres-decisions-have-led-to-a-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-states/article31699719.ece
29 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||95 repatriation flights by AIE during third phase||Air India Express (AIE), which operated 74 repatriation flights to West Asia, Malaysia and Singapore in the first two phases of the Vande Bharat mission to bring back stranded Non-Resident Indians, has deployed 20 aircraft for operating 95 flights in the third phase. The AIE, national carrier Air India’s low-cost wing, has selected cabin and cockpit crew from Mumbai and Delhi for operating the flights till June 4. As many as 1,000 crew are involved in the operations. The 9-10-hour duty time of the cockpit crew is a challenge for the AIE. In addition to the Thiruvananthapuram, Cochin, Kozhikode and Kannur airports, the repatriation flights are being operated to Chennai, Tiruchirappally, Coimbatore, Hyderabad, Mangaluru, Mumbai, Delhi and Amritsar. The AIE is also carrying resident permit holders and Bahrains who clear the protocols and standard operating procedures and get clearance from the foreign office to Bahrain on the flights that leave here. Omanis stranded in the country are also being taken back to Muscat. In Phase III that began on May 26, the airline will not operate services to Malaysia and Singapore. “We have been asked to operate services to key airports in the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Kuwait, Doha, Muscat and Salalah. All the repatriation flights fly with full load and there is a huge demand for seats to fly back to India,” an airline official told The Hindu . ‘Low fares’ The list of flyers is worked out by the Ministry of External Affairs and handed over to the Indian Embassies who in turn informs the AIE. The airline calls up the passengers and issues tickets. “The fares are kept at the lowest. In the UAE-India sector, only Rs. 13,000 is charged as one-way fare. The fact that the aircraft is going empty from here should be taken into account,” he said. The crew are subjected to tests before and after flying.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/95-repatriation-flights-by-aie-during-third-phase/article31700023.ece
29 May 2020||Marriguda/Hyderabad,||Leopard on rampage caught, but dies on way to Nehru Zoo||A panicked leopard attacked two forest officials on Thursday, as it went on the rampage on the outskirts of Rajapet thanda in the mandal, where it was eventually tranquillised and shifted to Hyderabad. Official information from the Nehru Zoological Park (NZP) in Hyderabad, later in the evening confirmed that the seven-year-old male leopard died on the way to the treatment facility at the zoo. According to NZP, the first information of a leopard found trapped in a snare on the agriculture fields was received at around 8.30 a.m. after which the Hyderabad team started for the rescue operation. Locals, however, said one Sadan Lal was the first one to see the panther trapped in the fence around 6.30 a.m. Police and forest officials reached the spot within an hour. “The leopard had already preyed upon a sheep, and its hind legs were trapped in the barbed wire fence, when it tried to wriggle out,” owner of the agriculture land K. Suresh Naik said. But a high drama, involving man-animal chase and attack, unfolded after the rescue team got into action around 11 a.m. The rescue team first executed three shots from the tranquilliser gun, but soon the frightened leopard extricated itself from the trap and ran amok. Even as the officials chased it to a distance with sticks and a big crowd gathered to witness the rescue, the big cat pounced on an official and mauled another person. Forest Beat Officer Osman escaped with bleeding injuries on the hand and another rescue official from NZP Shiva had injuries. Both are stable and out of danger. The leopard then scurried under the forest vehicle, when it was finally shot at twice. It was soon dragged into a cage enclosure and shifted to Hyderabad in an NZP ambulance. According to officials, the animal died on the way to NZP. The death of the leopard has raised several questions on the methods adopted by the forest and zoo officials to capture the animal. Several video clips of the rescue emerged, shot on mobile phones, of which one shows the beast chasing the rescue team, and even charging at one of them. Experts in animal rescue questioned the methods adopted by the rescue team which they say appeared crude and not professional. As per eyewitness accounts, the team approached the animal too soon with a gunny bag after the first tranquilliser dart hit it. Then a few among the team reportedly went behind the animal, provoking it further into charging at the team members. Charles Corfield, a retired forest officer from TN, who had participated in several rescue operations, questions attempts to tranquillise the leopard amid the cacophony of onlookers. “Would anybody be able to sleep amid such noise?” he questioned. However, denying the allegations, zoo officials cited post-mortem report to contest that it died of haemorhage and internal organ congestion due to prolonged stay in trap.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/leopard-on-rampage-caught-but-dies-on-way-to-nehru-zoo/article31699667.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP plans ‘digital rallies’ for anniversary of Modi govt.||The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has forced the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to get creative over how to mark the first anniversary of the second successive Modi government, with the party deciding to hold a month-long campaign of “digital rallies” in every district in India beginning on June 1. Party general secretary Bhupendra Yadav said this at a video presser, while reiterating that the BJP “stood with the general public in the fight against COVID-19”. “Our party workers have undertaken relentless relief work distributing 19 crore food packets and more than four crore dry ration kits,” he said. Giving details about the first anniversary of second Modi government, Mr. Yadav said that the party will hold digital rallies across the country, and all the seven wings of the party will hold 500 digital rallies in their respective fields.  The party will reach out to people with a letter written by Prime Minister Narendra Modi talking about self-reliant India and the achievements of the government, and will distribute it to 10 crore families, Mr. Yadav said. When asked about the upcoming Bihar Assembly elections, Mr. Yadav, who is also the party’s in-charge for the State, said that it was for the Election Commission of India to decide when and how polls should be held.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-plans-digital-rallies-for-anniversary-of-modi-govt/article31699690.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India says open to dialogue with Nepal, ties on upswing||India is open to dialogue with all its neighbours, the External Affairs Ministry said on Thursday responding to sharp comments from Kathmandu on the Kalapani territorial dispute. Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said dialogue with Nepal required “positive efforts” even as a Nepalese media outlet reported that an expected telephone conversation between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his counterpart K. P. Sharma Oli failed to materialise on Thursday. “On the recent developments on boundary issue... India is open to engaging with all its neighbours on the basis of mutual sensitivity and mutual respect, in an environment of trust and confidence,” Mr. Srivastava said, making a statement on India’s relations with Nepal. The official emphasised that India “attaches great importance” to ties with Nepal, which were rooted in historical, cultural and friendly exchanges. The Ministry’s statement came a day after Nepal’s Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali urged India to restore “status quo” in the disputed territory of Kalapani and withdraw the Indian security forces from the Kalapani-Lipulekh region. Mr. Srivastava pointed to the bilateral collaborations in South Asia to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic, and said India’s ties with Nepal had been on an “upward trajectory”. The Indian statement continues to indicate a warmer approach to Nepal though there are serious issues that may require a quick diplomatic solution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/india-says-open-to-dialogue-with-nepal-ties-on-upswing/article31699700.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||PM-CARES grants meagre, says Jairam||Two months after the PM-CARES fund was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for tackling the COVID-19 pandemic, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha member Jairam Ramesh on Thursday raised a host of questions on the utility of such a fund when millions of migrant workers are still struggling to reach home. Quoting news reports, Mr. Ramesh said nearly Rs. 9,677 crore has been collected under the fund. And another Rs. 2,098.2 crore had been pledged to the fund as of last week. Of this, only Rs. 3,100 crore had been released. This at a time when millions of migrants were forced to walk home in the absence of assured transport. The workers were also being forced to pay exorbitant amounts for tickets on special trains, he said. “The ‘Modi Fund’ released only Rs. 1,000 crore for migrant workers 15 days ago. Why not more? Why the delay,” Mr. Ramesh asked. Another Rs. 2,000 crore was spent on purchasing “Made-in-India” ventilators in Ahmedabad, which many news reports had alleged were not functioning properly, he said. The Congress leader further asked why the “Modi Fund” was not used to procure sufficient personal protective equipment when there had been desperate calls from doctors, nurses and other essential workers for it. “Testing is a key element of dealing with the COVID-19 crisis. Why is the ‘Modi Fund’ not being used to procure enough RT-PCR tests,” he asked. Mr. Ramesh reiterated the question that the Opposition has been asking on why was a new fund instituted when a PM National Relief Fund, Chief Minister Relief Funds and State Disaster Management Authority Funds existed. “Is it because none of them can be used for PR of PM?” he asked.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-cares-grants-meagre-says-jairam/article31699703.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC issues notice to govt. on migrant deaths||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) issued notices to the Union Home Ministry, the Railway Board and the Bihar and Gujarat governments on Thursday in connection with the reported deaths of some migrant workers on Shramik Special trains and the lack of food and water for the passengers on these trains. The NHRC took suo motu cognisance of media reports about the trains not only starting late, but also taking many more days to reach their destinations. One of the reports claimed that many migrant labourers lost their lives during their journey due to the longer duration and the absence of arrangements for drinking water and food, an NHRC statement said. The government had started these special trains on May 1 to ferry migrant workers back to their home States after they were stranded in different parts of the country during the COVID-19-induced lock-down from March 25. ‘Gross rights violation’ The NHRC noted that two people died in Muzaffarpur and one each in Danapur, Sasaram, Gaya, Begusarai and Jehanabad in Bihar. “All of them reportedly died due to hunger. In another incident, a train reportedly started from Surat district in Gujarat for Siwan in Bihar on May 16 and reached Bihar on May 25 i.e. after 9 days. The Commission has observed that the contents of the media reports, if true, amount to gross violation of human rights. The aggrieved families have suffered irrevocable loss. The State has failed to protect the lives of the poor labourers on board the trains,” the statement said. Taking the reports into account, the NHRC issued notices to the Chief Secretaries of Bihar and Gujarat governments, the chairman of the Railway Board and the Union Home Secretary, seeking their reports within four weeks. “...Train getting lost during journey, reaching unexpected destinations and taking more than a week to reach its scheduled station is hard to believe and requires a thorough investigation...,” it said. The Commission observed that the Railways’ attitude towards the migrant workers “borders on barbarism.” “The labourers cannot be treated in such an inhuman manner, just because they are poor and the government has paid for their tickets,” the NHRC said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nhrc-issues-notice-to-govt-on-migrant-deaths/article31699706.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Scrapping of RBI bonds a blow to people, says Chidambaram||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Thursday said the decision to do away with Reserve Bank of India (RBI) bonds was a “cruel blow” to citizens as it had been one of the “risk-free” savings instruments since 2003. On Wednesday, a government notification said the 7.75% Savings (Taxable) Bonds, 2018, also known as RBI bonds or government bonds, shall “cease for subscription with effect from the close of banking business on Thursday, the 28th of May, 2020”. In a series of tweets, Mr. Chidambaram said citizens must demand that the bonds be restored immediately. “Government has dealt another blow to citizens who save, especially senior citizens. It has discontinued the 7.75% RBI bonds,” he said. The government had done this once before in January 2018. “I protested vehemently. Next day they re-introduced the bond but reduced the interest rate from 8% to 7.75%. Effectively, after tax, the bond will yield only 4.4 %. That is now taken away. Why? I deplore this action.” He said, “Every government is bound to provide at least one safe, risk-free investment option to its citizens. It was the RBI bond since 2003. After lowering the interest rates in PPF and small savings instruments, the abolition of the RBI bond is another cruel blow. All citizens must demand that the RBI bond must be restored immediately.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/scrapping-of-rbi-bonds-a-blow-to-people-says-chidambaram/article31699723.ece
29 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,||Swarm of grasshoppers leads to locust scare in A.P. district||The sight of a large number of common Calotropis grasshoppers ( Poekilocerus pictus ) perched on all kinds of vegetation in Rayadurg town and surrounding areas in Anantapur district on Thursday created panic among people. With speculations about desert locusts moving towards central coastal Andhra Pradesh encompassing Krishna and West Godavari districts aided by wind making the rounds, social media and electronic channels were abuzz with pictures of the swarms. A.P.-bound Desert locusts will move towards the two Andhra Pradesh districts after touching the Karimnagar, Jagityal and Nalgonda areas in Telangana going by present indications such as wind direction, said agrometeorologist S. Malleswari Sadhineni at the Agriculture Research Station at Rekulakunta in Anantapur district. There was no chance of locusts entering the districts of Anantapur, Kadapa or Chittoor. Some places in Kurnool might be affected if at all the length and breadth of the swarm was large, she added. About the invasion of grasshoppers in the Rayadurg area, Ms. Malleswari said due to extreme heat followed by a spell of rain in that area this week, these insects had come out of their habitat and were devouring vegetation. There was no danger to crops from grasshoppers unlike desert locusts as they are relatively very mild. Principal scientist Manda Johnson said it is easy to differentiate between grasshoppers and desert locusts as they are different in colour.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/swarm-of-grasshoppers-leads-to-locust-scare-in-ap-district/article31699668.ece
29 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana govt. gears up to meet locust threat||The State government has alerted district Collectors and senior police officials of districts which share borders with Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh about the entry of swarms of locusts. The government has deployed fire engines, jetting machines and pesticides as part of the precautionary measures to ensure that there is no scope for entry of locusts into the State from the neighbouring areas. Even as the State is grappling with the efforts for containing the Coronavirus (COVID-19) impact, it has to face the threat of locusts which crossed over into the country from Pakistan through Rajasthan and spread to neighbouring Maharashtra and other States, threatening standing crops and vegetation. Locusts, desert locusts, in particular, is considered to be one of the most devastating migratory pests in the world. It is highly mobile and known to feed on large quantities of any kind of green vegetation, including crops, pasture, and fodder. The seriousness of the situation can be gauged from the fact that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had convened a meeting of the senior officials to explore the possibilities of checking the entry of locusts into the State. The Chief Minister constituted a committee of five members to keep a tab on the movement of the locusts and to prevent the scope for these swarms entering into the State. Members Central Integrated Pest Management Centre representative R. Sunitha, Agriculture University principal scientist Dr. S.J. Rehman, Conservator of Forests (Warangal) Akbar, Ramagundam police commissioner Satyanarayana and Mancherial collector Bharati had been nominated as the members of the committee which would stay in Ramagundam for four days from Friday. The committee would monitor the situation from Adilabad to Bhadrachalam along the course of Godavari. It would also suggest the options for killing the locusts if they enter the State. The Chief Minister reviewed aspects pertaining to the entry of swarms of locusts into the country, the course of their travel, impact on the crops/vegetation and related issues. He wanted to know about the possible course these locusts would take in the days to come. He was briefed that the locusts were travelling to Balaghat in Madhya Pradesh from Maharashtra covering Bhandara and Gondia en route. It was estimated that these swarms would travel from Madhya Pradesh to northern parts of the country and from there to Punjab. However, since the course of these locusts would depend on the wind direction, there was scope for these locusts to enter Telangana from Chhattisgarh if the wind direction was towards south. Though the possibility of these locusts entering the State was less, the Chief Minister was particular that necessary precautions should be put in place to ensure that they would not cause major loss to the State. Directions had been issued to districts bordering Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh that they should be on high alert and ready to spray pesticides based on the prospects of these locusts entering the State. Collectors of Bhadradri Kothagudem, Mulugu, Jayashankar Bhoopalpally, Mancherial, Asifabad, Adilabad and Peddapalli as well as the police administration had been alerted accordingly to monitor the movement of the locusts and enforcing the directions issued by the government. The officials along the Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh borders had been instructed to ensure ready availability of 15,000 litres of pesticides like Malathion, Chloropyrifos, Lambda Cyhalothrin liquid. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, DGP M. Mahender Reddy and other senior officials had been asked to monitor the situation on a regular basis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-government-gears-up-to-meet-locust-threat/article31699998.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Citing swine fever, China bans pork imports from India||Chinese authorities have said they have put in place a ban on pork imports from India, a move that State media has linked to the ongoing border tensions. A joint notice issued by the General Administration of Customs of China and the Ministry of Agricultural and Rural Affairs on Wednesday said China “is set to ban imports of pigs, wild boar and related products from India in an effort to prevent African swine fever (ASF) and ensure the safety of China’s animal husbandry”. While the official notice from the government made no mention of the ongoing border dispute, the Global Times , a Communist Party-run newspaper, reported that “the ban comes after tensions between the two countries flared up in Galwan Valley region”, which it blamed on “India's recent, illegal construction of defense facilities on the border to Chinese territory”. The newspaper said India had reported its first case of ASF in May, and the disease had killed more than 14,000 pigs in the border state of Assam. The newspaper said the disease first broke out in China in August 2018. On the boundary situation, China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs said on Wednesday both sides were in communication on resolving the on-going stand-off along the Line of Actual Control. “China’s position on the boundary issue is consistent and clear,” said spokesperson Zhao Lijian. “We have been earnestly implementing the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, strictly abiding by the relevant agreements signed by the two countries ... At present, the overall situation in the China-India border areas is stable...” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/citing-swine-fever-china-bans-pork-imports-from-india/article31699691.ece
29 May 2020||Patna,||Muzaffarpur rail station incident shocking: HC||The Patna High Court on Thursday took suo motu cognisance of a video which on May 27 went viral on social media showing a baby playfully tugging a sheet partially covering his dead mother at the Muzaffarpur railway station in Bihar, and termed the incident “shocking and unfortunate”. Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S. Kumar took note of a news report, and said “this warrants intervention by us in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 226 and issue notice.”  Amicus curiaeappointed The court appointed advocate Ashish Giri as amicus curiae and directed S.D. Yadav, Additional Advocate General-IX, who was present in the virtual court, to obtain instructions on all issues. The Central government, the Railways and the Bihar government and various departments of the State government were added as respondents. The court also asked the Bihar government counsel to ascertain if this particular incident was being considered by the Supreme Court in the suo motu petition before it. In response to queries from the court, the Additional Advocate-General said that “no information could be ascertained as the matter listed on the board, had yet not reached.” He said the “news report is partially incorrect. The deceased was mentally unstable and had died a natural death during the course of her journey from Surat [Gujarat].” “The deceased, who had been deserted by her husband, had only one child. Md. Wazir [her brother-in-law — sister’s husband] brought her death to the notice of the railway authorities and after recording of his statement, the body was allowed to be taken home,” Mr. Yadav added. He told the court that “no post-mortem was conducted and no FIR was registered. However, the district administration facilitated by providing an ambulance up to the place of destination. The orphaned child is in safe custody and guardianship of the sister of the deceased.” “Even though the child is safe and secure, yet he shall personally pursue the matter with the authorities who would again reach out to the family, enquiring any need of assistance,” the Additional Advocate General told the court. Later the court ordered that all the complete facts be submitted in the form of affidavits by the concerned Principal Secretaries before June 3, the next date of hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/muzaffarpur-rail-station-incident-shocking-hc/article31699705.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Migrants have to wait for long: SC||The Supreme Court, which on Thursday ordered that no fare be charged from migrant workers for travel, said that even after registration, they had to wait for a long period, ranging from a week to a month, for their turn to board a bus or a train. “A large number of migrant workers are still seen proceeding on foot to different places,” a three-judge Bench observed. When Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta wondered aloud whether this would encourage more people to walk, the court said dryly that they were already walking home. Many had decided to walk because they got no word from officials even after registering for transport back to their villages. Mr. Mehta said 3,700 Shramik Special trains had been operated from May 1 to 27. So far, about 91 lakh migrants were shifted by train and road. The Central and State governments “are of the view that no worker should undertake on-foot journey for their destination”. The court sought details from the government on the number of stranded workers and plans for their registration and transport. A hearing has been scheduled for June 5. The nearly three-hour hearing through video-conference witnessed the court question the government about its “lapses” in providing adequate food, shelter and transport to thousands of migrant workers, triggering an exodus during the lockdown. The Centre maintained that workers were “locally instigated” to walk home. Mr. Mehta said the government machinery, from the ‘safai karamchari’ to the Prime Minister, were selflessly battling an “unprecedented crisis”. He accused the “prophets of doom” and “armchair intellectuals” of stirring trouble and weakening the resolve. He questioned their patriotism. He said the court should not be allowed to be made into a political platform. Clear policy The court asked why certain States had turned away migrant workers from their borders. There was a need for a concrete and uniform policy between the Centre and the States and among States as regard to the crisis. “Look to the future. How much time do you need to transport migrants workers? What is the monitoring mechanism to ensure food and basic necessities? It is not that the government is not doing enough but concrete steps need to be taken. Hard reality is that there is a need for a mechanism to tackle the crisis,” the court observed. Mr. Mehta said many workers had opted to stay back as workplaces were opening up. “Some isolated incidents” were highlighted to show the government’s efforts in a bad light. Appearing for Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala, senior advocate A.M. Singhvi said the Centre still did not have a nationwide plan to tally the exact number of stranded labourers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/migrants-have-to-wait-for-long-sc/article31699714.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown hits access to sanitary hygiene||The ongoing lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic is severely challenging women’s and girls’ access to menstrual hygiene products and toilets for managing menstruation, especially given the presence of male and older family and community members, the Menstrual Health Alliance India (MHAI) observed in a recent survey. The survey found that post COVID-19, and given the physical distancing measures in place, 67% of partner organisations have had to pause normal operations, while before COVID-19, 89% of the organisations were reaching the community through community-based networks, 61% were distributing menstrual products through schools, 28% through door to door retail, 26% through online retail channels and 22% through traditional retail stores. The alliance, which is a network of NGOs, researchers, manufacturers and practitioners working on menstrual health and hygiene in India and surveyed organisations in the network, found: “62% respondents stated that in the communities they work with, access from regular channels for consumers has become challenging and 22% organisations report that there is no access to menstrual products”. With production becoming constrained, availability of menstrual hygiene products at the last mile rural retail points was most affected. Consumers who could access the products at block or district level markets were unable to do so due to lack of public transport. “Various State and district governments have school-based distribution of sanitary pads. With schools closing down, many such girls had no access to sanitary pads. This has forced them to shift from disposable sanitary pads to cloth pads. Cloth pads can be a hygienic means of managing menstruation, if accompanied with information and facilities for hygienic management,” the MHAI noted. A total of 67 organisations, including 45 from India, were surveyed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/lockdown-hits-access-to-sanitary-hygiene/article31699724.ece
29 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||UDF to organise protest today||The United Democratic Front (UDF) has sought to make a political issue out of the purported decision of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government to exact the cost of institutional quarantine from expatriates. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has urged UDF workers to protest the decision, which he said smacked of disdain for non-resident Keralites fleeing the epidemic and financial ruin abroad. He urged UDF workers to assemble in front of Collectorates across the Sate onFriday to register their anger at the government’s apathy. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy would join Mr. Chennithala in front of the Secretariat. The protesters will observe physical distancing norms and lockdown restrictions. They will wear face masks. The influx of NoRKs was an emotional issue in the State, particularly so in the northern districts. The Indian Union Muslim League, which draws massive support from NoRK households, had flagged their plight initially. The UDF had pointed out that many displaced by the pandemic required State support to rebuild their lives. Most had little scope of regaining their jobs in the Gulf. The Opposition said the decision to charge NoRKs for their mandatory seven-day quarantine period contrasted starkly with the government’s decision to spend Rs. 2.75 crore for publicity on the fourth anniversary of LDF rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/udf-to-organise-protest-today/article31700024.ece
29 May 2020||KALABURAGI,||Karnataka wary of attack||Bidar and Kalaburagi, neighbouring Maharashtra, are bracing themselves for a possible attack by desert locusts, even though the Agriculture Department has said that chances of it are low. Raju Teggelli, entomologist and head of Kalaburagi Krishi Vigyan Kendra, told The Hindu that it would largely depend on the current and speed of the wind. He also recalled the desert locust attack reported from the region in 1891. “After that, there was no mention of such an attack. The invasion of the pest depends upon the wind current and speed. They move with the wind direction. But if the insects attack now, the damage will not be very much as there is little standing crop on the fields,” he said. Alerted by the attack of the locusts in the neighbouring State, the district authorities in Bidar and Kalaburagi, which were already hit hard by COVID-19 pandemic and are struggling hard to contain the spread of disease, are gearing up to face the new challenge. Bidar Deputy Commissioner H.R. Mahadev held two rounds of emergency meetings with senior officials on Wednesday to discuss the issue. He directed the officers to conduct an immediate survey of standing crops. The officials were also making preparations to ensure that there would be no dearth of insecticide in the district in the event of the attack.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-wary-of-attack/article31699670.ece
29 May 2020||KOCHI,||Tipplers refuse to raise a toast to virtual queue app||BevQ, the much-anticipated virtual queue management app that paved the way for the reopening of liquor outlets after more than two months on Thursday, got off to a disastrous start with a large number of disgruntled users displaying their displeasure by giving it a low rating in Google Play Store. The app had an overall rating of just 2.4 as of Thursday evening with one-star ratings thriving in a scale of five. The reviews posted alongside the rating varied from angry rantings to outright sarcastic. “Usually a good app is supposed to have a rating of four or above. An app similar in feature to BevQ is rated 4.3 in Google Play Store,” said Akash K, a lucky user who managed to book a slot. Direct search The app, though live in Google Play Store, was still not available through direct search, which Faircode Technologies Private Limited, the start-up that developed the app, attributed to the time taken to index the app by Google. Instead, users were asked to try searching the app with the command “pub:Kerala State Beverages Corporation”. Naveen George, CFO of Faircode Technologies, said that 15 lakh users had registered the app as of Wednesday evening. He, however, declined to reveal the number of tokens issued. The app has a capacity to register 25 lakh users in a day while the number of tokens per shop remains restricted to 400 a day. “We have not detected any hitches on our part and most importantly the end user experience at the shops has gone smooth as everyone with token received liquor,” he said.  However, the customer feedback in general painted a very different picture. The most prevalent complaint was about the non- receipt of one-time password (OTP) verification. “Though I managed to register, the OTP never came,” said Bhuvanesh, a youngster who tried in the morning. Many users complained that though they received the message that the OTP has been successfully sent to their mobile, they never received it. “I got the verification code and submitted it only to receive the message that slots can only be booked from 12.05 a.m. to 9 a.m, which was very odd considering that the allotted time for booking is between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m,” said Eldhose, another user. Earlier, the tipplers had their patience running thin on Wednesday when their wait for the app got prolonged and they vented their frustration by bombarding the Facebook page of the start-up.  Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday that an estimated 2,25,000 consumers had used the BevQ mobile phone application to purchase liquor. There were some inevitable teething troubles. The makers of the application resolved the glitches. The resumption of the sale of alcohol had not precipitated any law and order situation in the State nor any large-scale violation of physical distancing norms and the mandates of the health protocol, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tipplers-refuse-to-raise-a-toast-to-virtual-queue-app/article31699673.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Infrastructure work in border areas to continue||Prime Minister Narendra Modi too had reviewed the situation with the National Security Advisor and Gen. Rawat on Tuesday. China has been objecting to Indian road construction at several points along the LAC. The almost month long standoff began when Chinese troops moved inside Indian areas with vehicles and equipment in some of the four standoff points at the LAC, including Pangong Tso, Demchok, Galwan Valley and Naku La in Sikkim, where PLA soldiers also blocked Indian patrols and pitched tents. In response, India too moved troops forward and also redeployed additional troops to the Ladakh region. While both India and China asserted that discussions were on through military and diplomatic channels, the stalemate on the ground continued. PLA ingress However, for India the matter of particular concern is Chinese troops moving back from the positions they moved to inside Indian territory. “The issue to be resolved is moving back to earlier positions where Chinese troops have moved inside Indian territory. Otherwise it will change the status quo,” one officer said on condition of anonymity. Two instances There have been atleast two instances of major scuffles at Pangong Tso in Eastern Ladakh on May 5 and Naku La in North Sikkim on May 9 in which there were serious injuries on both sides. Sources said that at Naku La, Chinese troops had moved couple of kilometres inside Indian territory and after the issue was resolved between the local commanders on the ground, they moved back, but not fully. Both Galwan Nalah and Naku La have not been areas of contention in the past, as observed by several officials.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/infrastructure-work-in-border-areas-to-continue/article31699681.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Working with China to resolve LAC issue: MEA||“The two sides have established mechanisms both at military and diplomatic levels to resolve situations which may arise in border areas peacefully through dialogue and continue to remain engaged through these channels,” he added. The issues with China are likely to be a part of other diplomatic discussions for the government as well. Speaking at the weekly briefing for journalists, the spokesperson confirmed that the Prime Minister will hold a virtual summit with Australian Premier Scott Morrison on June 4, where a number of bilateral and regional issues would be discussed. The two leaders will also discuss strengthening the Indo-Pacific partnership, where sources said China’s recent moves in the South China Sea, as well as the ongoing standoff at the LAC are likely to be discussed. Meanwhile the MEA is also preparing for another virtual summit between Mr. Modi and the leaders of the European Union, which had to be put off in March this year due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/working-with-china-to-resolve-lac-issue-mea/article31699682.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Centre reviews situation in 13 worst-hit regions||Municipal corporations could decide on designating residential colonies, mohallas, municipal wards or police station areas, municipal zones, towns as containment zones, as required, the statement said. The cities were advised that the area should be appropriately defined by the district administration and local urban body with technical inputs from the local level, it added. Use of goggles Responding to queries by healthcare workers on reuse of protective eyewear, the Health Ministry said goggles were a crucial component of the Personal Protective Equipment (PPE), and issued an advisory on their reprocessing and reuse. “Goggles may be issued to each healthcare worker, who will decontaminate them after every use. Goggles to be disinfected by users and reused at least five times each, whereby one pair of goggles will suffice for six days. They may use them rationally till their transparency decreases or they get damaged. The ratio of issue of goggles to coverall is recommended at 1:6,” said the advisory. Reprocessing, reuse The advisory, however, pointed out that reprocessing and reuse of goggles must be done only when it was dedicated to each individual (write name over the band). “Reprocessing must be done after every use before using it again, adherence to manufacturer's instructions for cleaning and disinfection of goggles wherever available is a must,” it stated. “Store clean eyewear in a paper bag/in a clean area to avoid recontamination and the eye protection must be discarded if damaged/rendered optically non-clear on repeated usage,” the advisory added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/centre-reviews-situation-in-13-worst-hit-regions/article31699683.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Security forces avert car-bombing in Pulwama||The police suspect that at least 40 to 45 kg of explosive material were fitted in the vehicle and a blast could have been similar to the 2019 Pulwama explosion that killed 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel. The explosives were defused by a bomb disposal squad team. “We concluded that 40 to 45kg of explosive material were used by militants after seeing that the vehicle went up 15 meters above the ground when the improvised explosive devices were being destroyed,” the IGP said. The police have initiated an investigation if the explosives were procured locally or the RDX was managed through any cross-Line of Control route. The IGP said the security agencies, including police, the Army and the CRPF, were getting inputs about the ‘fidayeen’ (suicide) attack plan. Behind the act A militant, identified as Adil, who works for the Hizb and the Jaish, and two other militants of these outfits were behind the act. “They were planning the suicide attack on 17th of Ramadan [Jang-e-Badr], but couldn’t do it due to our intensified operations against militants,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/security-forces-avert-car-bombing-in-pulwama/article31699684.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Now, get PAN allotment through your Aadhaar||Instant PAN allotment is now available for anyone who has a valid Aadhaar number and a mobile number registered with that Aadhaar. The facility, promised in the 2020 Budget speech, was formally launched by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday. The trial version of the facility has been available since February 2020, and almost 6.8 lakh instant PANs, with a turnaround time of about 10 minutes, have already been allotted, according to a Finance Ministry statement. The process is paperless and an electronic or e-PAN is provided free of cost. Applicants are required to provide their Aadhaar number on the e-filing website of the Income Tax Department, and then submit the OTP received on the linked mobile number. A 15-digit acknowledgement number is generated and the e-PAN can be downloaded. All PANs are required to be linked to Aadhaar by June 30.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/now-get-pan-allotment-through-your-aadhaar/article31699721.ece
29 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||PIL over doctors not writing generic medicines||Telangana High Court on Thursday issued notices to the Central and State governments in a Public Inteerest Litigation (PIL) petition seeking a direction to ensure all doctors in the country wrote generic names of medicines in their prescriptions. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy instructed the Centre and the State along with the Medical Council of India to file counter affidavits within four weeks. A retired government school teacher P. Ramana Reddy from Miryalaguda, who filed the petition, stated that Clause 1.5 of Indian Medical Council (Professional Conduct, Etiquette and Ethics) Regulations-2002 mandated that every physician prescribed drugs with generic names. The clause makes it clear that generic names of drugs should be written ‘legibly and preferably in capital letters’, the petitioner said. In a letter, the MCI had urged all the registered medical practitioners in the country to comply with that clause. Even the Directors of Medical Education and the Directors of Health Services of all States were instructed to ensure the clause was complied with all doctors. In case of failure to follow the clause, action should be initiated against the doctors concerned, the MCI said in the letter, according to the petitioner. The retired teacher requested the court to pass an order declaring that failure of the authorities to ensure physicians mentioned generic names of medicines in the prescriptions was arbitrary and illegal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pil-over-doctors-not-writing-generic-medicines/article31699981.ece
29 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Plea against restrictions on persons aged above 65||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday ordered issue of notice to the State and Union governments on a PIL petition questioning the restrictions imposed on the movement of persons aged above 65 in view of the lockdown. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka  and Justice Suraj Govindaraj passed the order on the petition filed by B.N. Jayadeva, a 68-year-old practising advocate. The restrictions imposed on senior citizens aged above 65 has confined them to the four walls of their house, without they themselves going out or others meeting them, and this situation would push them into depression, the petitioner claimed. Pointing out that several politicians above the age of 65, who are holding high public offices, move around freely even though the lockdown restrictions does not exempt such persons, the petitioner said that the ordinary senior citizens are discriminated against when compared with political leaders. The lockdown norms states that “persons above 65 years of age, persons with comorbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 shall stay at home, except for essential and health purposes”. Further hearing was adjourned till June 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/plea-against-restrictions-on-persons-aged-above-65/article31699772.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hindi as official language in Haryana courts challenged||Lawyers have challenged in the Supreme Court a law which makes Hindi the official language in courts in Haryana. Their petition contends that the Haryana Official Language (Amendment) Act of 2020 has unconstitutionally and arbitrarily imposed Hindi as the sole official language to be used in lower courts across the State. Advocates Sameer Jain, Sandeep Bajaj, Angad Sandhu, Suvigya Awasthi and Anant Gupta have jointly challenged the new Section 3A incorporated into the Act. The lawyers have argued that English is widely used by advocates in lower courts in justice administration work. The imposition of Hindi as the sole language would result in an unreasonable classification between lawyers who are fluent in Hindi and those who are not. The proficiency in language required to argue a case is much more than in the ordinary use of a language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hindi-as-official-language-in-haryana-courts-challenged/article31699720.ece
29 May 2020||SIDDIPET,||KCR to release Godavari water to Kondapochamma project today||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will visit Murkook and release water to Kondapochammasagar on Friday. All arrangements were put in place in this regard. Mr. Harish Rao, who has been personally supervising the arrangements with Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy, will accompany the Chief Minister during the programme. Chandiyagam and Sudarshana Yagam will be performed at the temple in the morning and the project site. With the completion of the Kondapochamma project, Siddipet district will have as many as five reservoirs with a total capacity of 79.9 tmcft Godavari water. The reservoirs coming up in the district include Annapurna (3.5 tmcft), Ranganaiksagar (3 tmcft), Mallannasagar (50 tmcft), Kondapochammasagar (15 tmcft) and Gauravelli (8.4 tmcft). Mallannasagar and Gauravelli projects are yet to be completed because of land acquisition issues. Godavari water, after being drawn from Medigadda, will be lifted to 518 metres and pumped into the Kondapochammasagar. In the district, the water is being lifted to 221 metres from the Annapurna reservoir that was established at the borders of Sircilla (Illantakunta mandal) and Siddipet (Chinnakodur mandal) districts. The full reservoir level (FRL) at Annapurna is 397 metres followed by 490 metres at Ranganaiaksagar, 557 metres at Mallannasagar and 618 metres at Kondapochammasagar. With this, Godavari water is being lifted to nearly a quarter kilometre in the district. As many as 2.85 lakh acres would be irrigated with water from Kondapochammasagar. From here, Godavari water would be diverted to Sangareddy and Medak districts. The water would reach Mahaboobsagar on the outskirts of the district headquarters through Sangareddy canal and the canal works have already commenced for a stretch of 6 km. Water would be diverted to Singur from Mallannasagar under packages 17, 18 and 19. It was stated that about 1.22 lakh acres in both Sangareddy and Siddipet districts would be irrigated with these packages. It took about 70 days, from March 11 to May 19, for the Godavari water to reach Kondapochammasagar from the Annapurna project.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kcr-to-release-godavari-water-to-kondapochammasagar-today/article31700005.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Atma tatva jnana||The concept of Knowledge of the self, ‘atma tatva jnana,’ is relevant only in the context of Vedanta vichara and does not offer much to a non-believer in the sastras. Strictly speaking, the term ‘jnana’ in sastra drishti means ‘swaroopa jnana’ or ‘atma tatva jnana’ alone, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. But it is also used with reference to the objective knowledge of the universe, its origin, sustenance, dissolution and so on. In such instances it is known as Vritti jnana. Here ‘jnana’ has an extended or metaphorical usage even as comparisons are in the understanding of principles, ideas, etc. It is similar to describing a boy as a lion cub where the intention is to highlight his smartness and intelligence. Krishna expounds the essence of this ultimate knowledge which is called as Kshetra Kshetrajna Jnana to clarify and reconcile many subtle and esoteric issues that are difficult to grasp. The uniqueness in the Lord’s creation is reflected in the Prakriti-Purusha principle. Adi Sankara, while explaining this section, shows how the Lord, because of His manifestation as the entire Jagat, appears to be very much involved in its working and upkeep. He appears bound, but is very much above and beyond it. This is the case of every individual jivatma who is a part of this universal eternal existence while he is also a distinct individual with special body mind complex functions. He too appears to be bound to samsara. But the self in reality remains as the Kshetrajna, the knower of all. The Svetasvatara Upanishad states: “He is the maker of all, the knower of all, the self caused, the possessor of qualities, the knower of everything, the ruler of nature and of the spirit, the lord of qualities, the cause of worldly existence, and of liberation, of continuance and of bondage.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/atma-tatva-jnana/article31699715.ece
29 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Woman, son held for cheating NRI||A mother-son duo from Mokila in Rangareddy district were arrested by the Jubilee Hills police on Thursday on the charge of creating a fake profile on a matrimonial site and cheating a software engineer to the tune of Rs. 65 lakh. Malavika Devati (44) and her son Venkateswara Pranvaa Lalith Gopal (22) lured Varun, a techie from California, after getting in touch with him onwww.bharathmatrimony. com. Malavika’s husband Devati Srinivas is absconding. Police said the trio created the profile in the name of Keerthi Madhavaneni, a doctor from Jubilee Hills, who was looking for prospective alliance. “They cooked up a story that Keerthi has a lot of property and her father died recently after which her mother was torturing her to transfer the property to her name. They asked Varun to help her in the legal battle,” police said. Varun transferred Rs. 65 lakh to their bank account to help her ‘fight the legal battle. When the woman started avoiding him, the NRI realised that he was cheated and lodged complaint.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/woman-son-held-on-charge-of-cheating-nri/article31699982.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Heralding monsoon||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/heralding-monsoon/article31699680.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NIA shifted Navlakha in haste, says HC||The Delhi High Court has questioned the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for acting in an “inexplicable” hurry to whisk away civil rights activist Gautam Navlakha to Mumbai, even when his interim bail petition was pending before the court. Justice Anup J. Bhambhani, who conducted the hearing through video-conference, said the NIA moved applications at the Mumbai and Delhi courts over the weekend and gazetted holidays and even obtained orders by e-mail at the risk of rendering the interim bail petition proceedings infructuous.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nia-shifted-navlakha-in-haste-says-hc/article31699688.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘BJP trying to destabilise Maha govt.’||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday accused the BJP of trying to “destabilise” the Maharashtra government instead of supporting the State in the grip of the COVID-19 pandemic. Ms. Vadra’s reference to Maharashtra comes just a day after her brother and former Congress chief, Rahul Gandhi, spoke to Aaditya Thackeray, son of Shiv Sena chief and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, in an attempt at damage control after Mr. Gandhi’s remark on Tuesday. At an online press meet, Mr. Gandhi said his party — a coalition partner in Maharashtra — was not a key decision-maker in the State. “Look at Maharashtra where the epidemic has assumed a frightening form. Instead of helping it, you are trying to bring it down and destabilise it, Ms. Vadra said in a video message, that was part of the Speak Up India campaign on the social media.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-trying-to-destabilise-maha-govt/article31699697.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Yechury calls Centre out on health crisis||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury has demanded that the Union government publish a “white paper” on how the lockdown was used to strengthen public health. Mr. Yechury tweeted, “Modi gave an unplanned unilateral last-minute firman for Lockdown: has no idea on how to end it scientifically now ... BJP govt compounded the misery of a public health emergency”. Mr. Yechury told The Hindu that lockdowns were resorted to by countries when they saw the pandemic rising and during that period they tried to flatten the curve. So, by the end of a lockdown, the number of cases must have shown a decline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/yechury-calls-centre-out-on-health-crisis/article31699698.ece
29 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Brief us on Meerut status: Allahabad HC||The Allahabad High Court on Thursday directed the Meerut administration to apprise it of the prevailing COVID-19 status in the district after a petition alleged that the situation there was “critical, grievous and sensitive”. A Division Bench of Justices Ramesh Sinha and Siddhartha Varma directed the State counsel to seek instructions from the District Magistrate and brief the court of the “alarming situation” in Meerut. The petitioners had “brought to our notice that the adequate measures with regard to restraining the spread of COVID-19 are not being taken,” the court observed. The matter would be heard on June 9.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/brief-us-on-meerut-status-allahabad-hc/article31699707.ece
29 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Free mock tests for NEET, JEET, EAMCET aspirants||E-Parkisha.com and Siasat Urdu daily have come together to offer free mock tests for students taking EAMCET, NEE, JEE and all common entrance tests in the country. The mock tests will help aspirants assess their learning at home via self-generated tests in multiple subject topics from a structured question bank of 1,60,000 multiple choice questions in physics, chemistry, mathematics and biology for the engineering, medical and agriculture streams. This will help them get an instant Strengths Weakness Opportunities Threats (SWOT) analysis, said Raju L. Kanchibota, CEO of E-Pariksha and Zaheeruddin Ali Khan, Managing Editor of Siasat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-mock-tests-for-neet-jeet-eamcet-aspirants/article31699983.ece
29 May 2020||MEDAK,||Boy who fell in borewell found dead||A boy who fell into a freshly dug borewell at Podchanpally in Papannapet mandal died. After about 12 hours of rescue operations the officials were able to trace his body at 18-foot depth. Three-year-old Sanjay Saivardhan, while returning from the farm along with his father Govardhan and grandfather Bhikshapati slipped into the borewell at about 5 p.m. Collector K. Dharma Reddy, Superintendent of Police Chandana Deepti and MLA M. Padma Devender Reddy rushed to the spot and ordered rescue operations. National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams reached the spot and actively participated in the rescue operations and were able to bring out the body at about 4.30 a.m. on Thursday. The boy was traced at about 18-foot depth and by that time he was found dead. The body was shifted to government hospital for post-mortem. Later the body was handed over to the family members. The officials are getting ready to register cases against land owner Bhikshapati and the borewell machine owner for illegally digging without obtaining permission from the authorities concerned. The boy might have died within half an hour after falling due to lack of oxygen. A few years ago a boy fell in a borewell at Bommareddygudem in Pulkal mandal of Sangareddy district and died in a similar manner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/boy-who-fell-in-borewell-found-dead/article31699677.ece
29 May 2020||Bhopal,||Liquor baron flies four family members in 180-seater plane to avoid crowd||A Bhopal-based liquor baron hired a 180-seater Airbus A320 to fly his daughter, two granddaughters and a nanny to New Delhi, to avoid the crowd aboard a regular passenger flight, airport officials said. “The flight, belonging to a private carrier, was the first to fly from Bhopal on May 25,” said an official of the Raja Bhoj Airport here. “The family was stuck here since the lockdown kicked in.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/liquor-baron-flies-four-family-members-in-180-seater-plane-to-avoid-crowd/article31699701.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||DD News video journalist tests positive posthumously||Nearly 50 personnel of the camera division of Doordarshan News will be tested for coronavirus infection after a 53-year-old video journalist who died of a “heart attack” on Wednesday tested positive posthumously. DD News has temporarily shut down the studio. “We have made contingency plans so that news operations are unaffected, by leveraging our pool of studios in Delhi,” a top official at DD News said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/dd-news-video-journalist-tests-positive-posthumously/article31699708.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways increases advance booking period to 120 days||The Ministry of Railways on Thursday increased the advance reservation period for the special passenger trains to 120 days from the 30 days now. They include the 30 trains operational since May 12, as well as the 200 trains that will commence operations on June 1. The changed booking period will be effective from 08:00 hours on May 31, an official statement said. Booking of parcel and luggage will be permitted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/railways-increases-advance-booking-period-to-120-days/article31699710.ece
29 May 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||UGD project for Ariyalur sanctioned||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday, through video conference, inaugurated the underground drainage project for Ariyalur town. The Tamil Nadu Water and Drainage Board (TWAD) has executed the project at a cost of Rs. 30.95 crore. After the inauguration, Government Chief Whip Thamarai S. Rajendran and Collector D. Rathna visited parts of the town to understand the functioning of the scheme. Mr. Rajendran said that it had been decided to connect all households in Ariyalur town under the underground drainage project. Sewage from households, public toilets and sanitary complexes would be pumped to Parpanacherri near Keezhapazhur, where a treatment plant has been constructed. The treated water would be used for cultivation and social forestry. Earlier, Chief Minister also declared open a multi-storeyed housing complex constructed by the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board at Kurumanchavadi at a cost of Rs. 23.43 crore. As many as 288 tenements have been constructed under the project. Each tenement has 400 square feet built up area. It has a bedroom, a hall, a bathroom and a kitchen.  Karur The Chief Minister also declared open three road overbridges in Karur district. Two bridges have come up at Sevappur on Palaviduthu-Kadavur-Ayyalur road and at Thoppampatti on Vairamadai-Thoppampatti-Kuppam road. The third bridge has been constructed at Kadavur. They have been constructed at a cost of Rs. 4.07 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ugd-project-for-ariyalur-sanctioned/article31700143.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Health Dept. directs officials to ramp up COVID-19 infrastructure||In view of the continuing surge in COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu, the Health Department is ramping up infrastructure in dedicated COVID-19 hospitals, health centres and care centres in the State. In a letter to all three health directors and deans of government medical college hospitals in the city, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said that during a COVID-19 co-ordination meeting, instructions were given by the Chief Secretary stating that all three types of facilities need to be strengthened and the required infrastructure put in place, keeping in view the projected numbers. As per the Union Health Ministry’s guidelines, COVID-19 patients are categorised as severe, moderate and mild, and are managed in three categories of facilities — dedicated COVID hospitals, COVID health centres and COVID care centres — respectively. ‘Nominate nodal officer’ In view of the projections for the next 10 days, an additional 1,800 beds in COVID-19 hospitals, 2,700 beds in health centres and 3,600 beds in care centres may be required, the official said in the letter. The Directorate of Medical Education, in consultation with deans of government medical college hospitals, was directed to identify additional facilities in line with the projections and nominate a nodal medical officer in charge at these facilities. The nodal officer should follow the standard protocol of treatment at these facilities under the supervision of the respective deans. The respective officers have been instructed to focus on upgrading the existing facilities and ensuring that each and every COVID-19 patient receives proper and adequate treatment as per his/her condition. A senior doctor confirmed that they had received instructions to ramp up beds. “We are increasing the bed strength parallelly. About 1,600 beds are being readied at a slum clearance board building in Pulianthope,” the doctor said. Another senior doctor said the government was increasing the bed capacity as per the instructions of the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/health-dept-directs-officials-to-ramp-up-covid-19-infrastructure/article31699832.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown helps Corpn. complete drain work on Velachery Main Road||The COVID-19 lockdown has, by sharply reducing traffic, helped the Greater Chennai Corporation complete work on the storm-water drain network along Velachery Main Road, normally a busy stretch. The road, between the checkpost and bypass junction, is narrow and crowded owing to the presence of Phoenix Marketcity mall. Traffic snarls are a regular feature during rush hour. The stretch also serves as a corridor for commuters from several southern suburbs looking to reach Anna Salai. Every rainy season, a portion of the road gets flooded, causing hardship to motorists. The frequent flooding was also the reason for the road being in a perpetual state of disrepair. The Corporation had proposed a stormwater drain that would cut across the road and get linked to the canal available along the bypass. The work began in February and posed problems to road users. Stalled for a while, the project was completed last week, with the lockdown easing the way, a senior civic official said.  Solution found The civic body has also found a solution to the stagnation problem near the Velachery gate of IIT Madras. The road near the institute used to get flooded during the rains. A drain was proposed in two sections – one flowing into the Dhandeeswarar temple pond and the other, into the Raj Bhavan canal, which drains into the Velachery lake. “Both works were completed under the Chennai Mega City Development Mission at a cost of Rs. 80 lakh,” the official said and added that work was now on for paving the footpath above the drain near the mall.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/lockdown-helps-corpn-complete-drain-work-on-velachery-main-road/article31699814.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jaya’s kin may be called for hearing on Veda Nilayam||J. Deepa and J. Deepak, declared by the Madras High Court on Wednesday as Class II legal heirs of their aunt Jayalalithaa, are likely to be called for a hearing by the authorities in charge of the acquisition of Veda Nilayam, the former Chief Minister's Poes Garden residence in Chennai. Pointing out that the notice period is not yet over for receipt of objections subsequent to the publication of Chennai Collector’s declaration for acquisition, a senior official said the siblings had submitted their objections to the government’s move. This is the second time that they have conveyed their disapproval of the land acquisition process. “We will see whether anyone else is filing his or her objection. Once the notice period is over, all those who have given objections will be given an opportunity,” the official said, adding that the notice period gets over after 30 days of the publication of the declaration [which is June 2 in the given instance]. The hearing will be held by Revenue Divisional Officer for South Chennai, who is the Land Acquisition Officer for the Veda Nilayam case. Once the hearing is over, the Chennai Collector will make an award. Already, the State government has earmarked a sum of Rs. 67 crore for the acquisition of the property. A week ago, an ordinance was promulgated to take over Veda Nilayam “temporarily.” Asked who would clear the liabilities of the former Chief Minister towards wealth and income taxes to the tune of around Rs. 16.74 crore as on December 31, 2018 [which was the status informed by the Income Tax department to the High Court in April 2019], another official pointed out that the general principle is to deduct all the dues to the governments, Central or State, and other institutions including banks, before making the payment of compensation to the legal heirs. Veda Nilayam is among four immovable properties that are under attachment for the recovery of arrears. It was attached by the Income Tax department in 2007.   We will see whether anyone else is filing his or her objection. Once the notice period is over, all those who have given objections will be given an opportunity||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jayas-kin-may-be-called-for-hearing-on-veda-nilayam/article31699839.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents of K.P. Park tenements demand houses||Even as senior government officials inspected the work at the K.P. Park Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements, to convert the blocks, which are located in Pulianthope, into a COVID-19 Care Centre, the original allottees want the government to provide them with houses first as they are living in tin sheds in unhealthy conditions. There are 864 houses in the new blocks of the K.P. Park TNSCB tenements. “Over 1,500 families used to live in 35 blocks at the K.P. Park TNSCB tenements. In 2008, the board began demolishing the blocks after they were found to be in a dilapidated condition and started constructing new ones,” said Kumar, a resident. Matter in court Over 100 families were shifted to tin sheds adjacent to the tenements. “They have a common bathroom and toilet and the living conditions are bad. A few people living here have tested COVID-19 positive. There is no physical distancing possible here,” said G. Selva, CPI(M), Central Chennai District Secretary. The residents want the government to allot houses to them first, instead of converting the new building into a COVID-19 care centre. A case has been filed in the Madras High Court on this issue. “We had filed a case to ensure that the tenements were used only for residential purposes and not for any other use. Senior advocate N.G.R. Prasad appeared for the allottees and the judges passed an interim order not to cancel allotments and also directed the government to file a counter pertaining to the hygiene issue in the locality,” said R. Thirumoorthy, a junior of Mr. Prasad’s. At this juncture, when senior officials, including the Greater Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J. Radhakrishnan along with Monitoring Officer A. Arun Thambu Raj inspected the tenements on Thursday. Kamakshi (name changed), who lives in one of the tin sheds with her husband and two children, said that after a few people tested positive for COVID-19, no one came to the locality to test others. Mr. Selva said that the government should use private hospitals, medical colleges and hotels in the city to accommodate and monitor asymptomatic cases. “Why do they want to grab resources from the poor, always,” he questioned. A TNSCB official said the tenements had been handed over to the Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/residents-of-kp-park-tenements-demand-houses/article31699806.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway headquarters shut for two days after staff test positive||The Southern Railway closed its headquarters in Chennai on Thursday after a few officials and staff members reportedly tested positive for COVID-19. Sources said the zonal headquarters, which houses the offices of the Southern Railway General Manager, the Additional General Manager and the principal heads of departments, will reopen on Monday. The offices had earlier resumed operations with 33% staff, in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs, and the staff strength was raised to around 50% a couple of days ago, sources said. Though safety measures like the wearing of masks, the use of hand sanitisers and the disinfection of public utility spaces were being implemented, some officers/employees, whose swab samples were sent to the King Institute of Preventive Medicine & Research, Guindy, had tested positive for COVID-19. In a note, Southern Railway Deputy Chief Personnel Officer Siddharth S.K. Raj said that considering the prevailing COVID-19 situation in Chennai, the competent authority had decided that the General Manager’s office and all offices in the Annexe Complex will remain closed on May 28 and 29 to facilitate the disinfection of the premises. “All officers and staff shall work from home and should be available on telephone and electronic means of communication at all times,” he said. Divisional office shut Since a senior official in the Chennai Division had tested positive, the divisional headquarters was also closed, railway sources said, adding that steps had been taken to disinfect the area. “Results of more samples are awaited. Those who had tested positive have been admitted to the Railway Hospital. The headquarters has been closed for two days. Health officials are inspecting the premises for further action as per the safety protocol,” a railway official told The Hindu on Thursday. Soon after the headquarters started functioning with 33% staff attending to administrative work, the Personal Security Officer of the General Manager had tested positive for COVID-19, along with a few Government Railway Police and Railway Protection Force personnel on duty at Dr. MGR Chennai Central Station, the official said. The zonal headquarters is situated near the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, which is a tertiary care hospital treating COVID-19 patients from Chennai and neighbouring districts. The Integral Coach Factory, the largest coach-making facility in the world, shut its Shell Administrative Building in Chennai for two days (May 29 and 30) for thorough disinfection, after a few employees tested positive for COVID-19. Southern Railway Mazdoor Union general secretary N. Kanniah said he had met the General Manager on two occasions and had requested him not to open the offices since the disease was spreading thick and fast, and the building was located in close proximity to the hospital — a containment zone. Mr. Kanniah said there should be no hurry in reopening the offices, and the authorities should wait till a safe working environment has been ensured for employees. “It is the duty of the railway administration to ensure the safety of the employees and their family members. Since there are no full-fledged train operations now, all employees except those whose presence is necessary for the operation of freight and Shramik Special trains can be allowed to work from home,” he said. Mr. Kanniah, who is also the working president of the All India Railwaymen Federation, urged the General Manager of the Integral Coach Factory to close its office till the lockdown is lifted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/southern-railway-headquarters-shut-for-two-days-after-staff-test-positive/article31699823.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Passengers at different airports test positive||People who travelled from various parts of the country to airports in Tamil Nadu, including in Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem and Tiruchi, have positive for COVID-19. Their co-passengers have been quarantined and tested to rule out further infections. Ten passengers, from various parts of Coimbatore district, who arrived at the Coimbatore airport on Wednesday from other cities tested positive. Though an official announcement is awaited on this, a Health Department official in Coimbatore said the passengers came from cities such Chennai and New Delhi. The other passengers who tested negative are under home quarantine. In Tiruchi, a 24-year-old woman who travelled by an IndiGo flight from Bengaluru to Tiruchi tested positive. Seventy 70 other passengers who travelled by the flight were asked to be in institutional quarantine till the test results arrived. They were sent home after all of them tested negative, and were asked to be in home quarantine Collector S. Sivarasu said. The patient who is asymptomatic and doing well was sent by a ‘108’ ambulance to Pudukottai as soon as the results arrived, official sources in Tiruchi said. The count of passengers who tested positive at Madurai airport was three. They had flown in from New Delhi and Bengaluru on Wednesday. They were shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital. In Salem, five passengers who had travelled from Chennai, also tested positive. They have been admitted to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. The remaining passengers have been advised to be in home quarantine here for 14 days. Convicts test positive Two life convicts lodged in Central Prison in Madurai tested positive on Thursday. According to jail authorities, they were part of the five–member team that was taken to Puzhal Central Prison for a para-legal volunteer training programme in the first week of March. They returned last week. In Salem, an accused who was arrested on Wednesday by the Steel Plant police station under the Women Harassment Act here tested positive. The accused was admitted to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and 15 police personnel at the station were quarantined.  Ten passengers who arrived at Coimbatore airport from other cities tested positive||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/passengers-at-different-airports-test-positive/article31699827.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traffic police get safety glasses||In a move to prevent damage to their eyes because of long hours of exposure to scorching sun, dust and pollution, the police have provided safety glasses to traffic police personnel in Chennai. There are over 700 traffic police personnel in the Chennai West Zone (traffic) that comprises stations in Anna Nagar, Ambattur and Pulianthope. “The traffic policemen are on the roads throughout the day. Though they wear masks to cover their nose and mouth, their eyes remain exposed,” said a senior police officer. Police sources said that those working in places like Pattabiram, Thirumazhisai, Avadi, Poonamalee and Madhurovayal are more exposed to dust as roads there are in bad condition. As many police personnel complained of eye irritation, especially those working in the suburbs, senior police officers have provided them with the safety glasses. “These are like sunglasses. Our eyes feel comfortable while wearing these glasses. We don’t feel the impact of the sun,” said M. Srinivasan, inspector, Ambattur Traffic Enforcement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/traffic-police-get-safety-glasses/article31699807.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Rajiv case convicts can’t make video calls’||The Inspector General of Prisons (IGP) on Thursday told the Madras High Court that prison rules do not permit inmates to make either voice calls or video calls to foreign countries. Therefore, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case convicts S. Nalini and her husband V. Murugan alias Sriharan cannot be allowed to make video calls to London and Sri Lanka. Justices M.M. Sundresh and P.T. Asha were informed about the Prison Department’s stand on the issue in response to a petition filed by Nalini’s mother S. Padma, 80, residing at Royapettah here. The petitioner had sought permission for her daughter and son-in-law to make WhatsApp video calls to their relatives in London and Sri Lanka every day. On April 27, Murugan’s father Vetrivel died in Sri Lanka. Then, his request to watch the final rites through WhatsApp video call was rejected by prison officials, the petitioner said, and claimed that her daughter spoke to her on phone the very next day and requested to make arrangements for the couple to talk to Murugan’s mother Somani Ammal in Sri Lanka. Nalini also wanted to talk to Murugan’s elder sister Raji residing in London so that the couple could console the family members and offer condolence. On the other hand, State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan told the court that prisoners were now being allowed to make video calls to their relatives due to restrictions on meeting them in the wake of threat posed by COVID-19. However, such video calls were allowed only within the country. “If video calls are permitted to foreign countries, the prison authorities cannot verify the genuineness and bona fides of the caller on the other end and cannot take any action against that person even if petitioner’s daughter and son-in-law violate any prison rule or law of the land,” he said, adding permitting voice/video call was a privilege and not a vested right. In his counter affidavit, IGP Sunil Kumar Singh, an officer in the rank of DGP, told the court that since the crime committed by the two convicts had international ramifications and also given their overseas contacts with banned outfits, there was no guarantee that the convicts would use the video call facility only for personal/family affairs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rajiv-case-convicts-cant-make-video-calls-to-other-countries/article31699821.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM chairs review meet on MSMEs||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday chaired a meeting of officials to discuss ways and means to help the Micro, Small & Medium Enterprises sector, which has been hit by the lockdown. Industries Minister M.C. Sampath, Rural Industries Minister P. Benjamin and senior officials were present at the meeting. In another event, Mr. Palaniswami inaugurated (through videoconference) a bridge across Vellar in Pudukkottai district and 13 others in Tirunelveli, Tiruvannamalai, Dharmapuri, Tiruvarur, Karur, Erode, Tiruppur, Madurai and Dindigul, constructed at a total cost of Rs. 29.85 crore, according to an official press release. Mr. Palaniswami laid the foundation for a bridge and a railway overbridge in Villupuram and Salem districts at a total cost of Rs. 70.23 crore, it stated. The CM inaugurated 480 housing tenements constructed by Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board at a cost of Rs. 36.24 crore at Anjugramam near Agatheeswaram in Kanniyakumari district. He also inaugurated 560 housing tenements constructed by TNSCB in Thanjavur, Ariyalur and Chennai districts at a total cost of Rs. 46.68 crore. Mr. Palaniswami inaugurated 1,232 housing units and 1,314 housing plots constructed and laid out, respectively, by the Tamil Nadu Housing Board at a total cost of Rs. 216.36 crore. The CM laid the foundation for various projects of the Water Resources Department to the tune of Rs. 230 crore across the State. He also laid the foundation for Rs. 17 crore-worth projects of the Public Works Department and inaugurated various projects implemented at a cost of Rs. 16 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-chairs-review-meet-on-msmes/article31699829.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retailers keep register to help with contact tracing||With the easing of the lockdown, many standalone shops and merchants are resorting to a novel technique to keep track of customers walking into their premises — a register at the entrance in which people enter their details. According to shopowners, the register will help track people present in the vicinity of someone who tests positive for COVID-19 after visiting their premises. At Ratna Stores in Pondy Bazaar, customers are first asked to clean their hands using a sanitiser and allowed inside the shop only after writing down their name, phone number and location from where they have come. Mochi Shoes and the Louis Philippe showroom in the vicinity follow a similar routine. "From the day we got permission to resume operations, we have maintained this log book. In case any customer who visits us tests positive, this will help the officials track the others in our building on that particular day," said the proprietor of an apparel shop in T. Nagar. A wholesale grocery trader in Mylapore displayed a notebook and said, "Anyone entering my shop must write down their contact details, else I'm not letting them in." A retailer who has six outlets in the city said, "Initially, many customers were reluctant to share their mobile numbers with us and women, in particular, were uncomfortable even mentioning the locality they were coming from. But, after we explained the purpose behind noting the details down, they were fine with sharing the particulars." He added that in the past week, everyone who walked into his stores had given their number. "Some of them requested us not to send them internal marketing and promotional messages," he added. A. Tulasi, who recently visited a textiles shop in T. Nagar, said, "I generally don't share my number as I fear I will be bombarded with unwanted marketing messages. Since this [log book] is for a genuine cause, I have given my father's mobile number." Retailers that The Hindu spoke to said that if all shopkeepers in the city maintained a register of customers, it would prove to be of immense help to the authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retailers-keep-register-to-help-with-contact-tracing/article31699810.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only registered pet shops can reopen after lifting of lockdown||Only those pet shops and dog breeding centres that have been registered with the Tamil Nadu Animal Welfare Board will be allowed to resume operations after the COVID-19 lockdown is lifted. An advisory to this effect was issued by the Board on Tuesday. “The pet shop owners and dog breeders are permitted to operate their establishments only after registering [their businesses] with the Tamil Nadu Animal Welfare Board,” Director of Animal Husbandry & Veterinary Services A. Gnanasekaran said in a communication to all District Collectors and the Commissioner of the Greater Chennai Corporation. Speaking to The Hindu , Secretary of the Animal Husbandry Department K. Gopal said the advisory was issued to ensure that the rules were followed. ‘Rules flouted’ “There have been instances where the rules have been flouted,” he said. Mr. Gopal added that the decision would be implemented after issuing a public notification, and the communication to the District Collectors was only meant to get the ball rolling. “No deadline has been fixed in this regard,” he clarified. The Animal Welfare Board of India too has issued a circular in this regard. Dog breeders, pet shop owners and all personnel, online platforms and canine and kennel clubs involved directly or indirectly in the sale and marketing of pet animals and birds are to be sensitised regarding the forthcoming registration process for pet shops and dog breeding and marketing units as per the relevant rules. “Strict instructions must be given to local and urban bodies to identify all pet shops and dog breeding centres. The list may be submitted [after being] duly signed by officials concerned in the local and urban bodies of the districts,” the communication said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/only-registered-pet-shops-will-be-allowed/article31699819.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decide on lockdown extension in advance: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday said the Centre and the State government should announce their decision on lockdown extension well in advance, as it was their responsibility to ensure that the people are prepared either way. In a statement, he said it was wrong on the part of the governments to keep the people on tenterhooks till the last moment. “The COVID-19 infection rate has not come down even after a series of lockdowns, and it still remains unclear what the decision of the governments would be. Deaths are also increasing in Tamil Nadu and across the country,” he said. Situation in Chennai Noting that the situation in Chennai was a matter of great concern, he said doctors, nurses and police personnel had been infected by the novel coronavirus. “Had the government taken precautionary measures, the effect [of the virus] could have been contained. The government’s failure to effectively quarantine those who had tested positive has increased the spread of the virus,” he alleged. Mr. Stalin sought to know why the government was hesitating to quarantine people in schools, colleges and marriage halls after making all necessary arrangements in those places.   The COVID-19 infection rate has not come down even after a series of lockdowns||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/decide-on-lockdown-extension-in-advance-stalin/article31699830.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retd. matron on extension dies at RGGGH||A 58-year-old matron of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), who was on a two-month extension after retiring in March, died on Wednesday night. Hospital authorities said she had tested negative for COVID-19 twice and died due to multiple co-morbidities, even as confusion prevailed as she had been treated in the COVID-19 facility since the night of May 23. R. Jayanthi, dean of RGGGH, said she had constituted an inquiry committee to look into the case. In the light of the COVID-19 outbreak, the State government had extended the service of doctors and nurses who were retiring by two months. Priscilla Mary, a grade-I matron who retired in March after more than 30 years of service, was also on extension. Hospital authorities said she was posted on duty at the matron office and not in any COVID-19 ward. Reliable sources in the hospital said that the case sheet had an entry stating that the matron was COVID-19 positive. “It was documented in the case sheet, and that is why she was being treated in the Rheumatology Block, where all COVID-19 positive patients are being treated. She was initially on the first floor of the block, and later shifted to the third floor. She did have high blood sugar levels and electrolyte imbalances,” a source said. Tested twice Dr. Jayanthi said the matron was tested twice for COVID-19 — a month ago and on May 24 — and both results returned negative for the infection. “The result has been uploaded too. She died of uncontrolled diabetes, acute and chronic kidney disease, metabolic acidosis, sepsis and renal failure. She was not on COVID-19 duty and was only working in the matron office,” she clarified. Case sheet entry She said the entry in the case sheet could be a mistake. “We cannot meddle with the result. She was admitted to the COVID-19 ward as she had suspected symptoms. We have such patients in isolation rooms here. She was given a private room and a private nurse,” she said. Hospital sources said that doctors had no access to COVID-19 reports. “She had several co-morbid conditions. If she had tested negative, why should an immune-compromised person be kept in a ward close to high-risk sick patients? There is a separate intensive care unit for non-COVID patients in Tower 2,” a source said.  She had high blood sugar levels and electrolyte imbalances||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/retd-matron-on-extension-dies-at-rgggh/article31699835.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ten new IAS officers join service||Ten IAS recruits of the Tamil Nadu cadre have joined service in their postings across the State earlier this week. These officers have been posted at Kanniyakumari, Dindigul, Tiruvannamalai, Salem, Nagapattinam, Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Tirunelveli, Theni and Thoothukudi districts. The ten IAS recruits in the State are: C.A. Rishab (Kanniyakumari), Ayushi Singh (Dindigul), Amit Kumar (Tiruvannamalai), Veer Pratap Singh (Salem), V. Deepana Visveswari (Nagapattinam), Chitra Vijayan (Tiruchi), M.P. Amith (Thanjavur), P. Alarmelmangai (Tirunelveli), Thakare Shubham Dnyandeorao (Theni) and M. Birathiviraj (Thoothukudi).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ten-new-ias-officers-join-service/article31699816.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Withdraw Electricity Amendment Bill: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 and abandon the proposal to cancel free electricity to farmers, saying they “intend to undermine the States’ legislative powers over electricity.” He sent a similar letter to the Chief Ministers of the States under non-BJP governments, requesting them to stand by the efforts taken by the DMK to protect the rights of the States and the federalism guaranteed by the Constitution. Unacceptable move “Stepping into the States’ legislative power or to breach the principles of federalism enshrined in the Constitution does not bode well for a healthy Centre-State relationship. This centralisation of State agencies only to privatise electricity later on is totally unacceptable,” he said. Mr. Stalin pointed out that free power supply for all farmers, the first of its kind in the nation, announced by the erstwhile DMK government guaranteed farmers their rightful welfare. “This policy has been a key pillar of economic growth in Tamil Nadu since then, protecting lakhs of farmers while also controlling food inflation,” he said. Mr. Stalin argued that the attempt to undo free power through the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020, would severely threaten the livelihoods of lakhs of our farmers. “Further, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic repercussions, not only is this an irresponsible decision but also is an attempt to divert the attention from the most pressing issue at hand — the effective management of the COVID crisis,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/withdraw-electricity-amendment-bill-stalin/article31699840.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor’s son attacked in drunken brawl||Son of actor Maya was attacked by friends in a drunken brawl at Vadapalani on Wednesday night. He was admitted to a private hospital. The police said Maya, 60, acted in a few Tamil films. She has been staying with her son Vicky alias Vignesh, 39, in an apartment in Vadapalani. A few months ago, Vicky was arrested after he attacked a woman inspector in K.K. Nagar. On Wednesday night, he was having drinks with his friends when they attacked him with a knife and wooden logs. He was injured and rushed to a private hospital in Vadapalani where he is undergoing treatment. The Virugambakkam police have launched a manhunt to nab the attackers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/actors-son-attacked-in-drunken-brawl/article31699808.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Free online NEET course for govt. school students||The School Education Department will offer a free online crash course from June 15 for students from government and government-aided schools who will be taking up NEET. The course can be taken up by students from both English and Tamil-medium schools. Meanwhile, the DMK moved Supreme Court against the NEET PG results declared on May 9 and sought 50% reservation in All India quota seats that are pooled from Tamil Nadu to students from backward classes for all medical courses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/free-online-neet-course-for-govt-school-students/article31699817.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC grants advance bail to DMK MLA||The Madras High Court on Thursday granted anticipatory bail to Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MLA V. Senthil Balaji in a criminal intimidation case booked against him on the basis of a complaint lodged by Karur Collector T. Anbalagan on May 16. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar granted the relief on condition that the MLA should pay Rs. 1 lakh to the Cancer Institute in Adyar and appear before the investigating officer daily for two weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-grants-advance-bail-to-dmk-mla/article31699837.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Donations for COVID-19 relief continue||IT firm Mindtree has donated COVID-19 relief materials and vehicles worth Rs. 1.87 crore to the Tamil Nadu Public Health and Preventive Medicine Department. The donations included 10,000 N95 masks, 7,680 PPE kits and 10 Ashok Leyland Dost light commercial vehicles (LCVs), and were dedicated to the State by Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, according to a press release. On Tuesday, Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation’s trustees and members handed over 50,000 three-ply masks to BJP State president L. Murugan for distribution to people residing in slums.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/donations-for-covid-19-relief-continue/article31699824.ece
29 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Four, including two children, drown in two incidents||A girl and two boys drowned in a pond near Minjur on Thursday. Police said Sheela, 18, was a college student residing in Sengazhneermedu village. B. Jayaprakash, 10, and his brother B. Kunal, 7, were her neighbours. On Thursday, they went to the Amaikulam pond in the village. Their families found them dead in the pond The Kattur police sent the bodies to the Ponneri Government Hospital for post-mortem. Boy drowns Meanwhile, Muralidharan, 17, drowned in a well near Red Hills on Thursday. The victim and his friends went for a swim in the well.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-including-two-children-drown-in-two-incidents/article31699811.ece
29 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Tangedco has announced power shutdown between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m. in Kovilambakkam on Saturday in the wake of maintenance work. The areas likely to be affected include Ponniamman Street, Chinappa Nagar, and Viduthalai Nagar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article31699815.ece
29 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||15 teachers from Valparai relieved of Class XII evaluation duty||Due to lack of feasibility in transport, 15 teachers from Valparai were relieved of evaluation duty of Class XII answer scripts in Coimbatore district on Thursday. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer (CEO) P. Usha said that the teachers – three chief examiners and 12 assistant examiners – requested for relief as they had to travel for nearly three hours to reach the evaluation camps in Pollachi educational district and travel another three hours in the night. “We have adequate number of teachers in this district,” she said. Chief examiners The three chief examiners were the teachers who were not able to catch the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus in Valparai on Wednesday and reached the camp through an alternative bus. Apart from them, around 20 teachers with medical or other personal issues were also relieved of evaluation duty on Thursday, Ms. Usha said. Some more teachers, who have not reported for duty, will be called if more teachers are required. On Thursday, nearly 2,000 assistant examiners reported in the 11 evaluation camps across the district. Over 300 chief examiners and 300 scrutiny officers reported on Wednesday who evaluated a few answer scripts to familiarise themselves with the answer key so that they shall guide and monitor the assistant examiners from Thursday, Ms. Usha explained. Over 800 assistant examiners used the 74 TNSTC buses which ply on 44 routes on Thursday. With the relieving of around 35 teachers from evaluation duty, the list of teachers and routes will be revised and sent to the TNSTC division authorities, the CEO said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/15-teachers-from-valparai-relieved-of-class-xii-evaluation-duty/article31699850.ece
29 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Activists seek CPCB intervention for closure of brick kilns in Thadagam valley||Activists, who have been demanding action against brick kilns that operate without proper permits in Thadagam valley of Coimbatore district, have sought the intervention of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) alleging that Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) is yet to take action on closure and sealing of 182 brick kilns recommended by the District Environmental Engineer, Coimbatore north, on various dates from February to April this year. Activists T.M.S. Rajendran and ‘Thadagam’ S. Ganesh have appealed to the Additional Director of CPCB and its Chairman in separate letters to direct TNPCB to implement the recommendation of the District Environmental Engineer D. Jayalakshmi. “As per information accessed under the Right to Information Act, the District Environmental Engineer recommended closure and sealing of 182 brick kilns in five village panchayats _ Thadagam, Nanjundapuram, 24 Veerapandi, Somaiyampalayam and Pannimadai_ on various dates from January 12 to April 20 this year. This recommendation was sent to TNPCB. However, no action has been taken yet,” alleged Mr. Ganesh. He claimed that two committees from other regions also conducted detailed inspections in the five panchayats to study the impact of red earth mining and brick kiln operation. “Members of the committees visited government and private hospitals, schools and houses in these places. They are said to have been taken aback seeing the impact of the uncontrolled operations of brick kilns,” he claimed. In his letter to CPCB Chairman, he said that the five panchayats were spread in an area of about eightsq.kmadjoining the Western Ghats, which is bestowed with natural resources, rare medicinal plants, wildlife and rare to find birds. Sensing the importance, Government established the Sálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History in this area. In addition, the area falls under Hill Area Conservation Authority zone. The letter said that a significant portion of population was having breathing troubles and very young children were having serious diseases. “Similar appeals were also made to TNPCB and Department of Geology and Mining,” he added. According to Mr. Rajendran, a farmer-turned- activist, around 4,000 acres in the five panchayats are now hardly conducive for farming as red earth is being mined for brick making and due to depleted levels of ground water. “We want the Government to shut down the units that were functioning illegally and collect fine from them. Those lands should be recovered,” he said. M. Manickaraj, former counsellor from Nanjundapuram and resident of Madathur, claimed that bore wells are now dug up to 800 feet to get water in the five panchayats while ground water was available at around 100 feet 10 years ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/activists-seek-cpcb-intervention-for-closure-of-brick-kilns-in-thadagam-valley/article31699853.ece
29 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Support materials distributed to police on COVID-19 duty||Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Saran on Thursday distributed support materials to police personnel who are on COVID-19 management duty. The support materials included energy drink mix, dry fruits, and medical kit comprising sanitiser. Mr. Saran visited Peelamedu, Kattoor, R.S. Puram and Podanur police stations on Thursday and distributed the materials to the personnel there. He instructed station house officers of the police stations to create awareness on COVID-19 among the public and those who visited the stations. He also urged the personnel of each stations to help the public who were struggling due to the lockdown situation and safeguard them from the risks of the disease. Apart from regular duties such as law and order management, prevention and detection of crime and traffic management, the police had various roles in COVID-19 management since the lockdown started. Six police personnel attached to the Coimbatore City Police contracted the virus in the line of duty. They later recovered from the disease.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/support-materials-distributed-to-police-on-covid-19-duty/article31699870.ece
29 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bus services should resume: micro units||The micro and small-scale industries in Coimbatore district have appealed to the Collector to permit government buses to operate so that workers can come from other districts. In a memorandum submitted to Collector K. Rajamani on Thursday, 19 industrial associations said bus services should be resumed so that workers employed in the micro and small-scale industries could return to Coimbatore from their home towns. They had all left Coimbatore when the lockdown was enforced. They were losing their wages as they were stranded in other districts. The micro and small-scale industry owners did not have resources to engage private vehicles, get e-passes and bring back these workers. Hence, the government should restart operation of buses, the associations said. Representatives of these industries also appealed to the Collector to intervene and ensure that the micro and small-scale industries got the collateral free loans that the Union Finance Minister announced recently. The banks here reiterated that they had not received guidelines to disburse the loans. If the industries were unable to get financial support at the right time, they would not be able to sustain operations. Further, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) was collecting Disconnection-Reconnection charges and Belated Payment Surcharge though the government had stated that these would not be collected. They appealed to the Tangedco not to collect these charges from the micro and small-scale units.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/bus-services-should-resume-micro-units/article31699860.ece
29 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||53-year-old man arrested on murder charge||The Saibaba Colony police arrested M. Sekar (53), a resident of Ramanarayana Layout near Bharathi Park, on charges of murdering his elder brother M. Alagu (55) of Anna Nagar near K.K. Pudur on Wednesday over a property dispute. According to police, Sekar went to the house of his brother in an inebriated state and picked up a quarrel with him over the family property.  As the argument went on, Sekar stabbed Alagu on chest and abdomen. Though neighbours rushed Alagu to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, doctors declared him brought dead. The police arrested Sekar under Section 302 of the IPC for murder. Rs. 2.77 crore fine collected Coimbatore city police imposed fine to the tune of Rs. 2.77 crore on persons who were involved in various violations during the lockdown between March 25 and May 27. The police registered 6,716 cases for violation of prohibitory orders and arrested 7,036 persons who were later released on bail. The police seized 6,717 vehicles from them violators and most of them were released after collecting fine. The total fine of Rs. 2.77 crore includes fines imposed for the violation of prohibitory order and violation of the Motor Vehicles Act. One arrested The Thudiyalur police arrested Arumugam (37), a resident of TVS Nagar near Edayarpalayam, on charges of attempting to murder his friend M.Ramesh (27) by setting him ablaze after pouring kerosene on Wednesday. The police said that the accused and the injured consumed alcohol together late on Tuesday and it ended in a brawl. They went to the house of Ramesh after their friends pacified them. However, Arumugam again picked up a quarrel with Ramesh and went out from the house. The police said that Arumugam returned around 1.15 a.m. on Wednesday and set ablaze Ramesh, who was sleeping.He suffered 45 % of burns. He was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/53-year-old-man-arrested-on-murder-charge/article31699874.ece
29 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery manufacturers call for opening of showrooms||Jewellery manufacturers in Coimbatore corporation limits have urged the District Collector to permit big jewellery showrooms to be opened so that there is steady flow of jobs for the goldsmiths. In a memorandum to K. Rajamani here on Tuesday, the Coimbatore Jewellery Manufacturers’ Association said that while the small jewellery shops are open in the city and maintain the safety protocols, the bigger showrooms remain shut. Nearly 450 jewellery manufacturers here make about 200 kg of gold jewellery a day. They sell their products across Tamil Nadu and also in other States. Currently, with the re-opening of the jewellery making units, the manufacturers are getting just one or two orders. According to B. Muthuvenkatram, president of the Association, the jewellery showrooms remain shut or are open across the State depending on the decisions of the respective District Collectors. Bullion is available in the market and if there are orders, the manufacturers will be able to cater to the demand at least for some time with the bullion available. “However, only if the bigger showrooms are open will there be a steady flow of jobs to the goldsmiths here,” the association said. It also appealed to the Collector to issue e-passes so that the manufacturers are able to market the jewellery in other States. The sector employs a large number of local and north Indian workers in the goldsmithies. While the government distributed relief packets to the migrant workers, the local workers have not received any support.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/jewellery-manufacturers-call-for-opening-of-showrooms/article31699854.ece
29 May 2020||Coimbatore/Erode,TAMIL NADU||More air travellers who landed at Coimbatore Airport test positive||More air travellers, who landed at the Coimbatore International Airport from other cities, namely Chennai and New Delhi, on Wednesday tested positive for COVID-19, according to official sources with the Health Department. Sources with the Health Department and airlines said that at least 10 persons, who landed at the Coimbatore Airport on Wednesday, tested positive. However, an official confirmation on these cases was awaited. A senior official of the Department here said that a 34-year-old woman from Coimbatore, who came from Chennai, and a few other passengers from districts including Namakkal and Tiruchi, who landed here, tested positive for the disease. Health Department staff had collected nasal swab samples of all the passengers who landed at the airport from Chennai, Bengaluru and New Delhi on Wednesday. Passengers from other districts, who tested positive for the disease, were sent to the dedicated COVID-19 care hospitals in those districts in special ambulances. In Erode, a 40-year-old person, who returned from Maharashtra, tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. A native of Thamaraipalayam in Kodumudi block, he travelled from Mumbai to Bengaluru in a flight and from Bengaluru to Coimbatore in another flight on Wednesday. Swab samples were taken from him at the Coimbatore Airport and he was asked to be in home quarantine until results arrive. On Wednesday, he tested positive and was taken to the isolation ward at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital in Perundurai. Swab samples were also taken from his family members and they were under home quarantine. However, the count was not added to the district tally in the media bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine here in the evening. Deputy Director of Health Services S. Soundammal told The Hindu that the positive case could be added to the list of returnees from other States and that they had sought clarification from higher officials.  Krishnagiri Special Correspondent adds  A 34-year-old Chennai returnee tested positive for COVID-19 in Hosur on Thursday. The infected person was employed in Chennai. He had returned to Denkanikottai here on May 26 and his swab samples were collected. As he tested positive, the asymptomatic man has been admitted to the Krishnagiri government hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-air-travellers-who-landed-at-coimbatore-airport-test-positive/article31699872.ece
29 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers in Erode urge authorities to send them home||Over 1,100 migrant workers without tokens for train tickets thronged a private marriage hall here on Thursday and urged the authorities to send them home in special trains. Over 17,000 migrant workers have registered with the district administration expressing their willingness to return home and workers in three trains had left for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha last week. On Thursday, a batch of workers was to be sent home in a special train to Bihar and they were issued tokens and gathered at a marriage hall. But, over 1,100 migrant workers along with their children and luggage arrived at the marriage hall wanting them to be sent home. Town Deputy Superintendent of Police Raju told them that only workers with tokens would be sent in the train and that tokens would be issued to the others in the next batch. However, the workers said that they had vacated the factory premises where they were staying and they could not return. The DSP said he would speak to the owners and provide accommodation to the workers until a train to Bihar was scheduled. Later, the workers left the premises.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-in-erode-urge-authorities-to-send-them-home/article31699856.ece
29 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Work to commence excavation at Kodumanal village begins||Preliminary works to commence excavation at Kodumanal village located along the banks of River Noyal in Chennimalai Union began here on Thursday. Located about 15 km. away from Chennimalai, previous excavations that began from 1981 revealed presence of industrial complex that existed around 4th century BC where beads, semi-precious stones, conch shells and other items were unearthed. Potsherd inscribed with the first four alphabet of Brahmi script, over 100 artefacts including carnelian beads, iron spear heads were found during the excavations in 2018. Previous excavations also unearthed megalithic burials, menhirs, Roman silver coins and other precious stones in the village. Excavations also revealed that the village lies on the ancient trade route that connects the Chera capital of Karur with the Chera port of Muciri which is the present day Pattnam in Kerala. Earlier this year, the government had announced that excavations would commence at Kodumanal. However, due to lockdown, it got delayed. A 10-member team comprising officials from State Archaeological Department along with college students cleaned up the bushes with the help of workers and earmarked the excavation site where digging would commence in the coming days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/work-to-commence-excavation-at-kodumanal-village-begins/article31699843.ece
29 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault of minor||A 50-year-old man was arrested by the Bhavani All Women Police on charges of sexually assaulting his two-month-old baby girl here on Thursday. In her complaint to the police, the child’s mother said that she went to bank to withdraw money on May 22 and the baby was taken care of by her husband, a daily wager. When she returned, she found injuries in her private parts and took the baby to the primary health centre at Alampalayam in Bhavani taluk . Doctors referred the baby to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital in Salem. Doctors said that the condition of the baby is stable. The man was picked up who confessed to have committed the crime more than once.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-sexual-assault-of-minor/article31699873.ece
29 May 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Man crushed to death||A 45-year-old man Hanumanthayya was crushed under a granite slab in Shoolagiri on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-crushed-to-death/article31699845.ece
29 May 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||PWD team inspects site for medical college hospital in Krishnagiri||A team from the Public Works Department (PWD) inspected the site for the proposed Government Medical College and Hospital here at Bolupalli along Krishnagiri-Bengaluru highway on Thursday. Three months after the ground-breaking ceremony was held for the proposed hospital, the team inspected the site at Bolupalli to kick-start the preliminary works that was temporarily suspended due to lockdown. The medical college is proposed to be spread over 25 acres with an cumulative outlay of Rs. 339.953 crore for the project. The project envisions hospital at a cost of Rs. 120.201 crore; college at Rs. 113.77 crore; and hostel for students, nurses and doctors at Rs. 104.98 crore. The medical college proposed to be set up in Krishnagiri is among the 11 colleges sanctioned for the State. The ground breaking ceremony was held in early March here, where it was announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami that the project would be expedited in time to start academic year in 2021-22. The college will admit 150 students in the first year. Earlier, the PWD team led by the Superintendent Engineer for monitoring of the medical college project, Elanchezhian surveyed the project plan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pwd-team-inspects-site-for-medical-college-hospital-in-krishnagiri/article31699858.ece
29 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Workers face a bleak future||For R. Jegadeesan and his brothers, who used to eke out a living by making and selling idlis at Mumbai’s Dharavi, the closure of their business since March due to COVID-19 pandemic and their two-day arduous journey to Madurai are not the only hurdles that they had to endure. After being quarantined at a facility in Madurai for 10 days, this family comprisong 12 members, has now returned to its house in Usilampatti. But, with dwindling savings, the family has been looking out for job opportunities for their livelihoods in Madurai, says Mr. Jegadeesan. “Since it would take many months for the return of normalcy in Mumbai, we have to find some means of livelihood to sustain here. But, our efforts have been futile as no one wants to hire us even as farm labourers due to the stigma that we might spread COVID-19 infection. We also don’t have sufficient money to start a new business here,” he says. The story of this family is not an isolation case. Many migrant labourers, especially daily wage earners, who have returned to Madurai from various States, have been struggling to find a job for their sustenance till they return to their old jobs. Some even say they are planning to settle in Madurai. As on Thursday, around 2,200 migrant labourers have travelled to Madurai from other States like Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh. A majority of them are from Maharashtra who are involved in selling idlis, murukus, and running roadside eateries. Similarly, a majority of them are from Usilampatti block. P. Nallathambi, who used to sell muruku in Gujarat, says that two decades back villagers from Usilampatti block were forced to migrate to northern states as they were not able to undertake agriculture due to water shortage. There were no industries to provide employment for the youth too.  An official from district administration says that they they have submitted a list of migrant workers to the employment exchange, who will assess the skill sets and guide those who are willing to stay back. The official said they are also waiting for a government order which will offer loan to the workers to start their own businesses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/workers-face-a-bleak-future/article31700105.ece
29 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rain lashes Madurai||‘Agni Natchathiram’ or Dog Days on Thursday left a pleasant note with a two-hour-long steady spell of rain in the city. Even though Madurai city was witnessing scorching heat for the last few days, the elusive summer showers finally helped in cool down the atmospheric temperature. After a long hot day, sharp showers started at around 4 p.m. Though it was initially accompanied by heavy wind that heavily swayed the trees, later thunder and lightning joined the rain. Suddenly, the bright sun disappeared behind the black clouds that expedited the fall of darkness in the next 30 minutes. The gravity of thunder and lightning was unusually high. Amidst the darker evening, the lightning flashed continuously. It was accompanied by deafening thunders that kept most of the people indoors and off the roads. By then, the heavy wind turned into breeze. As the rain started much earlier, most of the office-goers were caught in their offices. The sudden downpour also inundated many low-lying areas and many arterial roads were flooded. With frequent thunder and lightning, power cut was experienced in many areas. Fire and Rescue Services personnel struggled to remove trees that had fallen in Ponmeni, Mathichiyam, Bibikulam and T. Kallupatti. Fire at textile shop  Meanwhile, a major fire was reported in a textile shop on East Chithirai Street. The fire that was noticed at around 7 p.m. after the three-storeyed building was closed, spread to all the floors. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from various fire stations in the city fought for more than two hours to bring the flames under control. Four fire tenders, several water lorries of Corporation were pressed into service. The cause of the fire is not known immediately.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/rain-lashes-madurai/article31700112.ece
29 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers want retirement age extended||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State not to relieve from service five government teachers who sought a direction for extension of their age of retirement from 58 years to 59 years. The teachers, who retired prior to May 31, were on re-employment till then. Justice J. Nisha Banu directed the State government to file a counter affidavit in the case and adjourned the hearing till June 3. The teachers pointed at the government order issued on May 7 that increased the retirement age of government employees from 58 years to 59 years. The G.O. said that it would apply to all those who were in regular service as on date and due to retire on superannuation from May 31, 2020. In a clarification letter issued on May 14, the State government said that the order was not applicable to government servants who attained the age of superannuation on 58 years on or before May 1, 2020 and re-employed. The teachers said that it was not justifiable to deny them the benefit. They said that government servants were not allowed to retire in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and their pension proposals were not forwarded. The pension proposal should have been prepared one year prior to the retirement. Under these circumstances, the benefit should be extended to them, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/teachers-want-retirement-age-extended/article31700117.ece
29 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||More girl babies admitted to adoption centres||As female infanticide seems to have re-emerged in Madurai with two cases since March, data from the two government-approved special adoption agencies in the district clearly indicate that more number of girl children were also abandoned or surrendered than boys in 2019. Interestingly, parents seem to have had an equal preference for girl and boy babies when it comes to adoption. According to data accessed by The Hindu , the only two government approved special adoption agencies — Grace Kennett Hospital and Claretian Mercy Home — have admitted a total of 40 girls and 30 boys in 2019. All children admitted to these two agencies are below the age of five and are usually adopted before they grow older. After five, they are transferred to other child care institutions. Directors of the two agencies say that the admitted children were not only from Madurai but all southern districts. Director of Claretian Mercy Home, (Rev.) Jose Pitchai, says that the trend of more female babies being admitted to these adoption agencies have existed for years. Medical Superintendent, Grace Kennett Foundation Hospital, Augustus Samuel Dodd, however, says that unlike before, the ratio between the number of boys and girls abandoned has reduced. “Until about 10 years ago, we would get one boy for every 20 girls. Now however, we get nearly equal numbers of boys and girls. The gap has reduced,” he says. Mr. Jose Pitchai says that despite the gap reduction, parents who come to surrender their girl children often speak about high amounts needing to be spent for dowry. “Having girl children also means people pose questions of the father’s virility in villages. These ancient thoughts are yet to have been completely erased,” he says. Girls are looked at as lifelong burdens unfortunately, he says. However, both the agencies say that there has been a change of perception among parents who wish to adopt as they regularly receive requests for adopting girl children. According to data from the two adoption agencies, there have been a total of 27 girls and 28 boys who have been adopted in 2019. Dr. Augustus Samuel Dodd says that in his experience, parents prefer adopting girls as they tend to form quick and deep bonds with their adoptive parents. S. Niranjan*, a doctor from Chennai, who adopted a girl child from Claretian Mercy Home around three months ago, says that he and his wife were set in their choice. “We already have a biological son. We wanted a girl to ensure that we had a good mix in the family. Since there are more girl children at homes, it also helps in ensuring that the adoption process is quicker,” he says. Mr. Pitchai says that he hopes to see a surge in the number of girl children being adopted as he has been witness to the time when female infanticide in Madurai district was rampant in the 80s. “It's important that we ensure education, empowerment and employment for girls so that fewer are admitted to special adoption agencies. This should also be reason enough for parents to adopt girl children,” he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/more-girl-babies-admitted-to-adoption-centres/article31700111.ece
29 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A tribute to frontline doctors, medical personnel for treating COVID-19 patients||The doctors of Institute of Emergency Medicine, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC), featured in a video song composed as a tribute to the doctors who are in the frontline treating COVID-19 patients. The song was released on the occasion of International Emergency Medicine Day, which falls on May 27. Narendra Nath Jena, Director and Head, Institute of Emergency Medicine, MMHRC, said that doctors from several countries around the globe had participated in the song. Around 35 doctors from the hospital took part in the video. He said that their team of doctors represented the country in the video. The four-minute-long video is also a tribute to doctors and other medical personnel who have lost their lives due to the pandemic, he added. “The doctors and other medical professionals have been selflessly working to treat COVID-19 positive patients. This is a crucial time and it is our responsibility to save the lives of the people,” said Dr. Jena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/a-tribute-to-frontline-doctors-medical-personnel-for-treating-covid-19-patients/article31700109.ece
29 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses advance bail||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of two men from Thanjavur, who apprehend arrest from the police after they had illegally sold liquor during the COVID-19 lockdown. It was said that they had clandestinely operated a Tasmac shop. Justice G. Jayachandran dismissed the plea of Alaguraj, licensee of the bar and Padmanaban, Tasmac manager. The petitioners fled the scene after the police acting on a complaint by fellow licensees conducted a raid on the shop. The police recovered liquor bottles and Rs. 52,159 in cash from the Tasmac shop. The petitioners said that the government had re-opened Tasmac shops in the State and there was no restriction on the sale of liquor. So they were entitled to anticipatory bail. The State opposed the grant of anticipatory bail to the duo and argued that the petitioners with an intention to make money illegally, sold liquor during the lockdown period. This could have facilitated the spread of COVID-19. The petitioners must be arrested and interrogated, the State said. The court observed that taking note of the crime committed during the lockdown period, endangering the life of the general public, the detention and custodial interrogation of the petitioners were necessary. The court dismissed the petition.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/court-dismisses-advance-bail-for-two-men/article31700113.ece
29 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be power shutdown in the following areas between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m on May 30 for maintenance at Anna bus stand substation: Sellur 50 feet road, Saraswathi theatre road, Jeeva main road, Valluvar street, Bharathiyar street, Bhagat Singh street, Poonthamalli main road, Kalyanasundaram street, Meenakshipuram, Sathyamurthy main road, Kulamangalam road and adjoining areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article31700114.ece
29 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vaigai water reaches Madurai||The water released from Vaigai dam for river wetting reached Madurai city on Thursday morning. A total of 216 million cubic feet of water was released from the dam for three days from Monday evening. A Public Works Department official said that the flow in the river went beyond Viraganoor on Thursday and was expected to recharge water for infiltration wells that supply water to Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district. An official from Madurai Corporation said that from 5 p.m. on Thursday evening, water was released through Panaiyur channel to Mariamman Teppakulam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/vaigai-water-reaches-madurai/article31700107.ece
29 May 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 112.50 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 125 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 38.91 ft. (71 ft.), with nil inflow and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 1,645 mcft. Kodaikanal recorded a rainfall of 11.70 mm in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Thursday. Water level in Papanasam dam stood at 37.50 ft. (143 ft.), with an inflow of 88.08 cusecs and a discharge of 404.75 cusecs. The level in Manimuthar dam was 72.60 ft. (118 ft.), with an inflow of 19 cusec and a discharge of 425 cusecs.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/water-level/article31700115.ece
29 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||14 bonded labourers rescued in Namakkal||Fourteen bonded labourers were rescued from a wood cutting unit here and issued release certificates on Thursday. The bonded labourers - two men, two children below 10 years of age and 10 women - were rescued by Tiruchengode Revenue officials along with an NGO Rural Women Development Trust here on Wednesday. According to officials, the labourers hail from a village in Tiruvanamalai and has been working at the wood cutting unit for close to two years. The labourers were not paid salaries after a few initial months and even the children were employed. On Thursday, Tiruchengode Revenue District Officer Maniraj issued release certificates to them and offered compensation of Rs. 20,000 to each person through bank accounts. They were sent to their native village in a bus. The police have registered a case against the unit owner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/14-bonded-labourers-rescued-in-namakkal/article31699867.ece
29 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Petrol, diesel tax hiked in Puducherry||The government has increased tax on petrol and diesel in the Union Territory. The rate of tax on petrol has been increased to 28% from 22.15% and diesel to 21. 80% from 18.15% in Puducherry and Karaikal regions, a notification from the government said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/petrol-diesel-tax-hiked-in-puducherry/article31699820.ece
29 May 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||They are ‘free from pain’ after shifting to reusable cloth pad||Women of ATK Nagar of Uppiliyakudi panchayat, which has been single-use pad-free for over a year, celebrated being “free from pain” on Menstrual Hygiene Day on Thursday. Over 135 women, both young and old gathered to discuss how using cloth pads, distributed by Gramalaya, a Tiruchi-based NGO working on sanitation and hygiene has changed their lives for the better. On a scorching day in ATK Nagar in Kunnandarkoil Block in Pudukottai district, women gathered under a large tree to discuss how construction of toilets and distribution of ‘Feel Free’ brand of washable sanitary napkins has helped them. R. Adaikammai, village coordinator of Gramalaya said that the women would have to walk to a quarry at least three kilometres away to defecate, bathe, or to change their pads when they menstruate. “There have been incidents when men working in the quarry have attempted to harass the women. Fearing them, the girls would go early in the morning before sunrise or late in the night,” she said. Jeeva Jyothi, a young girl studying in class 12 said that she had suffered from severe rashes and discomfort while using commercially made pads. “I was never able to pay attention when the teacher was teaching. We could not even change the pad in school and would wait till we reach home, and then wait till it turned dark, which would be after over eight to ten hours,” she said. Chellamma, an 80-year-old woman, purchased a packet of ‘Feel Free’, worth Rs. 350, with her own earnings from the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and sent it to her granddaughters in Tiruchi. “I struggled with using cloth as a child, but these commercial pads are worse. I’ve seen all the girls suffer,” she said. As there was nowhere to dispose of the pads, women would dump them at the man-made ponds near the quarry, and the entire area would be an eyesore,” she said. Gramalaya combined the promotion of Feel Free pads with its menstrual hygiene management (MHM) training and construction of toilets in the village. The women now use the toilets and are also comfortable when they menstruate, they said. Young children too, are taught the importance of personal hygiene. The toilets have also saved their lives. When Cyclone Gaja wreaked havoc in the region, many families took shelter in the toilets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/they-are-free-from-pain-after-shifting-to-reusable-cloth-pad/article31700137.ece
29 May 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Farmer held for poisoning 13 peafowls||Thirteen peafowls died after consuming a poisonous substance sprayed along the bund of a farm and on the banks of a ‘kanmoi’ nearby, allegedly by a farmer to protect his paddy crop from rats, in Arimalam village in Tirumayam taluk in the district recently. The Forest Department here arrested the land owner, K. Kasinathan of Seegampatti village, on charges of poisoning the peafowls and produced him before the Tirumayam judicial magistrate court for remand. Acting on information that peafowls were found dead on the Azhingi kanmoi on Sunday, a Forest Department team went to the spot and conducted a probe. During the investigation it came to light that Kasinathan had allegedly sprayed the poisonous substance along the bunds of his farm land and along the ‘kanmoi’ after rodents kept destroying paddy crop raised on his land. Based on an investigation, the Forest Department arrested Kasinathan on the charge of poisoning the peafowls and booked a case against him under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. The accused was lodged in the sub jail in Aranthangi, Forest Department officials said. The official said samples had been lifted from the carcasses and sent to the Forensic Laboratory in Tiruchi to determine the poisonous substance that killed the peafowls. In another incident, the Department officials arrested a 29-year-old man on charges of poaching two peahens using an un-licensed country gun inside the Sevilimalai reserve forest in Ponnamaravathy range in the district, in the early hours on Thursday. The crime came to light when Forest Department officials were conducting a night patrol inside the reserve forest area when they found Periyasamy with the dead birds and held him. The country gun used for poaching and the dead birds were seized, said another official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmer-held-for-poisoning-13-peafowls/article31700139.ece
29 May 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers leave for home||As many as 999 migrant labourers who had been staying and working in Pudukottai district have so far been sent to their respective home State either by bus or rail during the lockdown period. Six hundred more migrant labourers staying in the district have expressed their willingness to return to their home State and arrangements were being made for their transportation this week, an official press release said. The release further said persons who had come from other States to Pudukottai district had been kept under quarantine in 20 private and government buildings in the district and were being screened. Karaikal About 475 migrant workers belonging to Odisha, including 289 from Tiruchi, left by a Shramik train from Karaikal on Thursday evening. The train with 24 compartments headed to Odisha via Puducherry. Karaikal Collector Arjun Sharma was among those who gave a send off to the migrants. Food was arranged for the passengers by the district administration. The cost of travel has been borne by the Odisha government, official sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-leave-for-home/article31700145.ece
29 May 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Engineering student held on morphing charge at Paramakudi||The Cyber Crime Police arrested an engineering student, a resident of Paramakudi, on charges of threatening women on social media that he would post their morphed pictures on facebook. Not knowing that they were being deceived, the victims gave the accused money to ensure that the photographs were not uploaded. Superintendent of Police V. Varun Kumar had established a helpline number - 94899 19722 for the public, who can register their grievance and share any kinds of threats. The callers need not mention their identity and could be even on petty issues as well. The facility evoked overwhelming response, with many callers expressing the mental agony they underwent in the hands of such tricksters. The Cyber Crime wing team said that following a complaint, the SP directed them to register a case under IPC Sections 292A and 384 read with 66E and 67 of IT Act. The complaint was that a woman, who was on facebook, received (through the messenger box from a FB user) that he would post her photographs on facebook and tarnish her image. Not knowing that she was being taken for a ride, the victim told her husband about the trauma she was undergoing due to the post. Immediately, when the man called the SP’s helpline, police tracked the facebook account and saw that the user ID was a resident of Paramakudi. A team picked up the accused and identified him as Rohit, 19, son of Kannadasan. He was studying in a private engineering college in Coimbatore. He was picked up from his residence. The confession statement, according to the police, revealed that the accused had four accounts on facebook. All were fake. He used them to threaten gullible women and demanded money, with which he lived a cozy life. After registering a case, the student was sent to judicial custody. The digital evidence was important and had been recorded. In another case, the Cyber Wing police arrested Sivakumar, 23, son of Balakrishnan of Pudumadam Uchipuli, Ramnad district. The complaint was that the accused had fake accounts on instagram giving an impression that the user was a woman. After becoming familiar with women in the circuit, he would share the problems and thus become friendly with them. At one point, he would ask them to share their photographs. Later, he would threaten them to part with money to be deposited in a bank account failing which he would upload the pictures, which were in compromising positions. Apprehending trouble, some of the victims had obliged by remitting the money. However, when a victim dialled to the helpline, the accused was tracked. From the details of the bank account, the police arrested him. The SP said that public should be cautious on the social media circuit and avoid chatting or sharing photographs or any personal details with strangers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/engineering-student-held-on-morphing-charge-at-paramakudi/article31700099.ece
29 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Three held for death of girl in quarry blast||The Namakkal district police on Thursday arrested three persons in connection with the death of a 10-year-old girl in a quarry blast. According to police, Nandhini died on Wednesday after stone debris following blast at a quarry nearby her house at Sendamangalam fell upon here. A five-year-old boy, who was playing with her, also suffered injuries in the incident. On investigation, police arrested Meenatchi, a member of a self help group who took the contract to run the government quarry and she has provided sub-contract to another person. Police have also arrested two workers at the quarry Shanmugaraju and Balu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-death-of-girl-in-quarry-blast/article31699866.ece
29 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Packaged drinking water unit sealed||Officials from the Food Safety Department sealed a packaged drinking water unit near Five Roads here on Thursday for operating without proper licence. Based on a tip-off, inspection was carried out at the unit functioning near Reddiyur, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/packaged-drinking-water-unit-sealed/article31699851.ece
29 May 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers want to go home||Around 30 migrant workers engaged in private sector and in brick kilns in and around Singampunari in Sivaganga district squatted in protest in front of Singampunari police station on Wednesday. They pleaded with police to make arrangements to send them back to their native States. On information, Tahsildar Panchavarnam and Inspector Satya Seela held talks with them and promised to have travel arrangements in place in about two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-want-to-go-home/article31700095.ece
29 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 pandemic hampers Jal Jeevan Mission||Efforts to provide functional household tap connections (FHTC) to every household in rural areas by 2024 through Jal Jeevan Mission is set to become a hard target to achieve in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Union government with equal participation of the State governments had launched the mission in 2019-20 with an objective to ensure availability of drinking water in adequate quantity and quality to rural households on a regular and long-term basis at affordable service delivery charges aimed to improve the living standards of the rural masses. When the mission was launched in August 2019, the officials enumerated that nearly 3.76 lakh households out of the total 4,02,454 houses in rural areas need to be covered under this project in Thanjavur district. Similarly, it was identified that nearly 1.75 lakh dwelling units out of 2,41,110 houses in rural pockets in Tiruvarur district were to be provided with protected drinking water supply connections. This figure, as per the data available at the Jal Jeevan Mission officials website, remains the same till May 27, 2020 clearly indicating that not even a single FHTC has been given during the last eight months. Taking into consideration the increased workload on the State governments in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Ministry of Jal Shakti which implements this mission through the Department of Drinking Water and Sanitation has given more time to the States and Union territories to prepare the annual action plan for the year 2020-21. It had also suggested that the States could consider providing FHTCs to the households in the areas, where already functional water supply schemes with more than or equal to 55 litres per day distribution network exist. Meanwhile, Collector M. Govinda Rao inspected the combined drinking water supply scheme being implemented in Thanjavur district to provide protected drinking water to households in nine Panchayat Unions and three Town Panchayats by tapping the groundwater potential available on the Coleroon river bed at Semmankudi, Veeramangudi and Anaikudi on May 25. The Collector also checked the chlorine level in the piped water supply to the households at Seruvaviduthi in Peravurani taluk.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-pandemic-hampers-jal-jeevan-mission/article31700141.ece
29 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||VOC College signs MoU with fisheries institute||The Department of Zoology of V.O. Chidambaram College here has signed memorandum of understanding with Fisheries College and Research Institute here for exchange of information in academic research and other activities. The MoU, signed on Wednesday, is valid for three years, i.e. 2023.  Objectives The main objectives of this MoU are exchanging information pertaining to academic researches being carried out in both the institutions, students and faculty exchange programme, entrepreneurship training to students etc. “Moreover, our college and FCRI can jointly design and work on new research projects in the field of marine zoology, publication of research articles, jointly organising national and international seminars, conferences and working in research projects funded by institutions of international repute. Since this MoU paves way for providing internshio for our students in the laboratories of FCRI, it will give a new exposure to our students,” said C. Veerabahu, principal, VOC College, who signed the MoU while FCRI was represented by its Dean B. Sundaramoorthy. The Department of Zoology of VOC College, which has so far produced 50 research scholars and 150 M.Phil. scholars, has one of the best museums in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/voc-college-signs-mou-with-fisheries-institute/article31700097.ece
29 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers protest move to withdraw free power||Condemning the Centre’s decision to withdraw free power to farming sector, members of Thamizh Vivasaayigal Sangam staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate on Thursday. Led by State president O.A. Narayanaswamy, the farmers raised slogans against the move that compels the State government to withdraw free power being given to agriculture now. In a petition submitted in the Collector’s Office later, they said they were facing unprecedented situation owing to spiralling prices of agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, seeds and pesticides. Hence, withdrawal of free electricity would blow death knell to the industry. Since it would wipe out their livelihood, the Centre’s ‘callous decision’ should not be implemented in Tamil Nadu, the farmers said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/farmers-protest-move-to-withdraw-free-power/article31700096.ece
29 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Another attempt made to break stalemate over ROB||In yet another attempt to get a piece of Defence land for completing the incomplete multi-level road over bridge near the Railway Junction in Tiruchi, the district administration has proposed to offer, in exchange, land of equal value from the adjacent Tamil Nadu Special Police (TSP) battalion grounds. The move comes in the wake of the “inordinate delay” in transferring a piece of land sought by the State Highways Department from the Defence Ministry for the construction of the multi-level road over bridge (ROB) near Tiruchi Junction. Construction of the overbridge remains suspended for more than two years now. Nearly 90% of the first stage of the project has been completed but for the Chennai arm of the bridge, which needs to be connected to a new approach road to be laid across a piece of Defence land. The Chennai arm is the final segment of the first stage of the project. Only upon getting the piece of about 67 cents of land that the first stage of the multi-level bridge, which is planned to be built in two stages, would be completed. The department had sought totally 2,685 square metres of Defence land for the project, which envisages replacing the existing narrow bridge across the railway lines with a multi-level bridge. The old narrow bridge would have to be dismantled for the construction of second stage of project. The first stage of the bridge was scheduled to be completed by February 2017 and the second by 2019. Despite several attempts to take up the issue with successive Defence Ministers and several rounds of talks between the State and Centre, stalemate had persisted over the land transfer. The State government had offered land of equal value in Kanchepuram in lieu of Defence lands sought for various infrastructure projects across the State, including the ROB and the airport expansion in Tiruchi. However, the Ministry is said to have sought land of equal value in Chennai city limits, leading to a stalemate. Last year, the Highways Department requested the Defence Ministry to de-link the transfer of land required for the road over bridge (ROB) from proposals seeking Defence lands for other infrastructure projects in the State and grant enter upon permission so that work on the construction of the pending Chennai arm of the bridge could resume. The Department had suggested that Ministry can grant enter upon permission either by accepting the monetary compensation for the small piece of land or an undertaking from the State government that land of equal value would be provided. On Wednesday, A. Karthik, Secretary, Highways, who is on a visit to the district to monitor the execution of the kudimaramathu works, inspected the unfinished bridge along with Collector S. Sivarasu and discussed with officials the options available. Following a discussion, M. Sivarasu said that a proposal has been sent to the government suggesting that offering 67 cents in the adjacent TSP Battalion ground may be offered in exchange to get the Defence land. Already some extent of land was taken from the ground on the Edamalaipattipudur side for construction of the bridge. Official sources here said that the Secretary had assured to take up the issue to expedite the process of getting the Defence land for the project. Meanwhile, residents of city are also fervently hoping for the early completion of the vital project. “Thousands of office goers, students and other commuters have been facing hardship every day due to the delay in completing the bridge. Accidents have become frequent at the site. We hope the bridge would be completed at the earliest at least after this latest move,” said N. Alagusubramanian, Secretary, Anjali Nagar and Thailammai Nagar Residents Welfare Association.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/another-attempt-made-to-break-stalemate-over-rob/article31700149.ece
29 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||IIM-Tiruchi sees more companies joining the placement drive||Indian Institute of Management - Tiruchi (IIM-T) has witnessed a 26% rise over last year in the number of companies participating in the final placement process for Post Graduate Programme (PGP) in Management 2018-20. The average annual compensation across all domains was Rs. 14.96 lakh. A total of 119 recruiters offered 186 roles to 173 students across various domains such as finance, sales and marketing, consulting and analytics and operations, in several areas including product management, brand management, investment banking, equity research. Out of 178 students in the batch, five chose not to take part in the process that was completed by March. The new recruiters including McKinsey & Company, Goldman Sachs, HSBC, Franklin Templeton, AstraZeneca, Reliance Industries, ONGC and Frost & Sullivan took part in the process along with regular recruiters like JP Morgan Chase, Deloitte, L&T, Cognizant, ICICI Bank, Avalon Consulting, Godrej, TAFE, Value Labs, GMR Group, Shell, Amazon, UltraTech Cement and OfBusiness. The highest annual compensation was Rs. 25 lakh, and the average annual compensation of top 50 percentile was Rs. 17.71 lakh, while the median annual compensation was Rs. 14.50 lakh, which was 12 % more compared to last year. The average annual compensation of students placed in finance domain rose exceptionally by 18% over last year. There was also a 236% increase in the number of pre-placement offers and pre-placement interviews over the previous year. At 38%, offers in consultancy and analytics domain was the highest, followed by sales and marketing (31.2%), finance (23.7%) and operations (7.1%). The final placement figures shows IIM-T’s strengthening relationships with the companies, Ayon Chakraborty, Placement Chairperson, said. Director of IIM Tiruchi Bhimaraya Metri, said: “IIM- T since its inception has been constantly proving itself. The diversity in roles offered and increase in average CTC (Cost to company) depict the pragmatic pedagogy at IIM-T, and hard work of both students and faculty to stay abreast of the industry changes”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/iim-tiruchi-sees-more-companies-joining-the-placement-drive/article31700135.ece
29 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tourism sector awaits early resumption of business||Representatives from the tourism industry, which has been hit hard by the extended lockdown, has urged the State government to allow them to resume business at the earliest. Since Tiruchi is considered to be located centrally in the State, it is a major transit centre for business, religious, domestic and international travellers. It has been a popular destination in the State for tourists from Malaysia, Singapore, Sri Lanka and Middle East countries. During holiday season and festival season, Malaysians and Singaporeans visit the State for pilgrimage. Thanks to the excellent air connectivity, they prefer to land at Tiruchi and proceed to various temples in and around the city by staying in hotels here. They come in groups and many of them stay for about 10 days. A section of them visit Tiruchi mainly to buy cloths. According to industry sources, there are about 100 hotels in the city. Nearly 40 % of them are located in two clusters – Central Bus Stand and Chathiram Bus Stand. Remaining hotels are scattered in different parts of the city, including Srirangam. The hotels provide direct employment to about 1,000 persons. In addition to them, a number of tour and travel agents function in Tiruchi to facilitate the hotel, air, bus and train ticket booking for the inbound and outbound tourists and domestic travellers. Except a few hotels, which were arranged by the district administration to provide paid accommodation to the stranded overseas passengers, who were airlifted by special flights, almost all hotels in the city have been closed since March 25, thereby affecting the hoteliers hard. Industry sources say that premium hotels have suffered a revenue loss of Rs. 40 -50 lakh a month. The loss for medium range hotels with up to 25 rooms is said to be Rs. 15 - 20 lakh a month. The COVID-19 crisis has made about 90% of the employees jobless. They face a bleak future as the hoteliers are still clueless about the business trend. Many feel that it may take months for revival. “Hospitality industry contributes about 10% of the Gross Domestic Product. But, the industry has been ignored. We are clueless about resuming booking,” said S. A. Mubashir, joint secretary, Tiruchi Tourism Federation. Stating that they can not afford to keep the hotels closed any longer, hoteliers said that the State government should allow the hotels to resume booking at least from June 1. “It is a high time to re-open the hotels. If we start the bookings on June 1, it will take at least three to four weeks for us to gain momentum. Hence, the State government should no longer keep the hotels closed,” said Mohammed Ibrahim, founder, Staylink, Tiruchi. Many of the industry representatives were of the view that public transports should also be allowed with safety and social distancing restrictions. When contacted Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan told The Hindu that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was well aware of the problems faced by the tourism industry. There has been demand to reopen the sector as quickly as possible and the issue would be taken up for a discussion, he added.  Hospitality industry contributes about 10% of the Gross Domestic Product. But, the industry has been ignored. We are clueless about resuming booking S. A. Mubashir Joint secretary, Tiruchi Tourism Federation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tourism-sector-awaits-early-resumption-of-business/article31700142.ece
29 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Four more test positive in central region||Four patients hailing from the central region tested positive for COVID-19 here on Thursday, according to the State Health Department’s official bulletin. Of the four, two hailed from Nagapattinam, while one belonged to Pudukottai, the other belonged to Thanjavur district. Meanwhile, a one-year-old recovered from the infection. In Pudukottai, a 44-year-old man who returned to the district from Maharashtra, where he had been working, tested positive for the infection. The patient returned to the district by road and was intercepted at a checkpost and tested. He has been referred to Ranees Hospital, where he is undergoing treatment, official sources here said. Meanwhile, an 18 month-old boy baby recovered from the viral infection and was discharged from the Government Ranees Hospital here. District Collector P. Uma Maheshwari congratulated the hospital staff and said that as the boy’s mother had to be provided with necessary Personal Care Equipment (PPE) to ensure that they do not contract the infection. On testing, the mother was reported negative. The parents hailed from Manthakollai near Karambakudi and were migrant labourers working in Maharashtra. They returned to Karambakudi on May 18 and all the three were tested for COVID -19, when it was found that the child was positive. Doctors at the Ranees Hospital found that the baby required artificial respiration. Using a novel treatment - “high flow oxygen therapy” oxygen was given at a high flow to fill up the entire trachea bronchial tree and oxygen saturation improved. Two patients from Nagapattinam, both males aged 42 and 39, tested positive on Thursday. The patients have been admitted to the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital where they are said to be stable and responding well. One patient, a 54-year-old woman from Thanjavur has also tested positive for the virus. She has been admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital where she is undergoing treatment. Including the woman, the total number of patients who have tested positive in the district is 86.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/four-more-test-positive-in-central-region/article31700144.ece
29 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||First online workshop as MOOC coordinator held||After being made the National MOOC (Massive Open Online Course) coordinator for offering engineering courses at UG and PG level, National Institute of Technology Tiruchi (NIT-T) has initiated a first-of-its-kind online workshop on ‘Effective Online Teaching Learning Strategies’ for faculties of Maharani Lakshmi Ammanni College for Women, Bengaluru. The 50 participants are being exposed to Flipped Classroom and Blended learning methods for virtual classrooms; use of video conferencing and learning management tools for teaching; experiential learning material generation for students and improved student engagement in the virtual class with the help of technology. The six-day course uses free/open source tools and provide hands-on training for the participants. It is the first of a series of workshops planned to facilitate faculty of the self-financing institutions to seamlessly transition to virtual classroom, Director of NIT-T Mini Shaji Thomas said. The institution is the first among NITs to be sanctioned a supercomputing facility worth Rs. 17.11 crore and the only NIT in the top 25, to be included in the Prime Minister’s Research Fellowship awarding Institutions, she said. NIT-T has been using the Moodle Learning Management System from 2011. It follows credit-based academic programmes with flexible curricula, minor specializations, flipped classrooms, online examination and evaluation models, P. J. A. Alphonse, Head, Department of Computer Applications, said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/first-online-workshop-as-mooc-coordinator-held/article31700138.ece
29 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Returnees sent to isolation camps||A total of 1,364 passengers, who arrived here from Mumbai by a special train in the early hours of Thursday, were quarantined in eight isolation camps. The railways operated two Shramik special trains from Mumbai’s Chatrapati Sivaji Maharaj Terminal to Tirunelveli on Tuesday. The first train arrived at 3.30 a.m. here on Thursday with 1,364 passengers: 751 (Tirunelveli), 183 (Thoothukudi), 133 (Tenkasi), 67 (Kanniyakumari), 86 (Virudhunagar) and 144 (Thiruvannamalai, Villupuram, Erode and Madurai). They were taken to isolation camps set up in colleges and Manonmaniam Sundaranar University. “After screening their health, samples will be collected from those with COVID-19 symptoms, while others will be under monitoring for a week. Positive patients will be taken to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for treatment, while the rest will be allowed to go home and asked to home quarantine for two weeks,” said health officials. The second special train carrying 1,670 passengers halted in Madurai and 1,173 passengers bound for Tirunelveli were brought here in 23 buses and quarantined in camps. All isolation camps were being monitored by a team led by a Special Tahsildar to take care of returnees needs such as food, medical assistance etc. The camps were disinfected before the returnees were lodged there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/returnees-sent-to-isolation-camps/article31700101.ece
29 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two convicts test positive in Palayamkottai Central Prison||Two inmates of Palayamkottai Central Prison, who participated in a computer literacy programme at Puzhal Central Prison in Chennai, tested positive on their return on Wednesday. Prison sources said the convicts had completed the training programme, along with inmates from other central jails, but were stranded in Puzhal for a while due to lockdown. “When a few prisoners from Cuddalore Central Prison tested positive, these two were also tested and their infection was confirmed. Immediately, they were admitted in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital,” the sources said. Fear of infection spreading among inmates of the prison had led to delay in reopening of a local fuel station operated by Palayamkottai Central Prison even after other petrol pumps started functioning following relaxation of lockdown restrictions. The fuel station, which transacted business above Rs. 10 lakh daily since it was started a year ago, was reopened only after a lot of pondering and precautionary measures were put in place. The sources said all prison inmates deployed at the fuel station wear masks. Sanitiser bottles were kept for their use as well as for customers. “If one inmate deployed at the fuel station contracts the viral infection, others too will face serious threat. So, after studying the situation, the fuel station was opened,” said a warder. “Since two prisoners returnees from Puzhal have tested positive, our officials are taking steps to screen those who were in close contact with them,” the warder added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-convicts-test-positive-in-palayamkottai-central-prison/article31700103.ece
29 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Tirunelveli adds 29 fresh cases||Tirunelveli district on Thursday added 29 COVID–19 positive cases, including 28 migrants from Maharashtra, which took its tally to 330. As the number of returnees from Maharashtra is increasing every day with the arrival of special trains and more chartered buses, the number of persons entering the district with viral infection is also going up. Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital now has 174 patients under treatment. Thoothukudi had four more new cases, including one patient from Gujarat, taking the toll to 194. Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari did not record any fresh cases on Thursday. The number of active cases in these districts was 29 and 31 respectively. Meanwhile, 19 patients were discharged from Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital on Thursday. Collector Sandeep Nanduri wished them with gift hampers containing fruits, nilavembu concoction and a few more Siddha and homeopathic formulations for strengthening their immune system. They were advised ‘home quarantine’ for two weeks. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Nanduri said the district administration had established 15 check posts to screen migrants from other districts and States. Eight persons tested positive in Madurai district, taking the tally to 249. Two of the fresh cases were convicts who were shifted from Puzhal Central Prison to Madurai Central Prison. They did not display any symptoms. Two police personnel who were in contact with a positive person also tested positive. One of them was a 54-year-old man from Tirunagar who had hypothyroidism. The other was a 36-year-old woman from Managiri. Two sanitary workers from Katchakatti in Vadipatti block also tested positive. A 21-year-old man from Thideer Nagar who was in contact with a COVID-19 positive person also tested positive. The eighth positive case was a 65-year-old woman from Dindigul who was referred to Government Rajaji Hospital after she developed chest pain. This patient is diabetic and did not display any symptoms. Apart from these eight cases, three persons who had travelled to Madurai by flight tested positive on Thursday. According to the State health bulletin, there are 94 active cases in Madurai district. Virudhunagar Three fresh positive cases were reported in Virudhunagar district. While two of them were from the district, one was from Maharastra. With this the number of positive cases in the district rose to 119. Three positive patients were discharged on Thursday, and the total number of active cases in the district stood at 69.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tirunelveli-adds-29-fresh-cases/article31700119.ece
29 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three special trains from Tiruppur Junction||The Salem Division of Southern Railway operated three Shramik special trains from Tiruppur Junction for migrant workers on Thursday. Railway officials said that the first train was operated for Dibrugarh, Assam, at around 1 p.m., the second train for Hajipur, Bihar at 4 p.m. and third train for Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, at 8 p.m. All three trains carried 1,600 passengers each. A total of 17 Shramik special trains have been operated from Tiruppur Junction as of Thursday. The trains were operated to five States namely Bihar (9), Odisha (3), Uttar Pradesh (3), Jharkhand (1) and Assam (1).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-special-trains-from-tiruppur-junction/article31699862.ece
29 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Six bakeries sealed||The Food Safety and Drug Administration Department sealed six bakeries in Kotagiri after they were found serving tea to customers inside the shops on Wednesday. According to J. Thanga Vignesh, Designated Officer, Food Safety Department, 15 shops in Kotagiri and Aravenu were inspected by officials, of which six shops were found flouting personal distancing norms. Fine has been imposed on the bakeries.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/six-bakeries-sealed/article31699863.ece
29 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||No active case in the Nilgiris||The Nilgiris has no active COVID-19 cases after a patient, a resident of Nanjanad near Udhagamandalam, was discharged from the ESI hospital in Coimbatore on Thursday, said Collector J.Innocent Divya. Two more persons, who are residents of Chennai and had travelled to the Nilgiris, had tested positive after coming to the Nilgiris, but they had been added to the list of patients in Chennai as they had been residing there, Ms. Divya added. Fingerpost and Ponvayal, where they had been staying, had been designated as containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/no-active-case-in-the-nilgiris/article31699864.ece
29 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM/Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 900 workers from the Nilgiris leave for Jharkhand||More than 900 migrant workers from Jharkhand, who were working in the Nilgiris, were sent to Coimbatore district in special buses, and they boarded a Shramik special train to their home State from Mettupalayam Railway Station on Thursday. Officials said that a total of 918 migrant workers, primarily employed in tea factories and in the construction industry, who had applied to go back to Jharkhand with the district administration, were allowed to board 23 specially-arranged buses from Udhagamandalam to Mettupalayam. I. Irfan, a migrant worker from Jharkhand, said that he had applied for permission to go home more than a month ago as he was unable to find work and could no longer afford to stay in the Nilgiris. “My parents asked me to come back home, but we have been facing difficulties in getting permission to return, as the district administration was waiting for concurrence from Jharkhand to allow us to return,” said Mr. Irfan. The migrant workers were given breakfast before they departed for Coimbatore, with officials stating that the railways had made arrangements to provide meals for them during the course of their journey. The train was bound for Barkakana Junction in Jharkhand, railway officials said. With 24 coaches, the train left Mettupalayam Junction at 4.38 p.m. While only 17 coaches were filled in Mettupalayam, the rest of the coaches were filled as more migrant workers boarded the train at Salem Junction. This was the first Shramik special train to be operated from Mettupalayam, the officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/over-900-workers-from-the-nilgiris-leave-for-jharkhand/article31699859.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Smart bin’ unveiled in Tiruppur||District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan unveiled a garbage bin powered by Internet of Things (IoT) technology at a private hospital in Tiruppur on Thursday. The IoT-enabled ‘smart bin’ was set up at the hospital on Cotton Mills Road by the Tiruppur Chapter of Young Indians (YI) , the youth wing of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), in collaboration with Tiruppur Corporation. The bin has a camera and a sensor, Chetan Gandhi, Chair of Tiruppur Chapter of Young Indians (YI), said. This set-up will detect the amount of garbage and will alert the concerned person through a mobile application if the bin is full. The Corporation can save time by sending their workers only to those particular bins that are full for waste collection through the implementation of these smart bins, Mr. Gandhi said. “We are initially planning to have this in 20 hospitals,” he said. Details regarding cost per unit and expansion of these bins across the city will be discussed in an upcoming meeting with the officials of Tiruppur Corporation, according to Mr. Gandhi. N. Boopathy, City Health Officer, said that the project is only at an initial stage and that the bins are yet to be placed in the other hospitals. “After the trial run, perhaps we can expand this to commercial areas in the city,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/smart-bin-unveiled-in-tiruppur/article31699848.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Deafening sound ‘most likely’ sonic boom: Tiruppur Collector||With many people left puzzled in various parts around Tiruppur Corporation limits after hearing a deafening sound on Thursday morning, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said that the sound was ‘most likely’ caused by a sonic boom. “The loud sound that was heard today morning across various parts of #Tiruppur was most likely a #SonicBoom caused by a Supersonic Aircraft. Kindly do not panic or SPREAD RUMOURS ! (sic),” he tweeted. Sources in the District Administration said that the aircraft was from the Air Force Station in Sulur, which is around 30 km away from Tiruppur city. According to local sources, the sound was heard at around 10.30 a.m. on Thursday across the city and even in parts of neighbouring taluks such Avinashi and Dharapuram. Many residents took to social media platforms such as Facebook and Twitter to convey that they heard a loud noise. However, Defence sources did not confirm whether the sonic boom-like phenomenon witnessed by many in parts of Tiruppur was the effect of any warplane on sortie at the Sulur Air Force Station. On Wednesday, the Indian Air Force formally inducted the first Final Operational Clearance variant of Light Combat Aircraft Tejas Mk-1 into service at an event held at the Sulur Air Base. A sonic boom is a phenomenon caused when an aircraft breaches the speed of sound (1,225 km/hr), causing a loud noise. On May 19, residents of Bengaluru also heard a deafening noise, which was due to sonic boom caused by a fighter aircraft, Ministry of Defence said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/deafening-sound-most-likely-sonic-boom-tiruppur-collector/article31699849.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||12 deaths, 827 new COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu||Eleven of the deaths took place in Chennai. Among them was a 36-year-old man, who had pulmonary tuberculosis and tested positive for COVID-19 on May 24. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on May 25 and died on May 27 due to cardiopulmonary arrest, hemoptysis and aspiration pneumonitis. A 44-year-old man from Tiruvannamalai was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College Hospital on May 15. He died on May 26 due to acute coronary syndrome, inferior wall myocardial infarction, first degree block, cardiogenic shock, diabetes and systemic hypertension. A 54-year-old man with diabetes and systemic hypertension was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of breathing difficulty and fever on May 26. He died on Wednesday due to severe acute respiratory syndrome. A 64-year-old man with diabetes and coronary artery disease was admitted to RGGGH on May 27. A COVID-19 test was done in a private hospital and the sample returned positive for the infection the same day. He died within five hours of admission of cardiopulmonary arrest and acute coronary syndrome.The Minister said the State had been maintaining a mortality rate of 0.7%. “In some cases, private hospitals are referring patients to government hospitals at the last minute. We are unable to save them. Early diagnosis is our strategy. We have issued strict protocols to private hospitals and have asked them to adhere to them,” he said. Among the new cases, 74 persons had returned from Maharashtra and 20 from Karnataka. Four persons, who returned from Delhi, Karnataka and Haryana by flights, have also tested positive for COVID-19. The Minister added that till now, a total of 1,253 persons, who returned from other States, had tested positive for COVID-19 in T.N. “The more we test, more cases are reported. We are transparent in declaring positive cases. There is no need to fear about the numbers,” he said. He pointed out that many people were still not wearing masks in public places. “If people find it so difficult to wear cloth masks and complain about not being able to breathe, think about doctors, staff nurses and laboratory technicians. Air conditioners are turned off in all hospitals. With the soaring temperature, medical and paramedical staff wear coveralls, goggles, head cover, N95 masks and double gloves. They have scars on the skin and behind the ears,” he said. At RGGGH, which has taken up trials for convalescent plasma therapy, seven patients had received plasma and were making a recovery, he said, adding, “As part of the ICMR solidarity trial, a patient received remdesivir and is doing well.”  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/12-deaths-827-new-covid-19-cases-in-tamil-nadu/article31699826.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth dies as gun misfires||A 24-year-old died on Wednesday night after a country-made gun he was holding misfired. According to the police, the deceased Shaktivel (24) from Vazhapadi, Salem and two of his friends from Mangalapuram, Namakkal - Senthil Kumar (40) and a juvenile had planned to go for rabbit-hunting. They were going in a two-wheeler when the gun which Shaktivel was holding misfired and he succumbed to the injuries. They dropped the body in front of Shaktivel’s house and escaped, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-dies-as-gun-misfires/article31699852.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Travel only with e-pass’||The Salem Corporation has warned of stern action against those who travel into its limits from other States and districts without the e-pass issued by the State government. According to a release, persons residing within Salem Corporation limits and returning from other States and districts are quarantined at the city’s borders and their swab samples are collected for test. If the results are negative, the persons are advised home quarantine for 14 days. Those who enter the city without the e-pass would undergo tests, and would be quarantined at the Karuppur Engineering College for 28 days. Police action They would also face action through the police. The Corporation advised the public to inform them of persons in their locality who had come without proper permission.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/travel-only-with-e-pass/article31699865.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CM launches Noyyal river project||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday launched a project for ‘expansion, renovation and modernisation’ of Noyyal river, through video conference. The Rs. 230 crore - project will focus on renovation of 158.35 km of the Noyyal flowing through four districts - Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and Karur. “By renovating the water management infrastructure that was developed through the course of the Noyyal, the groundwater levels will increase and the river will be rejuvenated,” Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani said in a press release. Noting that nearly 100 km of the project falls in Coimbatore district, he said that it will be a “boon” and “hope” for the farmers who depend on the river for irrigation, according to the release. An official involved in the project told The Hindu that bids were invited and the contractor finalised for the two-year work. Several streams come together at Thombilipalayam, near Alandurai, and that is the starting point of the river. The entire river system has 31 tanks and 23 anaicuts, apart from supply and distribution channels. The works will be taken up in three segments - 0 to 34 km of the river (Kurichi tank in Coimbatore district), 34 to 72 km (border of Coimbatore district, and 72 to 159 km. Of the 23 anaicuts, 18 will be rejuvenated mainly, and of the 31 tanks, 22 will be taken up. In the supply and distribution channels, need-based works will be done. A survey of the river will go on simultaneously. The irrigation sub-division of PWD will co-ordinate the works. “We will focus on the existing structures of the Noyyal river system,” the official said. R. Periasami, a farmer from Theethipalayam who participated in the event on Thursday, said that 36,304 acres of irrigated lands in Coimbatore district alone will benefit from the project, which will also help in preventing effluents mixing in the stream. The inauguration ceremony was held from Secretariat in Chennai, where Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani was also present. In Coimbatore, Mr. Rajamani participated in the ceremony through video-conferencing, the press release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cm-launches-rs-230-cr-noyyal-river-project/article31699836.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Insurance for livestock in Virudhunagar||Virudhunagar district administration has invited farmers to get life insurance for their livestock with subsidy under the National Livestock Mission 2019-20. In a statement, Collector R. Kannan said a target of 2,500 livestock had been fixed for the insurance scheme. While farmers below poverty line would get 70% subsidy, those above BPL would get 50% subsidy on premiums. Milch cows and buffaloes between 30 months ad 8 years; goats and sheep aged between 1 year and 3 years and pigs aged beteen one year and five years can be insured. Subsidy would be provided for a maximum insured amount Rs. 35,000 for each animal. The additional premium for livestock worth more than Rs. 35,000 should be borne by the farmer. A maximum of five livestock could be insured under the scheme for each family. Interested farmersshould approach the nearest animal husbandry dispensary.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/insurance-for-livestock-in-virudhunagar/article31700098.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man administers poison to three children; one dead||In a shocking incident, I. Sivamuni, 37, a village assistant posted at Virudhunagar Collectorate, on Thursday allegedly administered poison to his three children and himself here. His second daughter, Sivaranjani, 7, died on way to government hospital. Police said Sivamuni resorted to the extreme step after a quarrel with his wife, Krishnaveni, 34. She was away at work in a fire crackers unit, when he forced the children to consume poison. He also slashed his left hand after consuming it. A doctor said Sivamuni and his elder daughter, Vijayalakshmi, 9, were critical. The condition of his son, Sivaprasad, 4, was stable. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-administers-poison-to-three-children-one-dead/article31700104.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Plea to disclose details of donations||The Madras High Court has sought the response of the State government to a public interest litigation petition seeking a direction to the government to disclose the details of donations received by it from corporates, philanthropists and others for COVID-19 relief work. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and Anita Sumanth ordered notice, returnable by June 4, to the State government on the petition filed by advocate M. Karpagam, through her counsel R. Prabakaran, for uploading the details on the government’s website. The petitioner claimed that the names of the donors and the quantum of money donated by them were being made available in the public domain by the governments of Maharashtra, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh.  Details are being made available in the public domain by the governments of Maharashtra, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/plea-to-disclose-details-of-donations/article31699833.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In Coimbatore today||Rathinam Group of Institutions: Virtual signing of MoU with Orbit Shifters, 7 p.m.  DJ Academy for Managerial Excellence : Webinar on Ad Agency Basics, Ayyappan Raj, co-founder of The Script Room, speaks, 11 a.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/in-coimbatore-today/article31699861.ece
29 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No more COVID-19 test for asymptomatic travellers||Two days after issuing a circular permitting home quarantine of international and inter-State travellers after seven days of institutional quarantine, Karnataka has now also done away with the previously mandatory COVID-19 test for asymptomatic individuals. A circular in this regard was issued by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education), late on Wednesday. Stating that the new guidelines were based on recommendations from the State’s COVID expert committee, Mr. Akhtar said, “There is not enough space in hotels and as more and more travellers are coming in, it may lead to overcrowding.” For the elderly According to the circular, any person who has completed seven days of institutional quarantine and is asymptomatic can be permitted for home quarantine without a COVID-19 test (RT-PCR), subject to undergoing a medical check-up. The medical check-up here refers to thermal screening with temperature less than 37.5°C or 99.5°F and pulse oximetry greater than 94%. “All elderly people (aged above 60) and those with comorbidities (such as diabetes mellitus, hypertension, asthma, heart ailment, and renal disease) are required to be clinically evaluated diligently prior to shifting them for quarantine,” the circular stated. “All such persons will be mandatorily under home quarantine for the next seven days. Before shifting to home quarantine, it should be ensured that hand stamping is done and entry is made in Quarantine Watch app,” the circular added. Mr. Akhtar said the State had identified a private hospital for COVID test of travellers in the vulnerable category, especially pregnant women. “Their tests will be done at the private hospital on priority so that they can be sent for home quarantine without much delay,” he said. Justifying the decision of reduction in the number of institutional quarantine days from 14 to seven, he said, “The government of India has done this too and new literature shows that 14 days is not necessary. Studies have also shown that transmission of the virus through asymptomatic persons is rare.” 115 new cases Meanwhile, 115 new cases were reported in the State on Thursday, taking the total number of positive cases to 2,533. This includes 47 COVID deaths, two non-COVID deaths, and 834 discharged persons. The State’s fatality rate stands at 1.85%. Among the new cases, 95 are inter-State travellers and two international passengers. The highest number of cases were reported from Udupi with 29 patients, Dakshina Kannada with 24, Hassan with 13, Bidar with 12, and Bengaluru Urban with nine, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, who is also the COVID-19 spokesperson for the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/no-more-covid-19-test-for-asymptomatic-travellers/article31699790.ece
29 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. puts on hold extended work hours in factories||Following the Centre’s objections to increase in employees’ working hours in factories/industries in Karnataka — from eight hours a day to a maximum of 10 hours — the State Cabinet has decided to put on hold the newly formed rule. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said the State Cabinet has decided to take a decision on the matter in the next Cabinet session. The State government, last week, notified 10 hours work shift per day from the current eight hours for three months, following a demand from industries who had argued that it would help them revive from the lockdown losses. Labour unions, however, had strongly objected to this, stating that it leads to more job losses and harassment of the workforce.  The Cabinet also took a decision to relax conditions to provide monetary benefits to a large section of the unorganised workers. A few days ago, the government announced that autorickshaw and taxi drivers will be given Rs. 5,000 each as a one-time measure as they have had no earnings due to lockdown. But the Transport Department had put several conditions. Owing to this, there were complaints that many drives had been denied the benefits. Briefing on the Cabinet decisions, Mr. Madhuswamy said that similar conditions were imposed while providing compensation to barbers and other unorganised workers. The Cabinet removed all these conditions to provide compensation to a maximum number of people, he said. Maize growers The Cabinet also decided to provide Rs. 5,000 to each maize grower for the loss of crop grown both in kharif and rabi seasons. Earlier, it was decided to give only for crop loss occurred by 10 lakh farmers during the rabi season. The Cabinet has empowered Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in nomination of five members for the Legislative Council. The term of five members would end on June 23. For applying to the post of Police Sub-Inspector, the Cabinet decided to provide two years of age relaxation for all categories as a one-time measure. Upper age limit for general category candidates has been increased from 28 to 30 years, and for SC/ST categories from 30 to 32 years, the Minister said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/govt-puts-on-hold-extended-work-hours-in-factories/article31699794.ece
29 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Councillors seek clarity on use of COVID-19-related funds||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike council meeting on Thursday got off to a rocky start with councillors, mainly from the Opposition, alleging that food kits were not properly distributed at the ward level. They accused ruling party members of taking the lion’s share. Councillors also sought to know the procedure to utilise the Rs. 20 lakh that was allocated to each ward to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. M. Shivaraju, a councillor said, “In the BBMP budget, a total of Rs. 45 lakh was earmarked to each ward to fight COVID-19, of which Rs. 25 lakh was given to the Chief Minister’s discretionary fund. Now, there is no clarity on how to utilise the remaining amount.” Former Mayor B.N. Manjunath Reddy urged the Mayor and Commissioner to provide information on how many food kits were allotted and distributed in each ward and on what basis the State government’s Rs. 20 crore grants were utilised. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar informed the council that over Rs. 3.93 lakh migrant and construction labourers were given food kits sufficient for 21 days. “According to the Labour Department data, there were around 68,000 migrant labourers in the city. But according to our survey there were 3.93 lakh labourers and people belonging to vulnerable sections,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/councillors-seek-clarity-on-use-of-covid-19-related-funds/article31699774.ece
29 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GP polls deferred owing to ‘exceptional circumstances’||Citing “exceptional circumstances” prevailing in the State following COVID-19, the State Election Commission (SEC) has postponed elections to 5,800 gram panchayats (GPs). The term of 5,800 rural local bodies of the 6,025 GPs would end in June-August. In a release to the media, the SEC said under 243-k of the Constitution, the commission has powers to postpone elections to GPs. Under unavoidable circumstances, the commission has decided to postpone polls to GPs temporarily, it said. Following Congress opposition to postponement of GPs elections, the SEC had decided to solicit views of Deputy Commissioners on the viability of holding elections to GPs in June-July. Official sources in the SEC said a majority of the Deputy Commissioners had submitted their written suggestions to the commission seeking deferment of elections to GPs by 2-3 months. The main argument of the DCs was that the district and taluk-level administration was presently busy with COVID-19 related work following increased number of cases. Moreover, it was not viable to hold elections in June and July since the State receives heavy rains and the district administrative machinery would be involved in rain-related works. It was also difficult to maintain social distancing norms during the campaign as well as during polling. The SEC said it had commenced work related to preparation of electoral roll and reservation of seats as per the newly amended Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act, 1993. But the work remained incomplete as over 50% of the staff stayed home and did not attend offices during lockdown. The Congress leaders submitted a petition to the SEC seeking elections as per schedule. They demanded the SEC to hold elections as per the Act and opposed the government’s plan to appoint its party workers as administrators through Deputy Commissioners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/gp-polls-deferred-owing-to-exceptional-circumstances/article31699796.ece
29 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Chance of locust swarms in State low: Minister||Though locust swarms have invaded parts of the neighbouring Maharashtra, the chances of them entering Karnataka are very low, according to Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil. Mr. Patil, who held a meeting with officials and experts on the precautionary measures to be taken, appealed to farmers not to panic. At a press conference here on Thursday, Mr. Patil pointed out that locust swarms were nearly 450 km away from the State border in Bidar. Pointing out that they mostly depend on wind to travel, he said the weather forecast had indicated that the wind direction may change towards northeast within a couple of days. This would mean that these insects would not be flying towards Karnataka from Maharashtra, the Minister said. SOP ready He said standard operating procedure (SoP) too had been prepared to handle them even if the wind direction did not change. As per the SoP, farmers are supposed to spray neem-based insecticides or chlorpyrifos and lambda-cyhalothrin insecticides. He said the government had made arrangements for fire engines, tractor-operated sprayers, and drones for the effective spray of insecticides to control them. Listing the precautionary measures being taken by Karnataka, he said the State Agriculture Commissioner was getting information on hourly basis from his Maharashtra counterpart on the movement of locust swarms. He said district- and State-level teams had been formed to tackle the swarms. The State team had been asked to visit vulnerable districts such as Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, and Koppal to instil confidence among farmers and create awareness among them about the measures to be taken to contain the swarms if they invade. Mr. Patil said the government had decided to earmark 25% of funds from the State disaster fund to handle locust menace.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/chance-of-locust-swarms-in-state-low-minister/article31699787.ece
29 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||N.R. Santosh to be political secretary to CM?||N.R. Santosh, former personal secretary to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa who played a key role during ‘Operation lotus’ to wooMLAs from the Congress and the JD(S) in 2019 that pulled down the coalition government, leading to a Bharatiya Janata Party government in the State, is expected to be appointed as political secretary to the Chief Minister, according to sources. This comes amid rumours of a renewed campaign against Mr. Yediyurappa’s leadership by a section of the BJP legislators, especially those from north Karnataka. The post will have a Minister of State rank and if the appointment comes through, he will be the third political secretary to the Chief Minister — senior MLAs M.P. Renukacharya and S.R. Vishwanath are already functioning as his political secretaries. This has raised the eyebrows as Mr. Santosh, also a close relative of the Chief Minister, seemed to have had a fallout with the family after the BJP came to power. While sources close to the Chief Minister claimed Mr. Santosh has brought pressure from the RSS, others in the party said it was a move to cut some support to the rebels, who have continued to lobby for the Chief Minister’s removal. Mr. Santosh was said to be associated with them, even though he has denied any such association. A senior BJP leader claimed that Mr. Santosh was only “a victim of a power play within Mr. Yediyurappa’s family” as Chief Minister’s son B.S. Vijayendra took over the affairs. “Now the family seems to have reunited again,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nr-santosh-to-be-political-secretary-to-cm/article31699791.ece
29 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Consultations held on anti-defection law||Some political leaders in the State on Thursday appealed to the three-member committee of Speakers, which is looking into ways and means of strengthening the anti-defection law, to bar the disqualified members from contesting elections for 10 years. They also suggested to the committee to give full powers to the Speaker to decide on disqualification of members. Karnataka Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, who is part of the three-member committee, held deliberations in Bengaluru on Thursday with various leaders, including Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, as part of the efforts to elicit public opinion. Mr. Siddaramaiah, who suggested that the Speaker should have a final say in the matter of disqualification, said his party would file its views before the committee after consulting experts and party leaders. In his written submission, JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy not only urged the committee to bar the disqualified persons from contesting again for 10 years, but also suggested that their family members too should be prevented from contesting polls. Both Mr. Siddaramaiah and Mr. Kumaraswamy suggested that a time-frame should be fixed for deciding the disqualification petition. Mr. Kageri said some of the members had also said that courts should not interfere in the matter of disqualification. He said public could submit their views on the matter to the secretary of Karnataka Legislative Assembly before June 10.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/consultations-held-on-anti-defection-law/article31699797.ece
29 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA: Ordinance gets assent||Governor Vajubhai Vala has given his assent to the Ordinance that enabled regularisation of properties in BDA layouts in the city. A few days ago, the government had decided to regularise unauthorised houses built 12 years ago in BDA layouts. Owners of houses built on sites measuring 20x30 sq ft, 30x40 sq ft, 40x60 sq ft, and 50x80 sq ft are eligible to legalise their constructions by paying fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bda-ordinance-gets-assent/article31699792.ece
29 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Competition||To encourage children to stay indoors and engage in creativity during the COVID-19 lockdown, National Gallery of Modern Art, Bengaluru, is organising an online drawing competition, titled ‘Lockdown Meets Art’.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/competition/article31699775.ece
29 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Expert’s view||Entomologists feel that effective measures initiated by Maharashtra to control loctus swarms have reduced the threat level for Karnataka. A.R.V. Kumar, retired entomologist from the University of Agricultural Sciences-Bengaluru who attended a meeting convened by Karnataka government on Thursday,told The Hindu that Maharashtra was more effective in tackling desert locust swarms than other States. “This is basically owing to the effective insecticides used by them well in time,” he said. According to him, such a measure has reduced the population size of desert locust swarms. Apart from wind direction that is expected to change the course towards the northeast, making these swarms to fly back, Karnataka has another advantage. “The desert locust live for a maximum of two-and-a-half months to five months. The present swarms have already completed three-and-a-half months of their life cycle. Hence their knockdown effect will reduce,” Dr. Kumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/experts-view/article31699785.ece
29 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Shettar promises steps to ensure industrial growth in Koppal||Large and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar has promised to take steps to ensure industrial growth in Koppal district. Mr. Shettar made this assurance during a meeting with Koppal MP Karadi Sanganna here on Wednesday. Mr. Sanganna apprised the Minister of pending industrial development projects. Mr. Sanganna said that when he (Mr. Sanganna) was the chairman of Karnataka State Small Industries Development Corporation, he had ensured reserving 104 acres of land at Basapur in Koppal district for development of industries. Now, the modalities of fixing price for industrial sites and their allotment to entrepreneurs need to be discussed and finalised. Mr. Sanganna also discussed the establishment of a large industry for manufacturing toys near Hiremannapur, Yelburga, Koppal district. He invited the Minister to visit Koppal in this connection. Mr. Shettar told him that he would visit Koppal at the earliest and take steps to initiate the development of industries in the district. Dharwad Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan, the former MLA Doddanagouda Patil, K. Sharanappa and Veeranna Ganiger, among others, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shettar-promises-steps-to-ensure-industrial-growth-in-koppal/article31699958.ece
29 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||29 discharged in Hassan||As many as 29 people were discharged from the COVID-19 designated hospital in Hassan on Thursday. They walked out of the hospital thanking doctors and medical staff for taking care of them. This is the first batch of patients who have recovered here. The Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences staff bid farewell by offering roses and masks. They have been asked to home quarantine for the next 14 days. Among those discharged include six from Holenarsipur taluk and 23 from Channarayapatna taluk. They had returned from Maharashtra obtaining travel passes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/29-discharged-in-hassan/article31699969.ece
29 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Police intercept workers on trucks, put them on buses||As many as 184 migrant workers, including their family members and children, who were proceeding to their native places on trucks were stopped by the Dharwad District Police on Thursday and subsequently sent home in public transport buses. According to the Dharwad District Police, these migrant workers had started their journey on two trucks from Chitradurga district and were proceeding to their native places in Raigad district of Maharashtra. They were all working at charcoal kilns in and around Challakere and Hiriyur of Chitradurga district. They were intercepted at Varur-Agadi check-post. Of these 184 persons, 55 were women and 65 children. On being alerted, a team of officials, led by Assistant Commissioner of Dharwad district Mohammed Zuber, took steps to provide temporary shelter to them in Hubballi. Subsequently, following a direction from Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Deepa M. they made arrangements for sending them on public transport buses to their State. Mr. Mohammed Zuber said that all the migrant workers and their family members were sent on six buses of North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), after medical examination. He said that a communication in this regard had been sent to the Deputy Commissioner of Raigad seeking help to ferry them to Raigad from Karnataka border. NWKRTC buses would ferry them up to Nippani on Maharashtra border, he said. Hubballi taluk administration provided food to the migrant workers. It also distributed milk. These buses left here after all precautionary measures were ensured. Hubballi Rural tahsildar Prakash Nasi, Kundgol tahsildar Basavaraj Melavanki, Divisional Controller of NWKRTC Hubballi Division H. Ramanagoudar, Taluk Health Officer R.S. Hittalamani and Hubballi Rural Police Inspector J.R. D’souza and other officials supervised the arrangements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/police-intercept-workers-on-trucks-put-them-on-buses/article31699959.ece
29 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||13 discharged||As many as 13 persons who have been cured of SARS-CoV-2 infection were discharged from the designated COVID-19 hospital in Davangere on Thursday. So far, 142 cases have been reported in the district and of them, 79 persons have been discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-discharged/article31699960.ece
29 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Alliance Air flight lands in Kalaburagi||A domestic flight of Alliance Air, which has resumed its operations over two months after lockdown was announced, landed at Kalaburagi Airport on Thursday. Kalaburagi Airport Director Gyaneshwar Rao said that the flight, with 19 passengers, landed at Kalaburagi Airport at 11.45 a.m. from Bengaluru. Domestic flight operations were resumed by Airport Authority of India (AAI) in a calibrated manner as laid down by the Ministry of Civil Aviation to check the spread of coronavirus. Officials concerned collected details of all passengers, ensured thermal screening and conducted medical examination for all of them who arrived from Bengaluru and also those who boarded the flight in Kalaburagi on its return journey. Mr. Gyaneshwar said that Alliance Air would operate flights on all seven days. On Mondays and Tuesdays, the flight from Bengaluru would land at Kalaburagi Airport at 8.45 a.m. and fly back to Bengaluru at 9.25 a.m. From Wednesdays to Sundays, Alliance Air flight would arrive at 11.45 a.m. and fly back at 12.25 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/alliance-air-flight-lands-in-kalaburagi/article31699954.ece
29 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Academics condemned||Commending academics on the committee set up to design a common syllabus for post-graduate courses for their collective resignation from their membership, H.T. Pote, a Dalit writer and Head of Kannada Department in Gulbarga University, has said that the very concept of formulating a uniform syllabus for post-graduate courses in universities in the State was erroneous. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr Pote said that the formulation of a uniform syllabus would result in stopping relatively less-known writers at the local level from entering the university syllabus. He also raised objections to the very composition of the committee stating that the panel had lacked fair representation from all regions. “It was dominated by South Karnataka-based writers and academics,” Mr Pote said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/academics-condemned/article31699953.ece
29 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Fishermen want beached dredging vessel on Surathkal coast to stay put||Notwithstanding environmentalists and experts concern over the continued stay of dredging vessel Bhagvati Prem on Surathkal beach, fishermen in the region want the vessel to stay put. Though it may seem strange to those staying off the marine environment, fishermen have a reason behind their argument. None of the traditional fishermen who were picking up day’s catch between Surathkal and Panambur beach said they were troubled by the beached vessel when The Hindu visited the stretch. A large sand bar, approximately measuring 100 ft by 200 ft, has come up on the beach-side of the vessel after its beaching by New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) on October 28, 2019. The sand bar appears to have become a safe landing place for traditional fishermen, who venture into the sea in their small boats. Fishermen who feared their boats might get damaged at a time when Bhagvati Prem was beached last year, now say they have no problem with its presence. Explaining the rationale behind their changed approach, Yatish Baikampady, CEO of Panambur Beach Development Project, said the beached vessel has been facilitating the growth of marine life around it. The stagnant vessel that is pretty large (114 mt long and 21 mt wide) smoothens rough sea waves around it thereby forming a calm pool of water. This encourages marine life, including fish, to grow. Fishermen would naturally be happy to get good catch, he said. Such growth of marine life was also being witnessed around another dredging vessel Tridev Prem that sank 2.5 nautical miles off NMPT on September 3 last, Mr. Baikampady noted. Fishermen have been getting a good catch from the location. The presence of the vessel could also encourage tourism in the region when things become normal after COVID-19, he said, adding the coastline may not get altered drastically with its presence. Fishermen, however, were against in-situ breaking of the beached Bhagvati Prem, Mr. Baikampady said. Whoever buys the vessel in the auction being planned by NMPT should tow away the vessel. In-situ breaking of the vessel would result in multiple damage to the coastal eco-system as well as social life, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fishermen-want-beached-dredging-vessel-on-surathkal-coast-to-stay-put/article31699971.ece
29 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Tulu poems and renditions trending on Facebook||It Is not just #samyochane [a campaign initiated by music composer Pravin D. Rao] that is trending on Facebook. #Tulukabithe, by writer-cum-artiste Shashiraj Kavoor, is catching the attention of poets, writers, singers and music lovers on the social networking site. The campaign was started by Mr. Kavoor on April 23 inviting writers to upload their poems, to which musicians are responding in their style. The campaign features not just new poems but even those of well-known writers such as Kayyar Kiyanna Rai, Amruth Someshwar and Mandara Keshava Bhat. Mr. Kavoor, an advocate and who has been a lyricist for many Tulu films and has two Tulu poem collections to his credit, said that the idea of starting the campaign came to him after he saw how two of his Kannada poems were rendered by four singers in the #samyochane campaign. “This made me start the present campaign to showcase the richness of Tulu literature. Apart from a new touch to the popular Tulu poems, singers have presented new poems in a way that reflects the ethos of this land,” he said and appreciated the support of 20,000 friends [on Facebook] for the success of the campaign. “Some of the videos of the songs posted on my FB wall have more than 2,000 views,” he said. Among the songs with a good number of views include the Tulu lullaby Tunkuve Tottil... by Narayana Kille sung by Supriya Raghunandan. Songs by Pallavi Prabhu, Ravindra Prabhu, Muralidhar Kamat, Pramod Sapre and “Mime” Ramdas have also been well received. “I am continuing this campaign till the end of the lockdown. Anybody with interest in Tulu art and music can take part,” he added.  Shashiraj Kavoor started #Tulukabithe after two of his poems were rendered on #samyochane campaign||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tulu-poems-and-renditions-trending-on-facebook/article31699950.ece
29 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘DKMUL will extend cattle insurance to all farmer-members from next month’||Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Union Ltd. (DKMUL), which introduced cattle insurance to its limited members on a trial basis two years ago, will extend it to all members from next month, according to its president Raviraj Hegde. He told The Hindu that the members can avail either the annual insurance scheme or the three-year scheme. The union will bear 75% of the premium while the farmer members will have to bear the remaining amount. The insurance scheme will make dairy farmers more secure. Stating that the union has reserved Rs. 6 crore for the implementation of the scheme, he said there are 726 milk producers cooperative societies attached to the union in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts. They had about 1.35 lakh members of which 68,000 members are active, which meant they sold milk to the union daily. Mr. Hegde said when the union introduced the scheme, it covered between 10,000 and 20,000 animals a year till 2019-20. The union had used fund from Raita Kalyana Trust for the purpose. Now, it had made separate budgetary allocation for the scheme. Bringing cattle under insurance would make farmers more secure in case of death of cattle. The union through its farmers’ trust gives a minimum amount as compensation to owners in case of cattle death. But the insurance cover would be more attractive. If all members availed the scheme, more than one lakh cattle would be covered in twin districts. He said the union was collecting 4.6 lakh litres of milk daily from farmers. It converted about one lakh litres of milk into powder. The commercial sale of milk and its products has been hit due to the lockdown as there are no marriages and functions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dkmul-will-extend-cattle-insurance-to-all-farmer-members-from-next-month/article31699966.ece
29 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Lockdown effect: Town Hall pedestrian subway deadline pushed to next month||Having completed half of the Town Hall pedestrian underpass last week, Mangalore Smart City Ltd. (MSCL) that is executing the project expects to complete the balance work by June-end, provided the city does not witness torrential rain. After completing the work beneath the carriageway from A.B. Shetty Circle to Clock Tower on Maidan Road, MSCL opened the stretch on Tuesday for regular traffic and commenced work on the other carriageway between Clock Tower and A.B. Shetty Circle. As earlier, vehicles from Clock Tower to A.B. Shetty Circle are allowed to move through the opened stretch while those from A.B. Shetty Circle towards Clock Tower have to take the service bus stand road. MSCL had the target of May to complete the entire work of the Rs. 6 crore pedestrian underpass project if everything was in order. However, the lockdown considerably delayed the project. Smart City Managing Director Mohammed Nazeer told The Hindu that now the company has plans to raise columns by June 5 after completing the earth work that has already started. Once columns are ready, the entire work could be completed by June 20, he said. Concrete works of the box may not get affected unless there was continuous heavy rain, he added. The first part of the box got delayed due to the presence of various utility cables, including telephone and power, serving the central parts of the city including the Deputy Commissioner’s office. BSNL had to shift over 50 cables, each with an average of 1,200 connections, by joining pair by pair. Mangalore Electricity Supply Company too had to shift a 33 kV underground cable supplying power to Forum Fiza Mall. However, there were no utility cables beneath the carriageway abutting the Mini Vidhana Soudha where the present work is going on. Hence, work on this stretch would not take much time, Mr. Nazeer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/lockdown-effect-town-hall-pedestrian-subway-deadline-pushed-to-next-month/article31699965.ece
29 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Forest Department keeps 1.25 lakh saplings ready for Mangaluru range||The Forest Department has kept ready more than 1.25 lakh saplings for planting in Mangaluru range this rainy season. Of this, 10,000 are meant for planting in the city under the smart city mission. Addressing presspersons here on Thursday, P. Sridhar, Range Forest Officer, Mangaluru Range, said the saplings are ready in the department’s nursery at Padil. The department will give a sapling free to whoever approaches the nursery. People can purchase upto 10 saplings by paying Rs. 1 per sapling without producing any documents. They will have to produce land records for purchasing more than 10 saplings. He said a maximum of 160 saplings will be given for planting in one acre land. If it is one hectare land, a maximum of 400 saplings will be given. Mr. Sridhar said that as an incentive to those who plant the sapling, the government will provide Rs. 125 per sapling across three years. It will be given under Krishi Aranya Protsaha Yojane as Rs. 35 in the first year, Rs. 40 in the second year, and Rs. 50 in the third year. He said 29,778 of the total saplings ready are teakwood and 8,178 are sandalwood. Mr. Sridhar said of the total saplings, the department has kept ready 10,000 saplings of 35 varieties to Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. The company will take a call on how to distribute them and where to plant them. He said of the total saplings, 90,000 saplings of 49 varieties are meant for the general public. The department will give 11,000 saplings freely to schools, religious organisations and other voluntary organisations under Hasiru Karnataka Yojane. In addition, 2,500 saplings will be given free to school students under Maguvigondu Mara Shalegondu Vana Yojane. He said that the department will plant saplings between Thokkottu and Talapady on NH 66 and between Thokkottu-Deralakatte-Paneer Road. He said those who required more than 10 saplings will have to apply to the office of Range Forest Officer and produce documents such as a copy of RTC, Aadhaar card, and bank passbook.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/forest-department-keeps-125-lakh-saplings-ready-for-mangaluru-range/article31699974.ece
29 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Transport sector wants tax waiver for six months||Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association and State Bus Owners’ Committee have urged the government to waive road tax for six months and collect only 50% of the tax for the next six months due to COVID-19. Association general secretary K. Radhakrishna Holla told The Hindu that the two-month tax waiver announced by the government on Tuesday had to be announced as 95% of bus operators had surrendered their permits. The order too was flawed. Instead of waiving tax for specific two months, it waived tax from March 24 to May 23. Tax is collected monthly and not daily, he pointed out.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/transport-sector-wants-tax-waiver-for-six-months/article31699963.ece
29 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Boy assaulted, forced to say ‘Jai Sri Ram’||The Vitla police have secured four persons, including three minors, for allegedly assaulting a 16-year-old boy and forcing him to say “Jai Sri Ram” in a village in Dakshina Kannada. According to the police, the incident occurred at Kudtamuger in Bantwal taluk on April 21. The boy, who was shaken by the incident, filed a complaint on May 28. The incident also came to light after a video clip went viral. In the video, one accused is seen slapping the boy for reportedly being in contact with a Hindu girl. He warns the boy to snap ties with the girl and asks him to say “Jai Sri Ram” even as he continues to slap him. A case was registered against Dinesh Kanyana and three boys.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/boy-assaulted-forced-to-say-jai-sri-ram/article31699795.ece
29 May 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||‘Prepare action plan to acquire land for NH’||Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has directed officials of the department concerned to prepare an action plan to acquire land in Raichur district for the proposed ring road and national highway under Bharatmala Pariyojana Project linking Maharashtra’s Akkalkot with Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool. He issued the direction to the officials after discussing the matter with planning officers from Ballari and Kalaburagi districts in Raichur. Mr. Kumar said that as a stretch of 37 kilometres of the proposed national highway from Akkalkot to Kurnool under the scheme will pass through Raichur district, officials here have to prepare the action plan to acquire land for the purpose. The Deputy Commissioner said that a ring road will come up connecting from Yermarus, Chikkasugur, Deosugur and Mantralayam Road surrounding Raichur city. Therefore, officials should collect information about land to be acquired and fix the rate soon, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/prepare-action-plan-to-acquire-land-for-nh/article31699952.ece
29 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Udupi administration prepares for next phase of returnees||The district administration is making arrangements for the next phase of returnees to Udupi district in June. G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, told The Hindu that 6,739 natives of Udupi district working in other States had applied for coming back. At least one other person was expected to accompany the applicants. Hence, the administration was expecting about 13,500 persons. “But, we will request the State government to allow the returnees to come in batches of 300 persons. This is because we have capacity only to test about 300 persons a day,” he said. So far, 8,010 persons had returned from other States to the district and were kept in quarantine centres. Nearly half of them has been tested for COVID-19 and later allowed to return to their homes. Testing was slow due to the burden of large number of swabs at the labs, Mr. Jagadeesha said. In order to ramp up testing, a COVID-19 testing lab would come up at the district government hospital here in three weeks. The lab would test about 250 samples a day. “In addition, we can take help of the lab started at Kasturba Medical College in Manipal recently. So far, about 700 swabs have been tested there,” he said. As per the latest guidelines, the returnees would have to be in institutional quarantine for a week. After they are tested, they have to be under home quarantine for a week, he said. The administration did not have figures of people returning from the Middle East. “We get the figures from the government after the flights are booked from those places,” Mr. Jagadeesha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udupi-administration-prepares-for-next-phase-of-returnees/article31699968.ece
29 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Udupi district records 29 positive cases||As many as 29 persons, including a six-year-old girl, tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Thursday. According to a release issued here, the 29 persons also include 19 men and nine women. While 26 of them had returned from Maharashtra recently, two had returned from Telangana and one person from Kerala. All 29 persons have been shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospitals in the district. Presently, there are 145 active cases in the district. Revised guidelines Meanwhile, G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, said those who had come from other States and foreign countries had been put under institutional quarantine in the district. As per the revised guidelines, those who completed seven days of institutional quarantine would have to undergo home quarantine for a week after medical assessment. Those who complete 14-day institutional quarantine (as per previous guidelines) had been allowed to go to their homes. But they would have a 14-day reporting period. If any of the persons under home quarantine developed symptoms of COVID-19, they would have to immediately contact the Health Department or revenue officers, he said. Legal cases Those who were being sent to home quarantine should strictly follow the rules of home quarantine. Legal cases would be slapped on persons found violating the conditions of home quarantine. It was incumbent upon persons in home quarantine to download the Quarantine App, he said. Quarantine App The Quarantine App had geo-fencing facility and the authorities would come to know if anybody had stepped out of their houses. “We will give a warning for the first violation and book a case for the second violation,” Mr. Jagadeesha said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-udupi-district-records-29-positive-cases/article31699975.ece
29 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Fishermen told not to venture into sea||The Department of Fisheries has advised fishermen in Udupi district not to venture into the Arabian Sea from May 29 to June 4. A press release on Thursday said that a low pressure area had formed over West-Central Arabian Sea. It was very likely to concentrate into a depression in the next 48 hours. There would be strong waves and hence, fishermen should avoid deep sea fishing in this period, the release said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/fishermen-told-not-to-venture-into-sea/article31699976.ece
29 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Seven fresh cases in Yadgir district; one in Raichur||Yadgir district registered seven fresh COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday. The details of those who tested positive are as follows: P-2,475, a 28-year-old male and P-2,476, a 24-year-old male and P-2,477, a 28-year-old male from Bevinal SK village, P-2,478, a 24-year-old female from Saidapur, P-2,479, an eight-year-old male from Ukkinal Tanda, P-2,480, a 45-year-old male from Gurmitkal and P-2,481, an 11-year-old male from Motnalli Tanda. They all returned from Maharashtra on different dates and the officials kept all of them in institutional quarantine at different places. They have been now shifted to the designated hospital after medical reports confirmed their results as being positive for COVID-19. The total number of positive cases have been put at 163. Of these, 153 are active cases, and nine patients have been discharged from hospital. One patient has died due to the virus. Meanwhile, one COVID-19 positive case was reported in Raichur. P-2,423, a 39-year-old male who returned from Maharashtra was under institutional quarantine and after his samples returned positive has been shifted to the designated hospital in Raichur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/seven-fresh-cases-in-yadgir-district-one-in-raichur/article31699955.ece
29 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||55-year-old woman dies at quarantine centre||A 55-year-old woman died at an institutional quarantine centre at Chinnakara village in Gurmitkal taluk on Wednesday. She was identified as Narasamma Kashappa of Chinnakara village. Narasamma and her husband Kashappa returned from Maharashtra on May 19 and officials kept them under quarantine as per protocol. “She died of cancer. However, doctors have collected throat swabs from her and sent them to a laboratory,” Taluk Health Officer Hanumanth Reddy said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/55-year-old-woman-dies-at-quarantine-centre/article31699956.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Staff shortage upsets BMTC’s plan to increase services||A week after Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) resumed services in the city, the number of buses it operates every day has risen from 1,700 to a little over 3,000. However, the cash-strapped corporation's plans to increase services and reduce the extent of losses is stymied by the absence of drivers and conductors, many of whom went to their hometowns during the lockdown and are yet to report for work. “Around 30% of our drivers and conductors are yet to report for duty,” said a BMTC official. All personnel were asked to report for duty after undergoing mandatory health tests. “People who had gone to their hometowns in the northern parts of the State and other districts earlier said they could not return because there was no transport. But now KSRTC has resumed services. Drivers and conductors fall under the category of people providing essential services. We hope they report for duty in the coming days,” the official added. The Corporation, which hopes to increase services, had written to the State government seeking permission to operate from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. It also wants to start AC bus services within the city and to KIA. “At present, our services are confined to city limits, but once our drivers and conductors return, we will operate services to suburban areas that include villages located on the outskirts,” said a senior BMTC official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/staff-shortage-upsets-bmtcs-plan-to-increase-services/article31699778.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Most plaints on Sahaaya 2.0 for electrical department||Uncollected garbage, clogged drains, pothole-ridden roads and malfunctioning streetlights are some of the main complaints registered on ‘Namma Bengaluru’ (Sahaaya 2.0) app by citizens. The electrical department received the maximum number of complaints – 8,109 – since the application was launched in February this year. As many as 7,684 were related to solid waste management, shows data gathered so far. With regard to resolution of complaints, the solid waste management department has a resolution rate of 94.99%, followed by the electrical department with 94.45%, animal husbandry department with 89.74%, revenue department (75.08%) and health department (70.27%). BBMP’s IT officials said that though there are seven different departments on the app, the civic body gets the maximum number of complaints. “Once the complaint is registered, it automatically gets assigned to the official in the department concerned. If the complaint is not redressed within a specified period, which varies depending on the category of complaint, it gets escalated to the next level,” an official explained and said that some complaints can also be marked as long-term, meaning resolution will take time. The ‘Namma Bengaluru’ web application is a one-stop platform developed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), and can be downloaded as an app on mobile phones or accessed on desktops. The application has a single window interface with seven different departments. Complaints that the BBMP receives from control rooms and social media platforms handled by various officials, including the Mayor and Commissioner, are uploaded on to the Sahaaya 2.0 platform. “This is so that resolution of each complaint can be tracked by both BBMP and the complainant,” the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/most-plaints-on-sahaaya-20-for-electrical-department/article31699784.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Citizens complain about BDA online property tax collection||As the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) opened its online property tax payment system, many people have been complaining about glitches in the system. Some have been alleging that they are being forced to go to the BDA office even during the lockdown. A resident said there were no problems when handwritten khatas were issued. “But since the online payment system has come this year, many of us are facing issues. Many khatas do not have the PID (property ID)., including those issued up to February,” said the property owner. Citizens have been alleging that for some allottees, khata has been issued without the PID. For some others, the PID has been mentioned as ‘0’. “People have also complained of numbers missing in the PID. One allottee said she is mentioned as the owner in the khata, but the tax receipt names her husband as the owner. “For sites registered in 2020, tax is being demanded from 2018 from some allottees,” alleged another citizen. According to the BDA website, property owners are required to enter their PID, site ID and full name as mentioned in the records. Once the data is verified, the system will request you to enter your mobile number and email ID. A One time Password (OTP) will be sent to the mobile number and the email ID. Upon entering the OTP, the system will update the records. Once the data is verified, you can login with the OTP sent to your phone number, your tax dues are shown and you would be able to pay the due amount. However, citizens are demanding that the BDA reissue e-khata with the PID online or send it to their phone numbers. BDA Commissioner G.C. Prakash maintained that there were no issues with the new online system. “PID numbers have been given to all 74,000 properties under the BDA. Without PID, they will not be able to pay the tax. Each property will have a unique number. All issues have been sorted out,” he claimed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/citizens-complain-about-bda-online-property-tax-collection/article31699776.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Saffron flags put up again at Vijayanagar market||Days after the police removed saffron flags from public places in Vijayanagar market following five complaints from activists and residents, the flags reportedly reappeared on Thursday. On May 18, workers of a right-wing organisation had allegedly hoisted saffron flags on shops run by Hindus to demarcate them from others. Members of the organisation, led by one M. L. Shivakumar Gowda, put a live video on social media, following which several complaints were lodged, but no case was registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/saffron-flags-put-up-again-at-vijayanagar-market/article31699782.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KSRTC night services||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) on Wednesday approached the State government seeking permission to operate night services. “At present, the last bus leaves at 7 p.m. Some buses reach their destination very early in the morning. This is inconveniencing passengers,” said a KSRTC official. KSRTC wants permission to operate AC buses too. The luxury fleet of AC buses, including fly bus and Ambari dream class buses, have remained off the road for over two months. An official said, “When AC trains and domestic flights are allowed to operate, why restrict buses?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/ksrtc-night-services/article31699779.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Protest over flyover name||Councillors from the Congress protested in front of the council building against the naming of Yelahanka flyover after Hindutva ideologue, V.D. Savarkar. This comes a day after the BBMP issued an invitation for the inauguration of the flyover which initially mentioned that it would be named after V.D. Savarkar. The civic body then reissued another invitation without naming the flyover, and finally cancelled the inauguration altogether. Abdul Wajid, Leader of Opposition, BBMP, said that the current dispensation had dishonoured freedom fighters from the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/protest-over-flyover-name/article31699780.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Setting an example||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/setting-an-example/article31699962.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Testing times||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/testing-times/article31699979.ece
29 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Paddy procurement on a par with last year’s||The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) has so far procured 6.91 lakh tonnes of paddy as the 2019-20 crop season is nearing completion in the State. According to Supplyco officials, the corporation has procured 2.02 lakh tonnes of paddy during the additional (second) crop season (May-September). In the ongoing ‘puncha’ (first) season (November-March, which got extended this season), it has purchased 4.88 lakh tonnes so far from farmers across the State. In the previous season, it had procured 6.94 lakh tonnes during the two crops. Output to go up A.V. Suresh Kumar, Manager (paddy procurement), Supplyco, told The Hindu on Thursday that the paddy output would go up compared to the 2018-19 season. “Except in some fields in Alappuzha and Thrissur districts, the harvest of the puncha crop and procurement are almost done. When the procurement is finished, we expect the paddy production to increase slightly in the State,” Mr. Kumar said. Although the overall paddy production is expected to rise, there is a steep fall in yield in the puncha season compared to the corresponding period last year. In the 2018-19 season, the great deluge had washed out the additional crop in its entirety. The bulk of the 6.94 lakh tonnes procured last season was cultivated in the following puncha season as the floodwaters deposited huge amounts of silt in the paddy fields and improved soil fertility. Officials said that when it came to the puncha season alone, they expect the paddy yield to fall by around one lakh tonnes compared to last season. Mr. Kumar said Supplyco has so far procured paddy worth Rs. 1,862 crore from 2.07 lakh farmers in the State during the season. Palakkad leads Palakkad continues to lead the way in paddy production in the State. Supplyco has so far procured 2.91 lakh tonnes from the district this season. It is followed by Alappuzha (1.74 lakh tonnes) and Thrissur (98,782 tonnes).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/paddy-procurement-on-a-par-with-last-years/article31700067.ece
29 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha native tests positive||One more person from the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. According to Health Department officials, the patient, a young woman from Mavelikara taluk, reached the Cochin international airport from Kuwait on May 26. “As she was showing symptoms of the disease on arrival, she was immediately shifted to a COVID-19 hospital at Muvattupuzha in Ernakulam district. She is currently undergoing treatment at the hospital,” said an official. The district has so far reported 36 COVID-19 cases, of which 29 remain active. Seven people have made a full recovery. Of the total active cases, 28 are undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha. Meanwhile, nine persons were hospitalised with symptoms of the disease in the district on Thursday, taking the total number of people under observation at MCH, Alappuzha, and Taluk Hospital, Haripad, to 37. A total of 4,731 people are in quarantine/isolation in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/alappuzha-native-tests-positive/article31700123.ece
29 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||CPI(M) leaders threaten police at Vandiperiyar||Video clips of some Communist Party of India (Marxist) leaders threatening police officers, including the sub-inspector, of the Vandiperiyar police station in connection with the seizure of a motorbike belonging to a Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) activist created a row on Thursday. The police had seized nearly 20 motorbikes, including that of the DYFI activist, for violating COVID-19 regulations. Though CPI(M) district secretariat member R. Thilakan and Peerumade local committee secretary Vijayanand reached the police station to get the vehicle released, the police did not budge. Case registered They insisted that a penalty of Rs. 3,000 should be paid for releasing the motorbike. The leaders threatened the police officers with dire consequences. In the video, they were seen saying that they would enter the residences of the police officers and might even hack them. The video clips appeared on social media. The police have registered a case against the CPI(M) leaders for preventing the officers from discharging their duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cpim-leaders-threaten-police-at-vandiperiyar/article31700124.ece
29 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rahul gifts PPE kits||Rahul Gandhi, MP, has donated 500 Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits to the police in Wayanad constituency. District Congress Committee president I.C. Balakrishnan, MLA, handed over the kits to District Collector Adeela Abdulla and District Police Chief R. Ilango on Thursday. The district police will get 250 kits, while the police in Kozhikode and Malappuram will share the rest, said Mr. Balakrishnan. Mr. Gandhi had gifted 50 thermal scanners, hand wash, sanitisers, and masks to various government departments in his constituency a few weeks ago.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rahul-gifts-ppe-kits/article31700035.ece
29 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Expatriates allege fleecing by pre-paid taxis at airport||Expatriates arriving by Vande Bharat mission flights have complained of being fleeced by pre-paid taxis at the Kannur International Airport. While some filed complaints with the Transport Minister, Transport Commissioner, and the Kannur Regional Transport Officer, a few others expressed their anguish on social media. Speaking to The Hindu, Hashim Paloor, who arrived with his pregnant wife from Qatar on May 20, said Calicut Tours & Travels operating taxi service from the airport charged him Rs. 6,500 for a distance of 115 km to their home at Mukkom in Kozhikode. Since it was exorbitant, he and a few others inquired about other modes of travel. But the airport staff directed all those who were advised home quarantine to opt for taxi service, said Mr. Hashim. Though he filed a complaint, no action was taken. Abdul Muneer took to social media to express his ire against the taxi operator who charged Rs. 1,000 to drop him at 19th Mile, just 8 km from the airport. Besides overcharging, he said, the driver demanded money for tea and snacks. Another passenger said he was forced to give Rs. 2,500 for dropping him at Thalassery, 35 km from the airport, though before starting the trip he was told it would cost only around Rs. 1,200. The experience was no different for Nahas who had to spend Rs. 1,000 to reach his home at Chavassery, hardly 10 km away. Syam Prasad, a taxi driver at Mattanur, said air passengers were being overcharged following the lockdown. As per a government order, an airport taxi operator should charge only Rs. 15 per km. It is alleged that the company was charging double the fixed fare in the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak. Regional Transport Officer E.S. Unnikrishnan said he had received two complaints and an inquiry was on. The bills produced by the complainants revealed that the company had overcharged them. However, the authenticity of the bills should be verified, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/expatriates-allege-fleecing-by-pre-paid-taxis-at-airport/article31700026.ece
29 May 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Gulf returnees stranded on district border||A group of 18 expatriates who returned from Kuwait were stranded in the KSRTC bus in which they were travelling for more than four hours on the Kannur-Kasaragod border on their way from the Nedumbassery airport on Thursday. They arrived at the airport on Wednesday night and boarded the KSRTC bus to Kasaragod. However, on nearing the Kalikadavu check-post on the Kannur-Kasaragod border in the afternoon, they were stopped. They were informed that they would be allowed entry only after a medical examination and necessary arrangements were made to quarantine them at their respective places. The delay left the passengers fuming even as many complained of not having proper food since their arrival in the country. However, Additional District Magistrate (ADM) N. Devidas said there was no information about their arrival. He added that usually a medical team is deputed to make necessary arrangements to conduct tests and ensure quarantine facilities for those arriving in the district. In the absence of such information most of the available medical staff were deputed for the ongoing school examination. As the authorities had to bring medical staff and arrange facilities to quarantine the returnees, they were advised to wait, he said, adding that they would be placed in home quarantine and, if necessary, government quarantine after online registration.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/gulf-returnees-stranded-on-district-border/article31700033.ece
29 May 2020||KASARAGOD/KANNUR,KERALA||18 cases in Kasaragod, 10 in Kannur||A total of 18 persons, including 13 from Maharashtra, were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod district on Thursday. District Medical Officer Dr. A.V. Ramdas said one woman and 17 men were diagnosed with the disease. In addition to those who returned from Maharashtra, the disease was confirmed in people who came from Kuwait (2), Qatar (1), Sharjah (1), and Tamil Nadu (1). With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the district has reached 67. Four aged 41, 45, 37, and 40 of Pavallige panchayat, three aged 51, 42, and 48 of Kasaragod Municipality, a 54-year-old resident of Kumbala, a 38-year-old native of Madhur, three aged 28, 29, and 40 of Mangalpadi panchayat who returned from Maharashtra tested positive for the virus. A 23-year-old resident of Kottom Bellur who returned from Tamil Nadu was also diagnosed with the illness. Similarly, a 48-year-old resident of Madikai and a 31-year-old Kuttikkal resident who returned from Kuwait on different days, a 59-year-old resident of Chengala who returned from Sharjah, and a 24-year-old woman from Kumbala who arrived from Qatar too tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, a total of 3,616 persons are under observation. They include 3,065 in home quarantine and 551 in hospitals. Matter of concern Dr. Ramdas said the rise in the number of patients in the district should be taken seriously. He also warned of a possible community spread unless effective measures were taken. In Kannur As many as 10 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Thursday. According to District Collector T.V. Subhash, four came from abroad and four from other States, while two got infected through contact. Those who were tested positive after arriving from abroad include two Malur natives, aged 58 and 59. They arrived from Kuwait. A 49-year-old who was tested positive for the virus came from Muscat. He is a native of Muzhappilangad. The others include a 17-year-old Chokli native who came from Mumbai, a 36-year-old resident of Echur who arrived from Chennai, a 39-year-old resident of Muzhappilangad who arrived from Bengaluru, and a 25-year-old resident of Cherupuzha who came from Maharashtra. While those who were infected through contact include a nine-year-old from Dharmadam and a 38-year-old resident of Muzhappilangad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/18-cases-in-kasaragod-10-in-kannur/article31700031.ece
29 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||NHAI expresses shock over shoddy condition of key roads||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which owns the 16-km Edappally-Aroor NH Bypass, has shot off letters to the PWD (NH wing), expressing shock at the shoddy condition of roads at Vyttila and Kundannoor junctions where flyovers are being built. “They have not repaired the roads, despite the impending monsoon season. We issued NOC to PWD in 2017 on the condition that the agency would maintain the NH and service roads at the two junctions in safe and motorable condition. We shot off half-a-dozen letters to the department when their condition deteriorated. The PWD has not replied to them, neither has tangible steps been taken to ensure safe and pothole-free roads, despite accidents and massive traffic snarls. Fed up with their apathy, we had to execute repair works in a few areas,” said a senior official of NHAI. Another official spoke of how the PWD defaulted in executing preparatory works like raising service roads to the height of the NH Bypass and readying slip roads, especially at Vyttila. “They simply barricaded the two junctions, and as a result, vehicles — including buses and lorries — had to be diverted through the narrow service roads. This caused lasting damage to service roads, which were not designed for frequent movement of heavy vehicles.” “The PWD did not repair roads at the junction, even after we repeatedly took up the issue with the District Collector. Neither has it completed Vyttila and Kundannoor flyovers which were to be commissioned in May 2019 and March 2020 respectively,” he added. Drainage work The relaxation in lockdown has resulted in vehicles jostling for space at the two ill-maintained junctions. Making matters worse, the PWD has begun drainage works on service roads in Vyttila, resulting in slabs being strewn around the ill-lit service road on the Palarivattom side. An official associated with the work on the flyovers said that a cross-drain had to be built on the service road, for which work would begin in a day or two. On the shoddy condition of service roads and the NH Bypass at Kundannoor, he said the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) was partly to blame and permission of the court had been sought to resurface damaged parts. “We will also take steps to repair undulations over the portion which was covered using paver blocks,” he said. Sources in NHAI said that the PWD was responsible for maintaining traffic-diversion roads (the flyover-construction zone area) too in good condition, since vehicles were being diverted specifically for flyover works. “Never did we expect that the department would create such a mess of the two junctions which are used by over 1 lakh passenger car units (PCUs) every day,” they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/nhai-expresses-shock-over-shoddy-condition-of-key-roads/article31700040.ece
29 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CIAL steps up safety measures for employees||With the increase in the number of passengers following the resumption of domestic flights, the Cochin International Airport Limited (CIAL) has tightened the COVID-19 safety protocol for the airport staff. Directives in this regard had been issued to the airport staff and ground handling agencies, CIAL said in a release. All arrangements had been made at the airport for strict compliance with the safety protocol. The entire process of passenger services, beginning with the thermal scanning of the passengers as they arrive, was technologically-backed, it said. Safely gadgets had been issued to the staff of support agencies working at the airport. Personal protection equipment had been issued to employees coming into close contact with passengers. The airport would also introduce a monitoring mechanism to ensure that employees complied with the safety protocol. Rs. 2 crore for CMDRF The employees of CIAL have donated Rs. 2 crore to Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF). The airport company also cancelled its annual day celebrations in view of the pandemic, and instead, marked it with the donation. In addition, the managing director made a personal donation of Rs. 2 lakh to CMDRF.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cial-steps-up-safety-measures-for-employees/article31700042.ece
29 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ro-ro service likely to be hit in June||Even as the Kochi Corporation Council has reiterated the demand that the civic agency get its share of revenue from the two ro-ro ferries that operate in the Fort Kochi-Vypeen sector, fear is rife that the ferry service might be hit in June when one ( Sethusagar-1 ) of the vessels will be withdrawn for mandatory dry-docking at Cochin Shipyard where it was built. The dry-docking, done every three years, involves complete overhaul of the vessel and repainting. The alternative conventional ferry, Fort Queen , with 150 seats, but cannot carry vehicles, too will be dry-docked (was due in April) during the same period, at Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation’s (KSINC) yard at Thopumpady. It had fallen into disuse when the two ro-ro ferries began service. Their dry-docking will leave commuters with just one ro-ro vessel service in the ever-busy route. The other ro-ro vessel ( Sethusagar-2 ) will be sent for dry-docking in early 2021. “We hope the ro-ro vessel that will be pulled out of service in June will resume service in July. Its dry-docking is expected to cost Rs. 79 lakh, besides the cost of spare parts. Another Rs. 1.5 lakh is needed to renew the insurance and to get certificates from the Ports Department, Cochin Port Trust and the Indian Register of Shipping,” KSINC sources said. Sharing of profit The two ro-ro vessels raked in an income of Rs. 6.51 crore of which Rs. 1.59 crore was profit. Of this, the profit share of Kochi Corporation was Rs. 79.64 lakh. From this profit share, Rs. 29.34 lakh was deducted as loss towards Fort Queen, which was idling since the ro-ro vessels began service in 2017. Of the Rs. 50.29 lakh payable to the civic body, a sum of Rs. 23.78 lakh has been paid. From the balance amount payable, Rs. 24.76 lakh would be deducted as cost to dry-dock Fort Queen . KSINC thus owes Rs. 1.74 lakh to the Kochi Corporation, official sources said. After about three years delay over differences of opinion about terms and conditions, the two agencies recently inked an agreement to operate the vessels. Still, differences persist about handing over half the profit to the Kochi Corporation. “They are asserting their demand for profit share without investing even a rupee and not earmarking any expense for the maintenance of the ferries. Although they own the vessels, the State government provided the capital investment, while KSINC is operating the vessels,” the sources said. An official of the civic agency said that KSINC would continue to operate the vessels, although plans were afoot to form an SPV for the service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ro-ro-service-likely-to-be-hit-in-june/article31700037.ece
29 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Glitches mar reopening of liquor outlets||The reopening of liquor outlets in the district was marred by technical and logistical hitches on Thursday. Though the resumption of liquor sale was technologically aided by a mobile app for virtual queue management to avoid crowding, long queues were spotted before many liquor outlets and bars, which were also authorised to sell liquor at the same rate as the outlets. “The absence of scanner at outlets and bars to scan the QR code received by customers on the app meant that they had to adopt a manual process that considerably delayed the sale, leading to formation of queues at many places. So, a customer who was allotted a 15-minute slot for the purchase left much later,” a senior excise official said. Staff at liquor outlets confirmed that they had to manually note down the QR code number, name and outlet id before issuing bottles, slowing down the entire process. They felt that the manual process also ran the risk of unscrupulous elements passing off screen shots of QR codes received by others as their own. A premium outlet at Gandhi Nagar had to close the gate and involve police and security guards to regulate the queue that got lengthened by the time. “I returned without buying after seeing the big queue when I turned up during my allotted slot between 12.45 p.m. and 1 p.m. It was ridiculous since it had undone the very purpose of the app, which was meant for ensuring physical distancing,” said Pramod, a senior sales executive. Since the app allotted time randomly based on the pin code, customers who were looking for rather reasonably-priced brands ended up receiving slots in premium bars, which dealt only in premium brands alone. “I stood in queue only to be told at the end of it that there was no brand priced below Rs. 2,500,” said Binu Bharat, a travel operator who returned empty-handed from a bar at Kadavanthra. Jose Pradeep, treasurer of Association of Approved and Classified Hotels of Kerala, said that there was the risk of stock running out. Over-the-counter sale of liquor was conducted at 50 Bevco outlets and 209 bars in Ernakulam district on Thursday. The district witnessed the sale of 40,125 litres of IMFL, 11,250 litres of beer and 72 litres of wine on the day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/glitches-mar-reopening-of-liquor-outlets/article31700045.ece
29 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks stance of govt., KSEB||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Thursday sought responses of the State government and the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) in a suo motu writ petition on the issue of rise in water level of dams and regulation of dam waters. The suo motu case was registered based on a letter addressed by Justice Devan Ramachandran to Chief Justice S. Manikumar. When the petition came up, the Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali asked the government and the KSEB to file a statement in response to the petition. The court ordered to implead the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) as a respondent in the case. The judge in his letter said the water level in major and minor dams in the State, especially in Idukki, is already high on account of the reduction in the generation of electricity caused by the COVID-19-induced lockdown. Not regulated The water levels in these dams are not properly regulated. The monsoon forecast for the year predicts normal or more-than-normal rainfall and this sounds an immediate warning bell more than ever when the people are grappling with the COVID-19 scenario. Flood scenario Therefore, the normal rainfall this year might replicate the horror of flood that had occurred in the past two years. This did not mean that the inundation in the past was solely due to unregulated dams, but this could certainly be one of the many contributing factors, the letter said. Power generation low The letter pointed out that it was reported that some of the generators in the Idukki dam were not functional, resulting in low power generation even during the recent rain. Besides, the rule curve, now devised or adopted by the KSEB, did not properly anticipate flooding this year. The judge requested that a report be sought immediately from the head of the Load Dispatch Centre of the KSEB and the Kerala Dam Safety Authority.  Suo motu case registered based on a letter addressed by Justice Devan Ramachandran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-seeks-stance-of-govt-kseb/article31700068.ece
29 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Review rule curves of reservoirs: CWC||The Central Water Commission (CWC) has suggested review of the rule curves of major reservoirs to ensure effective flood risk management. “Rule curves (specifying levels to be maintained in the reservoir at different times in a year) of major reservoirs where flood cushion is not in-built need to be reviewed to have some dynamic flood cushion for major part of the flood season. This holds true for Kerala too,” Sharad Chandra, CWC Director, Flood Forecast Monitoring, told The Hindu in an email interview. “The rule curves for three major reservoirs in Kerala that include Idduki, Idamalayar and Kakki have been reviewed and reformulated with consideration of flood moderation in consultation with the CWC,” he said. Mr. Chandra said dams by design did not cause flooding if the reservoirs were operated as per some standard operating procedure/operation manual/rule curves. “If the reservoir levels are quite high during the initial and middle months of a flood period, then it is tantamount to inviting trouble. Inflow forecast should be utilised for real-time operation of reservoirs,” he said. An Emergency Action Plan for dam break/extreme flood situations should be ready. “It will include flood inundation maps, flood waves and time analysis. The channel encroachment in downstream stretches of a dam should be removed,” he said. On whether Kerala would face another flood, Mr. Chandra said there were evidences of increasing number of high intensity rainfall event varying spatially as well as temporally all over the country. “Such events lead to flash floods. Urban flooding due to storm water drainage congestionhas also become common . Prediction of such floods is not possible,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/review-rule-curves-of-reservoirs-cwc/article31700062.ece
29 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A marathon trip back home in times of pandemic||Safely ensconced in her house at Edappally after an arduous road trip covering over 2,100 km across seven COVID-19-hit States in nearly three days, Veena Roshan Jose simply could not shake off a sense of loss. An assistant professor at the National Law University at Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, Ms. Jose had to pass through countless pandemic hotspots before she joined her anxious family back home on Monday. “It would have been such an unforgettable journey if not for the pandemic. As it turned out, we had to rush through not having the luxury to take in the sights along the way,” she recalled. Having shifted to Jabalpur just six months ago, Ms. Jose’s family was to join her on March 28 before the lockdown three days prior put paid to the plans. Since she had a young family — her younger son turned three just recently — the university let her return home as early as the first week of May. Since then Ms. Jose had been frenetically searching for co-passengers as it was unsafe to make the long car journey back home alone. Eventually, one Shaji, a Keralite who runs the canteen at her university, helped her find two fellow passengers — a priest from Kottarakkara and a woman bound for Kayamkulam. The group made all arrangements for the trip, including securing exit and entry passes from Madhya Pradesh and Kerala governments and packed food for the entire length of the journey, in three days before setting out on May 23 at 5 a.m. Brief halts The whole trip was marked with just two brief halts in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu since stopovers in alien places during the pandemic were unsafe. “Checking was lax in Maharashtra, while it was stringent in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu. The biggest challenge was Bengaluru where almost all roads were closed, and it took us hours to exit the city,” Ms. Jose said. They finally made it through the Kumily check-post on the morning of March 25. Ms. Jose is supposed to rejoin the university after the vacation on June 29 though the trip back to the workplace hinges on how the situation pans out on the pandemic front.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/a-marathon-trip-back-home-in-times-of-pandemic/article31700038.ece
29 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Automatic sanitiser dispenser developed||Third-year students of Albertian Institute of Science & Technology have developed a low-cost automatic sanitiser dispenser. The device dispenses sanitiser when one extends hands towards it. Students handed over the device to Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar at the Collectorate on Thursday. “It uses infrared sensors and it has been built in such a manner that it can be used inside offices and homes,” said P. Geethesh and Ron Steev, who designed the model together, at a function held at the Collectorate. The dispenser with a capacity of 750 ml is available for the public at Rs. 500. It can dispense the sanitiser 652 times. The device can be operated with electricity or battery. Electronics Department head Prof. Nybin George Kolarikkal guided the students in the project. National Service Scheme manager of the college Prof. Deepu Kurian will be heading a project by the college to provide free dispensers to ten offices in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/automatic-sanitiser-dispenser-developed/article31700043.ece
29 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Plea for free institutional quarantine||A petition was filed in the Kerala High Court on Thursday seeking a directive to the State government to provide mandatory institutional quarantine facility to all Non-Resident Indians and all other travellers free of cost. A government order insisting on expatriates to bear the expenses for their mandatory institutional quarantine was illegal, according to petitioner Reji Thazhamon of Pathanamthitta. He said Non-Resident Indians who wanted to return were either unemployed or pregnant women or suffered from several ailments and were reeling under severe financial crisis. Under the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund, huge amounts were being collected to meet the expenses incurred for containing COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/plea-for-free-institutional-quarantine/article31700046.ece
29 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||300 samples collected from risk groups in Kollam||Three-hundred samples were collected in the district on a single day under a special surveillance started by the Health Department. The samples were collected at the Kollam District Hospital and taluk hospitals at Neendakara, Punalur, Kadakkal, and Kottarakara. Health workers from non-COVID-19 hospitals, ASHA workers, officials from Health Department, media professionals, police, Fire and Rescue Services personnel, motor vehicle inspectors, volunteers, newspaper agents, fruit vendors, headload workers, and auto, taxi and ambulance drivers are on priority list for the test. “Special surveillance was launched to intensify preventive measures and find if there has been any community spread,” said District Medical Officer R.Sreelatha. Trial run of testing Meanwhile, a trial run of TrueNat testing facilities for SARS-CoV-2 screening at the Government Medical College Hospital, Parippally, and the Public Health Lab will start on Friday. With the TrueNat centres going operational, the results will be available in one hour. Nasopharyngeal swabs will be collected and 40 samples will be tested daily. The facility will be helpful for those who require emergency surgery, pregnant women, and the terminally ill. The district has 23 active cases, including a 54-year-old woman from Thalavur who tested positive on Thursday. She reached Thiruvananthapuram on May 19 from Gandhinagar, Gujarat, by Rajadhani Express and from there reached Kollam on a special KSRTC service. Her sample was taken on May 25 at the Punalur Taluk Hospital and she was shifted to the Parippally hospital after she tested positive on May 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/300-samples-collected-from-risk-groups-in-kollam/article31700125.ece
29 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Three from abroad test positive in Kottayam||With three more persons who had returned from abroad testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the total number of patients in the district rose to 19 on Thursday. According to officials, those who tested positive for the disease included a man and woman, both aged 29 years, from Changanassery and a 27-year-old man from Kodungoor, near Vazhur. None of them had developed any symptoms of the infection. The man from Veroor in Changanassery landed from Abu Dhabi on May 17 and was undergoing institutional quarantine at a centre in Gandhinagar. The second patient from Changanassery, a woman from Mamood, landed from Dammam and gave birth at the Government Medical College (GMC) on May 13.Though discharged from the hospital on May 19 after having tested negative, she was later confirmed positive for the infection. 267 samples sent The Kodungoor native, who was admitted to the GMC here on Thursday, had landed from Saudi Arabia. In view of the sharp surge in cases, the district health officials have raised the number of tests considerably over the past couple days. The authorities have sent 267 samples for test over the last two days. Migrant workers leave Meanwhile, 610 inter-State workers returned to Jharkhand from the district on Thursday. The workers had been brought to the Kottayam railway station on 20 KSRTC buses from their camps across the district. The train left the station at 3.45 p.m. With this, the total number of migrant workers returning from the district has increased to 4,557. Another batch of 1,464 migrant passengers are slated to leave for Berhampore Court railway station in West Bengal on Friday evening.  All three had not developed any symptoms of the infection||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/three-from-abroad-test-positive-in-kottayam/article31700126.ece
29 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M) Mani faction springs a surprise||Amidst a raging group war over the sharing of the president’s post in the Kottayam district panchayat, the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani sprang a surprise by deciding to hand over the president’s post of the Kanjirappally block panchayat to the rival group. As per pact In a statement issued here on Thursday, the Mani faction informed that Sophy Joseph, the incumbent president of the local body, would step down from the post on Friday. The resignation, according to N. Jayaraj, MLA, a Mani faction member, is in line with a written agreement within the United Democratic Front (UDF). The outgoing president is most likely to be succeeded by Mariamma Joseph, who owe allegiance to the Joseph group. As per the existing post-sharing agreement, the incumbent president should have stepped down from the post on November 30, 2019. No-trust motion She, however, held on to the post despite protests by the rival faction and even surpassed a no-confidence motion moved by the Left Democratic Front (LDF).  Observers regard the move by the Mani faction as a ploy to establish that only written agreements on power-sharing stand valid. District panchayat As there are no written agreements within the UDF regarding the post-sharing in Kottayam district panchayat, the Mani faction is unlikely to make any concessions there, they pointed out.  As there is no written pact on post-sharing in district panchayat, the group is unlikely to make any concessions there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kcm-mani-faction-springs-a-surprise/article31700084.ece
29 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rubber production crosses 7 lakh tonnes||Amidst concerns over price fluctuations, natural rubber (NR) production in India recorded a growth of 9.4% to reach 7.12 lakh tonnes during last fiscal. According to a report presented by K.N. Raghavan, Executive Director, Rubber Board, at the 180th meeting of the board on Wednesday, the production crossed seven lakh tonnes for the first time since 2014-15. The rise in production is attributed to several activities initiated by the agency at regional and field levels, with the active cooperation of rubber producers’ societies. The overall tapped area increased by 40,000 ha during the period while the rain-guarded area was 2.50 lakh ha, up by around 40,000 ha. This was in addition to the 4,000 ha brought in through the plantation adoption programme of the board. Consumption down Meanwhile, the volume of consumption was down from 12,11,940 tonnes in 2018-19 to 11,34,120 tonnes in 2019-20. At the same time, the production-consumption gap also declined to around 4,22,000 tonnes from 5,61,000 tonnes the previous year. The import volume marked a decline of 20% while exports increased from 4,551 tonnes in 2018-19 to 12,194 tonnes in 2019-20. The report projects the production of NR for the current fiscal at 7,10,000 tonnes, taking into consideration the crop loss owing to COVID-19. The world production level, meanwhile, is expected to decline by 2.2% to become 13.43 million tonnes while the consumption too will be down by 4.6% to become 13.13 million tonnes, according to a study by the International Rubber Study Group. In view of the distress-situation faced by small growers owing to COVID-19, the board has submitted a proposal to the Ministry of Commerce and Industry seeking minimum import price and restrictions on imports with minimum price mechanism in domestic market. Sawar Dhanania, Chairman, Rubber Board, addressed the annual meeting, held via videoconferencing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rubber-production-crosses-7-lakh-tonnes/article31700070.ece
29 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Physical distancing goes for a toss at Bevco outlets||Physical distancing norms were flouted in front of most Bevco outlets during the sale of liquor through the new app-based booking procedure. The police had a tough time managing those who lined up in large numbers in font of the four Bevco outlets in the city. Though the app was launched to prevent overcrowding, most buyers did not go by the allotted time slots. Those with e-tokens were found queuing up in front of the outlets with no concern over the pandemic situation. Lathi charge Though the police attempted to enforce physical distancing protocol, most buyers acted in an insensitive manner. The police resorted to lathi charge to control the crowd in front of an outlet near Pavamani Road. Ignorance The Nadakkavu police said a majority of buyers were ignorant of the purpose of the virtual queue system, and they reached the outlets quite early and caused a rush. It would take at least three to four days for buyers to familiarise themselves with the new system and understand its true intention, they added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/physical-distancing-goes-for-a-toss-at-bevco-outlets/article31700029.ece
29 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Six new cases in Kozhikode||Two persons recovered from COVID-19 in Kozhikode district on Thursday even as six more were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, the two who were cured of the infection belonged to Malappuram and Kozhikode districts respectively. Of the six diagnosed with the disease, three had come from other States, and two had returned from abroad. The first person is a 33-year-old native of Feroke who had returned from Riyadh on May 19 and was shifted to a COVID care centre at Thamarassery. His body fluid samples were tested positive for the virus on May 27. The second, a 30-year-old native of Thooneri, is a primary contact of a person earlier tested positive for the virus in Kannur on May 25. His samples confirmed the infection on May 26. The third is a 31-year-old native of Azhiyoor who had returned from Chennai in a private vehicle on May 15. His samples tested positive for the virus on May 26. The fourth person is a 32-year-old native of Muchukunnu who returned from Chennai on May 14. He was diagnosed with the infection on May 26. The fifth is a 37-year-old native of Valayam, who returned from Gujarat and reached Thalassery on May 24. From there, he was shifted to a COVID care centre at Valayam, where he was tested positive for the virus on May 26. All the five are now at the first-line treatment centre at the Lakshadweep Guest House. The sixth patient, a 47-year-old native of Payyoli had returned from Bahrain on May 27. He was diagnosed with the disease the same day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/six-new-cases-in-kozhikode/article31700027.ece
29 May 2020||PALAKKAD/MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Palakkad reports 16 more cases||As many as 16 new COVID-19 cases were confirmed in Palakkad on Thursday, while Malappuram district saw eight fresh cases, including four members of a family. All but two of the cases in Palakkad had returned from other States and abroad. Two were found to be the primary contacts of some returnees. Five of those who tested positive in Malappuram too had returned from other States. Three of the eight cases were family members of a 60-year-old man from Parappanangadi who returned from Mumbai on May 21. Among the family are a three-month-old girl and a three-year-old girl. Among the cases confirmed in Palakkad, five each had returned from Chennai and Abu Dhabi, and one each from Mumbai, Karnataka, Delhi, and Bengaluru. The total number of COVID-19 patients under treatment in Palakkad has risen to 105. Among them are two persons each from Thrissur and Malappuram districts, and one person each from Idukki and Assam. Two persons from the district are under treatment elsewhere in the State. Malappuram Additional District Magistrate N.M. Meharali has warned people who interacted with those tested positive in Malappuram to remain vigilant. Those who do not have self-quarantine facility can approach the government. “In no circumstance, should people showing symptoms go directly to hospitals. They should contact the control room at 0483 2737858, 2737857, 2733251, 2733252, 2733253 and follow instructions from the health authorities,” said Mr. Meharali.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-reports-16-more-cases/article31700032.ece
29 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta records 6 cases||Pathanamthitta witnessed the highest single day spike of six SARS-CoV-2 positive cases, three of them women, on Thursday. Of the patients, five persons had come from Maharashtra, and one from Saudi Arabia. The five who came from Maharashtra are a 44-year-old woman of Ullannur who arrived in the district on May 15, a 67-year-old man of Aerath (May 18), a 32-year-old man of Aerath (May 18), a 25-year-old woman of Vallikkode-Kottayam (May 18), and a 69-year-old woman who reached Kodumon on May 23. A 33-year-old man who reached his village of Pullad from Saudi Arabia on May 19 too has tested positive. 45 at isolation wards The number of persons quarantined at the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district went up to 45 on Thursday. Of this, 18 persons are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, seven at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, four at the General Hospital in Adoor, five at the Menamthottom hospital in Ranni, and 11 others at various private hospitals in the district. As per a bulletin of the district administration, 3,879 persons are in quarantine at corona care centres and houses in different parts of the district as on Thursday. Of these, 3,333 persons have come from other States and 539 people, from abroad. The bulletin said 260 nasal and throat swab samples sent from the district to the virology laboratory in Alappuzha tested negative for COVID-19 on Thursday. So far, 6,776 throat swab samples sent from the district to the laboratory tested negative while 38 tested positive. Clinical examination results of 532 throat swab samples are awaited.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/pathanamthitta-records-6-cases/article31700129.ece
29 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||276 NoRKs reach district||A total of 276 persons have reached the district from other States and abroad in the past 24 hours, District Collector P.B. Noohu has said. As many as 70 non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) arrived from Dubai, Kuwait, Abu Dhabi, and Ireland in six flights at the airports in Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi on Wednesday evening and Thursday morning. Mr. Noohu said 58 of them had been quarantined at corona care centres in the district and the remaining 12 persons were home quarantined. Meanwhile, 206 persons reached Pathanamthitta in three special trains on Wednesday and Thursday and 72 of them were referred to corona care centres. The remaining 134 people were home quarantined. The passengers who alighted at the railway stations at Kottayam, Ernakulam, and Thiruvananthapuram were brought to Pathanamthitta on KSRTC buses, and other private carriages before being sent in quarantine for 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/276-norks-reach-district/article31700130.ece
29 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State ups preparedness for the rains||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said the State should brace itself for heavy rain. Low pressure over the Arabian sea portends rough seas and heavy rain over Kerala till June 1. The government has banned maritime fishing. It has deemed setting off to sea or backwaters for fishing an illegal act until further notice. Boats engaged in deep-sea fishery have been asked to make for the nearest port at the earliest. Coastal police stations are on alert. The police are patrolling fish-landing centres and harbours and broadcasting weather warnings. The government seems wary of a replay of the 2017 Ockhi cyclone which had caught weather persons and the fishers off guard. The southwest monsoon is expected to make landfall in the first week of June. The weather department has predicted that the monsoon is likely to be vigorous over Kerala. Onus on people He said people should clean their homes and neighbourhoods to prevent the spread of vectors and water-borne diseases characteristic of the season. Hospitals should mandatorily test persons with flu and cold symptoms for COVID-19. Kerala has readied its disaster response mechanism. Emergency services and volunteer rescue teams are on the standby. Kerala would draw on its reserve of 3,37,00 ‘Sannadham’ volunteers. They have proffered their services to the State to fight the pandemic. Nearly two lakh of them would be trained in rescue and relief work to assist the police, Fire and Rescue Services and local body officials in the event of a calamity.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-ups-preparedness-for-the-rains/article31700073.ece
29 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Telangana native dies of COVID-19||The capital district registered its second COVID-19 death on Thursday with the throat swab tests of a 68-year-old Telangana native returning positive a day after he died at the General Hospital here. He reached here on May 22 along with his wife, two children and two relatives on a special train from Jaipur. With neither the requisite travel pass nor other documents, the nomadic family was shifted to the corona care centre at the Institute of Cooperative Management in Poojappura from the Thiruvananthapuram Central railway station. The man was soon shifted to the General Hospital as he showed symptoms of the viral infection. Died on Wednesday His health condition subsequently deteriorated and he died on Wednesday. The body is currently kept at the hospital mortuary. While the district authorities have decided to conduct the funeral in accordance with his religious custom as well as the COVID-19 protocol, they are yet to finalise the time and location. His family members are likely to be permitted to return to their native place after the completion of quarantine. Seven new cases Seven new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State capital on Thursday, taking the number of people being treated in the district for COVID-19 to 36. All the fresh cases are imported ones — four returned from abroad and three from Mumbai.  A 61-year-old Chenkal native, a 40-year-old man from Vellarada and a 28-year-old man from Kunnathukal had come on a train from Mumbai on May 23. Three others, including a 69-year-old man from Perumkulam, a 61-year-old Vakkom native and a two-year-old girl from Chullimanoor, had come from Abu Dhabi. The seventh patient, a 30-year-old man from Poonthura, returned from the Maldives on an Indian Naval Ship.  The district administration placed 820 people under observation on the day, taking the total number of people being monitored to 6,594. As many as 5,408 people are in home quarantine. Twelve people have been hospitalised with various symptoms. A total of 1,078 people are being monitored in 21 corona care centres. A total of 138 people entered the State through the Inchivila inter-State check-post on the day. These included 133 people from Tamil Nadu. All were sent to their homes. Special drive The Thiruvananthapuram City police registered cases against 771 people during a special drive to detect travel norm violations. The cases, 768 of which were charged against motorcyclists, were registered after they were found to be travelling in violation of the lockdown norms. The police also registered petty cases against 277 people who failed to wear masks outdoors. Eighty-seven others were booked under the provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/telangana-native-dies-of-covid-19/article31700087.ece
29 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Literacy mission too goes digital||In the changing teaching-learning times, the Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority too is changing gears to e-learning. The mission has drawn up a comprehensive project to start study centres with digital facilities in the State, including in tribal settlements. The first phase will see online classes take off. For this, data collection of learners with computers, tablets, or smartphones is being done. In the case of learners without such facilities, arrangements will be made with the help of local self-government institutions. There are plans to expand the mission’s literacy classes, equivalency classes, and social literacy programmes through online mode. Social literacy programmes in areas of health, environment, constitution, and gender equality will be developed into social education programmes. The opinion of experts in various sectors is being sought to explore the possibilities of developing literacy and continuing education programmes into digital learning mode. Steps to set up study centres with digital facilities centred around tribal hamlets are under way. Each settlement or hamlet will be made ‘smart.’ Special projects are also being prepared for starting online education and social literacy programmes for tribespeople, those from the Scheduled Castes, coastal colonies, transgender people, and migrant workers. Activities for visiting the marginalised sections and taking a survey of digital possibilities have begun, mission director P.S. Sreekala said in a statement recently. Educated youths from these marginalised sections will be deputed as regional coordinators and trained to enable setting up of online classrooms, Ms. Sreekala said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/literacy-mission-too-goes-digital/article31700081.ece
29 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Schools told not to hike fee||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has asked private schools not to increase fee during these challenging times. Many people are facing difficulties in the wake of COVID-19 such as loss of employment and lack of income. Complaints have been received that private schools have increased the fee and asked for the payment receipt before handing over textbooks for the coming academic year, the Chief Minister said during his press conference on Thursday.  Meanwhile, the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has recommended that the government institute a regulatory framework to decide and regulate the fee structure of private and unaided schools in the State. Monitoring committee A full bench of commission chairperson P. Suresh and members Fr. Philip Parakatt and K. Nazeer recommended that till legislation could be framed, a monitoring committee be set up to decide the fee structure. In another direction, commission member K. Nazeer has asked the General Education Secretary, Director of General Education, the CBSE Regional Officer here, and the ICSE Director to issue an order asking educational institutions in the State not to increase their fee. Orders should also be issued asking educational institutions not to change their uniform this academic year. Meanwhile, the Kerala Recognised School Managements’ Association, in a statement, said government-recognised unaided schools in the State would not increase the fee this academic year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/schools-told-not-to-hike-fee/article31700052.ece
29 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Finally, SSLC exams conclude||The Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examinations for the 2019-20 academic year concluded in the State on Thursday. The examinations resumed on May 26 (Tuesday) after a gap of more than two months. These had been postponed in March as a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19. Mathematics, Physics, and Chemistry papers remained to be conducted.  The examinations were held after a lot of confusion and debate on the timing, especially as the lockdown had not been lifted completely and the number of COVID-19 cases was on the upswing. The government was of the view that the examinations could be conducted with all safety precautions in place. However, it found itself under pressure from the Opposition. At one stage, the government announced that the examination would be held in June, only to go back to the notified dates after the Union government gave its nod.  On Thursday, of the 4,22,450 registered students, 4,22,112 (99.92%) appeared for the SSLC examinations. There were 338 absentees. SAY exams Students who were unable to sit for the examinations will get another chance along with the Save-a-Year (SAY) examinations. The higher secondary education (HSE) and vocational higher secondary education (VHSE) examinations will draw to a close on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/finally-sslc-exams-conclude/article31700053.ece
29 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSDP makes a remarkable turnaround||For years, the Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals (KSDP) was in the news mostly for unpleasant matters — from a defunct Vitamin A plant infested with bats to mounting losses and rumours of shutting down or takeover. But, in this COVID-19 period, it was noticed for all the right reasons, from record profits of Rs. 7.13 crore to plans for export of generic medicines once the pandemic subsides. Behind this turnaround is the State government’s fund infusion as part of a revitalisation plan, strict periodic monitoring, and a thrust towards diversification. Founded in 1974, it is perhaps the only drug manufacturing facility run by a State government in the country. GMP standards The first proposal for modernisation was made in 2007, to make the plant compliant with the Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) standards of the World Health Organisation. Without that, the company would have been unable to sell its medicines. As part of the modernisation, a beta-lactam plant was commissioned in 2011. But despite the KSDP making a profit of Rs. 2.49 crore that year, things went downhill again with the company incurring a loss of Rs. 4.98 crore in 2015-16. Shortly after this, the current State government decided to intervene and revamp the KSDP. “In 2016, a plan was put forward to sell the defunct machineries in the Vitamin-A plant and use the building to set up a non-beta-lactam plant. This saved us around Rs. 20 crore. The new plant, costing Rs. 32.15 crore, was opened in 2019. In 2017, a dry powder injection plant at Rs. 10 crore and an NABL-accredited laboratory were commissioned. Now, the government has sanctioned a Rs. 50-crore project for non-beta injectables, which will be commissioned in December. Once that becomes a reality, the KSDP can produce almost all the medicines needed for Kerala,” says S. Shyamala, Managing Director of KSDP. Much in demand Its medicines, marketed through the Kerala Medical Services Corporation, are much sought after in other south Indian States too, especially Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The KSDP’s market interventions are important in making available medicines at affordable rates. For instance, the KSDP’s Azithromycin costs Rs. 6 for 500 mg, while a private company’s costs Rs. 24. Soon after the COVID-19 outbreak, the KSDP made available 7 lakh litres of hand sanitisers at Rs. 125 for 500 ml, while the market cost is anywhere between Rs. 150 to 200 for 100 ml. “When everything was under lockdown, KSDP employees were working round-the-clock, producing 17.7 crore tablets, 3.13 crore capsules, and 2 lakh litres of injection medicines. The Industries Department has given us clear schedules and targets, with the Restructuring and Internal Audit Board carrying out periodic monitoring,” says Ms. Shyamala. Cancer medicines On the anvil is an oncology park, to produce low-cost cancer medicines. The KSDP has secured an export licence, but the plan to enter the international market has been kept on hold due to the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/ksdp-makes-a-remarkable-turnaround/article31700083.ece
29 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM denies allegation on propaganda||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has denied the allegation raised by his predecessor Oommen Chandy that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government has splurged Rs. 2.5 crore of public money for propaganda during the time of national adversity. Mr. Vijayan said on Thursday that the government had ordered State-owned presses to print pamphlets highlighting the achievements of his government on its fourth anniversary. “Mr. Chandy too had done the same thing. It is usual for governments to inform the electorate about their doings,” he said. Mr. Chandy had in a statement pointed out the ‘dichotomy’ between Mr. Vijayan’s claim that he would not celebrate the government’s fourth anniversary to save on money and the hidden efforts now underway to burnish the image of the ‘failed’ administration at taxpayers’ expense by producing crores of rupees worth of propaganda material. Minister’s remarks Mr. Vijayan refused to respond to the purportedly sceptical comments on the State’s containment strategy by Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan. He said the LDF government had earned the praise of the Union Ministry of Health and the ICMR for its success in keeping the pandemic at bay. “Some persons in responsible positions seem intent on attempting to tarnish the government. Kerala has not misrepresented infection figures or death toll,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-denies-allegation-on-propaganda/article31700131.ece
29 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||College classes from 8.30 a.m.||Classes in colleges functioning under the Higher Education Department, including technical education institutions, will be conducted from 8.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. when classes resume on June 1. A final decision is yet to be taken on retaining the plan as a long-term arrangement, government sources said. A set of guidelines on resuming academic activities, issued on Thursday, also direct college authorities to encourage students to enrol for massive open online courses (MOOC) following their class hours. Teachers’ attendance The government has also relaxed attendance norms for teachers by enabling those who do not reside in the same district where the institution is situated to conduct online classes from their homes until inter-district transport services resume. During the interim period, Principals will be required to ensure the attendance of teachers who live in the same district on a rotational basis. College authorities will also be required to arrange alternative arrangements for those who cannot access online classes from homes. Such students must be provided facilities to access the sessions from nearby colleges or any other institution.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/college-classes-from-830-am/article31700054.ece
29 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sentinel study finds no community spread||The Health Department, after analysing the results of 4,400 naso/oropharyngeal samples all over Kerala in four rounds of sentinel surveillance study, has found only four COVID-19 positive cases (0.09%). Epidemiological links could be established for all four confirmed cases and none of the epidemiological samples turned positive. The results suggest that there is no evidence for community transmission at present in Kerala, the official report of the sentinel surveillance study says. The sentinel surveillance study had been designed to collect and test 900 samples per week from non-COVID-19 suspects from selected villages in all districts using RT-PCR ( reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) tests. Selected population Samples were collected from selected population on the basis of risk stratification. They included patients in the general population with acute respiratory infection (ARI) but not a COVID suspect; health-care workers in non-COVID settings; persons with high social exposure (food delivery staff, community volunteers, police personnel, vendors); COVID-19 suspects with mild symptoms and migrant workers. For every positive case found, 25 epidemiological samples from the neighbourhood areas were obtained for two consecutive weeks. Four positive cases The four positive cases identified included a community volunteer from Chathanoor panchayat in Kollam; a patient in general population with ARI but was not a COVID suspect, from Munnar, Idukki; a person with high social exposure belonging to Vandenmedu, Idukki; and a community volunteer from Kalluvathukkal in Kollam. All 124 epidemiological samples from all four panchayats tested negative. During the same time period, between April 19 to May 16, a total of 3,923 samples from patients reaching private hospitals with ARI were tested at four private laboratories. None was positive.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sentinel-study-finds-no-community-spread/article31700063.ece
29 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State unlikely to face locust attack||Agriculture and disaster management experts here are closely monitoring locust attacks reported elsewhere in the country, but there is no indication at the moment that Kerala is under threat, they said on Thursday. Even as southern States such as Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh are preparing to battle the swarms, it is hoped that the prevailing monsoon wind patterns would deter the pests from venturing further south.  As things stand, neither the State Agriculture Department nor the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has formally issued an advisory regarding a possible locust invasion. “It is unlikely that the swarms would reach us, given the prevailing wind patterns and weather conditions such as the likely formation of a low pressure area (over the southwest and eastcentral parts) in the Arabian Sea. The wind pattern is detrimental to them. That said, we are keeping a close watch,” KSDMA member secretary Sekhar L. Kuriakose said. The KSDMA has assigned its forestry expert to keep a close tab on developments, he added. Moreover, there is little evidence of locust invasions being reported in Kerala in the past, he said. Monitoring by KAU Agriculture Director K. Vasuki also echoed the KSDMA assessment that the monsoon winds would make it difficult for the locusts to move further south. Nonetheless, Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) is assessing the situation. At the same time, the Centre has not issued any advisory to the State so far pertaining to the threat, according to her.  As per experts, monsoon wind patterns should deter their advance down south||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-unlikely-to-face-locust-attack/article31700076.ece
29 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Animal Husbandry dept. acts on PETA appeal||The Animal Husbandry Department has taken steps to ensure that private hatcheries in Kerala do not engage in the poultry industry practice of killing off unwanted male chicks. Steps have been taken in this regard in response to an appeal made by the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India. According to PETA, it is common practice in the egg industry in India to kill male chicks. “Common killing methods include grinding, crushing, burning, drowning, or even feeding them alive to fish,” PETA said. Responding to the PETA appeal, the Animal Husbandry Director said he had instructed district-level animal husbandry officers to take steps to ensure that private hatcheries did not treat chicks cruelly. Government-run farms did not kill off male chicks, the director said in a letter to PETA India chief executive officer Manilal Valliyate. “The gruesome killing of countless male chicks simply because they cannot lay eggs is cruel and should be stopped,” Dr. Valliyate said in a statement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/animal-husbandry-dept-acts-on-peta-appeal/article31700089.ece
29 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rain forecast during weekend||Some parts of the State are likely to receive isolated heavy-to-very-heavy rainfall during the weekend, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Pathanamthitta can expect isolated heavy-to-very-heavy rainfall on Saturday while Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Idukki can expect the same on Sunday. Very heavy rainfall indicates the possibility of 11.5 cm to 20.4 cm in a 24-hour period. Other districts can expect light-to-moderate and isolated heavy rainfall in the coming days, the IMD said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/heavy-rain-forecast-during-weekend/article31700077.ece
29 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Enforce 52-day trawling ban, say fish workers||The Kerala Swathanthra Matsya Thozhilali Federation has demanded the government to stick to a 52-day trawling ban in territorial waters under its jurisdiction. The Central government’s decision to reduce the number of days to 47 beyond the 12 nautical mile-mark is unscientific and detrimental to the intended aim of the fishing holiday, federation State president Jackson Pollayil said on Thursday. The Centre had, in fact, succumbed to pressure from boat owners and fixed the number of days at 47 using COVID-19 as a pretext. There was no relation at all between the pandemic and conservation of marine fishery resources, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/enforce-52-day-trawling-ban-say-fish-workers/article31700132.ece
29 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM warns of action||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday that the government and the people were victims of fake news. Some vested interests used social media to vilify the pandemic control efforts of the State. Others took to online platforms to harass fellow citizens. In one illustrative instance, neighbours attempted to ostracise a person in home quarantine after a mischief-maker posted fake news, bolstered by a fabricated video, that he had violated home quarantine. The government has ordered the State Police Cyberdome to identify those behind such impishness.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-warns-of-action/article31700071.ece
29 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Isaac: stimulus package not beneficial||The package announced by the Centre for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) has not yielded the desired results since banks are functioning on a risk aversion mode, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said. Dr. Isaac told reporters here that these sectors had not been benefited as banks had a lurking fear that their rate of non-performing assets would go up and that would upset the capital-debt ratio. The Rs. 3-lakh-crore package announced for the MSMEs has not worked to their advantage. Of the Rs. 50,000 crore announced for disbursal of long-term loans to the NBFCs at 4.4% interest, banks have availed themselves of only Rs. 12,500 crore.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/isaac-stimulus-package-not-beneficial/article31700074.ece
29 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Distribution of textbooks begins||Distribution of the first volume of textbooks for the 2020-21 academic year has got under way. Nearly 2.81 crore textbooks will be distributed through 3,292 school societies. There are 288 titles in the first volume. The distribution of textbooks for Classes 1 to 7 to school societies has begun. Schools can take textbooks from societies in Malappuram and Thiruvananthapuram districts that have completed the distribution. Nearly 11 lakh textbooks have reached the school societies. Head teachers of schools have directed parents to receive the textbooks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/distribution-of-textbooks-begins/article31700075.ece
29 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Man shot at||Sukumarapillai (65) of Kottukunnam at Venjaramoodu sustained injuries on his arm on Thursday after allegedly being shot at with an airgun by his son Dileep following a dispute. The victim was rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital here. His son is absconding.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-shot-at/article31700088.ece
29 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||57 Shramik Specials from Kerala||As many as 57 of the 240 Shramik Special trains operated from major destinations across Southern Railway to various States till March 27 to enable the return of the migrant labourers were from Kerala. Since May 1, Southern Railway transported over 3,09,562 lakh stranded migrant labourers in 27 days by these special trains. The highest of 165 Shramik Special trains were from Tamil Nadu, 17 from Karnataka and one train from Puducherry. On May 27, a total of 17 Shramik Special trains were operated by Railways and these include 12 trains from Tamil Nadu, four from Kerala and one from Karnataka. The destination States were Odisha (4 trains), Bihar (4), Uttar Pradesh (3), Tripura (2) and Jharkhand (1). The top five railway stations from where maximum trains originated are Dr MGR Chennai Central (48), Coimbatore (31), Tiruppur (12), Mangalore Junction (17) and Tiruvallur (14).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/57-shramik-specials-from-kerala/article31700048.ece
29 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fewer stops for trains||The Railway Board has given the nod for elimination of some stops for the special trains, including the Jan Shatabdi Express, that will commence operations from June 1. Kozhikode- Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kozhikode Jan Shatabdi (02075/02076) will not stop at Aluva, Cherthala, Kayamkulam and Varkala Sivagiri. Kannur- Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kannur Jan Shatabdi (02081/02082) will not stop at Thalassery, Vadakara, Mavelikara and Kayamkulam. Ernakulam Junction- Hazrat Nizamuddin- Ernakulam Junction daily (02671/02618) will not stop at Aluva, Pattambi, Kuttippuram, Parappanangadi, Ferok, Koyilandy, Vadakara, Thalassery, Payyanur, Neeleswaram and Kanhangad. Lokmanya Tilak Terminus- Thiruvananthapuram Central-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus daily (06345/06346) will not halt at Varkala Sivagiri, Karunagappally, Kayamkulam, Haripad, Ambalappuzha, Cherthala, Aluva, Divine Nagar, Kuttippuram, Tirur, Parappanangadi, Vadakara, Thalassery, Kannapuram, Payyanur and Kanhangad. All other scheduled stoppages for the special trains as notified by the board earlier will continue. Full refund will be given for passengers who had booked journey from/to the stoppages eliminated on cancellation of tickets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/fewer-stops-for-trains/article31700065.ece
29 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sunday for pre-monsoon cleaning||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged the public to set apart Sunday for cleaning their homes and neighbourhood ahead of the advent of the southwest monsoon. Local self-government institutions would spearhead the initiative. He also asked the public to set apart May 30 and June 6 for cleaning and vector disease prevention operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/sunday-for-pre-monsoon-cleaning/article31700049.ece
29 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM pleads ignorance||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday said he was unaware that CPI(M) legislator P.K. Sasi had allegedly threatened to physically harm those who worked against his political interests and protect the factions allied to him. Mr. Vijayan said he was ignorant of the another widely circulated WhatsApp video that purportedly showed the CPI(M) Vandiperiyar area secretary abusing local law- enforcers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cm-pleads-ignorance/article31700050.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Question of fee||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/question-of-fee/article31700134.ece
29 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||KIA Motors India to invest Rs. 409 cr. in expansion project||The KIA Motors India will invest $54 million (Rs. 409.5 crore) in expansion project at its manufacturing facility at Erramanchi village in Anantapur district, company Chief Executive Officer Kookhyun Shim announced at the ‘Mana Palana-Mee Suchana’ programme on Thursday. At an interactive session on industrial sector and investments with the industrialists and beneficiaries, Mr. Shim said the KIA Motors India’s success story would attract more foreign investors to Andhra Pradesh, adding that the company had achieved success in the market within 10 months of beginning manufacturing cars. Giving credit to the State government’s industrial policy and cooperation of the officials, he said. The State could become an industrial hub with foreign investments coming in owing to the investors’ confidence. The State has good natural resources, a large pool of skilled manpower and good air, road and sea connectivity, he said. Job creation “We, along with our vendors, have generated 13,000 jobs and a majority of the employees are from Andhra Pradesh. The company has trained the local youth in technical skills the automobile industry needs and KIA Motors India has employed 1,589 of them and several others by the vendors supplying spares,” Mr. Shim said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/kia-motors-india-to-invest-rs-409-cr-in-expansion-project/article31699669.ece
29 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Decline in prices leaves cotton farmers in a fix||B. Suryanarayana, a farmer in Peddavaduguru village, points out to the bales of the best quality cotton, of Bt-II variety, stacked in his bedroom. As the pandemic hit the sale of cotton at its peak season, many farmers in the village, like Suryanarayana, have stocked the hundreds of quintals of cotton in their houses. With no transport, exports to Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, the major markets for the traders, had come to a halt. Lockdown stalls exports “Initially, I had sold some of the produce at Bellary for Rs. 6,000, and then, the price gradually fell down to Rs. 4,500 in early February. We had hoped that the prices would pick up in March, but the lockdown stalled all purchases,” rued Suryanarayana, who owns 20 hectares of land. The cotton farmers, who had sold about 25% of their produce by mid-March, later faced a sharp decline in price forcing them to wait till it reached Rs. 5,550 per quintal. “Against a normal sowing area of 51,799 hectares for kharif, the sown area in the district was 51,852 hectares (1.24 lakh acres) and the average yield was 1,050 kg per hectare (4.5 quintals per acre). The yield varied from four quintals per acre to 8 quintals in different areas,” Agriculture Assistant Director O. Bala Naik told The Hindu.   A fortnight ago, the maximum price offered was Rs. 4,500 per quintal for the best variety, say tenant farmer brothers Hanumantha Reddy and Raghunath Reddy, who had grown cotton in 12 acres and were waiting with 70% of their produce for a good price or market intervention from the State government to buy at the Minimum Support Price(MSP). Now they go for NREGS work every morning to make their ends meet and that is the fate of most of tenant and small farmers in the district. Some farmers waited for the prices to increase, but the lockdown put paid to their dreams. They now look forward to getting help from the government as the Cotton Corporation of India is mandated to run purchase centres only from November to March. Tadipatri Agriculture Market Yard secretary K. Roop Kumar said that the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) had opened two purchase centres at Tadipatri and Gooty as farmers in these two mandals as also in Yadiki and Peddavaduguru grow cotton. But few farmers visited the centres. “We offered Rs. 5,550 per quintal, but farmers took their produce to Adoni, Yemmiganur and Bellary as they got better price there,” said Mr. Roop Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/decline-in-prices-leaves-cotton-farmers-in-a-fix/article31700181.ece
29 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||IAS officer T.K. Rama Mani passes away||T.K Rama Mani, a 2010 batch IAS Officer, died here on Thursday. Ms. Rama had served as Secretary to Commissioner of Commercial Taxes before being posted to GAD recently. The officer was admitted to GGH after complaining of fever on Thursday morning, and died in the afternoon. Principal Secretary , Praveen Prakash, and senior IAS officer Peeyush Kumar visited the GGH and paid their respects. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar was present. Expressing shock at her sudden demise, the Collector said that Ms. Rama had been known as a dedicated and hardworking officer in her service.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ias-officer-tk-rama-mani-passes-away/article31699745.ece
29 May 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||A.P. BJP chief’s daughter-in-law found dead at friend’s flat||Nallapareddy Suharika (32), daughter-in-law of Andhra Pradesh BJP president Kanna Lakshminarayana, collapsed at her friend’s apartment in Raidurgam on Thursday afternoon Ms. Suharika was immediately rushed to AIG Hospital in Gachibowli, where doctors declared her brought dead. Consumption of a psychotropic drug in excess could be the reason for her death, Cyberabad Police said. Collapsed Suharika, a resident of Hill Ridge Villas in Gachibowli, went to her friend’s apartment in Meenakshi Bamboos under Raidurgam police station limits on Monday morning. “She, along with four others, including her sister’s husband were having a party there. They were dancing and we suspect they also consumed some drug, which she took in excess quantity, and collapsed around 1 p.m.,” according to senior police officer. Mother’s complaint The officer said that the hospital management informed them about her death. Following her mother’s complaint, a case of suspicious death was registered and the body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital morgue for autopsy. Forensic report  “After getting the opinion from forensic experts, we may alter the section,” the officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/andhra-pradesh-bjp-presidents-daughter-in-law-found-dead/article31700009.ece
29 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Corona positive woman delivers baby boy||A 24-year-old woman, who was tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday, delivered a baby boy at GSL Hospital in East Godavari district on Thursday. Doctors said that the health condition of the woman and the newborn was stable. “The woman was tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday and admitted to the GSL Hospital, a designated COVID-19 facility, the same day. She delivered a baby boy by a C-section procedure. The weight of the baby is 2.8 kg,” said District Medical and Health Officer B. Satya Susheela. Hotspot The woman hails from Gollala Maamidada village, a COVID-19 hot spot in the East Godavari district. By Thursday, 83 persons who are primary and secondary contacts of a 53-year-old hotel worker from the village have been tested positive. “The baby boy is undergoing several diagnostic tests for coronavirus. The mother is responding well to the treatment,” said Ms. Susheela. Government General Hospital Superintendent M. Raghavendra Rao said that the woman was allowed to breastfeed the newborn as per the Standard Operating Procedure laid down for the new mothers. “The woman has been told to wear a mask during breastfeeding to prevent direct transmission of infection to the baby,” he said. Technical probe Meanwhile, Additional DGP G. Hareesh Kumar Gupta on Thursday reviewed the containment measures in and around Gollala Maamidada village. “A technical probe into the travel history of the positive patients from Gollala Maamidada area has been intensified,” said Mr. Hareesh Kumar.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/corona-positive-woman-delivers-baby-boy/article31700156.ece
29 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth hacked to death||A 26-year-old man was hacked to death allegedly by his neighbour while he was sleeping outside his house at Seedivaripalem village of Shankaravam mandal in East Godavari district on Wednesday night. Locals on Thursday woke up to find the man dead in a pool of blood on a cot. The apparent reason for the crime is allegedly an extramarital relationship. Peddapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police A. Srinivasa Rao said that Pattam Venkanna, 45, allegedly planned to kill his 26-year-old neighbour, Arividi Talupulayya, suspecting that the latter was in a relationship with his wife. The accused allegedly hacked Talupulayya to death while he was asleep. The police have registered a case and investigation is. The body has been sent to the government hospital at Peddapuram for post-mortem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/youth-hacked-to-death/article31700157.ece
29 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||No let-up in COVID-19 cases in Nellore district||Reeling under the Koyambedu link, the Nellore district has registered seven more COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of positive cases has gone up to 239 in the district, a health bulletin said on Thursday. Police have enforced the lockdown norms more stringently in the Kottamitta area of the city which accounted for three new cases. Sullurpeta, which has seen arise in the cases of late with a trader and their family members getting infected after visiting the wholesale vegetables and fruits market at Koyambedu in the neighbouring Tamil Nadu, recorded two more cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 81. Rapur and Marripadu recorded one new case each during the last 24 hours. Alarmed over the spurt in the cases, the district administration has implemented the cluster containment plan vigorously in Rapur and Marripadu mandals. All entry and exit points have been sealed to prevent movement of people in the area.  Door-to-door survey Primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons numbering 413 have been quarantined. Health officials have undertaken a door-to-door survey to identify all those who had visited Chennai in the recent past. Meanwhile, four patients were discharged on their recovery. As many as 80 patients are undergoing treatment in the two designated COVID-19 hospitals. As many as 155 patients have been discharged till date, while four have died. Van for migrants In Ongole, BJP activists led by its minority wing leader K. Basha arranged a van to transport a group of migrant workers travelling on foot on the Chennai-Kolkata national highway to Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/no-let-up-in-covid-19-cases-in-nellore-district/article31700161.ece
29 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sweltering heat adds to pandemic woes of citizens||Denizens had a hard time from sweltering heat as the mercury levels crossed the 40 degrees Celsius mark at several places in Nellore district on Thursday. Mercury levels shot beyond the 40 degrees Celsius mark in many areas of the district. Chillakur recorded 44 degrees Celsius, the highest in the district, followed by Buchireddipalem (43.78° C), Gudur (42.01° C), Venkatagiri (41.87° C), Bodipadu(41.86° C ), Varikundapadu (41.74° C), Rapur (41.25° C), Kaligiri (40.59° C), Maripadu (40.48° C), Kavali (40.01° C) and Nellore (40° C). Citizens stay indoors All major roads in Nellore, including the otherwise busy VRC Centre, wore a deserted look in the afternoon. People remained indoors for most part of the day. Tender coconut vendors and those selling palm fruit and cool drinks did a brisk business as denizens tried different ways to beat the heat. According to the weathermen, the heat wave conditions is expected to continue for the next three days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sweltering-heat-adds-to-pandemic-woes-of-citizens/article31700159.ece
29 May 2020||Special Correspondent VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRM-AP student excels at ETH Denver Hackathon 2020||Vyshnavi G, a third year Computer Science and Engineering student from SRM University, Andhra Pradesh, has emerged a winner at the ETH Denver Hackathon 2020. Focusing on supporting and building future technology, the event was conducted at Denver with 500 participants. Ms. Vyshnavi received $500 from SKALE and another $500 from Chainlink for her project which provides value to Dapp creators by improving understanding of their position and deploying inexpensive ways to gather competitive intel. This application ensures security and is developed using blockchain technology. “A Dapp stores data in a decentralised database and uses decentralised computing resources to work. In a trustless environment, the user needs to be able to verify the kind of application and its working to prevent scam and malware, as well as to protect personal data and assets. Therefore, companies such as Chainlink and Skale that use blockchain technology, provided the user analytics of their Dapp and expected participants to generate ideas to improve the companies’ market strategy,” explains Ms. Vyshnavi, adding: “Our application collects information about the users, and the application can be implemented by any Dapp creator in every industry, be it gaming, exchanges etc.” ‘A great opportunity’ Ms. Vyshnavi’s project provides Dapp creators important metrics about their users. It gives information regarding the time spent by users on competitors’ app, contacts that the users are interacting with, count of unique users, and the count of loyal users of the competitors. “There are many Dapps in the market which offer information about the user analytics of Dapp. However, they restrict to presenting data pertaining to a single industry whereas, our app mitigates this limitation by offering data sources to be used by multiple industries,” she says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/srm-ap-student-excels-at-eth-denver-hackathon-2020/article31699744.ece
29 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam leaders pin high hopes on local body elections||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders have hoped that the party would make a comeback in the local body elections which have been postponed by the State Election Commission in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Leaders including Srikakulam MP K. Rammohan Naidu, district president Gowthu Sirisha, former MLAs Gowthu Shyam Sundar Shivaji and Gunda Lakshmi Devi among others took part in the party’s Mahanadu on Thursday. “People have fed up with the poor administration during the YSRCP rule and it will help the TDP in the local body polls,” said Ms. Sirisha. TDP North Andhra training wing former convener Kalisetti Appala Naidu said all senior leaders had participated in the Mahanadu via video link and shared their ideas with party president N. Chandrababu Naidu. Former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, MLC Dwarapureddi Jagadish and others recalled the reforms brought in the A.P. politics with the establishment of the TDP in 1982.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/telugu-desam-leaders-pin-high-hopes-on-local-body-elections/article31700162.ece
29 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govindaraja Brahmotsavam begins on a low key||The sacred flag Dhwaja Patam went up the temple flag post between 8 a.m. and 9.30 a.m. on Thursday, signalling the launch of the nine-day annual Brahmotsavam at the TTD’s Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple here. The ceremony was conducted on a low key in view of the COVID-19 lockdown. The flag, bearing the imprint of Garuda, the favourite celestial carrier of the Lord, was taken in a procession in the inner precincts of the temple. It was later hoisted atop the flag post by the priests in a simple ceremony during the auspicious Mithuna Lagnam. In view of the coronavirus restrictions, Srivari Asthanam was performed at the temple sans devotees. Snapana Tirumanjanam in the afternoon and a procession on the Pedda Sesha Vahanam taken out in the evening in the evening were also marked by the absence of a crowd. Pedda Jeeyar Swamy and Chinna Jeeyar Swamy, Special Grade Deputy Executive Officer V. Varalakshmi and temple staff took part.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govindaraja-brahmotsavam-begins-on-a-low-key/article31700183.ece
29 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entertainment industry stares at a bleak future||All major sectors suffered a huge setback due to the COVID-induced lockdown, and the entertainment industry is no exception. In fact, the situation turned worse for the small film sector, which churns out large volumes, albeit on wafer-thin budgets. “Love 18”, one such film produced by Tirupati-based Navatharam Cine Productions, is ready for release but could not prove its mettle at the Box Office due to the lockdown. The film was produced and directed by Ravi Kiran, who was associated with many Kannada films, apart from working as an assistant director under ‘Bahubali’ fame S.S. Rajamouli. The message-oriented film is about a batch of students known to bunk classes, that eventually comes up with flying colours. “The movie shows how the youth can make it to the top in an interesting manner. We hope the theatres open at the earliest so that our film can be screened,” says Madhusudhan of Saikala Foundation, who acted as the college chairman in the film. Veteran actor Kota Sankara Rao plays a pivotal role. Most scenes in the film were shot in Tirupati and Chandragiri areas, while a couple of songs were picturised in Goa and Araku. TV, theatre The situation of television serials is no better, as they are also stuck at various stages of production, forcing the channels to air old episodes again. On the other hand, theatres are unlikely to open in the foreseeable future, in view of the social distancing norms and the continued ban against crowding. The exhibitors are mulling various options and are contemplating discussing the issue among themselves before taking it to the notice of the government, but are currently inclined to adopt a wait-and-watch policy till the lockdown ends. Alternative platforms With Over The Top (OTT) platforms providing a real-time alternative to theatres, it is more likely to fill the vacuum, at least for now. “If the theatres do not open as expected, we will approach OTT players like Netflix or Amazon to release our film,” Mr. Madhusudhan added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/entertainment-industry-stares-at-a-bleak-future/article31700155.ece
29 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP raises pitch for Bharat Ratna for NTR||Mahanadu has adopted a resolution that Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian honour of the country, be conferred on Telugu Desam Party founder and former Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao. The resolution was passed on the second day of the TDP’s annual convention, marking the birth anniversary of N.T. Rama Rao on Thursday. After several senior leaders, including TDP national president N. Chadrababu Naidu, NTR’s film actor son and Hindupur MLA Balakrishna, Ashok Gajapathi Raju, Gorantla Buchaiah Choudary, PR Mohan and others, paid rich tributes to NTR, Mahanadu adopted the resolution seeking Bharat Ratna for NTR in recognition of his multi-faceted personality and moves to redefine politics in united Andhra Pradesh. Recounting their experiences with NTR, the speakers said that NTR was elected as the ‘Greatest Indian actor of all time’ in the CNN-IBN national poll. NTR’s charisma swayed the entire country. He was an embodiment of service. His donations during the Diviseema cyclone and the Rayalaseema famine were a few to mention. He was in public service whether in power or not. ‘Pro-poor bias’ Noting that NTR was the brain behind the food security programme (Rs. 2 a kg rice scheme), Mr. Naidu credited the party founder with several pro-poor schemes such as subsidised power, doing away with the patel-patwari system and bringing in the mandal set-up, administrative reforms and initiating the Telugu Ganga project and fighting for AP’s rights on surplus waters of the Krishna, they said. The speakers recalled that NTR, after endearing himself to the masses as an actor, did not confine his political role to the then combined AP, but made an impact on national politics. Reservations to the Backward Classes (BCs) and property rights to women were some of his historical decisions, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tdp-raises-pitch-for-bharat-ratna-for-ntr/article31700169.ece
29 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||All set for launch of Rythu Bharosa Kendras tomorrow||All is set for the launch of Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) in the State to supply seed, fertilizers, and seedlings to agriculture, aquaculture, and horticulture farmers during the ensuing kharif season. In all, 10,641 RBKs, attached with digital kiosks, will be set up at village secretariats, which will function throughout the year. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will inaugurate the RBKs online on May 30. The newly set-up RBKs will have digital kiosks and an App to help farmers know the real time market prices. The Agriculture, AP Agros, AP Seeds, Horticulture, Sericulture, Fisheries and Animal Husbandry departments will jointly monitor the functioning of RBKs. Farmers have to place orders through the kiosks and the staff of Agriculture and Aquaculture departments will deliver the stocks in villages. “We have 11,181 grama sachivalayams and enough stocks are being kept ready to supply to farmers. Pre-tested seeds and fertilizers with a quality seal will be supplied online through RBKs. All the products will be tested at Dr. Y.S.R. Agri Labs and other designated labs. In case of sub-standard samples, action will be taken as per the G.O. No. 116,” said Special Commissioner (Agriculture) H. Arun Kumar. “AP Agros arranged 65 warehouses across the State (five in each district) and the orders placed by farmers will be supplied within 48 hours,” said AP State Agro Industries Development Corporation Limited Managing Director Shrikesh B. Lathkar. AP State Seeds Development Corporation (APSSDC) Managing Director G. Shekar Babu said RBKs would prevent middlemen and spurious products and curb high prices. Only certified products would be supplied through the newly set-up RBKs, he said. Janata Bazaars Mr. Arun Kumar said the digital kiosks would have touch screen front camera, Aadhar enabled finger printing scanner and other features. Kiosks would provide information on market intelligence, market prices, information on procurement centres, weather forecast and other services. Village agriculture assistants, horticulture assistants, animal husbandry staff and fisheries development officers and other staff would be available at all RBKs. “We are planning to establish Janata Bazaars, more godowns for storing, grading and packing, improve farm transport facilities and market intelligence, availability of land records at village level, issue Rythu Bharosa cards to farmers and provide services of banking correspondents at village-level,” the Agriculture Special Commissioner explained.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/all-set-for-launch-of-rythu-bharosa-kendras-tomorrow/article31699743.ece
29 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Is TDP looking to mend fences with BJP?||After parting ways with the BJP and walking out of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) at Centre in 2018, the TDP on Thursday asserted that it would extend “issue-based support” to the Central government. The TDP would function as a “regional party with national spirit” in the days to come even while fighting against the “anti-people policies of the State government.” ‘UPA 2 corrupt’ Strikingly, the TDP also alleged that the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance-2 government was involved in “deep-rooted corruption.” Adopting a political resolution at Mahanadu, its annual conclave, the TDP said it would accord priority to the interests of the State. “The TDP has always been in the forefront in protecting the federal spirit whenever it came under attack,” the resolution said. “This is not election time. This is the time for reconstruction of the nation and the State. The COVID-19 has thrown a challenge. The need of the hour is to revive the economy. The political parties and people have to respond to the situation. Irrespective of political affiliations, we need to dedicate ourselves for the progress of the nation and the State,” the resolution stated, and added, “Let’s oppose political vendetta and fight against harassment and intimidation to put back the systems on track.” The TDP also dropped enough hints that it was against destruction of systems. “Full-fledged majority given by people is not for destroying the systems,” the TDP said in an oblique reference to the BJP at the Centre. The resolution assumed significance in the wake of TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu’s efforts to build bridges with the BJP in the recent past. Mr. Naidu showered praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his team on various occasions after imposition of lockdown. Mr. Modi apparently reciprocated by phoning up Mr. Naidu, who sought his appointment.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/is-tdp-looking-to-mend-fences-with-bjp/article31700167.ece
29 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Focus is on job generation’||The focus of government was on development of industries that in turn would generate employment opportunities, Brahmin Corporation Chairman and Vijayawada Central MLA Malladi Vishnu said on Thursday. He was addressing a review session on industries and employment as part of the ongoing ‘Mana Paalana - Mee Suchana’ programme, attended by Perni Venkataramaiah and Kodali Venkataramaiah, Ministers for Transport and Civil Supplies respectively. He said the government was extending its full cooperation for expansion of KIA Motors operations, and efforts were also on to set up small and medium industrial units in the State. Pointing to the government decision to allocate 70% of the jobs to local youth, he referred to the proposed MSME park in Krishna district that would facilitate setting up of small industrial units. The MLA said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had been formulating policies based on the needs and aspirations of the people. To fulfill the dreams of the farming community, the government was making all-out efforts to complete the Polavaram project by 2021.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/focus-is-on-job-generation/article31700170.ece
29 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||LG gas leak case: Ministry of environment files affidavit in High Court||The Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC) filed a reply affidavit in the LG Polymers gas leak case in the Andhra Pradesh High Court on Thursday. The matter was posted for further hearing by Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice K. Lalitha Kumari to May 29. Key rules A senior scientist at the regional office of the MoEFCC in Chennai stated in the affidavit that key responsibilities were assigned to various Central / State government departments under the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemicals Rules, 1989 (MSIHC), and Chemical Accidents (Emergency Planning, Preparedness and Response) Rules, 1996 (CAEPPR), to prevent major chemical accidents arising from industrial activities, and limiting the effects of such accidents on human health and environment. To complement the provisions of the above rules, a four-tier Crisis Management System was created at the Central, State, district and local levels, and a Central Crisis Group (CCG) constituted under the chairmanship of the Secretary (Environment, Forest and Climate Change) of the Government of India. The Red Book Besides, a CCG Alert System, i.e. Red Book, was brought out in compliance with the above rules. It (the Red Book) contains names, addresses and contact details of Central and State nodal authorities and relevant national agencies/institutions pertaining to chemical (industrial) disaster management. The affidavit mentioned that the Red Book was hosted on the website of the MoEFCC, and it was last updated in November 2019. A virtual crisis control room was also set up to coordinate with the State authorities during chemical accidents. Styrene has been recognised as a hazardous chemical and its polymerisation process as an ‘industrial activity’. Among all authorities, the State Chief Inspector of Factories (CIFs) has been designated as the nodal agency in line with the mandatory obligations under the Factories Act, 1948, and Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (PESO) was tasked with approving the sites of industrial installations and isolated storages as per the MSIHC. The PESO and CIFs are expected to ensure preparation of on-site emergency plans, safety reports by the industrial units and implementation of the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/lg-gas-leak-case-ministry-of-environment-files-affidavit-in-high-court/article31700172.ece
29 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Top officials depose before High Court||Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj & Rural Development) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi and Commissioner M. Girija Sankar deposed before the High Court on Thursday in response to the contempt proceedings initiated against them for not complying with the order to remove the blue, green and white colours from the gram panchayat buildings. Ms. Sawhney apprised Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice N. Jayasurya of the action taken to remove the colours from the buildings as directed by them earlier, and sought some more time to complete the task. On May 22 the court set aside G.O. 623, wherein the government had come up with terracotta, blue, green and white as a colour combination. The court had in March 2020 ordered that the blue, green and white colours be removed. But the government added terracotta to the colours with which the ruling YSRCP is identified. Taking note of the government’s position and the fact that a SLP filed by it in the Supreme Court was scheduled for hearing the same day (May 28), the High Court posted the matter to May 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/top-officials-depose-before-high-court/article31700179.ece
29 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS plan to regulate cropping pattern faulted||The TDP, on the second day of Mahanadu, on Thursday passed a resolution demanding that the Telangana government complete irrigation projects. Mahanadu also passed another resolution on the agriculture sector in Telangana. The party demanded that the Telangana government extend the Rythu Bandhu scheme to all farmers. It took objection to the government’s proposal to regulate cropping pattern. Speakers said allocation of Rs. 25,000 crore in the budget for irrigation seemed to be “bogus.” In combined State, then then Chief Minister N. Chadrababu Naidu efficiently managed irrigation projects. Fair share in Godavari and Krishna waters had become possible only due to the “relentless fight” of Mr. Naidu. Now, the Chief Ministers of both States were enacting “a perfect drama” on irrigation projects. The TDP always strove for brotherly love between the two States, they asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ts-plan-to-regulate-cropping-pattern-faulted/article31700166.ece
29 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minimum pay of Rs. 26,000 sought for PTD staff||Leaders of the State committee of the National Mazdoor Union (NMU), Andhra Pradesh Public Transport Department (APPTD) (formerly APSRTC), met Secretary to the Pay Revision Commission K.V.S.K.S. Papa Rao on Thursday and made a representation. They appealed to the official to ensure fixation of minimum pay for APPTD employees at Rs. 26,000, removal of pay disparity between APPTD and government employees, implementation of master scale for APPTD employees, an increase of 5 % in increment rate and a hike of 15%, 20 % and 25% in HRA and implementation of the old pension system. They also sought grant of stagnation increment for five, 10, 15 and 20 years and implementation of the automatic advancement scheme. Free medical facilities for the employees without any ceiling, like it was in the APSRTC, should continue in future too.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/minimum-pay-of-rs-26000-sought-for-ptd-staff/article31699746.ece
29 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sale of lands case adjourned||The High Court has adjourned the case pertaining to sale of government lands to June 18. Justices A.V. Sesha Sai and B. Krishna Mohan restrained the government from finalising the tenders without their permission. A PIL was filed against it by Guntur-based social worker Thota Suresh Babu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sale-of-lands-case-adjourned/article31699747.ece
29 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 count crosses the 100-mark in district||COVID-19 cases in the district crossed the 100-mark on Thursday, with six new positive cases being reported from two areas in the urban limits. Meanwhile, four COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospital after they tested negative. With the new positive cases, the total number of cases in the district stands at 105, while the number of persons discharged stands at 72. The number of active cases as on date is 32, with one death from Chengalraopeta. Five cases from a family According to officials of the Health Department, of the six new cases, one case has been reported from Maharanipeta while the other five cases were reported from a single family living in Gayatri Nagar in PM Palem. Officials said all six cases are primary and secondary contacts of a doctor who recently tested positive for COVID-19 in Maharanipeta area. Earlier, another contact of the doctor had tested positive. 16 cases in four days On Thursday, health officials were on their toes as the district recorded 16 new COVID-19 cases in four days. On May 25, 10 persons including five foreign returnees and four from a family from Atchutapuram tested positive. After a gap of two days, six more cases were reported on Thursday. Officials have commenced the process of contact tracing by taking the help of the police. Barricades are being arranged at Gayatri Nagar to prevent entry and exit of people in the area to contain the spread of the virus. Sanitisation is also being done and mass testing in the area has begun, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/covid-19-count-crosses-the-100-mark-in-district/article31700193.ece
29 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Thunderstorm likely at isolated places in State||As part of the advancing monsoon, thunderstorms are likely to occur at isolated places over north and south coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam till June 1. The maximum temperature is likely to be between 41° C and 44° Celsius at isolated pockets over Rayalaseema on Friday. Strong surface winds from south-westerly direction, with speed reaching 40 to 50 kmph likely along and off north coastal Andhra Pradesh. The sea condition will be very rough along and off north coastal A.P. during the next 24 hours, till 6 p.m. on Friday. The Cyclone Warning Centre here has advised fishermen against venturing into the sea along and off north coastal A.P. The warning holds good for the fishermen of Odisha and West Bengal coasts also. Monsoon advances Meanwhile, the southwest monsoon has advanced further into some parts of the Maldives-Comorin area, some parts of south Bay of Bengal, remaining parts of Andaman Sea and Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of the southwest monsoon into some more parts of the Maldives-Comorin area during the next 48 hours. In view of the possible formation of a low pressure area over southeast and adjoining east-central Arabian Sea around May 31, conditions are likely to become favourable for the onset of southwest monsoon over Kerala around June 1, according to the IMD.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/thunderstorm-likely-at-isolated-places-in-state/article31700184.ece
29 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tributes paid to NTR in city||Former Minister and Visakhapatnam North MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao participated in the garlanding of TDP founder N.T. Rama Rao’s statue on the occasion of his birth anniversary on the Beach Road on Thursday. MLAs P.G.V.R. Naidu (West) Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu (East) and Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar (South), MLC Duvvarapu Rama Rao and party leader Chode Pattabhiram were among those who participated in garlanding of NTR’s statue. Later, party leaders garlanded NTR’s statue at the party office at Ram Nagar in the city. The two-day Mahanadu, being held at Guntur, concluded on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/tributes-paid-to-ntr-in-city/article31700198.ece
29 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Had NTR been alive, he would have lauded YSRCP rule’||“TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu boasts of his knowledge in technology and liking for webinars and Zoom conferences. Similarly, he also needs to highlight his skill in back-stabbing people for political power and cite as example the case of party founder-president N.T. Rama Rao,” Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said here on Thursday. “It’s about time Mr. Naidu confessed his guilt,” the Minister said while addressing the media here. “Instead of criticising every move of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the TDP president should also learn to appreciate. Had NTR been alive today, he would have appreciated the YSRCP rule,” Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. Unlike Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, the former Chief Minister had no regard for the common man. “Mr. Naidu always gives importance to foreign returnees and moneyed people,” he said. English medium Coming down heavily on Mr. Naidu for opposing the introduction of English medium in government schools, he said, “Mr. Naidu always behaved like the CEO of a company and favoured corporate schools that beyond the reach of the common man. On the contrary, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy wants to give the students from the deprived sections a level-playing field,” the Minister said. He also criticised Mr. Naidu for staying away from the State for the last two months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/had-ntr-been-alive-he-would-have-lauded-ysrcp-rule/article31700174.ece
29 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘District to get high-end engineering varsity’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has decided to set up a high-end engineering university in the district, Minister for Tourism and Youth Advancement Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said here on Thursday. “The city of Visakhapatnam has always been in the focus of the State Government as it is blessed with good resources and other things that are required for industrial growth, such as two ports, an international airport, a prominent naval establishment and a good rail network. Keeping this in mind, the Chief Minister has decided to set up a high-end engineering university in the district to enhance the skill of the youth,” the Minister said. He was speaking to reporters after attending the ongoing ‘Mana Paalana-Mee Suchana’ programme. Appreciating the Skill Development Corporation in the city, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that the corporation has trained over 32,000 tribal youth and over 29,000 engineering and degree students. “In the next four years, we intend to train over 3.50 lakh students and provide placement for them,” he said. The Minister said that the government intends to start an SDC in every Parliamentary constituency. Talking about the activities of APIIC, Visakhapatnam, he said during the last one year, around 267 acres were allotted to 122 new units, with a proposed investment of Rs. 288 crore and which are expected to provide employment to at least 12,500 youth. He also said that the proposed MSME parks at Rachapalli and Narsipatnam on 45 acres of land and expansion of Gurampalem on 98 acres, will be completed in the next two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/district-to-get-high-end-engineering-varsity/article31700188.ece
29 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boat operators to resume fishing on June 2||With the new fishing season scheduled to start here from June 2, the Fisheries Department has decided to adopt a multi-pronged strategy to ensure social distancing for sale of catch brought to the shore from next week. Joint Director of Fisheries K. Phaniprakash told The Hindu that a meeting was organised on Thursday with the representatives of boat operators, seafood exporters and other stakeholders to ensure social distancing post voyage to prevent unseemly incidents that were witnessed at the fishing harbour immediately after imposition of lockdown. Incidentally, fishermen are caught unawares over the Centre’s decision to reduce the period of annual fishing ban and resume fishing from June 1 instead of June 15 as per original schedule. The decision to reduce the ban period has been taken following representations from Tamil Nadu and other States and keeping in view the loss of livelihood during lockdown for the past two months. The boat operators’ associations in Visakhapatnam have decided to delay resumption of fishing activity by a day to celebrate Gangamma Jatara on June 2 (Tuesday). During the meeting with the stakeholders, it was decided to enforce social distancing strictly with the help of the Police Department and regulate the sale at the fishing harbour. Ice shortage The venue for sale of catch would be shifted to a new place near the office of the Fisheries Department. The auction would be allowed at two or three nearby areas, instead of Zero Jetty, to prevent congestion. About 20 ice plants are located in the city at the fishing harbour, Madhurawada, Gajuwaka, Autonagar, Gantyada, Gambheeram, Bhogapuram and other places. The boats, depending on size and duration of voyage, need to carry 40 to 100 tonnes of ice, the price of which has been increased this time from Rs. 1,400 to Rs. 1,500 per tonne. Visakha Ice Plant Owners’ Association president D.V.R. Raju said most of their workers from Odisha had left for their native places due to COVID-19. “We need at least three days to make preparations. Due to lockdown, almost all the ice plants have been closed. We will try to supply limited quantity,” he stated. Dolphin Boat Operators’ Welfare Association president Ch. Satyanarayana Murthy said they would try to ensure social distancing as far as possible.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boat-operators-to-resume-fishing-on-june-2/article31700176.ece
29 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social outfit helps 16 migrants reach home||Sixteen migrant workers who were en route to Odisha and were stranded in Visakhapatnam were sent home on Thursday by the Association for Urban and Tribal Development (AUTD) with the support of the People Combined Foundation. All the workers hail from Kalahandi district of Odisha and were working at a spinning mill at Ravicherla in Krishna district. They were out of work during the lockdown. According to AUTD secretary Pragada Srinivasu, the workers had approached the mill and the district administration seeking help to go home, but in vain. The workers managed to reach Visakhapatnam by bus late on Wednesday evening. AUTD provided them food and put them up at a shelter in the city. Mr. Srinivasu said that on their request, they were sent by a hired private bus up to Sunki in Odisha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/social-outfit-helps-16-migrants-reach-home/article31700195.ece
29 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP donates rice to 200 purohits in city||Lok Sabha MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana on Thursday donated 5 kg rice each to 200 purohits and archakas at his Lawson’s Bay Colony office. Mr. Satyanarayana said that he was doing his bit to help them during the lockdown. The government had introduced schemes to help poor Brahmins, including financial assistance of Rs. 5000 to archakas, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/mp-donates-rice-to-200-purohits-in-city/article31700196.ece
29 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RINL rolls out new billet version||The Medium Merchant Structural Mill (MMSM) of the RINL-Visakhapatnam Steel Plant has for the first time rolled out 125x125mm billets by modifying its roll stands to meet the increasing demand. This is a new addition to the RINL product basket to meet the demand of both domestic and international market. RINL produces special steel, including wire rod coils, rounds and billets of different grades and dimensions to meet the demand of infrastructure, construction and auto industry. Earlier, MMSM rolled out billets with a maximum size of 90x90 mm. Trial operations were carried out successfully for IS:2830 grade. Other grades can be rolled out depending on the requirement. Chairman-cum-Managing Director P.K. Rath said on Thursday that it was a momentous occasion for RINL to bring out a new product from one of its sophisticated mills to meet the increasing demand. He congratulated the MMSM team and Works Division for the achievement. He advised them to take up further innovations to meet customer requirements. D.K. Mohanty, Director (Commercial), A.K. Saxena, Director (Operations) and K.V. Vidya Sagar, Executive Director (Works) were among those present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rinl-rolls-out-new-billet-version/article31700186.ece
29 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civic body approaches MoHUA over poor rating||GVMC officials met Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) officials in Delhi to lodge a grievance over the municipal corporation’s fall in rating from two stars to one star in the Garbage-Free Cities (GFC) Star Rating 2020 released recently. GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao met SBM Joint Secretary V.K. Jindal and Director B.K. Jha in Delhi to inform them that the results did not reflect the fact that the GVMC had a Construction and Demolition (C&D) waste plant functioning for the past one year. “The SBM team assured me that they would look into the matter and seek an explanation from the third-party team which had conducted the survey in Visakhapatnam,” Mr. Sanyasi Rao said. The SBM officials will check if GVMC has uploaded all the proper documents related to C&D plant during the survey, Mr. Sanyasi Rao said. “May 28 was the last day for the ULBs to submit any grievances they had related to the ratings. Many ULBs have submitted complaints. The MoHUA may revert to us in the first week of June,” he said. GVMC had applied for a five-star rating. On May 20, the GVMC was awarded one star, while Tirupati and Vijayawada secured three stars. GVMC claimed that the third-party team which came for inspection did not visit the C&D plant at Kapuluppada, due to which zero marks were allotted to the C&D rating.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/civic-body-approaches-mohua-over-poor-rating/article31700189.ece
29 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two men end lives in district||A 33-year-old man reportedly ended his life at his residence at Anakapalle Town in the wee hours of Thursday. The deceased was identified as S. Chinnaraju (33). Reports said that Chinnaraju took the extreme step as he was in depression due to financial hurdles. He is survived by his wife, who works as a constable at Kasimkota police station, and two children. In another incident, a 41-year old man reportedly ended his life at Chandakaveedhi in Maharanipeta area of Visakhapatnam city on Wednesday. Locals alleged that he took the extreme step due to fear of COVID-19. However, MR Peta Inspector R.V.R.K Chowdhary said that they are yet to ascertain the reason. Cases have been booked. Those battling suicidal thoughts can call 100 for free counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/two-men-end-lives-in-district/article31700190.ece
29 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||189 shops raided, 35 cases booked||Twenty-five teams comprising officials from Vigilance, Weights and Measures, and other agencies raided 189 shops in the district on Thursday. The teams filed cases against 35 shopkeepers who were found selling essential commodities at inflated prices. Collector V. Vinay Chand said that till date, teams have inspected 9,206 shops and filed cases against 2,349 persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/189-shops-raided-35-cases-booked/article31700191.ece
29 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Return of migrant workers fuels fear of infection||It is expected that more number of COVID-19 cases will surface in June as operation of trains will resume from the 1st of the month and people in large numbers are likely to return from the places like New Delhi and Mumbai to their native villages in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. The two districts, which registered zero positive cases till three weeks ago, now witness rise in the number which went up to 27 in Vizianagaram district and 40 in Srikakulam. Almost all cases are linked to migrant workers. Screening mechanism At least 10,000 people are expected to come back to their native places in the first week of June with the operation of trains from different parts of the country. “Many people are coming by their personal vehicles. There is no mechanism for their screening on the borders of States or districts. The situation is serious and it may turn worse in the month of June.” said a senior official. Special Task Force teams, which have been posted on the borders of districts and Andhra Pradesh-Odisha, are trying their best to collect data of the persons coming in cars and other vehicles. The Police Department is requesting the government for thermal screening at the borders so that persons with COVID-19 symptoms can be sent to quarantine centers. “Stringent lockout measures, which were implemented in March and April, are needed to be enforced again. We are waiting for the guidelines from the government as the fourth phase of lockdown will end on May 31,” he opined. Livelihood opportunity Senior officials of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts have reportedly sent a detailed report to the government on the situation in the two districts. “Migrant workers have lost hopes on livelihood options in cities. Most of them will come back to their villages with the operation of trains in June,” said another official.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/return-of-migrant-workers-fuels-fear-of-infection/article31700164.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hunger pangs||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hunger-pangs/article31699750.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s rush hour again||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/its-rush-hour-again/article31700178.ece
29 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spike in coronavirus cases as 117 test positive in Telangana||Telangana continued to record high number of COVID-19 cases as 117 more samples tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday. This is the highest number of positive cases recorded in a day till date. The second highest of 107 was recorded on Wednesday. Four more COVID-19 patients succumbed to the virus. Curiously, officials from the State Health department officials and Health Minister Eatala Rajender’s office stressed the distinction between cases detected among people from the State, and among those who have returned from other States and countries. In the medical bulletin issued on Thursday followed by an explanation, the Health department officials said that of the 117 new cases, 66 are from the State and the remaining 51 cases are of migrants and deportees from Saudi Arabia. Giving further break-up, they said that of the 66 cases from the State, 58 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area , five from Rangareddy, two from Medchal and one from Siddipet. Of the 51, two are migrants and 49 are Saudi Arabia ‘deportees’. An explanatory note from Mr Rajender’s office stated that apart from people from the State, people from other States of our country are among those who have come from Saudi Arabia. “Many among them contracted coronavirus in Saudi. They tested positive for the virus when tests were conducted here They are admitted to quarantine centres of Army and Air Force. ” Meanwhile, Telangana Health department’s medical bulletin led to some sort of a confusion for the second consecutive day. Officials said that cumulative cases in the State were 2,256. However, when the 117 new cases are added to 2,098 (cumulative till May 27) , it totals to only 2,215. But officials said that the total till May 28 is 2,256. There was a difference of 41 cases. When clarification was sought, senior officials from the Health department said that they have added 41 active cases who are in home isolation and at private hospitals. Of the total 2,256 cases in Telangana till date, 844 are active cases, 67 have died, 1,345 were discharged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/spike-in-coronavirus-cases-as-117-test-positive-in-telangana/article31699986.ece
29 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No-touch door opener||Seriptorium Printing Solutions, a start-up at ASPIRE-TIDE business incubator in the University of Hyderabad (UoH) working on devices that would help people during this COVID-19 pandemic, has 3D printed a few designs available in the market and come up with ‘cofi no-touch door opener’. An university spokesman informed that from a market research it was found that people were scared to touch doors, use ATMs or touch switches, especially at public places. It was averred that a device that will help people do these operations without direct contact would give them more confidence. This is when Seriptorium Printing Solutions went through some of the designs available in the international market and made changes to suit the country’s requirements. The 3D printed pieces were put up on Amazon and are now available for bulk orders. The product is 3D printed using biodegradable PLA material which is skin-friendly, can be used in public places to open or close a door, push a lift button, on and off switches and hang carry bags to avoid contamination. It has a handy design with two central holes that will allow you to handle the device with ease and do all operations without exerting much force. It is lightweight (20 grams) but sturdy due to the interlocking structure created during the printing. The product is about 14.5 x 6.5 x 1 cm and can take a weight up to 25 kg. It can be easily installed in public modes of transport, lifts, ATMs, office spaces and public toilets, he explained.  (Video link: https://youtu.be/q2OPe64PEEc of the product is available.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/no-touch-door-opener/article31699991.ece
29 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||An appeal to prevent child labour||M.V. Foundation, a voluntary organisation working for the cause of poor, has urged the State government to take steps to provide adequate meals to children during the lockdown period so as to prevent them from work. “Steps should be taken to maintain a database of children at municipal wards and Gram Panchayat levels so that their status can be reviewed once a fortnight,” said foundation national convenor R. Venkat Reddy. “Apart from being hungry, these children were made to walk long distances along with their parents who were returning to their native places during lockdown,” he said. In a letter addressed to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Mr. Venkat Reddy said that every Gram Panchayat and municipal ward should be asked to maintain a database of children who returned to their villages from their work places and those who migrated out. Efforts should be made to bring every school-going child back to school once they reopen. Self help groups, youths and opinion makers in the communities should be involved in this task. The foundation urged the government to ensure that all school drop-outs were identified and re-enrolled into schools besides taking steps to arrange special training through accelerated learning methodologies to enable them join age-appropriate classes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/an-appeal-to-prevent-child-labour/article31699989.ece
29 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flyover, underpass opened at LB Nagar||The right hand side flyover near Kamineni Hospitals junction and the vehicle underpass near LB Nagar junction, constructed as part of the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP), were opened for public by Minister for Education Sabitha Indra Reddy on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister said that the SRDP with its flyovers, underpasses, RUBs and elevated corridors, will stand Hyderabad on a par with global cities. Of the 11 works taken up at LB Nagar under SRDP with an expenditure of Rs. 448 crore, five works worth Rs. 268 crore have been completed, and brought into public use, she said. The completed works include Chintalkunta underpass, two flyovers near Kamineni Hospitals junction, one flyover over LB Nagar junction towards Vijayawada, and an underpass towards Bairamalguda. This facilitates signal-free travelling for commuters, she said. Constructed with Rs. 43 crore, the flyover near Kamineni junction is 940 metres long, and 12 metres wide. Unidirectional, it will facilitate free flow of traffic on Inner Ring Road from Secunderabad to Owaisi Hospital and Srisailam road. The vehicle underpass at LB Nagar has been constructed with Rs. 14 crore, with a length of 519 metres and total width of 24.5 metres. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan and MLA and Musi River Front Development Corporation chairman D. Sudheer Reddy were also there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/flyover-underpass-opened-at-lb-nagar/article31699995.ece
29 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Senior IPS officer threatens to quit||Director of Telangana State Police Academy, V.K. Singh, an IPS officer of 1987 batch, has written a letter to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on his official letter head wanting to resign if the government felt that he was not worth promotion. Mr. Singh was expecting promotion to the rank of Director General of Police in super time scale as he was already empanelled for the purpose by a government order issued three months ago. It was, however, a matter of anguish for him that the government had not yet taken up his promotion. Therefore, it was getting difficult for him to continue in service with the “feeling of humiliation and neglect.” Mr. Singh recalled in the letter that there was a clear cut vacancy in the rank of Director General of Police after the retirement of Ms. Tejdeep Kaur Menon, Director General, Special Protection Force, in April, and Mr. T. Krishna Prasad, Director General of Road Safety Authority, a month earlier. He also said it was significant that IPS officers of 1986 batch of regular recruits of Telangana cadre were promoted three years back without clear vacancies. Similarly, IAS officers of 1989 batch of Telangana cadre were also promoted without clear vacancies. IPS officers of 1989 batch of many States, including Andhra Pradesh, were promoted long back.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/senior-ips-officer-threatens-to-quit/article31700000.ece
29 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. logs in to ‘Speak Up India’||Telangana Congress cadre responded enthusiastically to the party’s nationwide online campaign, Speak Up India, with several Congress leaders and workers logging into their social media platforms and registering their protest against the Central government blaming it for the unplanned lockdown leading to untold miseries. While some posted videos on Facebook with statistics on how the poor suffered immensely, some others took to Twitter to express their anguish. The common thread was Rahul Gandhi’s suggestions to the government and AICC president Sonia Gandhi’s attack on the government’s failure to provide transport to the millions who are suffering with the businesses down and employment loss. Leading the party workers, TPCC president, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy took to his social media platforms and demanded the Central government, as per the directions of Congress president Sonia Gandhi, extend cash assistance of Rs. 10,000 to all poor families, besides giving Rs. 7,500 per month for the next six months. He also urged the government to ensure safe and free travel of migrant workers to their native places without further delay. He also wanted the Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao to immediately implement the 'Unemployment Allowance scheme' to provide Rs. 3,016 per month to all jobless youth in the State as promised in the 2018 as it was the most appropriate time for its launch. He urged the State government to waive off power and water bills for the lockdown period for all categories of consumers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/cong-logs-in-to-speak-up-india/article31700001.ece
29 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Classical Swine Fever vaccine launched||Veterinary and human vaccine manufacturer Indian Immunologicals Ltd. (IIL) has launched Classical Swine Fever (CSF) vaccine. Announcing that it has launched the product under the brand name ‘Raksha Class’, a release from IIL on Thursday said that this unique cell culture technology-based vaccine has been developed in collaboration with the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly. A highly contagious viral disease of pigs, caused by an RNA virus, the Classical Swine Fever has a high fatality rate and thus, pig-growers face serious economic problems with the loss of the herd. The Raksha Class vaccine is a live attenuated vaccine and has been tested for safety, sterility and potency. The field trials were conducted at Bengaluru and Hyderabad Veterinary colleges. MD K. Anand Kumar said, “With the launch, we can ensure that the pig population in India can be increased and hence, growers will be immensely benefited economically.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/classical-swine-fever-vaccine-launched/article31699984.ece
29 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. ready to deal with rise in COVID-19 cases, says CS||The State government has geared up to effectively deal with coronavirus if there is a rise in number of cases in the coming days. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said that the government was well prepared with PPE kits, masks, testing kits, beds, ventilators and hospitals, to deal with up to one lakh cases in the State. “The situation is well under control as of now,” he said. He participated at a video conference conducted by Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba on Thursday to review the State’s preparedness to tackle the virus and the public health response to COVID-19. The video conference assumes significance as it comes ahead of the end of Lockdown 4.0. Mr. Kumar told the Cabinet Secretary that the government was following guidelines being issued from time to time and was making all arrangements to control the spread of virus particularly in the containment zones.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-ready-to-deal-with-rise-in-covid-19-cases-says-cs/article31699988.ece
29 May 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH gets eligibility for PMRF scheme||University of Hyderabad (UoH) has been selected as one of the few institutions in India that can offer fellowship under Prime Minister’s Research Fellows (PMRF) scheme to meritorious PhD candidates at the time of admission into PhD programme. Candidates eligible for PMRF get a monthly stipend of Rs. 70,000 along with an annual contingency grant of Rs. 2 lakh. To apply for PMRF under direct entry, candidate needs to get selected and admitted in the university’s regular PhD programme in science, engineering and technology, and then the institute will recommend candidates with high academic credentials and demonstrated potential for research as per the PMRF guidelines. VC Appa Rao Podile called it another important milestone for UoH.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/uoh-gets-eligibility-for-pmrf-scheme/article31699993.ece
29 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Govt. unable to pay salaries due to huge loan interest’||AICC secretary and former MLA Ch. Vamshichand Reddy has asked the government the rationale behind 50% salary deferment of the employees here when much poorer States like Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Orissa and even Andhra Pradesh are still paying salaries without any deductions. At a press conference here, he said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao always claims Telangana as the richest State, but it is cutting down salaries when people are already overwhelmed with the lockdown-induced hardships. “If even the pensioners are not spared, we know how poor the State has become,” the former legislator said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/govt-unable-to-pay-salaries-due-to-huge-loan-interest/article31700002.ece
29 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress arranges bus for migrants||Responding to the call given by the Telangana Congress, the Telangana chapter of the Overseas Congress from various countries organised a bus from Hyderabad to Odisha for the stranded labour here. The bus was flagged off by the TPCC president Uttam Kumar Reddy, party national spokesperson Dasoju Sravan and TPCC NRI cell chairman Vinod Kumar. All the arrangements including food and medicines were arranged for the 1,400 km. travel of the migrants. He said another bus will be arranged to UP next week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/congress-arranges-bus-for-migrants/article31700003.ece
29 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Umapathy scion of Domakonda Samsthan||Retired IAS officer Kamineni Umapathy, who died at the age of 92 years on Wednesday, was a scion of Domakonda Samsthan of Kamareddy district, and well-known for preservation of Hindu religion, ancient temples and protection of architectural and cultural traditions. He and his son K. Anil Kumar took pains to restore the ancient Shiva temple and palaces and other fortifications at Domakonda, retired IAS officer M. Gopalakrishna said. Mr. Anil Kumar is a businessman and former president of Indian Archery Association. His wife Shobana Kamineni is Director of Apollo Group of Hospitals and their daughter Upasana is married to Telugu film actor Ramcharan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/umapathy-scion-of-domakonda-samsthan/article31699999.ece
29 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||State song to honour corona warriors||Claiming that Odisha’s COVID-19 mortality rate was one of the lowest in the world, State Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday urged the Odia people to sing ‘Bande Utkal Janani’, considered the State song, at 5.30 p.m. on Saturday to honour all those who have worked tirelessly to fight the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/state-song-to-honour-corona-warriors/article31699928.ece
29 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Few passengers on Haryana buses||Amid the COVID-19 scare, a small number of passengers are travelling in the State Roadways buses in Haryana, which resumed operations on select routes within the State on May 15. According to government data, till May 27, on an average 1,000-1,200 passengers are daily travelling in the State-owned buses. Before the lockdown, around 11 lakh passengers used to travel across the State in government buses. The Haryana government had announced a lockdown in the State on March 23, a day before the nationwide lockdown was announced.  Select routes The Haryana Roadways, which has a fleet of around 4,000 buses, had announced that initially buses would ply from ten districts including Ambala, Bhiwani, Hisar, Kaithal, Karnal, Narnaul, Panchkula, Rewari, Rohtak, and Sirsa on select point to point routes. Of the 4,000 buses, only 30-40 buses are plying within the States on long routes while local buses are not being run. A maximum of 30 passengers are being allowed in each of the 52-seater buses, adhering to social distancing norms. Also, confirmed online booking and wearing a mask has been made compulsory for every passengers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/few-passengers-on-haryana-buses/article31699929.ece
29 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Floodwaters recede in Assam, two more die||Floodwaters showed a receding trend in Assam but left two people dead on Thursday, taking the toll to three. Officials said a person each drowned in Lakhipur and Balijana areas of western Assam’s Goalpara district. Wednesday’s casualty was from the same district. On the brighter side, a day-long pause in rain saw the number of flood-hit districts come down from 11 to nine. But the number of displaced people across 300 inundated villages went up from 2.72 lakh to 2.94 lakh within a span of 24 hours. Goalpara continued to be the worst-affected district with 2.01 lakh people forced to take shelter on higher, dryer grounds, followed by 36,064 people in Hojai and 27,691 in Nagaon, both central Assam districts. Of the 19,577 people who moved into 80 relief camps, 17,928 are in Goalpara district. “The floods have affected crop in 21,572.30 hectares of land. Thankfully, the floodwaters have receded from two districts — Lakhimpur and Barpeta,” a spokesperson of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said. The Brahmaputra continued to flow above the danger mark in parts of eastern Assam’s Jorhat district. Duty for teachers The ASDMA has asked the heads of all 33 districts in the State to engage in flood relief and rescue operations school and college teachers as well as the staff of different departments not actively involved in COVID-19 duty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/floodwaters-recede-in-assam-two-more-die/article31699927.ece
29 May 2020||Lucknow,||CBI court to record statements of Babri accused from June 4||The special CBI court hearing the Babri Masjid demolition case is set to record the statements of the accused, who include BJP leaders L.K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti, from June 4 onwards. Special judge S.K. Yadav on Thursday asked the defence to start producing the 32 accused from that date. It is not immediately clear if they have to be present in court or can appear through a videoconference due to restrictions imposed to fight the spread of COVID-19. The court will record their statements under Section 313 of the CrPC, giving them a chance to claim innocence. This stage of the trial is also meant to explain to the accused the evidence gathered against them by the prosecuting agency, the Central Bureau of Investigation. The Babri Masjid was demolished in December 1992 by “karsevaks” who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple. The prosecution had wrapped up the examination of its witnesses by March 6 and the court asked some of the accused to appear before it on March 24 for recording their statements under Section 313 of the CrPC. But the proceedings did not take place as the court in Lucknow closed due to the COVID-19 crisis. When the proceedings resumed on May 18, the defence counsel moved an application to summon three prosecution witnesses in order to cross examine them. This was allowed. The accused include former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Kalyan Singh, former Deputy Prime Minister L. K. Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Vinay Katiyar, Sadhvi Rithambara, Sakshi Maharaj and Ram Vilas Vedanti. On April 19, 2017, the Supreme Court had ordered the special judge to conduct a day-to-day trial, concluding it in two years. Calling the demolition of the disputed structure a crime which shook the “secular fabric of the Constitution”, it allowed the CBI plea on restoration of criminal conspiracy charge against the VIP accused.  ‘Erroneous verdict’ The court had termed the Allahabad High Court’s February 12, 2001, verdict dropping conspiracy charge against Mr. Advani and others “erroneous”. On May 8 this year, the top court set a new deadline for the special judge, asking him to deliver the verdict by August 31.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/cbi-court-to-record-statements-of-babri-accused-from-june-4/article31699931.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Capital witnesses over 1,000 COVID-19 cases in a single day||As many as 1,024 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 16,281, stated a health bulletin released by the government on Thursday. This is the first time that the number of cases reported in 24 hours crossed the 1,000 mark. More than 1,000 new cases per day is the third stage of the COVID-19 outbreak, according to an action plan submitted to the Delhi government by a five-member expert committee in March. “We have a detailed plan of treating upto 1,000 new cases per day. But, I hope that we never reach this stage,” Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said in March while talking about the committee’s report. A senior Delhi government official said they expect the number of new cases to be high at least for a while. On Thursday, 13 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 316. But all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the 16,281 cases, 7,495 people have recovered and there are 8,470 active cases. Also, four people working at the office of L-G Anil Baijal have tested positive for COVID-19, an official source told The Hindu . “Three people tested positive today and one person two-three days ago These people are lower-level officials and did not come in contact with the L-G,” an official source said. The headquarters of the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), Palika Kendra, was sealed for sanitation on Thursday morning after five employees tested COVID-19 positive since Friday. “In addition to 6th floor, it has been decided to seal Palika Kendra for 48 hours w.e.f. the immediate effect,” a statement by the NDMC read. On Friday, a doctor working at a dispensary on the ground floor of the NDMC headquarters tested positive for the virus.  DJB office closed The second floor of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) headquarters in Karol Bagh was closed from Thursday afternoon to Saturday after three officials tested positive. “The rest of the office was functioning and will be open tomorrow,” a DJB official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/capital-witnesses-over-1000-covid-19-cases-in-a-single-day/article31699923.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Spray pesticides to deal with possible locust attack: govt.||The Delhi government has issued an advisory for spraying of pesticides to deal with a possible locust attack in the Capital, said Cabinet Minister Gopal Rai on Thursday. He said in the view of the increasing threat of locusts in north India, the Agriculture Department will run awareness programmes to make both farmers and Delhi residents per se aware of this new threat. “To deal with the attack of locusts here, the government has issued an advisory for spraying pesticides. There are many north Indian States which are witnessing a massive locust attack and keeping in mind the situation, the government has issued this advisory. Alerts and directions have been sent to the revenue commissioners, DMs and civic body commissioners regarding the matter,” he added. “Not only the agriculture sector but also the horticulture sector: crops, vegetation, plants, gardens, orchards, can get affected by the locust attack. I have met senior officials of both the departments and am personally monitoring preparedness. The officials have been instructed to work proactively to ensure Delhi’s preparedness to deal with a locust attack,” he said. A circular issued by the government directed all authorities concerned to take preventive measures to control and eradicate locusts to avoid the devastating effect on standing agricultural and horticultural crops, vegetation, plants, gardens, orchards in Delhi. It also directed that awareness programmes be organised for the public and farmers to prevent and control any such invasion by locusts in Delhi. “As the swarm usually flies in the day time, and rests during night time, therefore, the locusts should not be allowed to rest, especially during the night,” it said.  As the swarm usually flies in the day time, and rests during night time, therefore, the locusts should not be allowed to rest, especially during the night   AAP Minister Gopal Rai||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/spray-pesticides-to-deal-with-possible-locust-attack-govt/article31699919.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Emergency parole of 900 convicts extended by 8 weeks||The Delhi government has extended the emergency parole granted to more than 900 convicts across jails in the city by eight weeks, according to official documents. The jails are being decongested to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The total number of inmates in the 16 jails here even after the emergency paroles to convicts is still more than their capacity, officials said. “The Minister [Home], Govt. of Delhi has decided to extend the emergency parole by a period of another eight weeks, to all such convicts who were earlier released on emergency parole on or before April 30, 2020. The Minister has further decided that the extended period of emergency parole would count towards the sentence of the convict [sic],” read an order issued by the government order on May 22, which was accessed by The Hindu . SC cognisance Around 900-1,000 convicts in different jails here were granted emergency parole from March 23 to April 30, said sources. Also, the period a convict spends on emergency parole will be counted as part of his sentence. On March 16, the Supreme Court took suo motu cognisance of the risk of COVID-19 infection spreading within and from overcrowded prisons across the country. On March 23, the top court asked the State governments to consider giving parole to those facing up to seven-year jail term in a bid to decongest prisons on account of the COVID-19 outbreak. Following the SC order, the government amended the Delhi Prisons Rules, 2018 and inserted a clause for emergency parole.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/emergency-parole-of-900-convicts-extended-by-8-weeks/article31699925.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||955 foreigners to move out of govt. centres||The Delhi High Court on Thursday permitted shifting of 955 foreign nationals, who had participated in the religious congregation at the centre in Nizamuddin here, from institutional quarantine to alternative accommodation. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said all of the foreign nationals will be shifted from government’s quarantine centres to nine designated places here. Alternative places The court gave the order after the Centre, the Delhi government and the Delhi Police did not object to the suggestion of counsel representing some of the foreign nationals to shift them to alternative accommodation and that the financial burden will be borne by them. The court was also informed that 47 chargesheets have been filed against the foreign nationals as of now in the trial court here. The police, earlier this week, told the court that it has neither arrested nor detained any foreign national in the case lodged in connection with the religious congregation at the centre during the lockdown. “No one has been arrested in the case so far. No one has been detained by the police in this case. More than 900 foreign attendees, including the petitioners, have joined investigation of the case,” the police said. The submission was made in a petition seeking the release of 916 foreign nationals, who participated in the event and are being held in institutional quarantine since March 30 despite having tested negative for COVID-19. The plea was filed by 20 of the 916 foreigners who said the continued detention violates the very fabric of liberty. Later, a similar petition came from other foreign nationals. The advocates appearing for the petitioners had called for the release of all foreign nationals who had tested negative for the virus from institutional quarantine to alternative accommodations, factoring social distancing. Fresh chargesheets filed Meanwhile, the Crime Branch of the Delhi Police on Thursday filed another set of chargesheet against foreign nationals who attended the religious event at the centre in Nizamuddin. A team of the Crime Branch filed 12 chargesheets against 536 Tablighi Jamaat members from three countries, said officials. Till now, the police has already filed 47 chargesheets against 910 foreigners from 35 countries. The chargesheets containing 12,000 pages were filed before Metropolitan Magistrate Tanya Bemniwal, who set June 29 for further hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/955-foreigners-to-move-out-of-govt-centres/article31699915.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Release Malaysians connected to Nizamuddin event’||The High Commissioner of Malaysia has written to the Delhi government, requesting to release around 120 people from Malaysia, connected to a religious gathering at a centre in Nizamuddin in mid-March, said sources. The High Commissioner made the request in a letter written to Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal on May 20 and it has been forwarded to the government. “The government has been coordinating with the MHA on the issue of foreign nationals connected to the event in Nizamuddin. The government cannot do anything without the MHA’s permission on this,” an official source told The Hindu . Currently, these foreign nationals are at the government-provided accommodations. The government is yet to reply to the High Commissioner.  In an operation which concluded in the wee hours of April 1, a total of 2,346 people were evacuated from the centre in Nizamuddin and 536 of them were sent to hospitals and 1,810 were sent to quarantine facilities. “About 270 of them were foreign nationals and later people who attended the religious gathering in Nizamuddin were staying in other mosques across the city were also evacuated. There were around 570 foreign nationals in total connected to the event,” the source said. In total, 3,000 odd people were tracked back to the religious gathering in Nizamuddin and around 1,100 of them tested positive for COVID-19 just in Delhi alone.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/release-malaysians-connected-to-nizamuddin-event/article31699920.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||DCW stops child marriage, registers case||The Delhi Commission for Women stopped two minors, both 16 years old, from getting married. According to the DCW, the minor girl’s family wanted to marry them off to prevent them from eloping for a second time. “The complainant informed that the girl had eloped a few months ago with a boy and to prevent any such incidences in the future, her family decided to get her married to the boy. On reaching Nabi Karim area, the girl’s grandmother informed the commission’s team that they were going to complete the engagement ceremony,” DCW officials said. The girl was counselled by the DCW team and the Child Welfare Committee (CWC) was also informed, an official said. “The police has also registered a case in the matter. The girl’s family was reprimanded for their actions and a written apology and guarantee was taken from them,” the women’s panel said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/dcw-stops-child-marriage-registers-case/article31699916.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man killed days after lockdown advice to duo||A 24-year-old man was killed after being attacked with a stone in south-west Delhi’s Sagarpur area on Wednesday night. Two, including a minor, have been arrested in the case, the police said. A senior police officer said that the victim has been identified as Krishan Yadav and the accused has been identified as Karan (20), both residents of Sagarpur. Probe revealed that a few days ago, Krishan had asked the two accused not to roam in the street at night owing to the ongoing lockdown. This led to an argument and then into a fight. However, it ended that day. On Wednesday, a quarrel ensued among them after which the minor hit the victim with a stone multipletimes,police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/man-killed-days-after-lockdown-advice-to-duo/article31699917.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Saurabh- immolation||A woman died after she allegedly set herself ablaze following an argument with her husband over a new mobile phone for their children’s online classes in south Delhi’s Maidan Garhi, the police said on Thursday. She poured kerosene oil and set herself afire on Wednesday when her husband asked her to wait for a few days to buy a mobile phone. She was admitted to Safdarjung Hospital with 90% burn injuries and succumbed on Thursday morning, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/saurabh-immolation/article31699926.ece
29 May 2020||Ahmedabad,||Dead patients’ kin allege apathy at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital||The relatives of some patients, who died during treatment at Ahmedabad Civil Hospital recently, have alleged that the apathy and negligence on the part of doctors and nursing staff there were responsible for the death of their loved ones. These allegations come days after the Gujarat High Court criticised the civil hospital over its functioning amid the COVID-19 crisis. One Hardik Valera has alleged that he was asked by hospital staff to manually pump air to keep alive her 81-year-old grandmother, before her death on Wednesday. Mr. Valera also claimed that the doctors did not even bother to take samples of her grandmother to ascertain if she was COVID-19 positive or not. “Our house is in Dani Limda, which is a containment zone. We took our grandmother to the civil hospital on Tuesday night after she felt uneasy,” he said. “She was first kept on the ground floor of the hospital and put on ventilator support during midnight. But despite my repeated requests, doctors did not collect her samples to check if she was coronavirus positive,” he alleged. According to Mr. Valera, when she was being shifted to another ward on the third floor on Wednesday morning, the on-duty doctor handed him a bag and asked him to keep pumping air manually till a ventilator was attached again after reaching the ward. “When I requested them that it was a professional’s job and someone from the hospital should do it, no one listened. Some of them even laughed at me. I even noticed that the air filter was choked. But nobody cared to listen. When we finally reached the ward on the third floor, the doctors there declared her dead and did not even make any effort to save her life,” he alleged. When asked about Mr. Valera’s allegations, civil superintendent Dr. M.M. Prabhakar claimed ignorance, saying he does not recollect if such incident has occurred at the hospital. In another incident, a relative of a COVID-19 patient circulated a video claiming that doctors of COVID-19 ward at the civil hospital did not inform him that his mother, who died on May 24, would be put on ventilator support. Commenting on this incident, Prabhakar said the woman was a COVID-19 patient and died a few days ago. “As per the rules and guidelines, doctors are empowered to do everything necessary to save a patient’s life,” Prabhakar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dead-patients-kin-allege-apathy-at-ahmedabad-civil-hospital/article31699935.ece
29 May 2020||Bhopal,||Booked for post, M.P. scribe finds support||Gwalior journalists have demanded that the police withdraw a case registered against a veteran journalist on May 24 for reportedly sharing a post objected to by the BJP. In a letter submitted to the Inspector General of Police, Gwalior, members of the Gwalior Press Club said, “Without any investigation, the police hastily registered a case. There are government orders that a case can be registered against a journalist only after investigation by police officers.” As alert sentinels of democracy, they said, journalists supported people by “acting as the media for their expression while remaining independent and bold. In a democracy, every individual has the right to express”. Explaining the order, Heera Singh Chouhan, in-charge of the Gola ka Mandir police station said, “Permission of higher officials is required only while issuing a challan, not for registering an FIR.” Tansen Tiwari, 66, who has worked at several Hindi media, on May 22 posted on Facebook: “If it sidelines gappu (bragsters), tadipaar (the externed), rapists and those who keep unnatural company, then the BJP truly is a goal-oriented party.” The next day, BJP worker Awdesh Singh Bhadauria filed the complaint with the police. Later, Mr. Tiwari deleted the post. The police have registered the case under sections 294 [Obscene acts and songs] and 500 [Punishment for defamation]of the Indian Penal Code and section 67 [Punishment for publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form] of the Information Technology Act, 2000. Stating that he had never faced opposition for his writings before, he told The Hindu, “ The words I chose may have hurt sentiments of some people, that’s why I deleted the post. As a journalist for 40 years, I choose my words wisely. I have not named anyone.” “I was talking about some detestable human traits, which might be there in anyone. And we should be against them. I am willing to apologise if I made a mistake,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/booked-for-post-mp-scribe-finds-support/article31699941.ece
29 May 2020||Mumbai,||‘Not amending labour laws, prefer direct aid over loans to MSMEs’||The State government is setting up 10 industrial nodes along the under-construction Mumbai-Nagpur super expressway to promote decentralisation of industries in Maharashtra, said Industries Minister Subhash Desai on Thursday. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Desai said the State has also prepared a proposal for medium, small and micro enterprises (MSMEs) under which actual financial help will be provided to the owners, unlike the loans offered by the Centre. The minister said that the State is not going to change the existing labour laws, but can consider giving certain concessions for new investments, if asked for. Mr. Desai said since the State government is constantly in dialogue with the industries, there are no complaints about the labour laws and hence there is no question of changing them. “Had labour laws been unreasonable, industries would not have grown so much in Maharashtra. Yes, they do want certain concessions. If new foreign investors speak to us about their need of particular concessions, then we are open to discussions,” he said.  Mumbai-Nagpur corridor The 700-km-long expressway from Mumbai to Nagpur will pass through 10 districts and indirectly provide connectivity to 14 others. “We have decided to develop one industrial node in each district along the road. This node could be the centre of industrial activities in that particular district due to the connectivity, and availability of land,” Mr. Desai said. The idea of decentralisation of businesses is being discussed at different levels of the government as business activities in Mumbai and Pune have come to a standstill due to COVID-19. The minister said the Industries Department has prepared a proposal for the MSMEs and it will be presented before the State Cabinet for approval. “In view of the lockdown, the owners had to pay workers for two months, besides the water and power bills, when their businesses were closed. We are not working to make loans available to them, instead we want to provide them with direct aid,” he said. The Shiv Sena leader also said none of the big industries have sought assistance from the government yet, but have recommended that smaller businesses dependent on them be helped. Labour bureau The Industries Department is also coming up with a web portal of the labour bureau, he said, where unemployed youth can register as unskilled, semi-skilled, and skilled. “Those in need of skills will be provided training by the department. Companies will get a pool of talent from this bureau based on skills and education,” he said, adding that locals will benefit from it.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/not-amending-labour-laws-prefer-direct-aid-over-loans-to-msmes/article31699940.ece
29 May 2020||Mumbai,||Pawar seeks PM’s intervention to revive real estate sector||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying the real estate sector is in a state of “complete breakdown” amid the lockdown and Mr. Modi should look into the issue personally. In the letter dated May 27, Mr. Pawar urged the PM to take measures to revive the sector which has been hit hard. “Amidst unprecedented pandemic Covid-19 and consequent nationwide lockdown, the Real Estate Sector is in a state of complete breakdown,” Mr. Pawar said in the letter, which he shared on Twitter on Thursday. The massive “outflux” of labourers, stoppage of work and sales for almost three months, stagnant demand, and impaired economic activities have taken a toll on this industry “which contributes substantially to the national GDP”, he said. The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI) has also written an open letter to Mr. Modi about the crisis and requested his immediate intervention, the former Union minister said. CREDAI has made a few recommendations such as one-time (loan) restructuring, additional institutional funding, waiver of penal interest, policy innovations for triggering consumer demand, controlling cartelisation of raw material, changing criterion of affordability for the Goods and Services Tax applicability, and operationalisation of the Special Window for Completion of Construction of Affordable and Mid-Income Housing (SWAMIH) fund to help the sector, he said. The SWAMIH fund was created to complete over 1,600 stalled projects with 4.5 lakh housing units. “I shall be grateful if you personally look into the matter and initiate necessary measures for revival of one of the most important sectors of the economy — real estate sector,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/pawar-seeks-pms-intervention-to-revive-real-estate-sector/article31699937.ece
29 May 2020||Mumbai,||HC directs registrar general, judge to be parties in plea to convert Kolhapur court into hospital||The Bombay High Court recently directed the registrar general and the principal district judge, Kolhapur, to be made parties in a plea seeking to use the old district and sessions court in Kolhapur as a government-run hospital for COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice K.K. Tated was hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Dilip Desai, a social worker, through advocates S.B. Talekar and Madhavi Ayyapan. The PIL sought a direction for requisition of the premises of the old district and sessions court to be used as an extension of Chhatrapati Pramila Raje District Hospital, Kolhapur, to create additional isolation beds and segregate COVID-19, non-COVID-19, and suspected patients in accordance with the Disaster Management Act and the Maharashtra COVID-19 Regulations. The plea said as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, it is important to create and maintain isolation wards with a gap of at least 2,000 square feet between them. “Chhatrapati Pramila Raje District Hospital is the only district government hospital with special features accessible for the poor. The old district and sessions court is in close proximity of the hospital and shall be convenient to ensure segregation of patients.” However, the district magistrate and president of the District Disaster Management Authority is not requistioning the said premises as per the directions of the State authority merely on the ground that the building committee of the court has refused to hand over the property, the PIL said. “This is despite the fact that the district magistrate and president of the District Disaster Management Authority is not bound to obtain any prior permission of the owner or possessor of the property as per the provisions of the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act,” the PIL said. The matter will be heard on May 29.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-directs-registrar-general-judge-to-be-parties-in-plea-to-convert-kolhapur-court-into-hospital/article31699933.ece
29 May 2020||Mumbai,||Koshyari announces austerity measures||Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Thursday announced a series of austerity measures to reduce the expenses of Raj Bhavan so as to make more resources available for COVID-19 relief measures. The Governor’s office said there will not be any new major construction and repairing works at Raj Bhavan. Only ongoing works will be continued and completed. Mr. Koshyari has also cancelled the Independence Day reception on August 15 at Raj Bhavan in Pune. While there will be no new regular recruitment at Raj Bhavan until further orders, the proposal to purchase a new car has been deferred.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/koshyari-announces-austerity-measures/article31699934.ece
29 May 2020||Mumbai,||BMC rubbishes rumours of ‘locust swarm’||After social media was abuzz on Thursday with rumours of locusts (part of the locust swarm) being sighted in Mumbai, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) clarified that the pictures are not from the city, and that the swarm is around Vidarbha. Several people took to social media to share pictures of locusts being sighted in and around Goregaon and Vikhroli. Rajan Naringrekar, insecticide officer, BMC, said none of the pictures are from Mumbai. “A few locusts are seen in urban areas around monsoon but the swarm of locusts in question right now is around Vidarbha, and headed east. Locusts do not pose any threat to humans. They may rest in urban areas during the day and find crops to feast on at night,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bmc-rubbishes-rumours-of-locust-swarm/article31699938.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||China passes controversial Hong Kong law||China’s Parliament on Thursday passed new legislation for Hong Kong that will for the first time empower Beijing to draft national security laws for the Special Administrative Region (SAR). At the closing session of the annual National People’s Congress (NPC) in Beijing, the draft legislation was passed overwhelmingly, with 2,878 votes for, one against and six abstentions in the Communist Party-controlled legislature. The law, called the “NPC Decision on Establishing and Improving the Legal System and Enforcement Mechanisms for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to Safeguard National Security”, essentially empowers the NPC to draft new national security laws for Hong Kong. That could happen as early as June, when the NPC Standing Committee, which convenes every two months, holds its next sitting. The draft legislation said the scope of the laws could cover any activity that “seriously endangers national security”. It said it was aimed at enabling “measures to counter, lawfully prevent, stop and punish foreign and overseas forces’ use of Hong Kong to carry out separatist, subversive, infiltrative, or destructive activities”. Basic law The NPC decision has been criticised by pro-democracy parties and some in the legal community in Hong Kong as undermining the “one country, two systems” model. Since 1997, Hong Kong has been governed by the Basic Law, which gives the SAR “executive, legislative and independent judicial power, including that of final adjudication”. Only matters of defence and foreign affairs are handled by the central government. While the law says the state would “fully, and accurately implement the principles of one country, two systems”, it also enables organs of the central government “for the protection of national security” to set up “institutions in the HKSAR”, a provision that has been a particular source of concern. “It is entirely unclear how the proposed agencies set up in the HKSAR will operate under the laws of the HKSAR, whether they will be bound by the laws of the HKSAR, whether they have the power of enforcement, and whether such powers as exercised will be limited by the laws currently in force in the HKSAR”, the Hong Kong Bar Association said in a statement reported by the South China Morning Post . The law could also block foreign judges from sitting on national security cases, following the example of Macau, which has done so since 2018, Reuters reported. Hong Kong’s court of final appeal has 15 foreign judges, under a system aimed to ensure judicial independence for a global financial centre. At his annual press conference following the NPC, China’s Premier Li Keqiang said China “will still follow the principle of Hong Kong people governing Hong Kong”. He said “one country, two systems” is China’s “basic state policy” and Beijing would continue to ensure Hong Kong had “a high degree of autonomy”. On Thursday, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo certified to Congress that it was the administration’s view that Hong Kong could no longer enjoy the special economic privileges it had received from the U.S. because of the erosion of its autonomy, a move that could hurt the SAR’s economy. Mutual respect In his press conference, Mr. Li called on China and the U.S. to manage their differences and “discard a ‘Cold War’ mentality”. “I believe both countries should respect each other and develop a relationship on the basis of equality, respect each other's core interests and major concerns and embrace cooperation,” he said. He said China would aim for positive economic growth this year, although the government would rely on increased liquidity rather than any massive stimulus measures. China for the first time has not set an annual GDP growth target citing the economic uncertainty, with the economy contracting by 6.8% in the first quarter, the first contraction since 1976. Both Mr. Li and the Foreign Minister Wang Yi did not field any questions on India in their annual NPC press meets.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/china-passes-controversial-hong-kong-law/article31699663.ece
29 May 2020||Washington,||Trump ‘order’ to target social media||U.S. President Donald Trump is expected to sign an executive order on Thursday after threatening to shutter social media platforms following Twitter’s move to label two of his tweets misleading. After long resisting calls to censure Mr. Trump over his truth-defying posts, Twitter on Tuesday accused the President of making false claims for the first time. Mr. Trump had tweeted — without any evidence — that more mail-in voting would lead to what he called a “Rigged Election” this November. Twitter’s slap on the wrist was enough to drive Mr. Trump into a tirade on Twitter, in which he claimed that the political right in the U.S. was being censored. Mr. Trump would sign an executive order “pertaining to social media” on Thursday, his aides said, without offering any details. But an undated draft version of the order obtained by The Washington Post on Wednesday said “we cannot allow a limited number of online platforms to hand-pick the speech that Americans may access and convey online.” The order would make it easier for federal regulators to argue that the companies are “suppressing free speech when they move to suspend users or delete posts,” The New York Times reported, citing two senior administration officials. Both newspapers also reported that the order, which they said had not yet been finalised, could see companies such as Twitter, Facebook and Google held legally responsible for content posted on their platforms. Twitter’s move to tag the President’s tweets comes after years of being accused of ignoring the President’s violation of platform rules with his daily tweets. Twitter founder and CEO Jack Dorsey fired back on Wednesday night, saying that his platform’s effort to point out misinformation did not make it an “arbiter of truth.” “Our intention is to connect the dots of conflicting statements and show the information in dispute so people can judge for themselves,” he tweeted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-order-to-target-social-media/article31699656.ece
29 May 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. uses militant-tracking tech to locate virus patients||Pakistan’s intelligence services are deploying secretive surveillance technology normally used to locate militants to instead track COVID-19 patients and the people they come into contact with. In a programme publicly touted by Prime Minister Imran Khan, the government has turned to the powerful Inter-Services Intelligence agency (ISI) for help in tackling the virus, which still is spreading at an accelerating rate across Pakistan. Details about the project have not been released, but two officials told AFP that intelligence services are using geo-fencing and phone-monitoring systems that ordinarily are employed to hunt high-value targets including homegrown and foreign militants. A lack of awareness, stigma and fear have contributed to some people with symptoms not seeking treatment or even fleeing hospitals, while others who’ve had contact with virus patients have flouted self-isolation rules. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior security official said that agencies are “quite effectively” using the technology to track patients. Geo-fencing, a discreet tracking system that alerts authorities when someone leaves a specific geographic area, has helped officials monitor neighbourhoods on lockdown. Authorities are also listening in to the calls of COVID-19 patients to monitor whether their contacts are talking about having symptoms.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/pak-uses-militant-tracking-tech-to-locate-virus-patients/article31699652.ece
29 May 2020||MINNEAPOLIS,||Violent protests rock U.S. city for second night||Demonstrators clashed with police, looted stores and set fires as a man was fatally shot during a second night of protests in the US city of Minneapolis Wednesday over the killing of a black man by a police officer. Police fired tear gas and formed a human barricade to keep protesters from climbing a fence surrounding the Third Precinct, where the officers accused of killing George Floyd worked before they were fired on Tuesday. They pushed protesters back as the crowd grew, a day after firing rubber bullets and more tear gas on thousands of demonstrators angered by the latest death of an African-American at the hands of US law enforcement. Minnesota state Governor Tim Walz urged people to leave the area around the precinct where several fires were burning, warning of the “extremely dangerous situation” in a tweet late Wednesday. Country-wide outrage Outrage has grown across the country at Floyd’s death on Monday, fuelled in part by bystander cellphone video which shows him, handcuffed and in the custody of four white police officers, on the ground while one presses his knee into the victim’s neck. President Donald Trump in a tweet called Floyd’s death “sad and tragic”, and all four officers have been fired, as prosecutors said they had called in the FBI to help investigate the case. Minneapolis police chief Medaria Arradondo cautioned protestors Wednesday to remain peaceful. An auto parts store across from the precinct had been set alight and a nearby Target was being looted, according to U.S. media. Police continued to hold the crowds back from scaling a fence into the precinct’s parking lot, where their cruisers contain guns. As the violence escalated, with more businesses looted, a man was shot near the protests and later died, police said. A person has been arrested. Protesters remained peaceful at two other locations in the city. At the place where Floyd was first taken into custody, people chanted and carried placards and sent out bouquets were set out as tributes to Floyd. Calls for justice came from around the country. “I would like those officers to be charged with murder, because that’s exactly what they did,” Bridgett Floyd, the victim’s sister, said on NBC television. “They murdered my brother... They should be in jail for murder.” Protesters marched on downtown Los Angeles and briefly blocked the 101 Freeway. Some demonstrators smashed the windows of two police highway patrol cruisers, clambering on the hood of one of the vehicles. One of the protesters was injured when they fell off the vehicle as it sped away. “Why is the man who killed George Floyd not in jail? If you had done it, or I had done it, we would be behind bars right now,” said Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/violent-protests-rock-us-city-for-second-night/article31699660.ece
29 May 2020||Washington,||U.S. virus toll crosses 1,00,000; pandemic grips Latin America||The U.S. COVID-19 death toll passed 1,00,000 as the pandemic tightened its grip on South America, which is outpacing Europe and the U.S. in daily infections. Global cases have surged to nearly 5.7 million, with more than 3,54,000 deaths, and in a grim signal to other countries hoping to exit lockdown, South Korea re-imposed social distancing rules after a spike in new cases. Deaths in Brazil topped 25,000 on Wednesday, and its caseload is second only to the U.S., where authorities have moved to ease lockdowns and help the battered economy, despite experts recommending they remain on guard for a resurgence of the disease. “Don’t start leapfrogging over the recommendations of some of the guidelines because that’s really tempting fate and asking for trouble,” Anthony Fauci, a top U.S. health advisers, told CNN. Nearly 1.7 million Americans are known to have been infected with the disease, according to a Johns Hopkins University tally. Pressure mounts Lockdowns in some form will remain necessary until a vaccine or treatment is available, experts have warned, but many governments are under immense pressure to provide relief as businesses and citizens grow wearyof mass confinement. Jair Bolsonaro, Brazil’s far-right President and Mr. Trump ally, has slammed stay-at-home orders and played down the threat of the virus, saying the economic fallout of lockdowns causes more damage than the disease itself. But infections in Brazil have surged past 4,11,000, and similar bad news continues to emerge from other South American countries. Peru logged a record 6,154 cases in a 24-hour period, with its virus response coordinator Pilar Mazzetti warning that “difficult days, difficult weeks are coming.” Worried relatives outside the Sabogal Hospital in the capital Lima were unable to enter to see loved ones suffering from COVID-19, with some begging the guards for information. “I want to talk to a doctor and they don’t let me know,” said Liset Villanueva, granddaughter of a COVID-19 patient. “They don’t say anything, they don’t call, they don’t explain anything... What is he suffering from?”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/us-virus-toll-crosses-100000-pandemic-grips-latin-america/article31699658.ece
29 May 2020||Kabul,||14 Afghan officials killed in ‘Taliban attacks’||Fourteen members of the Afghan security forces were killed in two separate attacks on Thursday in the first deadly assaults officials have blamed on the Taliban since the end of a three-day ceasefire. The temporary truce ended on Tuesday but an overall lull in the country's grinding violence has largely held despite the latest attacks, raising hopes the militants and Kabul could soon start much-delayed peace talks. Taliban fighters attacked a checkpoint in Parwan, north of the capital, early Thursday, said Waheeda Shahkar, spokeswoman to the provincial Governor. “The Taliban have also suffered casualties,” Ms. Shahkar told AFP, saying seven members of the Afghan forces died. District police chief Hussain Shah said Taliban fighters set fire to the checkpoint, killing five security force personnel. Two more were shot dead. In the western city of Farah, Taliban gunmen mounted an attack on a police post, killing seven policemen, provincial police spokesman Mohibullah Mohib said. “Eight Taliban fighters were also killed in the clash that lasted for half-an-hour,” he said, adding four policemen survived the attack. The Taliban have not commented so far. Thursday's attacks are the first such assaults Afghan officials have blamed on the Taliban since the end of the surprise ceasefire offered by the militants over the Eid.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/14-afghan-officials-killed-in-taliban-attacks/article31699654.ece
29 May 2020||Copenhagen,||Do not slash health spending, WHO warns||European governments should not cut healthcare spending during the current economic crisis sparked by the pandemic and lockdowns, the World Health Organization warned on Thursday. “We are concerned that countries will respond to this crisis in the same way they did to the recession 10 years ago... by cutting public spending on health,” said Hans Kluge, WHO regional director for Europe. “Those cuts prevented many people from accessing the healthcare that they needed.” According to WHO, public spending on healthcare per capita fell in about half of European countries between 2008 and 2013. Healthcare needs that could not be met increased in 19 of 28 EU countries, with three million more people affected in 2013 than in 2008, it said. Also, up to 9% of households were pushed into poverty as a result of having to pay for healthcare.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/do-not-slash-health-spending-who-warns/article31699661.ece
29 May 2020||New York,||United Nations, United States, May 28, 2020 (AFP) -||World leaders on Thursday called for resilience and cooperation after the pandemic recedes, during a UN videoconference in which the United States, China and Russia did not participate. Canada and Jamaica organized the conference, in which Germany, U.K. and Italy also participated.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/united-nations-united-states-may-28-2020-afp/article31699648.ece
29 May 2020||The Hague,||The Hague, May 28, 2020 (AFP) -||The alleged financier of the 1994 Rwandan genocide, arrested this month in France after 25 years on the run, will be transferred to the war crimes tribunal in Arusha, Tanzania, once conditions allow it, a Judge in The Hague has ruled. Described as Africa’s most wanted man, Felicien Kabuga is accused of creating the Interahamwe militia that carried out massacres in Rwanda.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-hague-may-28-2020-afp/article31699653.ece
29 May 2020||Tehran,||Tehran, May 28, 2020 (AFP) -||Iran’s Parliament on Thursday elected former Tehran Mayor Mohammad-Bagher Ghalibaf as its speaker, consolidating the power of conservatives ahead of next year’s presidential election. The vote further shifts the political balance toward ultra-conservative opponents of the relatively moderate President Hassan Rouhani at a time when Iran is engaged in a standoff with the U.S.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/tehran-may-28-2020-afp/article31699665.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||For a reset in India-Nepal relations||Once again, relations between India and Nepal have taken a turn for the worse. The immediate provocation is the long-standing territorial issue surrounding Kalapani, a patch of land near the India-Nepal border, close to the Lipulekh Pass on the India-China border, which is one of the approved points for border trade and the route for the Kailash-Mansarovar yatra in Tibet. However, the underlying reasons are far more complex. Yet, Nepali Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli’s exploitation of the matter, by raising the banner of Nepali nationalism and painting India as a hegemon, is part of a frequent pattern that indicates that relations between the two countries need a fundamental reset. Kalapani and the maps India inherited the boundary with Nepal, established between Nepal and the East India Company in the Treaty of Sugauli in 1816. Kali river constituted the boundary, and the territory to its east was Nepal. The dispute relates to the origin of Kali. Near Garbyang village in Dharchula Tehsil of the Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand, there is a confluence of different streams coming from north-east from Kalapani and north-west from Limpiyadhura. The early British survey maps identified the north-west stream, Kuti Yangti, from Limpiyadhura as the origin, but after 1857 changed the alignment to Lipu Gad, and in 1879 to Pankha Gad, the north-east streams, thus defining the origin as just below Kalapani. Nepal accepted the change and India inherited this boundary in 1947. The Maoist revolution in China in 1949, followed by the takeover of Tibet, created deep misgivings in Nepal, and India was ‘invited’ to set up 18 border posts along the Nepal-Tibet border. The westernmost post was at Tinkar Pass, about 6 km further east of Lipulekh. In 1953, India and China identified Lipulekh Pass for both pilgrims and border trade. After the 1962 war, pilgrimage through Lipulekh resumed in 1981, and border trade, in 1991. In 1961, King Mahendra visited Beijing to sign the China-Nepal Boundary Treaty that defines the zero point in the west, just north of Tinkar Pass. By 1969, India had withdrawn its border posts from Nepali territory. The base camp for Lipulekh remained at Kalapani, less than 10 km west of Lipulekh. In their respective maps, both countries showed Kalapani as the origin of Kali river and as part of their territory. After 1979, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police has manned the Lipulekh Pass. In actual practice, life for the locals (Byansis) remained unchanged given the open border and free movement of people and goods. After the 1996 Treaty of Mahakali (Kali river is also called Mahakali/Sarada further downstream) that envisaged the Pancheshwar multipurpose hydel project, the issue of the origin of Kali river was first raised in 1997. The matter was referred to the Joint Technical Level Boundary Committee that had been set up in 1981 to re-identify and replace the old and damaged boundary pillars along the India-Nepal border. The Committee clarified 98% of the boundary, leaving behind the unresolved issues of Kalapani and Susta (in the Terai) when it was dissolved in 2008. It was subsequently agreed that the matter would be discussed at the Foreign Secretary level. Meanwhile, the project to convert the 80-km track from Ghatibagar to Lipulekh into a hardtop road began in 2009 without any objections from Nepal. The Survey of India issued a new political map (eighth edition) on November 2, 2019, to reflect the change in the status of Jammu and Kashmir as two Union Territories. Nepal registered a protest though the map in no way had changed the boundary between India and Nepal. However, on November 8, the ninth edition was issued. The delineation remained identical but the name Kali river had been deleted. Predictably, this led to stronger protests, with Nepal invoking Foreign Secretary-level talks to resolve issues. With the Indian Ambassador Manjeev Puri in Kathmandu retiring in end-December and Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale retiring a month later, the matter remained pending despite reminders from Kathmandu. Nepali nationalism By April 2020, Mr. Oli’s domestic political situation was weakening. Under the Nepali Constitution, a new Prime Minister enjoys a guaranteed two-year period during which a no-confidence motion is not permitted. This ended in February unleashing simmering resentment against Mr. Oli’s governance style and performance. His inept handling of the COVID-19 pandemic added to the growing disenchantment. Within the Nepal Communist Party (NCP) there was a move to impose a ‘one man, one post’ rule that would force Mr. Oli to choose between being NCP co-chair or Prime Minister. The re-eruption of the Kalapani controversy, when Defence Minister Rajnath Singh did a virtual inauguration of the 80-km road on May 8, provided Mr. Oli with a political lifeline. A subsequent comment by the Chief of the Army Staff (COAS), General Manoj Naravane, on May 15 that “Nepal may have raised the issue at the behest of someone else” was insensitive, given that the Indian COAS is also an honorary general of the Nepal Army and vice-versa, highlighting the traditional ties between the two armies. Mr. Oli had won the election in 2017 by flaunting his Nepali nationalism card, the flip side of which is anti-Indianism. This is not a new phenomenon but has become more pronounced in recent years. Mr. Oli donned the nationalist mantle vowing to restore Nepali territory and marked a new low in anti-Indian rhetoric by talking about “the Indian virus being more lethal than the Chinese or the Italian virus”. A new map of Nepal based on the older British survey reflecting Kali river originating from Limpiyadhura in the north-west of Garbyang was adopted by parliament and notified on May 20. On May 22, a constitutional amendment proposal was tabled to include it in a relevant Schedule. The new alignment adds 335 sq km to Nepali territory, territory that has never been reflected in a Nepali map for nearly 170 years. This brief account illustrates the complexity underlying India-Nepal issues that cannot be solved by rhetoric or unilateral map-making exercises. Such brinkmanship only breeds mistrust and erodes the goodwill at the people-to-people level. Political maturity is needed to find creative solutions that can be mutually acceptable. Rewriting the fundamentals Prime Minister Narendra Modi has often spoken of the “neighbourhood first” policy. He started with a highly successful visit to Nepal in August 2014. But the relationship took a nosedive in 2015 when India first got blamed for interfering in the Constitution-drafting in Nepal and then for an “unofficial blockade” that generated widespread resentment against the country. It reinforced the notion that Nepali nationalism and anti-Indianism were two sides of the same coin that Mr. Oli exploited successfully. In Nepali thinking, the China card has provided them the leverage to practise their version of non-alignment. In the past, China maintained a link with the Palace and its concerns were primarily related to keeping tabs on the Tibetan refugee community. With the abolition of the monarchy, China has shifted attention to the political parties as also to institutions like the Army and Armed Police Force. Also, today’s China is pursuing a more assertive foreign policy and considers Nepal an important element in its growing South Asian footprint. The reality is that India has ignored the changing political narrative in Nepal for far too long. India remained content that its interests were safeguarded by quiet diplomacy even when Nepali leaders publicly adopted anti-Indian postures — an approach adopted decades earlier during the monarchy and then followed by the political parties as a means of demonstrating nationalist credentials. Long ignored by India, it has spawned distortions in Nepali history textbooks and led to long-term negative consequences. For too long India has invoked a “special relationship”, based on shared culture, language and religion, to anchor its ties with Nepal. Today, this term carries a negative connotation — that of a paternalistic India that is often insensitive and, worse still, a bully. It is hardly surprising that the 1950 Treaty of Peace and Friendship which was sought by the Nepali authorities in 1949 to continue the special links it had with British India and provides for an open border and right to work for Nepali nationals is viewed as a sign of an unequal relationship, and an Indian imposition. Yet, Nepali authorities have studiously avoided taking it up bilaterally even though Nepali leaders thunder against it in their domestic rhetoric. The urgent need today is to pause the rhetoric on territorial nationalism and lay the groundwork for a quiet dialogue where both sides need to display sensitivity as they explore the terms of a reset of the “special relationship”. A normal relationship where India can be a generous partner will be a better foundation for “neighbourhood first” in the 21st century. Rakesh Sood is a former diplomat and currently Distinguished Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/for-a-reset-in-india-nepal-relations/article31699633.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Can India’s workforce have a safe return to business?||Dr. T. Jacob John and Prof. Arun Kumar, discuss with G. Ananthakrishnan the priorities to mobilise the economy during the pandemic. Edited excerpts:  As the lockdown phase comes to a close, can workers return to their jobs safely? Dr. Jacob John (JJ):The idea is to restart normal life, but at the same time mitigate the problems of the epidemic. There are some things that people have not understood. One is that this epidemic cannot be prevented. It will happen as [it gets] transmitted during ordinary social contact. What we can do is slow down the spread. People talk about ‘flattening the curve’. Even that, for a country like India, with multiple epidemics all started at different time periods asynchronously, can only work in some places at some times, not all places at all times. Our goal should actually be to flatten the mortality curve, reduce the deaths as far as possible, and allow the epidemic to grow but at a slower pace than nature would have it. The [date] to expose workers safely was April 15. We knew then, the downturn [from the lockdown] was very obvious but the epidemic was not slowed down perceptibly. Between March 25 and April 15, the numbers grew 20 times. That was the time we had to go back to the war room and change our strategy. But that was not done. Arun Kumar (AK):As Dr. John pointed out, a lockdown is needed to slow the pace of increase. We have to use the time to build the capacity for health to cope with the emergency that is going to come. We need testing, more hospitalisation capacity, more doctors etc. In a lockdown, production completely stops, demand also correspondingly falls because of income decline. So what you have is a situation where both supply and demand are affected, the economy comes down, and only essentials are produced. In my judgment, only 25% of the economy was working, so you had a minus 75% rate of growth, about 200 million people lost work because 94% of the employment is in the unorganised sector. Those in agriculture could continue, and those in mining and rural areas could work. The imperative of the lockdown was that the unorganised sector should have been provided with food, allowed to migrate, those left behind should have been [accommodated in] school buildings, tents etc. Unorganised businesses should have been supported with working capital. This is what I call a ‘survival package’... You are in a situation where you have to support the consumption of essentials for 800 million people, boost capacity for testing, boost the capacity of hospitals, and prevent businesses from collapsing. As long as you don’t do this, lifting the lockdown would be dangerous. There are interesting questions here on testing, the potential infections and mortality. What can we do now? JJ:I agree with the [need for] physical distancing. [But] our density of population is so huge that physical distancing is virtually not possible. Back to the lockdown… if it was successful in slowing down the epidemic in the first three weeks, there was justification in extending it by two weeks or three weeks. But the three weeks showed the lockdown [did not slow] the epidemic — the numbers increased 20 times... That is because a lockdown in India is not the same as [that in] South Korea or some other place where population density is lower and discipline of people is better. In early April, I came up with the logic, and now it is fully supported by science in other countries, that universal mask wearing enforced for every man, woman and child outside home is better than a lockdown. That should have been our immediate strategy… the technical answer to that is we have a lot of asymptomatic people who are spreading the infection. If they wear a mask, they are blocking the respiratory droplets... With universal mask wearing you don’t have to be strict about all socio-economic activities coming to a standstill. Our goal has to be to flatten the mortality curve. We know who is vulnerable — those over 60 or 65 years of age, those with chronic diseases, lung diseases, heart disease, hypertension, diabetes... We have to have a policy of protecting them from infection, not everybody. Younger people have no risk to life. So if you can reverse quarantine these vulnerable people, you could allow the real world outside to continue with the epidemic and protect people who are vulnerable, until the epidemic turns downward. That I predict is going to be between July first week and August second week. Reverse quarantine of the vulnerable should continue until the epidemic reaches the bottom line, which will probably be November-December [2020] or early 2021. What are the concerns for the economy on productivity?  AK:We don’t know enough about this virus. We thought children will not be affected but in New York City children are being affected. We thought the young will not be affected but data is coming in that those between 25 and 50, they are also dying in large numbers. We thought heat may prevent it, BCG may prevent it, but none of that has happened. So we should be careful about lifting the lockdown because it would affect a large number of people. If deaths take place in large numbers, there will be a societal breakdown... The economy is down because supply is disrupted, and demand is gone. The unorganised sector is down and the organised sector is closed. RBI data in October last had suggested that consumer sentiment was already down. Capacity utilisation in industry was down to below 70% as per October data and now it is down to 25%. Indicators like the Purchasing Managers’ Index (PMI) show that activity is way down compared to nothing else before. So you are not going to have investment, consumption rising, and the unorganised sector cannot start work. Even if you lift the lockdown, it is not going to revive economic activity immediately because consumption will not revive, so demand will not. Investment will not revive, therefore demand will not revive. Only the government is spending, but it is going to lose massive tax revenue. My estimate is that the economy will not recover to January 2020 levels for several years because we are into a deep depression. It is not going to be a V-shaped recovery, it is going to be a shallow U-shaped recovery. JJ:On the health problems of the young, they are extremely uncommon... We have an occasional example of a child getting infected and dying, but by and large, our mortality [among those] below 45 or 50 is extremely low, something that we can live with, and we have to accept that reality. Mortality will be very high in the upper age group and many of the business leaders, manufacturing company leaders are people who may be obese, may have diabetes, may have chronic diseases, and they and the senior citizens are the most vulnerable. Their mortality goes into 10%, 15% or 20% whereas childhood mortality is going to be 0.1%. We have to strike a balance. Let the poor people be socially interactive and productive. Manufacturing should be on such things. Today, why are masks not available widely? We could repurpose all cottage industries to make millions of masks to ensure that everybody has half a dozen masks — of cloth. We don’t have infrastructure to test who all have the infection and who had it in the past. How can you assess who has the antibodies? JJ:If you want to be technically correct, yes. You can do IgG antibody, ICMR has approved NIVs kit, Biocon in Bengaluru has made a kit two or three weeks ago, and we hope that will be approved. You can do mass-based surveys or individual antibody detection and anybody with IgG antibodies should be released from restraint but they should wear a mask. You cannot exempt anybody, but those individuals can boldly go around and do whatever economic activities they have to do without risk of infection or transmitting. Retail, malls, cinemas, hospitality, are badly hit. From a health standpoint, is there a reasonable time frame when they can get back on their feet?  JJ:I see great potential in red, orange and green zoning of districts, not because of zoning but to manage their own relaxation of lockdown. Districts can have task forces representing major players, industry, agriculture, institutions available and can they open up, [with] standard operating procedures that they should develop for themselves and know exactly what to do if some person has fever etc. We do need long-term plans and the health system has been broken for 60 years.  Sectorally and in terms of economic philosophy, how do we go forward, for growth, employment and social development? AK:I agree with Dr. John on giving districts greater opportunity to decide, but we [also] need to tighten governance. We need to tighten up public delivery of services. Regarding travel and tourism, it will come down dramatically for the moment, it may not take place for two years; incomes will be down, and so people will spend on essentials. The airline industry is facing huge problems, the hotel industry, restaurants, malls... therefore property prices will fall. About 30% of businesses could fail. Their property will come into the market. The stock market is going to decline and the wealth effect will mean real estate prices will decline. Consumption of well-off sections will decline. It will have a widespread impact. I keep saying we have to disaggregate between the organised and unorganised sectors. The unorganised sector does not have the incomes to buy high value added items. We need to give them food first. We need to have an extended procurement and extended PDS. Whatever farmers are producing should be procured and supplied in urban areas. We can use public buses, Army trucks to do that. Mobility is essential to the economy. How can we provide safe transport in the future? JJ:Once a vaccine becomes available, then vaccinations should be taken more seriously. Until then, the opening up of the travel sector has to be very carefully planned and slow growth allowed. I would strongly recommend that everyone wears cloth masks on trains and in buses. If everybody has a mask, physical distancing is not very important. There must be hand hygiene available, as you get into the bus, someone gives you hand sanitiser, and when you get out, again you hand-sanitise.  Districts can have their own task forces representing major players that decide on the reopening process Dr. Jacob John, Virologist||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/can-indias-workforce-have-a-safe-return-to-business/article31699647.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||From a stand-off to a stalemate||India’s construction of a road to Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) in the Galwan Valley has been suggested as one reason for the recent stand-off between India and China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). China has said India was “attempting to unilaterally change the status quo” on the LAC. The Durbuk-Shyok-DBO road was under construction for more than 15 years. As per protocol, local commanders kept informing each other about the construction activities. China never raised any objection against it. In fact, construction work on China’s side of the LAC has been of a much higher scale. It appears that current activities by China are meant to put pressure on India, and are not based on any perceived transgression by Indian troops. Changing lines China has a history of changing lines. In the late 1950s, the lines kept moving westward, and ultimately led to the 1962 war. More recently, in 2002, when maps were exchanged during the Expert Group meetings, China showed a claim line in the western sector which was different from what existed on the ground since 1962. Again in 2007, China’s perception of the border in Depsang in the Ladakh sector, in Sikkim, and in many other places appeared to change. In 2017, China wanted to unilaterally change the boundary and the trijunction with Bhutan and India, which sparked the Doklam stand-off. Until 2006, Chinese troops were positioned a few kilometres behind the LAC, except for a few places where they were deployed eyeball to eyeball with Indian troops. From 2007 onwards, we have seen a surge in defence infrastructure development along the LAC. At many locations, troops have been moved to forward areas. At the same time, bilateral military relations have improved, with annual defence dialogues and joint training. Patrol face-offs have been resolved with existing protocols, and issues resolved at the local commanders’ level. After the 1986-1987 Sumdorong Chu incident, it was only more than 30 years later, at Doklam, that Chinese transgression led to both sides moving up a brigade-sized force (around 5,000 troops) to the LAC. The Border Peace and Tranquility Agreement of 1993 has helped limit the number of troops deployed near the LAC by both sides, and necessitates a mutual appraisal of any change in numbers. In Ladakh, both sides have, according to reports, moved up at least a brigade-sized force. Problems with hotlines Such disputes should be peacefully resolved, as was done at Sumdorong Chu and Doklam. As a rule, cases of violation are resolved through a meeting of local commanders, which may be arranged through a conversation on hotlines established for that purpose. This arrangement has not been without problems. When a transgression is initiated by China, often the Chinese side does not answer the call on the hotline, as may have happened in this case. During the 2013 stand-off at Depsang, and the 2014 incident at Chumar which took place when President Xi Jinping was visiting India, the local Chinese commander did not pick up the hotline. It took several days to resolve the crisis, leaving some to ask if President Xi’s hold on the People’s Liberation Army was not as strong as assumed to be. Now, the situation is different. Named the ‘hexin’ or core, Mr. Xi has assumed total control. It will be unlikely that Mr. Xi will go against the spirit of Wuhan and Mamallapuram, in which he has been personally invested. The stand-off in Ladakh is likely to be resolved peacefully. Given the conventional strength of both sides, any skirmish will lead to a stalemate. China will not gain anything. On the contrary, it has much to lose. China is aware it cannot push India to a strategic alliance with the U.S., which will tilt the balance of power against Beijing. This current crisis may, however, have at least one lasting impact. We may see increased permanent deployments by both sides along the LAC, and a further erosion of trust in the agreements that both sides have built, with great effort, since 1993, which has for so long helped keep the peace. Major General M. Vinaya Chandran (retd), who has 36 years of service in the Indian Army, is a PhD Research Scholar at the University of Madras||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/from-a-stand-off-to-a-stalemate/article31699638.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Beijing’s Ladakh brinkmanship||The current intensification of tension between China and India following the escalation of Chinese troop build-up in Ladakh is but one sign that Beijing is increasingly feeling beleaguered. In response, it has embarked on a strategy of brinkmanship with several goals in mind. External adventurism, when cloaked in the garb of ultra-nationalism, can shore up a regime’s legitimacy at home. This is particularly the case when an authoritarian regime whose legitimacy rests primarily on its economic performance is faced with a situation where growth is expected to plummet. Simultaneously, it can act as a diversionary measure to escape international opprobrium, similar to what China is facing currently because of Beijing’s attempt to cover up the spread of the coronavirus during the crucial early weeks when it could have been more easily contained. Many countries hold China responsible for the huge cost in human lives and suffering as well as the unprecedented economic distress. In the face of such criticism, the Chinese regime is increasingly using jingoistic jargon to build up domestic support. President Xi Jinping’s recent speech to the PLA is an outstanding example of this strategy. He exhorted the Chinese armed forces to “prepare for war” in order to “resolutely safeguard national sovereignty” and “the overall strategic stability of the country”. Bilateral ties with U.S. This is a sign that the Communist Party of China (CPC) feels increasingly threatened both domestically and externally. China’s relations with the U.S. have been going downhill almost since the beginning of the Donald Trump presidency. Washington has periodically imposed economic sanctions on China and Beijing has retaliated in kind. Trade talks have faltered because of growing protectionist sentiments in the U.S. and Chinese inability to adequately respond to them. Tensions between the U.S. and China have also increased for other reasons. The chipping away at Hong Kong’s autonomous status by Beijing and the suppression of the pro-democracy movement in Hong Kong has led to severe criticism by the U.S. administration and in the Congress. Differences over the issue of Taiwan have added to tensions, with China viewing the U.S. as the primary impediment preventing Taiwan’s integration. The Trump administration has significantly increased support to Taiwan with arms sales that have added to China’s concern.  Above all, the U.S.-China rivalry in the South China Sea acts as the potential flashpoint that may well lead to a shooting war. In the past decade, China has vigorously advanced its territorial claims in the South China Sea by militarising islands it controls, vociferously contesting claims by other regional states and impeding their attempts to access territories they claim. So far, it has been careful that these moves do not trigger a serious confrontation with the U.S. However, it is quite possible that a Chinese leadership that feels besieged could adopt a more provocative strategy, thus increasing the risk of a military confrontation with the U.S. Washington has a strong interest in preventing China from asserting control over the South China Sea as maintaining free access to this waterway is important to it for economic reasons. It also has defence treaty obligations to the Philippines, which has vigorously contested Chinese territorial claims. Further, China’s control of the South China Sea would be a major step toward replacing the U.S. as the foremost power in the Indo-Pacific region. Increased Chinese adventurism could result in an escalation of U.S.-China confrontation in the South China Sea. If that happens, the India-China face-off in Ladakh could become part of a much larger “great game”, with the U.S. trying to preserve the status quo and China attempting to change it to further its objective of regional dominance at the U.S.’s expense. The current India-China crisis should, therefore, be seen in its proper context and not as an isolated event. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/beijings-ladakh-brinkmanship/article31699642.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Export blocks||Official trade data for April, released at the mid-point of the Finance Ministry’s five-tranche package to salvage the economy in the throes of a pandemic-induced lockdown, was the grimmest in over two decades. Merchandise exports had collapsed by over 60% and imports contracted only slightly less. Only two of India’s 30 biggest export products clocked positive growth — iron ore and pharmaceuticals, the latter by just a quarter of a percent. Thanks to the sharp dip in global oil prices, higher volumes of petroleum exports didn’t help much in value terms. The trade collapse was not surprising as the spate of national lockdowns around the world have not only dented demand and investment, but also severely disrupted global supply chains and shipping routes. India’s exports, however, were already in a free fall. The government’s economic stimulus package in totality offered several reform commitments, improvements in the ease of doing business along with some forbearance and a few sops for micro, small and medium enterprises (many of which are also export-oriented units). However, there was no explicit respite offered for exporters. The Reserve Bank of India, on May 22, did unveil a few measures, including a special Rs. 15,000 crore liquidity facility for the Exim Bank of India and a six-month extension for importers to complete outward remittances. For exporters, the maximum permissible credit period from banks was extended from 12 months to 15 months, for disbursements made up to July 31, 2020. The three-month credit extension for exporters was, in fact, not a new measure and had already been announced by the central bank on March 23. So its repackaging two months later as a fresh move suggests policy makers are running short of ideas to prop up a key employment-generating bulwark of the country’s economy post-liberalisation. In an employment-intensive sector such as textiles, garment exports, which fell 16% between January and March, fell 91% in April. The outcome for May is unlikely to be any better and the World Trade Organization expects trade flows to slip by between 13% and 32% over 2020. The prognosis gets even murkier when one adds to this the new barriers on trade in medical and food supplies imposed by over 90 countries, and an increasing tendency to look inward for essential supplies (as India is doing too with its emphasis on self-reliance). The country is again pitching to become an alternative investment destination for big global businesses in the hope that the COVID-19 pandemic would prompt them to hedge their China-dependent supply chains. But investment moves are a longer-term play. Meanwhile, Indian exporters shouldn’t be caught on the back foot as bigger stimulus packages, announced by other countries, kick in to revive demand and give a minor fillip to international trade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/export-blocks/article31699634.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||A brewing storm||As political ironies go, U.S. President Donald Trump’s tirade against social medial platforms is a class apart. After Twitter flagged two of his posts as factually inaccurate, the President threatened to “strongly regulate” or “close down” all social media platforms. Like most of his statements, this one too appeared on Twitter where he has 80.4 million followers. When Mr. Trump entered the race for the Republican presidential nomination in 2015, critics scorned him as a mere, inconsequential Twitter handle, for his acerbic posturing on the platform. But outrage is richly rewarding on digital platforms, as he went on to prove. Twitter too was a beneficiary in the process. The crafty use of social media for incendiary politics the world over scraped the shine off these decentralised and unregulated platforms that were initially hailed as prodigiously democratising. Controversies erupted in quick succession, including their role in genocides and election rigging. The misuse of social media to spread falsehoods that often incite violence has been a particularly tricky question. These platforms have often declared their commitment to stop fake news, but any attempt to enforce content regulation comes with additional complications, as Twitter’s attempt to fact-check the President shows. The intention to ensure all political discussions are fact-bound and shorn of inflammatory rhetoric is laudatory, but no one body can be the enforcer in this. The current conflict between the President and social media platforms is only a component of the ongoing wider debate in the U.S. on the nature of large tech companies. Big tech companies such as Google, Facebook, Amazon, Microsoft and Apple have given rise to concerns of privacy, data misuse, political bias, monopoly behaviour, tax avoidance and national security. In the U.S., there is a common ground among the Democrats and the Republicans that these tech companies need to be reined in. Republicans say social media platforms are anti-conservative. Democrats believe some of these platforms are easily manipulated by enemies of the nation and accuse them of unfair trade and labour practices, and call for breaking them up. Facebook’s attempt to launch a digital currency, Libra, has triggered sovereignty concerns among nations. It had to pay $5 billion in fines to settle investigations into its misuse of data in the Cambridge Analytica controversy. These companies boast of being global and able to fly above the eyes of government. Some reordering of that arrangement appears to be on the horizon. But it would be a pity if the trigger for the overhaul is one social media platform’s attempt to call out the irresponsible statements of the world’s most powerful leader.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/a-brewing-storm/article31699635.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Then the chef broke a coconut||In the beginning, I cooked. Washing my hands incessantly seemed like an inadequate response to the ominous, looming pandemic. As the city paused into an uneasy locked-down silence, broken only by bird song and the distant scream of ambulances, I needed to distract myself from obsessively tracking COVID-19 statistics. So I mopped, scrubbed and vacuumed between baking, grilling and basting. And washing dishes of course. So many dishes. On Zoom, Facebook and Instagram, familiar faces began to go Live, as talented chefs awkwardly got acquainted with their home kitchens, devoid of clean-up crews, professional equipment and fancy ingredients. Responding to followers, many adrift in their own kitchens, these chefs have generously taught home cooks how to do everything from breaking open a coconut to making complex curries over the past two months. Their restaurants may have been closed, but their food and recipes could still be shared. After all, we were all craving some semblance of normalcy. A coping mechanism Food became a coping mechanism to deal with the suddenness of loss. In early March, we were congregating in raucous bars over chilled beers, listening to live bands play. Dragging our laptops to cafés at night, to work in a calming buzz of conversation and caffeine. Today, we stand in our kitchens alone (with that inevitable, lurking pile of unwashed dishes) attempting to recreate the magic of community dining, amid the scent of baking bread and music playing from our phones. Of course, it is not the same. We were living our lives between starters and dessert. After all, eating out is about more than just the food. It is about the theatre, drama and romance of human connections: whether you are celebrating an anniversary or sharing a table with a stranger at an airport bar. In my pre-COVID life, I dove into ghee podi dosa s at the little restaurant down my road with the same enthusiasm I had for dressed-up, designer dinners. Admittedly, I also rolled my eyes at crowds. Now, all I want to do is drink coffee in a crowded café, soaking in the sound of people talking and laughing over the hiss of espresso machines. Meanwhile, the chefs are still cooking, and so am I. Intent on sharing food, we are ‘Dunzo-ing’ warm, fragrant care packages to friends and neighbours. The gourmand, restaurant-hoppers who are tired of their own cooking are experimenting with food exchanges. I participate gingerly: it is nerve-wracking to cook for chefs. But, opening up a container of home-made chicken curry from a friend is like giving, and receiving a hug. So worth it, even if I get professional notes later on how to improve my signature coconut buns. As restaurants slowly reopen across the world, the greatest challenge is recreating the magical atmosphere of a packed dining space despite mandatory physical distancing. In Bangkok, lonely diners can sit opposite a stuffed panda. In Lithuania, vacant chairs are being occupied by mannequins, while the capital city Vilnius has been turned into a big open-air café. To say we are in this together is the greatest cliché. It is also the most comforting truth. Because it means that we will also collaborate to find inventive ways to get through.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/then-the-chef-broke-a-coconut/article31699640.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Ceylon’s Choice||(From an editorial) What was one of the closest fought elections in Ceylon’s history has not only given a landslide victory to the united front of three parties — led by Mrs. Sirimavo Bandaranaike, but has returned her own Sri Lanka Freedom Party with a clear-cut majority. By becoming again Ceylon’s Prime Minister, she will be raising the world tally of women holding such high office to three, in the company of Mrs. Indira Gandhi and Mrs. Golda Meir of Israel. The heavy polling — as high as 85 per cent — testifies to the keen interest of the population in the outcome, while the peaceful voting is an index of its maturity as a people wedded to democracy. The rout of the U.N.P., in spite of its excellent five-year record in office, may be the price that a government in office has often to pay for just being that. The break-through in agricultural production that it achieved, bringing Ceylon within sight of self-sufficiency in rice, has evidently cut little ice with the voters. The shortages that are inescapable of notice in a developing economy, the sizable unemployment among educated youth and rising prices seem to have served as effective ammunition in the hands of the main rival party to discredit those in power.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/ceylons-choice/article31699643.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Letters||The government has woefully failed in providing a speedy and comfortable journey, with adequate water and food, for the migrants in their worst hour of crisis (“5 persons on Shramik Special trains die in U.P.”, May 28). It’s bizarre that some trains were halted for long hours or diverted to totally unrelated locations. The Railways says the trains were diverted due to “congestion”. I fail to understand how there is no congestion when more than 18,000 long-distance and suburban trains are running in the country in normal circumstances, but there is high traffic when there are such few trains on the tracks. This only shows the lack of meticulous planning. Kamal Laddha, Bengaluru How can a country that performs rescue operations in the neighbourhood and exports medicines and food to various countries be so apathetic in dealing with its own? India must focus more on rescue efforts on its own soil. Poor logistics and planning in a country with a large population has led to a totally avoidable man-made crisis when there was already a health crisis to deal with. Harsh Vardhan Singh, Bijnor The suffering of the migrants shows that people get respect on the basis of their economic value, not their human worth. Our moral indifference has been revealed during this pandemic (“The heavy burden of social suffering”, May 27). Vandana, New Delhi   It is ironic that President Donald Trump has offered to mediate between India and China when U.S.-China relations are worsening by the day (“Now, Trump offers to mediate between India and China”, May 28). India has always placed great faith in bilateralism. Even on the Kashmir issue, it firmly rejected all third-party interventions. It is high time the U.S. desisted from playing the ‘big brother’ role and left arbitrations to bodies like the UN that have the mandate to mediate between member nations. C.V. Aravind, Chennai   It is disheartening to note that the plight of migrant labourers has come to the Supreme Court’s notice only after the deaths of so many (“Supreme Court gets stinging letter from senior lawyers”, May 28). The court should have taken cognisance of the issue in March-April when the migrant workers began their long journeys home. The court has functioned even at midnight in the past, but could not deliver justice to the poor. Instead it adjourned their petitions or refused to admit them. It looks as though only when pressure was mounted on the court, by sections of lawyers, the media, and the Opposition, did the court step in to function as a constitutional court. This intervention may be too little, too late. S.K. Narula, New Delhi||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-opinion/letters/article31699630.ece
29 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Decision on T20 WC deferred||The International Cricket Council (ICC) Board has deferred all major decisions, including the fate of the T20 World Cup in Australia later this year, at least till June 10, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. “The ICC Board met via teleconference today with all agenda items deferred until June 10, 2020, following a discussion, led by Chairman Shashank Manohar, around the issue of confidentiality,” read a statement from the ICC on Thursday. “...The Board also requested the ICC management to continue its discussions with stakeholders in exploring various contingency options in light of the rapidly changing public health situation caused by the coronavirus.” No mention The statement made no outright mention of the marquee event, scheduled to be played in Australia from October 18 to November 15, but the fact that it stressed on continuing discussions indicated that the T20 World Cup was far from being postponed or called off. Cricket Australia has also stuck to the original FTP schedule while announcing the itinerary for its home summer. Two parts India’s tour of Australia has been divided into two parts: T20I series pre-T20 World Cup, and Test and ODI series to be played after the global event. Besides the T20 World Cup, the meeting was supposed to finalise the election process for appointing Manohar’s successor as ICC chairman, and deal with the issue of BCCI's inability to secure tax exemption from the government for next year’s T20 World Cup. ‘Leaked’ communication The Hindu understands that much of the discussion during Thursday’s meeting revolved around how some of the internal communication between the ICC and its member boards was getting 'leaked' to the media. BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, based on a media report, is understood to have objected to the BCCI being kept in the dark over a communication between Cricket Australia and a few other member boards over the likely postponement of the T20 World Cup. Over the last week, there have been media reports about the ICC Ethics Officer dismissing Manohar’s complaint of unethical practices against former England and Wales Cricket Board chief Colin Graves (an aspirant for the ICC chief’s post) while granting loan to Cricket West Indies, and the standoff between BCCI and ICC over tax exemptions for ICC events. Needs attention “A number of Board members had raised their concerns over this issue recently and felt it required immediate attention to ensure the sanctity and confidentiality of Board matters in line with the highest standards of governance,” the statement read. “There was unanimous agreement to immediately initiate an independent investigation, led by the ICC’s Ethics Officer and supported by global experts. “The Board will be updated on this by the ICC CEO at its next meeting.”  The Board also requested the ICC management to continue its discussions with stakeholders in exploring various contingency options ICC statement||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/decision-on-t20-wc-deferred/article31699763.ece
29 May 2020||KOCHI,||World’s top-10 is Arjun’s long-term goal||After playing the last three World badminton championships, it must have been shattering for M.R. Arjun when his men’s doubles partner Shlok Ramachandran told him last year that he did not feel like continuing the sport. The two had reached a World ranking high of 32 in 2018 but frequently kept slipping when they approached the 40th rung. So Arjun could understand his partner’s decision. Fireworks The 23-year-old from Kochi now has Ludhiana’s 20-year-old Dhruv Kapila as his new partner — an arrangement made by Indonesian Flandy Limpele who was the Indian doubles coach till March this year — and they have played five international tournaments together and produced some fireworks too. At the Asian Team Championships in Manila in February, the young pair came close to shocking Indonesia’s three-time World champions Mohammed Ahsan and Hendra Setiawan, the World No. 2, in the semifinals. “We were leading 15-11 and we lost the decider 21-23,” said Arjun in a chat with The Hindu on Wednesday. “Had we won that match, India would have entered the final (the country had won the bronze). Top-10 in the World ranking is now our long-term goal.” But just when Arjun felt that he could make the most of his confident play and climb the rankings ladder, came the global lockdown. Back on court Though badminton training has not resumed at the national camp and at Gopi Chand’s Academy in Hyderabad, action has begun at the Regional Sports Centre here and Arjun is now back on court. Arjun, who is currently ranked World No. 95 with Kapila, has set a target of getting into the top-50 by the end of this year and 30 by May next year. But life is not easy for doubles players these days. “The doubles camp could start by mid-June or July but things are not clear,” said Arjun, an officer with Indian Oil Corporation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/worlds-top-10-is-arjuns-long-term-goal/article31700011.ece
29 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Verma switches to ‘heavier’ bow||Ace compound archer Abhishek Verma has switched to a ‘heavier’ bow after subjecting his game to a thorough analysis during the lockdown. Verma, a multiple Asian Games and World Cup medallist, has already begun training with the ‘new’ bow at a small arena in Delhi and expects to soon get used to the change. Analysis “I had time to go through all my videos and analyse my game. I needed to increase the poundage of my bow (from about 55 pounds to 60) to get better results,” Verma told The Hindu . However, he has not had to change his bow. “The ‘draw weight’ can be adjusted to 60 pounds on the same bow. I have already started practice with a shorter target. When I begin with a longer target, it may take 15-20 days to get on top of my game. “When the ‘draw weight’ increases, the arrows travel faster and flatter and there is less deviation due to wind. A heavier bow requires greater strength. Now I have to work on that,” he said. With important events like the World championships, Asian championships, Commonwealth Games and Asian Games scheduled in the next two years, now was the best time to make the changes, he said. Fighting corona Verma has also found time to be associated with an online initiative to raise funds to provide PPEs to doctors treating coronavirus patients. “Many archers are expected to join this initiative. We are encouraging people to contribute. Our partner www.impactguru.com gets in touch with hospitals and provides PPE kits to doctors in Maharashtra and Delhi,” said Verma.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/verma-switches-to-heavier-bow/article31699879.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Criteria amended for NIS coaching diploma||In an attempt to draw younger athletes to coaching, even while continuing their sporting career, the Sports Authority of India has decided to revamp the admission policy at the National Institute of Sports, Patiala, allowing for direct induction of eminent athletes to the flagship Diploma Course in Sports Coaching. Reservation As per the draft admission criteria approved by the academic council, athletes who have either participated at the Olympics, won any medal at World Championships or gold at the Asian/Commonwealth Games would be given direct admission to the course, without any written test or interview. A total of 46 seats in 23 disciplines would be reserved for such athletes. In case of multiple applications, the final decision would be made on the basis of sports achievements. More seats Changes in the existing policy include making the entrance exam for the course online, increasing the number of seats from 566 to 725, lowering of eligibility age from 23 years to 21 years, inclusion of a minimum physical standard, inclusion of new parameters in the selection process including logical reasoning, communication and basic computer knowledge and reducing the marks allotted for educational qualification and increasing for sporting achievements.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/criteria-amended-for-nis-coaching-diploma/article31699880.ece
29 May 2020||LEIPZIG,||Ten-man Leipzig held by Hertha Berlin||Ten-man RB Leipzig fought out a 2-2 home draw with Hertha Berlin after it came from behind and conceded a late penalty in a see-saw Bundesliga encounter on Wednesday. The result left Leipzig third on 55 points from 28 games, nine behind leader Bayern Munich and two adrift of second-placed Borussia Dortmund, while Hertha moved up one place to 10th on 35 points. Coach Julian Nagelsman later slammed the team for defending like “a school team” as the loss which cost it the chance to go second in the Bundesliga. In another match, Hoffenheim snapped a seven-game winless run with an entertaining 3-1 victory over visitor Cologne as both teams ended with 10 men.  The results: RB Leipzig 2 (Klostermann 24, Schick 58) drew with Hertha Berlin 2 (Grujic 9, Piatek 82-pen); Hoffenheim 3 (Baumgartner 11, 46, Zuber 48) bt Cologne 1 (Kainz 60); Fortuna Duesseldorf 2 (Hennings 63, Karaman 68) bt Schalke 04 1 (McKennie 53); Augsburg 0 drew with Paderborn 0; Union Berlin 1 (Ingvartsen 33) drew with Mainz 05 1 (Baku 13) .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ten-man-leipzig-held-by-hertha-berlin/article31699754.ece
29 May 2020||Melbourne,||CA confirms India’s tour||Ending weeks of speculation, Cricket Australia, on Thursday, confirmed that India will make the trip Down Under starting October this year for an assignment comprising four Tests, three ODIs and as many T20Is. Cricket Australia announced its summer schedule, which will begin with the tour of Zimbabwe from August 9. “We know that circumstances or events beyond our control could mean that the final schedule potentially may look different to the one released today, but we’ll be doing everything we can to get as much international cricket in as possible this summer,” Kevin Roberts, Cricket Australia CEO, said in a statement. “We will communicate any changes to the schedule if or when they are required,” he added.  Itinerary of India’s tour of Australia:   T20Is: Oct. 11: 1st, Brisbane; Oct. 14: 2nd, Canberra; Oct. 17: 3rd, Adelaide.   Tests: Dec 3-7: 1st, Brisbane; Dec 11-15: 2nd, Adelaide; Dec 26-30: 3rd, Melbourne; Jan. 3-7, 2021: 4th, Sydney.   ODIs: Jan. 12: 1st, Perth; Jan. 15: 2nd, Melbourne; Jan. 17: 3rd, Sydney .||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ca-confirms-indias-tour/article31699752.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Poonacha aims to get into ITF panel||Reigning National tennis champion Niki Poonacha is trying to get into ITF’s player panel in a bid to to support players. There will be two sets of panels, one each for men and women, with Mark Woodforde and Mary Pierce as the respective chairpersons. Seven current players will be elected into the two panels, by the players themselves with the ITF directly contacting the players to conduct the voting. Back home in Anantpur due to the lockdown, Poonacha has charted a set of points to fight for the players’ cause. The main focus would be to have a draw of 64 for all tournaments, which would help more players compete, and that the final round of qualifying to have best of three sets format. He is also seeking a better coordinated tournament calendar for easier travel, as there are about 550 tournaments worldwide in a season. Poonacha also wants a reduction in entry fee to $20 for qualifying events, and no entry fees for the main draw; unlimited water, energy drink and bananas to be supplied free to players by all tournament organisers. Owing to the current crisis, one of the demands will be for a specific grant from ITF every six months for players ranked from 400 to 1000 in singles and 200 to 800 in doubles. Results by June There are 13 nominations for the men. The Asian Oceania region has three nominations in Ti Chen and Jason Taylor, apart from Poonacha. The ITF will announce the results by the middle of June. “The voting will start today. I have tried to reach out to maximum players,” said Poonacha. On a personal front, Poonacha said he may need an inter-State pass to travel as he trains at the Rohan Bopanna Academy in Bengaluru but that he was not sure about the 14-day quarantine rule.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/poonacha-aims-to-get-into-itf-panel/article31699886.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||National Games postponed indefinitely||The much-delayed 36th National Games, scheduled for October-November in Goa, was on Thursday postponed indefinitely due to the pandemic. The Indian Olympic Association (IOA) recently asked the Goa government that it must host the National Games as scheduled from October 20 to November 4 this year. However, a spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases has led to a postponement.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/national-games-postponed-indefinitely/article31699755.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dubov dumps Karjakin||In less than 24 hours, Daniil Dubov made amends for letting fellow-Russian Sergey Karjakin off the hook by handing out a 3-0 drubbing in their third mini-match for a place in the semifinals of the $150,000 Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge on Wednesday. Dubov, the 2018 World rapid champion who crushed Karjakin 3-0 in their first mini-match too, now takes on Ding Liren. The Chinese No. 1 bounced back from 0.5-1.5 to level the match against compatriot Yu Yangyi and eventually won 3-2. The other semifinal features World champion Magnus Carlsen and Hikaru Nakamura.  The results (Quarterfinals, third mini-match): Daniil Dubov (Rus) bt Serjey Karjakin (Rus) 3-0; Ding Liren (Chn) bt Yu Yangyi (Chn) 3-2.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/dubov-dumps-karjakin/article31699751.ece
29 May 2020||Paris,||F1’s cap on spending ratified||Spending by Formula One teams will be capped at $145 million in 2021 with a subsequent limit of $135 million by 2023, as governing body FIA’s World Motor Sports Council ratified the amendments to F1’s rules. “A major step forward for @F1 and motor sport’s sustainability. Thanks to all@fia, @F1 and the teams ,” tweeted FIA president Jean Todt.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/f1s-cap-on-spending-ratified/article31699882.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian Open golf stays in 2020 schedule||The Hero Indian Open, the country’s premier golf tournament, has been placed tentatively on the European Tour’s schedule for the 2020 season, and final dates will be confirmed soon, an official said on Thursday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/indian-open-golf-stays-in-2020-schedule/article31699756.ece
29 May 2020||London,||ECB: No domestic cricket till Aug.||The England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) on Thursday delayed the start of the professional domestic cricket season with no activity to take place before August 1 but is likely to host West Indies in July, as scheduled. The ECB had earlier suspended all its domestic cricket activities till July 1 in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ecb-no-domestic-cricket-till-aug/article31699764.ece
29 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Kerala Rugby Warriors wins TRY Series Cup||Kerala Rugby Warriors won the TRY Series Rugby Cup defeating Young Rugby Club 10,531 votes to 7,994 votes in the final. The virtual tournament organised by Rugby India was decided on the basis of online votes. Third place in the 32-team event went to Black Dot Punjab which beat Delhi Lions 9,246-3,800. Rugby fans, players and coaches voted their choice on social media platforms in this unique popularity competition, organised by the national federation to keep the sport’s followers engaged during the pandemic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kerala-rugby-warriors-wins-try-series-cup/article31699884.ece
29 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam varsity develops fungal powder to boost immunity||Bodoland University, one of Assam’s youngest universities, says it has developed a fungal powder to help people boost immunity during the time of a global pandemic. The powder is from a parasitic but rare “super mushroom” called Cordyceps militaris . Like most other universities and specialised öinstitutions with a biotechnology laboratory, Bodoland University (BU) worked on the best protective equipment for the nose and hands of persons following the COVID-19 outbreak. It also looked at ways to fight the virus by boosting a person’s immunity. The outcome was a potent pinch of C. militaris , powdered through lyophilisation or freeze-drying at –80°C. The earth has more than 400 species of Cordyceps , a fungus parasitic on insects as well as other fungi. Often referred to as a super mushroom, Cordyceps known for its anti-ageing, anti-viral, energy and immunity-boosting effect. “Natural Cordyceps is hard to get and if dried, costs at least Rs. 8 lakh per kg. Our lab has been growing C. militaris since 2017 at a fraction of the cost,” said Sandeep Das, Dean of BU’s faculty of Science and Technology. He also heads the Technology Incubation Centre on Mushrooms that is funded by the Central government’s Department of Biotechnology, in the partly-completed BU complex, close to western Assam’s Kokrajhar town. Long journey A third of Mr. Das’s team of 12, including Vashkar Biswa who has been researching on Cordyceps , travelled 18-19 km daily during the lockdown to and from BU. Their routine till May 3 led to a plethora of innovations — the fungal immunity booster, a membrane mask that costs less than Rs. 4 per unit, herbal and alcohol-based sanitisers, laser and LED-assisted unmanned sanitisation tunnel, a low-cost physical-cum-chemical sanitisation box and a PPE kit with an aquarium aerator. Kokrajhar district’s former Deputy Commissioner P.P. Mazumdar issued them a special travel pass while Inspector-General of Police Anurag Agarwal facilitated access to alcohol and an assortment of herbs for their research. “We made small paper pouches, each containing 150 mg of the super mushroom powder and distributed it free to about 500 people, many from nearby villages, while handing out herbal and alcohol-based sanitisers and masks. The dose ideally is once a week for making the system strong enough to resist viral attack,” Mr. Das told The Hindu . The Department of Biotechnology has ordered capsules in two sizes from a firm based in Nashik, Maharashtra. The consignment is expected to reach BU soon. Each capsule containing the powdered super mushroom would cost Rs. 120 if produced commercially. But the university wants to make it affordable for the common man. “Our university is almost a pioneer in lab-growing Cordyceps . The least I could do is make the paperwork fast to let a passionate team innovate,” said Laishram Ladu Singh, BU’s Vice-Chancellor.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/assam-varsity-develops-fungal-powder-to-boost-immunity/article31699877.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 07:25 IST,||Sudoku - May 28, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-28-2020/article31700412.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Dance of the Swan||As part of a tour of Europe with Ram Gopal, who was at the height of his fame as the dancer who brought the soul of India alive on the stage, Kumudini Lakhia had been a part of the troupe that had performed at the Edinburgh Festival in 1956. The Edinburgh Festival itself was creating its own legend. It had been started after the devastation that all but destroyed the cultural fabric of Europe. Rudolf Bing an Austrian impresario, who had fled the Nazi terror, and Henry Harvey Wood from the British Council searched for a way to create a forum for musicians and artistes who had been displaced. They were able to find support from Lord Falconer, the Lord Provost and Lady Roseberry in Edinburgh “To create a platform for the flowering of the human spirit.” It would include the creative energy of different art forms such as music, dance, theatre and later on cinema, to bring people together in a spirit of experimental ideas and forms. Western influences Ram Gopal was himself of a mixed pedigree with a Mysorean lawyer father and Burmese mother. His dance teachers were also from what was then very strict and different disciplines from Kathakali to Bharatanatyam to begin with. He was soon attracted to Western influences in music, choreography, Indian costumes and jewellery that appealed to his essential sensuality. The first of these were under the patronage of the Mysore Yuvaraja’s palace during the famed Dasara festival time. By the time he reached the West, the dancers there were experimenting with mystique of the East and Ram Gopal appeared like a living embodiment of that particular moment when East met West in an ecstatic embrace. Or what the Swiss Carl Jung would call the primitive man or human being able to commune with the rational side. Or to put it in Carl Jung’s own words, “What is needed is to call a halt to the fatal dissociation that exists between man’s higher and lower being; instead, we must unite conscious man with primitive man.” Certainly when he partnered Kumudini Lakhia with the rest of the troupe at Edinburgh for ‘The Legend of the Taj Mahal,’ Ram Gopal had become the Indian Nijinsky as he was often called. His sharp aquiline features resembled the shadow puppets of the Indonesian Wayang Golek, and he had a sculptural body, which he displayed to perfection. When he put on his elaborate headdresses and danced as Siva, or made the languid movements of ‘Death of a Swan’ resembling the flutter of a ballerina in Swan Lake, he could do no wrong. Yet by the time he came to Geneva, Ram Gopal and his troupe had lost so much money in their travels that they were faced with deportation. His local Swiss impresario could not get an audience to fill the auditorium and after the first performance, the next few evenings were cancelled. My father, K.V. Padmanabhan was the Indian Consul General at the time. There was nothing he could do but ask for the troupe to be flown back to India, courtesy of the Indian Government arranging for their fares by Air India. They had a place to stay, but nowhere to eat. So for the next couple of days we had at our home every evening for dinner, Ram Gopal and his troupe that included besides Kumudini Lakhia, the Kathakali dancer Satyavati Gopalan and several other young dancers and musicians. It was then that we watched with delight how in the midst of what was a total disaster, Ram Gopal became as enchanting as the playful Krishna amongst the gopis of Vrindavan. We have a splendid mansion called ‘Riant Lac’ or Laughing Waters overlooking Lake Geneva below. Etched against a large window pane stood a bronze Dancing Nataraja with the lake and sky behind. This became the backdrop for impromptu dance sessions that the troupe performed every night before they had a simple dinner of Indian food cooked by our South Indian cook, Ramunni. And that’s how I shall remember both Ram Gopal forever an enchanter of beauty and Kumudini Lakhia floating by his side swanlike as the spirit of love. (Link for related article: https://www.thehindu.com/ entertainment/dance/kumudini-lakhia-the- lovable -diva-of-choreography/article 31639485.ece)  We watched with delight how in the midst of what was a total disaster, Ram Gopal became as enchanting as the playful Krishna amongst the gopis of Vrindavan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/dance-of-the-swan/article31699616.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Landmark films, golden memories||It is movie riot on channels as old films — classics in all genres — are being aired. What do the artistes have to say about revisiting their films? We catch up with some of the artistes, whose films will be telecast in the next few days:  Radhika    Kizhakke Pogum Rail (Zee Thirai) That was my debut film and I can never forget the first time I faced the camera. Generally it is a song sequence that is shot with a newcomer just to put the actor at ease. So it was a song — ‘Poovarasampoo Poothachu’ — in my case too. A portion of it was shot at a small temple off ECR. We went to Mettupalayam for the rest of the song. For the lines, “Veerapandi koyilile...,” director Bharatiraja wanted me to come running like a deer towards the camera. Well, I was on the plumper side in those days and couldn’t deliver what he wanted. I got exhausted after a couple of takes and wanted to go home. But he was keen that my Day 1 ended on a successful note. So, he coaxed me with chocolates and I obliged. Even now I recall the experience with a smile, whenever I happen to pass the location. The film went on to become a superhit and I didn’t look back.  K.R. Vijaya    Deivam (Murasu TV) This film gave me a new start in the film industry, I should say. I didn’t want to act in films after child birth and so declined when Devar Films approached me for Deivam . It was my husband, who insisted that I resume my career like any working woman would. Three things changed my mind — the company, Devar Films was like family. They were absolutely professional. M.A. Thirumugam, Devar’s brother was the director and the third reason was, according to the story I was a devotee of Tiruchendur Murugan. In real life, Ganapathy, Amman and Murugan are my three favourite deities. So I signed and off we went to Tiruchendur where the song ‘Tiruchendoorin Kadalorathil...’ was shot, in three hours, with TMS, Sirkazhi and Gemini Ganesan. I had excellent darshan of the deity. Believe me, I have gone to all the temples of Murugan — in fact I was driving down from Palani just as the State was entering the lockdown — but I haven’t got the opportunity to visit Tiruchendur after shooting for Deivam. I hope that we will be soon relieved of this health crisis and He’ll beckon me there.  Sivakumar    Vandichakkaram (Raj Digital Plus) This was supposed to be my 100th film but became my 101st. Thereby hangs a tale. Vinu Chakravarthy, who then was in government service, told me the story, which I liked and gave my assent. On board were producer Tirupur Mani and director Vijayan. Involving a ruffian, it was a break from the soft roles, which I was playing. The story demanded a vegetable market situated in a straight line. Kothavalchavadi, Chennai’s renowned market in those days, was not ideal with its small lanes. A market place in Mysore was suggested and Vijayan, Mani and Vinu Chakravarthy went there to check it out. There they met writer Amudhavan, a friend of mine, who took them to a film that night. Parasangada Gende Thima , starring Lokesh, was an adaptation of a novel of the same title by Srikrishna Alanahalli. The three were impressed with the film and decided to make it in Tamil. They told me over the phone that it was fit to be my 100th film. That film Rosappoo Ravikkaikari. Vinu Chakravarthy got a meaty role in that film and eventually the story he brought became my 101st. Vandi Chakkaram with its realistic story and execution became a hit.  Kushboo    Purusha Lakshnam (Vasanth TV) The highlight of this film as everyone knows is the song, ‘Kolavizhi Amma’ with 108 names of Amman. I accepted the film when P. Vasu told me that he had written the story with me in mind as the heroine. Ravikumar had just arrived on the scene but I was convinced after seeing Pondatti Rajyam , which he had directed. Coming back to the song, Ravikumar wanted me to memorise all the names. Since I did not know Tamil, I wrote it down in Hindi and memorised it. On the first day of the song shooting, I was running high fever but did not reveal this to the director. I didn’t want the shooting to be suspended on my account. Big preparations had been done and crowd had gathered. It would cause a heavy loss if I backed out. The shot required me to do angapradakshinam , when water would be poured on me. On the third day, noticing that I was looking exhausted, Ravikumar asked me whether I was not well. I told him the reason and he was shocked. He was actually moved when I said I didn’t want work to get disrupted because I was ill. He has not forgotten that incident.  Radha    Mudhal Mariyathai (Jmovies) Acting in Mudhal Mariyadhai was an unforgettable experience. It was the great Bharatiraja, who introduced me to the Tamil audience. When he offered me a role in this film, I took it with both hands. With the legend Sivaji Ganesan as the hero, I felt it was a blessing. Incidentally, it was my 99th film. It was shot in Talakadu in Karnataka. Being a Kerala girl, I found the atmosphere, food, etc., different. Also I learnt quite a bit of their culture during my stay there. His wife Mrs. Kamala would bring the food for Sivaji Ganesan. The fish, in particular would be absolutely delicious. I would eat with them but sadly part of the fish would be saved for shooting and I would complain about it. The film is special not only for me but for all my fans across the world.  Sarath Kumar  Suriyan (Sun TV) I was a busy actor around that time and consider myself lucky to have landed that role in Suriyan . It was a big canvas production involving renowned people — Ashok Kumar as cameraman, Pavithran as director besides well-known faces in the cast. Shankar and A. Venkatesh were Pavithran’s associates at that point of time. They were strong in the script department. This film with its breathtaking stunt scenes boosted my image as a star performer. Do you know that this was Roja’s first film? She signed Sembaruthi later but that got released first. When I look back I wonder how I managed to do such risky stunts, all beautifully choreographed by ‘Super’ Subbarayan. We shot at different locations, including Top Slip and places in Rajasthan. Mention should be made of a scene, where I was in water with bombs exploding all round me. Every time there was an explosion my legs took the impact. It took a few minutes to recover and another bomb would go off. A horse, which I was riding threw me off, again because of an explosion, but I was lucky to get away with bruises. It was during the shooting of Suriyan that I learnt to shave my head. I’m talking about the scene, where you’d see me tonsured. On the day of the shooting, we did not get a barber. So I sat in front of a mirror and did it myself. In this extended lockdown, I find that most of my films like Nattamai , Surya Vamsam and Chamundi are beingtelecast by channels. Proof that I have accounted for some quality work in the industry.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/landmark-films-golden-memories/article31699581.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the ripple not become a wave||A transformation is visible in all aspects of life. The field of Natya has not been spared of these influences, which are causing ripples at the cost of sustenance and credibility. Is digital humanity a reality to face? Digital media is an asset that we have earned through technological strides world over. If not for this, it would have been impossible to stay connected in situations like the lockdown we are facing today. But how are we going to utilise this in the future is the question. Is it going to enhance our supremacy in the arena of traditional arts, or is it just going to be a scaffolding over a heritage monument? Are artistes deploying it now to gain a professional edge or will they end up running a perpetual race in this new play field? Dance is universal to many cultures. It has offered contributions to even neuroscience by providing pathways to study the brain’s plasticity. Additionally, there have been studies that evaluate the therapeutic effects of dance and movement in the brain. There are significant changes in the current world, where digitisation is an unavoidable trend. The traditional method of reading relevant books printed on paper has transformed into digital texts through various web portals. On a positive note, digitisation has led to the possibility of borrowing literature from various domains and facilitating interdisciplinary research. Artistes have been incorporating scientific developments for a long time. Nevertheless, this possibly creates ‘dents’ in the enterprise, which are not always identified. Dance movement is a fluid as well as a complex phenomenon, that would require sophisticated sensors to digitise it. A scientific theory comes into relevance and importance only when practised without treading on toes. Discipline is an indispensable characteristic, in terms of indoctrination and instruction, system and order, training and control, rules and codes. Video recordings in social media and massive online courses have allowed many enthusiasts to learn by watching. However, we need to ask — how much of the essence can be captured through watching a video? Virtual environment In a case study abroad, researchers explored the use of kinetic sensors to study the motion of the performer’s body and made a presentation using 3D gaming technology and multi-sensors for dance learning. It was a contribution towards using virtual environments as learning systems. Several such sensors were placed across the performer’s body to study their movement. However, the core problem lies in the fact that majority of this research is conducted in Western dance while our model still relies a great deal on oral transference and creative intuition. Indian dance is dominated by rhythm — aspects such as Nritta, accompanied by Abhinaya, which requires years of expertise in subtle facial expressions. During dance training, pure technique and structure can get communicated as the basic emotional stance is that of vigour. On the other hand, the intense involvement of expressions, the devotional quotient, and the one-to-one transmission with the teacher and the taught in close proximity is hard to replace or simulate. It takes years of hard work, dedication and study to master the nuances and achieve the guru’s nod and the spectator’s acceptance. Almost an entire lifetime is spent to make that full circle from student to various stages of growth. Over the years, we have in a way, compromised on the number of dance items when our ritualistic classical dances moved from temple to proscenium. Again we adopted changes in presentations — from a large number of accompanying musicians to fewer, followed later by absence of live music, often replaced with recorded music. The ensemble, artistes and spectators together are believed to always enliven the entire space. Today, the dance arena has reached a stage where, there is no direct involvement of communicative spectators, who as ‘Sahrudayas’, contribute by their attention and appreciation, which in turn raises the performer’s sense of fulfilment. Stalwarts and sensitised audiences have generally become scarce. Mediocrity appears to suffice to gain visibility, again from the average spectator. Discerning audiences form the cornerstone of this art but virtual platforms have to take into account audiences of all categories. For a sincere Prekshaka, who views the performance on a gadget, it is akin to eating a traditional Indian sweet with a fork! The RASA can never be tasted in this fashion. Even the live broadcast of a programme, while it is happening on stage is better in spontaneity, than when it is consciously practised for a camera shoot. An organic product could be at conflict with animated projection of skills and expertise, not always well-assessed. Read and introspect Teaching mainly through cyber space is a half-hearted solution to tackle the ongoing problem. The concept has been prevalent for years now. The best way to utilise a period like this would be to read up on theory, hone the skills and introspect. Insecurity need not dictate our choices as it results only in noise. There could be better balance after resting and re-evaluation of life. The way forward if imperative, would be to use digital humanities in mapping the movements of maestros to ponder and learn lessons from. The unique features of the guru-sishya Parampara are deep love, respect and mutual communion. There is exchange of knowledge — not only regarding dance but related subjects and life itself. What is needed is a path-breaking language which will strike a balance — preserve traditional roots and culture and use the digital platform to pass them on to enquiring minds. In this way, practice-based research can cultivate a fluid exchange between Sastra and Prayoga — theory and practice. So that the core attributes are not not left behind. Because Natya promises a good life for an individual and a civilised society. And Natya Sastra was given to foster ‘righteousness,’ not just entertainment.  It takes years of hardwork, dedication and study to master the nuances and achieve the guru’s nod and the spectator’s acceptance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/let-the-ripple-not-become-a-wave/article31699607.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Reaching Tamil treasures to the young abroad||It is an evening on the third Sunday of the month in London. A group of Sri Lankan Tamils of Great Britain have gathered to discuss the intricate, satirical nuances in the Sangam literary poems of Kurunthogai . The group comprises men of various ages, scholars and novices, the binding force amongst them being their love for the Tamil literature and an ardent desire to keep the Tamil literary and cultural tradition alive in the country where they have settled down. With the Tamil diaspora spread all over the word, there is an association in almost every big city of the world. But most of them are engaged in organising celebrations of Tamil festivals, entertainment programmes and meetings addressed by visiting film personalities. This group is a literary gathering, discussing only literature. The topic of the day is circulated in advance and the members come well prepared to listen discuss and interact. The founder of this group, which has been in existence for the past five years, is 80-year old Sellathamby Sriskandarajah, a solicitor by profession, who is in love with Tamil and Tamil culture. He has named this group ‘Vithuvan Velanar Ilakkiya Vattam’ after his father-in-law, who was a great Tamil scholar. Sriskandarajah has written 17 books, both in English and Tamil, on Tamil literature. He is also a renowned poet. Sriskandarajah studied science in Tiruchi and while working later in the Legal Department of the Government of Sri Lanka, he advocated that Tamil along with Sinhala should be the court language and translated several legal matters and laws into Tamil. He had to create new legal words and phrases in Tamil. He had the support and encouragement of the then Chief Justice of Sri Lanka, Justice Sarvanandha, who was also a votary of the notion that Tamil and Sinhala should be the court language. Sriskandarajah moved to Nigeria on a six-year teaching assignment and because of the political atmosphere back home in Sri Lanka, he decided to move to London. He obtained a post-graduate degree in Law from the London School of Economics and settled down in London after he got a job as the Principal Legal Officer. “Soon I realised that while it was law that kept my hearth burning, my heart and soul remained with Tamil and Tamil literature and I had an urge within myself to do something to promote Tamil among the young who had lost touch with the glorious language although it is their mother tongue,” says Mr. Sriskandarajah, He published his first book Ethical Essence of Tamil , a translation of Tirukkural into English in 1993, which received rave reviews. He wrote a series of articles in English titled, Tamil Literary Scenes in a newspaper called Tamil Voice International published from London. It was a translation of selected verses from ancient Tamil classics. Unfortunately, the paper had to stop publication due to political pressures arising out of the ethnic civil war in Sri Lanka. He continued to write the series in other publications but they too became defunct. “It was then that I decided to complete the Tamil Literary Scenes and publish it myself as a book, spending from my pocket. The book is an introduction to the early Sangam literature, throwing light on the great culture of the early Tamils, their valour, love-life and generosity as evidenced by Sangam poetry, and also explaining its beauty and aesthetics,” says Mr. Sriskandarajah. Encouraged by the response to the book, he went on to write an abridged English version of the twin epics Silappadikaram and Manimekalai. “As suggested by my wife, it was also an attempt to introduce the two epics to the British as well’ says Mr. Sriskandarajah. The British had already had a glimpse of the Sangam poetry through the late A.K. Ramanujan, who was a professor in Chicago university. Translated as Tamil love poems by Ramanujan, they now adorn the underground trains in London. While Lakshmi Holmstrong and R. Parthasarathy have translated Silappadikaram into English, it is perhaps only Sriskandarajah who has worked on the other epic Manimekalai also. Sriskandarajah is grateful to those who have made commendable efforts in bringing Tamil classics to the Western audience. But for the service rendered by missionaries such as Robert Caldwel, G.U. Pope and Veeramamunivar, people in the West would not have known the great heritage of the Tamil language,which is distinctly different from Sanskrit, he says. “Even these translations are not flawless. For example, A.K. Ramanujan has translated the Tamil term Sennaapulavar as “Red-tongued Poet.” The word actually would refer to a poet with fine language skills, or simply a great poet,” he adds. Sriskandarajah presented a paper in the Semmozhi (Classical Tamil) Conference held in Coimbatore in 2010, highlighting his views on translating the Tamil classics. His translation of the Tamil poet Avvaiyar’s works has been hailed as great work by Prof. Maruthanayakam of Pondicherry University. Prof. Maruthanayakam says: “Eschewing word-for-word translation, Sriskandarajah rightly resorts to sense-for-sense translation and sees to it that the depth of meaning and the tremendous breadth of experience and the penetrating vision of the poet are clearly brought out.” Code of conduct Out of his concern that Tamil youths abroad should know and follow the good habits and discipline of their tradition, he has translated Aranerichaaram , which prescribes a code of conduct and dos and don’ts in every day life. . Sriskandarajah has also written an introduction to the mystical Tirumandiram in Tamil and Periyapuranam in English for expatriate Tamils and a simple guide to Tamil grammar. He has published two books of his own poems in Tamil. His passion for Tamil literature is such that he ensured that the music concert in London which he organised for his daughter’s wedding reception featured only Tamil songs, notably the love poems from the Tamil classic Kalithogai.  His wife, Mathini, is an accomplished musician and has several albums to her credit — Manikkavasagar’s Sivapuranam for which Rajkumar Bharati, the great-grandson of the great Tamil poet, Subramania Bharathi, composed the music.  (The author himself is a scholar in Sangam literature and was the editor of BBC's ‘Tamil Osai’ radio broadcasts in London)   Sriskandarajah presented a paper in the Semmozhi (Classical Tamil) Conference held in Coimbatore in 2010, highlighting his views on translating the Tamil classics||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/reaching-tamil-treasures-to-the-young-abroad/article31699623.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Spotlight on the Nayaka||Admittedly there is more attention on the nayika (female protagonist) than on the nayaka (male protagonist) in Indian Shastreeya Nrithya, but he has not been ignored in the Indian literary and textual traditions. Dr. Anupama Kylash, scholar and Vilasini Natyam-Kuchipudi dancer, brought out the facets of the Nayika, Nayaka (hero) and Sahayaka (companion) in an Instagram Live session with the U.K.-based Bharatanatyam dancer Divya Ravi titled, ‘Protagonists in Indian Textual and Literary Traditions.’ The conversation was part of a learning series ‘Sangati’ that Divya presented. “It is on allied aspects of dance that do not get enough time owing to our hectic schedules of practice and performance,” Divya had said. Following an exhaustive presentation on Nayika Bheda, Dr. Anupama Kylash turned to the Nayaka. She referenced the oldest text on dramaturgy, the Natyasastra (2BC-2 AD), as it classified the hero, first in an over-arching classification for all characters and aspects of drama — Uttama (superior), Madhyama (middle) and Adhama (inferior), and again, according to the hero’s conduct: Dheerodaatta (generous, filled with dharma, e.g. Rama), Dheeroddhata is a Prati Nayaka/villain (equally qualified, brilliant, e.g. Ravana), Dheeraprashanta (tolerant, calm), Dhiralalita (connoisseur of the arts, vilasa/playful, ladies’ man but not necessarily with Sringara). Quotes from puranas Anupama quoted the Agnipuran (7th-11th C), one of the 18 Puranas of Sanskrit Literature, that classified Sringara Nayakas, romantic heroes, according to their behaviour vis-à-vis women at a time when polygamy was common: Anukoola (loyal to one woman eg. Rama), Dakshina (who has many lovers, but is loving and treats them equally - eg. Krishna), Drashtha (aggressive, bold, a little rude, does not respond when a woman is angry, but tries to pacify, inconsiderate), Shatha (deceitful, no scruples, no respect towards women). A Shata Nayaka can be either Maani (arrogant) or Chatura (wily, indulging in sweet talk). Anupama presented another Sringara Nayaka classification mentioned in Rasa Manjari (17th C) by Bhanudatta, according to their relationship with the nayika: Pati (husband), Upapati (paramour of a Kanya, young girl, or a Parodha, married woman) and Vaishika (a man who visits a courtesan). Anupama stopped to underline how evolved the society must have been as the Rasa Manjari goes on to classify the hero according to how he treats the courtesan: Uttama Vaishika (sensitive, kind, who appreciates aesthetics and beauty), Madhyama Vaishika (sensitive but impulsive), Adhama Vaishika (insensitive, cruel). While the heroine in love can be in any of the eight states according to the Natyasastra , Ashtavidha Nayika Avastha, such as Vaasakasajja (being dressed up for union), Virahotkanthita (one distressed by separation), Khandita (one enraged with her lover), etc, the Rasa Manjari mentions that only three states are permitted for the Sringara Nayaka — Virahotkantha (one distressed by separation), Proshitapati (one with a sojourning wife — wife gone to her mother’s house for delivery, etc) and the third, in the context of an Abhisaarika heroine who goes out to meet her lover, where either of the lovers can go, as the male who helps the Abhisaar by coming to her himself. Any other avastha or emotional state in the hero, according to the text, will cause ‘Rasabhaasa’ — disruption in creation of rasa or sentiment. Dr. Anupama qualified the rule with a possibility of exceptions, ‘In customer-courtesan situations in padams by Sarangapani and others, when a hero may get angry he will be a Khandita Nayaka.’ Anupama quoted the fifth century celebrated Sanskrit poet Kalidasa to bring out an unusual Proshitapati Nayaka in Meghadootam. She says it is not technically correct but the Yaksha is almost one, being away from his wife. He describes his wife (Prositabhrtrka nayika), who is waiting for him, ‘My wife droops like a creeper in winter... With a veena in her lap, she wishes to sing a song with my name… the tears keep falling… she forgets the words of the song...’ She gave an example for a Shatha Nayaka from the Sanskrit erotic poetry anthology Amaru Shatakam when the nayika calls her erring lover a Shatha, ‘What did you gain by bringing your unfaithful self here? You already carry the kumkum marks of another woman on your chest. Now you have also gained an oily mark of my braid, by forcibly embracing me from behind.’ Duties of a companion The importance of the Sahayaka, companion, who maybe either a friend (Sakha/Sakhi) or a messenger (Dhoota/ Dhooti), cannot be denied. A friend can be a companion, a mediator in matters of love or an assistant. Many pada sahityas and varnams convey the Sakhi’s point of view. In other situations such as Kalidasa’s plays, Anupama said the Sahayakas took the play forward. According to Rasa Manjari , the pleasure companion of a Nayaka, a Narmasachiva maybe a Pithamarda (propitiates angry nayika), Vita (one notch below Nayaka, confidant, may cede on behalf of the Nayaka but not always), Cheta (pure mediator) or a Vidushaka (jester in Sanskrit drama and Shakespearean plays — intelligent, mediator). The female friend, Sakhi, according to Bhoja’s Sringara Prakasa maybe a Sahaja (natural), Purvaja (old relationship), Aagantuh (stranger). Bhanudatta ( Rasa Manjari ) and Rudrabhatta have given four and three duties for a Sakhi respectively. These are to: create humour (Vinoda), adorn the nayika (Mandana), advise (Shiksha), complain with sarcasm (Upaalambha), pacify nayika in all situations (Prasadana), unite the lovers (Sangama) and console that viraha will be short-lived (Virahashwasa). Giving many examples for the Nayakas and the Sakhis from Sanskrit, Telugu and Hindi literature, Anupama emphasised the need to kick start the imagination. ‘What is allegory without imagery or comparison? The Andhra Devadasis, Kalavantulu, could present a four-line sloka from the Amaru for one and a half hours. “For pada sahitya, understanding the context and the mind of the poet are crucial. In Jayadeva Ashtapadis, we know the philosophy is Parakeeya vada, Vishnu bhakti. In Annamacharya Sankirtanas, it is Visishta Advaita; however erotic the lyrics, we know it is Alamelu and Venkateshwara. Kshetrayya padams sometimes have an underlying layer. Sarangapani padams have monetary transactions; it is the interpretation of customer-courtesan padam, there is no need to interpret it as god, just because of the mention of Venugopala,” said Anupama. Anupama Kylash’s parting advice: ‘You have every right and the artistic licence to portray the character, but it has to be according to the intent and philosophy of the poet. If you internalise sahitya, you will naturally see the correct Nayaka.” (Story on Nayika: https://www.thehindu.com/entertainment/dance/the-intriguing-world-of...)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/spotlight-on-the-nayaka/article31699612.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Natya, an integral part of worship||“Describing Krishna’s dance on the hood of snake Kaliya, Vishnu Purana says that he danced with danda paada gati. Explaining this in his commentary, Vishnu Chithiyam, Engalazhvan says that Krishna’s dance was characterised by braanti gati (circular movements) and rechaka gati (moving from one side to another),” says P.T. Seshadri, who has studied references to dance in the Puranas and Agamas. In Yadavabhyudaya, Desika refers to Krishna’s dance as Arabhati. The Divya Prabandham abounds in pasurams, where Vishnu is referred to as koothan (dancer). Not surprisingly, the Pancharatra Agamas make it clear that dance is an important part of worship in Vishnu temples. “Paadma Samhita says that when the daily bali ritual is done in temples, dance is a must. Parameswara, Paadma and Iswara samhitas say that when the bali bera is carried by the priests, dancers should perform before the idol. “In the Paadma Samhita, Vishnu tells Brahma about the gestures, postures and dances that please him, and the list includes swastika, avakuncita, sthayee bhava, sanchari bhava, vilaasa, kartari, Aleeda, mangala, Bhadramaalee, Tarkshyapaksha, Swastika, chaaree, prachaaree, samvarta, paari pataka, Sowmya, Vishnu soorni, ghetaka, katibandha, alankara, asmaree, prishtakuttima, vaamajaanu, Asoori, apaveshtika, vaasaveswaram, nikuttima, kuttima, mandala, kuncitaartendu, sarvamangala, gandharakuttima, prakuttima, sarvatobhadra, shuddha kuncita, maarga charee, karaadeena, avapaasa, aveshtika, pareevartha, nirdootha, shramapada, vishama pada, vikalitaa, Desika mandala, Vaijayanthi nritta, chakramandala nritta, Vrishtikuttima nritta, vaamajaana Urdhva nritta, Daiva nritta, kshegakavritta nritta. According to the Pancharatra Agamas, the dance movement known as Vishnu kraanta pleases Garuda,” says Seshadri. Ramanujacharya settled temple singers in a street in Srirangam, and the street was named Sen Tamizh paaduvaar veedhi. He also established in Srirangam, a training centre where special dances for the temple were taught. There was a compete involvement on the part of the Acharya and his followers, when music and dance were presented in temples. There were two instances where Ramanujacharya pointed out how certain pasurams had to be interpreted through abhinaya. Periyazhvar imagined himself to be Yasoda, and in a series of moving verses, he captured each milestone in the life of the child Krishna. In one of the verses, Krishna is said to frighten his friends. To portray this, the Srirangam Araiyar, dilated his eyes. Ramanuja felt that portraying Krishna suddenly popping up with two extra hands holding the conch and discus, would be a better way of doing abhinaya for the pasuram. What was the reason for Ramanuja’s interpretation? The usual explanation is that Krishna’s eyes were so bewitching, that far from being afraid, his companions would in fact, have been impressed by the beauty of Krishna’s eyes. But Seshadri says that this is not all. “There were precedents for people taking fright over Krishna’s four hands. When he was born with four hands, Devaki was afraid that the extra hands would expose him to Kamsa’s wrath. This is mentioned in Vishnu Purana and also in Srimad Bhagavatam. Later, when Krishna went to Duryodhana as a messenger of the Pandavas, he suddenly displayed his conch and discus, and those who watched were so afraid, that they closed their eyes. This incident is found in the Udyoga Parva of Mahabharata. “So the Puranic and Itihasa references were also deciding factors in Ramanuja’s interpretation,” says Seshadri. “Ramanuja’s interpretation of the Periyazhvar pasuram was also based on his knowledge of the Natya Sastra. Bharata’s Natya Sastra talks of utsanga hasta, where two hands are lifted to shoulder level, to express various emotions, including displaying one’s anger, or strength. Krishna’s display of his unusual strength by suddenly showing two extra hands with conch and discus would certainly have had the effect of frightening his playmates,” says Seshadri. Thus, Ramanuja brought together his knowledge of various texts to arrive at the most suitable abhinaya for the pasuram. This amalgam of different texts in the interpretation of pasurams for dance was seen in another instance too. The Araiyar was dancing one of Nammazhvar’s Parankusa Nayaki pasurams, where Parankusa Nayaki says that she has been captured in the net cast by the Lord. Araiyar performed a gesture suggesting the casting of a net, and the consequent capture of the Nayaki. “But Ramanujacharya again based his interpretation on the Natya Sastra, where sringara is indicated through movements of the eyes and eyebrows,” says Seshadri. The Agamas prescribe certain mudras for thiruvaradhana, says Seshadri, and explains some of them. When Surabhi mudra is performed, the fingers take the shape of the cow’s udder. Surabhi also means Kamadhenu, the divine cow. Kamadhenu’s milk is said to be nectar. This mudra must be done over the vessels containing water. It is believed that when this mudra is done, Kamadhenu’s milk enters the water and purifies it. Graasa mudra is shown when food is offered to the deity. Anjali mudra melts Vishnu’s heart. There are at least 28 mudras given in the Pancharatra Agamas and are to be used in temple worship. During the recent restoration work in Srirangam, the area around the 1,000 pillar mandapa was excavated, and this uncovered many sculptures representing dance karanas. These karanas are mentioned in the Pancharatra Agamas, says Seshadri. Link to article on music:https://www.thehindu.com/s ociety/history-and-culture/ pancharatra-agama-gives-music- pride-of-place/article31639264. ece||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/natya-an-integral-part-of-worship/article31699626.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||By the artistes, for the artistes||When America’s Purdue University, located in West Lafayette, Indiana, decided to close down campus events on March 10 due to the Coronavirus pandemic, the Indian Classical Music Association of Purdue (ICMAP) already had its spring line up of concerts ready. “We immediately reached out to the artistes to cancel scheduled performances, a move that luckily didn’t have too much of a financial impact on us given that contracts hadn’t been signed as yet,” says ICMAP president, Chandnee Chandrasekharan. The team pivoted immediately, reaching out to faculty advisor Vijay Raghunathan for ideas. “Our university functions on the principle that innovation is at the core of everything we do, and this challenge was no different. I felt we could host virtual concerts that offered high-quality music to audiences that was not only an engaging occurrence during this time, but also a much-needed escape from the stressful situation around us,” he adds. On sabbatical in his Chennai home for the year, Vijay got to work, reaching out to artistes. “Compensation for the artistes, free streaming for the entire Purdue community, and absolutely no compromise on quality: our concerts had to meet these criteria,” he says. Mridangam artiste Anantha R. Krishnan was the obvious choice, and a casual conversation with the mridangist allowed him to explore, thinking of production values and a novel concert format which, he believes, is the way forward, both during this pandemic and for the ancient art form. “I think what every other art form does and what Carnatic music has to look at is that the medium has changed: it’s the artistes’ responsibility to adapt to the digital, multi-perspective medium that caters to shorter attention spans,” Anantha explains. His stance was clear: he wasn’t interested in a Facebook live concert filmed in a static frame, simply offering audiences a chance to watch yet another live concert. Instead, this was a chance to adapt, expand and evolve. The concept is intriguing, as Anantha has curated a line-up that will be dividing the facets of a traditional concert into shorter parts. Using specialised equipment and limiting the number of artistes per segment as per social distancing norms , the artiste hopes to make the best of this unique creative intimacy. Live streaming “We premiere live on the evening of May 30 IST with a concert by flautist Shashank, accompanied by Akkarai Subhalakshmi and Patri Satish Kumar. This will be followed by day two, curated by Anantha, and featuring vocalist Ramakrishnan Murthy, violinist Charumathi Raghuraman, and a laya vinyasam with percussionist Shree Sundarkumar,” Vijay says. The performances will feature semi-professional recordings and 4K streams, ensuring that, quality is not compromised in the process of streaming. The University does not plan to make the concerts available for public consumption beyond the time of premiere. This shared ownership of content between the university and the artiste is just one of the evolutions Anantha anticipates as a necessity as we move forward and look at ways to sustain the art form. “Carnatic music is still a new stage craft. While it’s come a long way from its temple traditions and palatial origins, with organisations mushrooming and pioneers such as Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar evolving a format, we’ve reached yet another point in history, where the art form is ready for more changes in the presentation format,” Anantha concludes.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/by-the-artistes-for-the-artistes/article31699598.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Bringing alive Kaifi and Tagore||If COVID-19 has raised concerns about the future, there have been moments through the lockdown when we have rejoiced travelling back in time. The National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) has been streaming recordings of choicest performances from its archives, giving us an opportunity to experience a slice of our art heritage. Besides regular concerts, there have been some differently curated events such as Raag Shayari, a musical tribute to Kaifi Azmi and Gulzar’s recitation of Urdu/Hindustani translations of Rabindranth Tagore’s poems. Through their impeccable narrations in English and Urdu, Shabana Azmi and Javed Akhtar, who conceived and presented Raag Shayari in January 2019, brought alive the milieu of the time when Kaifi Azmi penned his nazms. Shankar Mahadevan's emotional rendering unravelled the many layers in Kaifi's poetic expression. The formidable musical team led by Ustad Zakir Hussain on the tabla, Purbayan Chatterjee on the sitar and Dilshad Khan on the sarangi not just lent musical support, they created an atmosphere that suited perfectly the mood of the lyric.  Kaifi’s oeuvre was diverse and vast — from romance to revolution. As part of the Progressive Writers’ Movement, he never minced words to express his frustration and anger over politics and social anomalies. He spoke about women empowerment almost 75 years ago in his work, ‘Aurat’. He wrote (always with his favourite Mont Blanc pen) ‘ Uth meri jaan mere saath hi chalna hai tujhe ’ (rise my love you have to walk along with me). Inqlaab inspired him to write his popular nazm, ‘ Utho dekho woh aandhi aa rahi hai’ (see the storm is coming). It was recited during Prabhat Pheri (morning stroll) by volunteers of the freedom movement to wake up people to the idea of self rule. Though he spent his life dreaming of a Socialist India, the feelings of love and longing too found a place in Kaifi’s poetry (‘Zara si aahat hoti hai toh dil sochta hai kahin ye woh toh nahin’). It was fascinating to understand one poet through another in Gulzar's session on Rabindranath Tagore. “He was my first guru. My bonding with other Bengalis happened later (he married Rakhee and was closely associated with R.D. Burman),” said Gulzar, who as a young boy chanced upon the Urdu translation of the poet laureate’s The Gardener . Reading it proved to be the turning point of his life. When Gulzar came to Delhi after Partition, he used to get books from a refugee librarian from Pakistan for 25 paise a week. “I was so fascinated by The Gardener that I decided not to return it,” laughed Gulzar, reciting the beautifully translated verses in his inimitable style.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/bringing-alive-kaifi-and-tagore/article31699601.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||A bird, Bharati and melody||It was the call of the cuckoo bird, which inspired Carnatic vocalist R. Suryaprakash to get immersed in the poetry of the legendary Subramania Bharati. “Moved by its haunting ‘coo,’ I wondered why not tune the verses of Bharati’s epic work, Kuyil Paattu for music lovers, caught in the lockdown, across the world,” says Suryaprakash, tracing the genesis of his venture. Before long thought metamorphosed into action and ‘Kuyilpaattu Paduvom’ was born. Suryaprakash’s classmate from school, Dr. Arul Avvai Natarajan, had written a related article in his current post as Director of Translations for the Government of Tamil Nadu. Coincidentally, it effused themes of the same works and instantly, Suryaprakash knew who this project must include. It meant analysing the massive work — 744 lines in nine chapters — a task that excited Dr. Arul. According to Dr. Arul the beauty of Kuyil Paattu lies in its origin. “Bharati has described it as the outcome of his reverie, taking place in a garden in the west of Puducherry. He was listening to the cuckoo’s melodious cry and comprehended its meaning — a songbird pining for his love,” he describes. The verses unfold like an epic, with characters such as a bull, monkey, a sage, and even ghouls playing parts. Studded with mystique, it’s a narrative, which will unfold as the weeks progress, each verse being brought to life by Suryaprakash’s vocalisations and choice in ragam. Suryaprakash calls it his ‘passion project,’ an extension of his love for Bharatiar’s compositions that are a must in his concerts. While he continues to indulge in Bharathiar’s more popular, often patriotic works, he hopes this episodic series will introduce audiences to a rare side of the poet. New ragas His rendition, he anticipates, will fill at least 25 online episodes. Released in an array of ragas, including Bouli, Natakuranji, Ahiri, Sumanesa Ranjani, Nalinakanthi, Atana, Sindubhairavi and Durbarikanada, his priority remains the compatibility of the lyrical and musical bhava — a concept that has led the musician to set certain verses to talam, while others remain more extempore as virutthams. The project has also allowed Suryaprakash to discover two new ragas — Kuyilkurinji and Suryavasantha. While the former is a janya of Chakravaham, named for its resemblance to the kuyil’s call in tara sthayi, the latter, a janya of raga Soolini, is the result of the artiste’s extended practice sessions during the lockdown. “Kuyilkurinji is more folksy and happy in nature, while Suryavasantha has both veera rasam and pathos,” he explains. With one episode released on May 24 and many to come, available both on YouTube and the artiste’s social media pages, it’s a project to note and one that he hopes keeps rasikas engaged during this trying time. Perhaps, it’s an effort to preserve the old — a positive spirit and hope which personify Bharati — for future generations to come.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/a-bird-bharati-and-melody/article31699604.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Kaladiksha’s support to ABHAI’s initiative||Apart from imparting training in Bharatanatyam, Kaladiksha, founded by dancer-guru Meenakshi Chitharanjan, is involved in philanthropic activities with the support of parents and students of the institution. Recently, Kaladiksha contributed Rs. 1 lakh to Artists for Artists Welfare Fund, an initiative started by ABHAI (Association of Bharatanatyam Artists of India) to help artistes impacted by the lockdown. Meenakshi Chitharanjan handed over the cheque. So far 131 indigent artistes from various fields have been indentified and financial aid of Rs. 9.85 lakhs has been disbursed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/kaladikshas-support-to-abhais-initiative/article31699618.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Online veena competition||Radel will conduct an online varnam and kriti competition for students/amateurs performing on the Radel Sunadavinodini electronic veena on July 19, 9 a.m onwards. Only 30 entries are allowed for the kriti level and 20 for the senior level. Access the following links on Radel’s Facebook page for more details about the competitions:  Varnam and kriti competition : https://drive.google.com/…/ 1MMnSVaSFxGtTB4Bj5vfdMhND-…/view… Senior level competition : https://drive.google.com/…/1MITkKTaacYqq5KijQT1deoAuO… /view… Contestants must provide a list of three varnams and three kritis to the organisers as specified in the online application. Last date is June 6. Selection for the competition will be intimated by June 13. Each participant will be given 10 minutes on Skype. They have to perform two pieces on the Radel Sunadavinodini electronic veena. They do not have to play alapana or swarakalpana. Participants will have to connect on the selected day of the competition, via Skype only, and simultaneously record the items on another device. The recording has to be sent to the organisers via any cloud storage link such as Dropbox or Google drive/Onedrive etc. For more details call, Radel (Bengaluru) +91 93424 20720 /+91 93424 20730); Radel (Chennai) +91 73050 99777 /+91 89396 99919.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/online-veena-competition/article31699627.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Colors Tamil unleashes fresh content||Regional channels are airing many new thematic series/game shows to keep their viewers entertained during this lockdown period. Colors Tamil has joined the bandwagon by telecasting a fresh set of series and episodes. The revival began with the telecast of ‘Mangalya Dosham,’ a supernatural thriller, aired Monday through Friday, at 9 p.m. It focuses on how superstitions are followed even today. The series is about the newly married couple — Nityashree and Mohan. When the family astrologer predicts that the planetary position of Mars in Nityashree’s horoscope is in an unfavourable position that might affect her husband’s future, Nityashree goes on a quest to protect him from the negative effects. Arun Padmanabhan and Lakshmi Priya play the lead roles. The other shows to be aired on the channel are ‘Sri Krishna,’ at 6.30 p.m. This will be followed by the fantasy, ‘Chandrakantha’ (7 p.m.). Other soaps with fresh episodes to be aired on the channel include ‘Oviya,’ (7.30 p.m.); ‘Amman’ (8 p.m.) and ‘Idayathai Thirudathe’ at 8.30 p.m.’||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/colors-tamil-unleashes-fresh-content/article31699590.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Chance to become a dance star||Disney+ Hotstar has launched ‘Home Dancer,’ a new online dance contest for aspirants with the pilot episode aired on May 25. As people across India remain confined to their homes, Disney+ Hotstar’s ‘Home Dancer’ offers a unique opportunity for dance lovers to showcase their skills from within the comfort of their homes. Participants across age groups and regions can participate in this contest. The show will feature an exciting celebrity line-up and selected performances from the best entertainers in India. Actor Jacqueline Fernandez will launch the show, to be hosted by Karan Wahi. Actors and choreographers, Chandni Srivastava, and Chetan Salunke will evaluate the performances. The best performers will be selected by viewers through voting process. Spread over five weeks, the show will be aired bi-weekly and the best performance will earn the contestant cash award every week.  To participate in the campaign, contestants need to login in to the Disney+ Hotstar app, select the theme of the week and choose any one of the 10 pre-loaded tracks and submit their dancing videos running up to 60-90-seconds on the microsite. The judges will select top 10 entries. The shortlisted performances will be featured in one of the episodes on Disney+ Hotstar, following which voting lines will be open for two days. In the follow-up episode, contestant with maximum number of votes will be announced the winner of the week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/chance-to-become-a-dance-star/article31699583.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||Online concert series||Indian Classical Gems, a Facebook music group, presents Kalakriya, an online interactive concert series, featuring young Carnatic musicians (vocal and instrumental). Flautist Shantala Subramanyam has curated the concert series that showcases the talents of young artistes from across the globe every week. Sharing information about concerts, composers, ragas, etc, to help the audience understand and appreciate the music is the key point of the series. Each episode will end with a short Q & A session. The series begins tomorrow, (May 30) at 8.30 p.m. IST and 11 a.m. EST, and will feature Sanjana Chandran (violin) and Santhosh Ravibharathy (mridangam).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/online-concert-series/article31699609.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||29fr_sony pix||Sony Pix  The Mummy: Tomb Of The Dragon Emperor  Cursed by a devious sorceress, China’s ruthless Dragon Emperor (Jet Li) and his vast army lie buried in clay for millennia. When young archaeologist Alex O’Connell is tricked into reviving the emperor, he and his famous parents (Brendan Fraser, Maria Bello) must find a way to send the ghoul back to the grave before he can awaken his vast army and take over the world. Sunday, 9 p.m. Geostorm After an unprecedented series of natural disasters threatened the planet, the world's leaders came together to create an intricate network of satellites to control the global climate and keep everyone safe. But now, something has gone wrong: the system built to protect Earth is attacking it, and it becomes a race against the clock to uncover the real threat before a worldwide geostorm wipes out everything and everyone along with it. Tuesday, 9 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/29frsony-pix/article31699593.ece
29 May 2020||May 29 2020 00:00 IST,||29fr_tubewatch||Pudhiya Thalaimurai Cyber Thirai The show talks about the reasons behind the increasing number of cyber crimes and how to protect oneself from them. Saturday and Sunday, 10.30 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-fridayreview/29frtubewatch/article31699594.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Trade, consumption of liquor not a fundamental right, govt. tells HC||The Delhi government has defended its decision to levy ‘special corona fee’ of 70% on all alcohol brands, before the Delhi High Court, saying that trade or consumption of liquor is not a fundamental right and the State has the authority to regulate its sale. The Delhi government said there is an element of privilege in relation to sale or dealing in liquor and that the State is free to regulate it under the Excise law. Opposing a batch of petitions challenging its May 4 notification levying the ‘special corona fee’ on liquor, the Delhi government said that the State is also free to impose and recover a price for grant of such privilege. The pleas are listed for hearing on Friday. Dip in revenue Delhi government’s Department of Excise, in an affidavit, said that owing to the clamp-down on all economic activities due to the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19, the revenue had shrunk by almost 90% in April 2020 and the total collections dwindled to a mere Rs. 300 crore as opposed to approximately Rs. 4,000 crore in the corresponding month in 2019. Between May 4 and 25, the total sale of operational liquor vends has been Rs. 187 crore, which is way too less as compared to the sale figures of May 2019 as the number of shops operational last year were around 800 and as of now, only 40% of them are operational due to various restrictions imposed by the government, it said. The Delhi government said the total excise revenue, including the ‘corona fee’, collected by the State from May 4 to May 25 has been to the tune of Rs. 227.44 crore, which includes Rs. 127 crore of ‘special corona fee’, as against the total revenue collection of Rs. 425.24 crore in May last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/trade-consumption-of-liquor-not-a-fundamental-right-govt-tells-hc/article31699889.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Youth files complaint of loot during Delhi riots, gets booked under the same FIR||In a strange incident, a 24-year-old resident of Shiv Vihar was arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, ironically in an FIR in which he was the complainant. In a complaint submitted at Karawal Nagar Police Station on March 6, Abu Bakar claimed that his residence was allegedly looted during the riots. Bakar and his family had shifted to a safer zone on February 25 as tension mounted in his locality. But when they returned home on February 28, they found their house ransacked, and their valuables including cash and jewellery stolen. The police handed him an existing FIR (72/20) at the bottom of which a handwritten note said: “This certified that PS Karwal Nagar complainant Abu Bakar s/o Shamshad DR 531 date 6/3/2020 has been attached with FIR 72/20 u/s 147/148/149/427/436 IPC for all legal purposes”. Days later, he was arrested under the same FIR number. On March 10, he was allegedly taken by Crime Branch officials and questioned for six-seven hours to identify people from the videos they were showing him after which he was let off. However, on April 4, after the nationwide lockdown was announced, Bakar claimed the police summoned him to a nearby mosque on the pretext of discussing ration distribution. Instead, he was taken to the station and arrested in the same FIR number (on charges of rioting, mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees, and mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house) with which his complaint has been attached. Bakar was released on bail on May 24 after a city court’s order on May 15. His counsel Akhter Shamim argued that the police have registered an “umbrella FIR”. “In the court, there was an argument over the same topic in which the judge asked the police on how they are investigating the case as the accused and complainant are the same in the FIR. It makes the situation technical,” said Mr. Shamim. When asked, an officer from Karawal Nagar police station expressed surprise on the information and said that “work is in progress in the same matter and each complainant among hundreds in being called to re-arrange complaints and their distribution in different FIRs; five Sub Inspectors are working on this”. Meanwhile, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North East) Ved Prakash Surya said that the youth’s complaint was received at the Idgah relief camp and was attached in the existing FIR. During investigation, video evidence was collected and it was found that he was the culprit and hence arrested. Soon after his arrest, Bakar’s family received a call from the Karawal Nagar Police Station asking them to send him to the station with photographs of the vandalised house. His stunned family members told the officer that he was in jail. After returning home, Bakar said that he is scared to visit the police station because of his earlier experience. He also grieved that his family hasn’t received any compensation from the government and his monetary situation was bad. “We stayed in the Idgah relief camp till March 22 and submitted the relief forms but haven’t received a penny yet,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/youth-files-complaint-of-loot-during-delhi-riots-gets-booked-under-the-same-fir/article31699896.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||PDS helpline numbers a disaster that needs to be addressed: HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday observed that the grievance helpline numbers for distribution of foodgrains “is a disaster that needs to be addressed immediately by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority”. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad made the remarks after the court made repeated calls to the helpline number 1301, which is manned by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, but the said number could not be reached at all. “The said helpline shall be made functional by the end of this day. The respondent/State is cautioned that we propose to personally verify if both the aforesaid helplines are functioning, by making calls on a random basis,” the High Court observed. The government assured the High Court that the aspect shall be looked into and steps shall be taken to ensure that the figures relating to the number of complaints received on the helplines are put up on the website. During the hearing, the High Court dialled the food helpline number, 1967, several times and also requested counsel appearing for the parties to do so only to find that none of them were able to connect to the said helpline, except for Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain. Mr. Jain also submitted that the department concerned has issued instructions to all the fair price shops to remain open on all seven days of the week, for distribution of ration to all the beneficiaries. The High Court was also informed that there are 2,017 fair price shops in Delhi that cater to ration card holders and 588 food distribution centres have been set up for catering to the non-public distribution system (PDS) beneficiaries. The government also stated that 71 lakh eligible beneficiaries have been identified for being provided foodgrain on a monthly basis under the PDS system. It also said that fair price shops are dedicated to PDS card-holders whereas non-PDS cardholders are directed to approach the 588 designated distribution centres, specifically set up for serving their needs all over Delhi.  Plea by DRRAA The High Court’s order came on a petition filed by Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan, which sought to ensure effective and time-bound redressal of complaints of non-supply of ration and the urgent need for transparency in the distribution of foodgrains through PDS.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/pds-helpline-numbers-a-disaster-that-needs-to-be-addressed-hc/article31699887.ece
29 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Millennium City reports highest COVID-19 jump||On Thursday, 68 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Gurugram, the highest single-day jump so far. The tally has breached the 400 mark to stand at 405 at present. As per the State health bulletin, the total number of active cases in Gurugram is now 209, which is more than one-third of the total 604 active cases in Haryana. A total of 123 cases were reported in Haryana on Thursday, taking the tally to 1,504. Death toll As many as 19 people have lost their lives to the deadly virus in Haryana, including three in Gurugram. However, Faridabad has recorded seven deaths, the highest in the State so far. Panchkula has no active case as on date. Meanwhile, Gurugram District Magistrate Amit Khatri issued notices to Paras Hospital and Park Hospital for not complying with the directions issued to the private hospitals and nursing homes to not refuse treatment to COVID-19 patients and those with critical illnesses. Both hospitals have been given a day’s time to respond as to why sanctions should not be imposed on them for failing to adhere to the guidelines. However, both the hospitals have refuted the said charges. “We are following all the ICMR guidelines regarding hospital admissions. We have not refused any cases till now which required medical attention. At Paras Hospital, we are committed to providing the best healthcare facilities to all our patients,” said the hospital management. Similarly, the spokesperson of Park Hospital claimed that they had not refused treatment to any COVID-19 patient. “We have 12-bed isolation rooms for COVID-19 patients and five ventilators as well. Five such patients are under treatment. We have been treating three-four suspected cases as well, and not refusing treatment to any COVID-19 patient,” said the spokesperson.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/millennium-city-reports-highest-covid-19-jump/article31699894.ece
29 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana to seal borders with Delhi, impose curbs||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Thursday issued fresh orders to seal and strictly impose restrictions on the movement of people bordering the State’s NCR districts with Delhi amid the COVID-19 lockdown. The Home Minister has issued the order in the wake of sudden spike in number of COVID-19 cases in (NCR) districts including Gurugram, Faridabad, Sonipat and Jhajjar in the past week, which reported 111, 98, 27 and six cases respectively. Mr. Vij has asked the State Home Secretary to completely seal the state borders with Delhi effectively and restrict unregulated movement of people. In the communication to the Home Secretary, it has been mentioned that on account of unregulated movement of people from Delhi, the number of cases are rising in the border districts of Haryana. Exemptions As per the direction, the borders should be sealed for all barring the categories which have been allowed to travel by the Delhi High Court and those who were exempted by the Ministry of Home Affairs during Lockdown 4.0.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/haryana-to-seal-borders-with-delhi-impose-curbs/article31699892.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Students of School of Open Learning vote against online examinations||According to a survey by students’ group KYS, about 84% of students belonging to Delhi University’s School of Open Learning voted against conducting online examinations, the group said on Thursday. Scores of students also participated in a day-long, at home ‘satyagraha’, it added. Out of about 10,000 students who participated in the “referendum” it organised, 84.4% said that they did not want exams to be conducted while about 70% said that they did not own functional computers or smartphones required for the exercise. Along the lines of other such surveys conducted by teachers and students’ bodies, the group reported that a majority of students said they did not have a suitable atmosphere to study at home. The group highlighted that the move would disproportionately affect SOL students as many are from poor backgrounds. Protesting the university’s decision, students under the banner of KYS held a day-long hunger strike demanding that the university withdraw its recent decision. Besides this, it called for the academic session to be extended, “as has been done in times of emergencies even before,” and called for the need for classroom teaching for a fixed period before conducting exams after consultations with students and teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/students-of-school-of-open-learning-vote-against-online-examinations/article31699904.ece
29 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||A section of media spread negativity, says JNU V-C||At a webinar held on Thursday on the “Role of Media During COVID-19”, Jawaharlal Nehru University Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar said that a section of media chose to only highlight “negativity instead of spreading positivity” to help people in their fight against the virus. Mr. Kumar said that with an increased recovery rate, low fatality rate and relief packages for the “poorest of the poor,” India had done “exceedingly well” in its fight against the virus. “We have developed our own unique way of fighting against COVID-19 with hope and commitment. However, there is a section of media which always plays on negativity whereas in situations such as these, we should be hopeful and spread positivity so that people can battle against the virus with courage,” Mr. Kumar said. “Be it international relations or poverty, [a section of] Indian and foreign media are always spreading negativity,” he added. Stating that a “fear psychosis” should not be created, Mr. Kumar said, “Imagine two different patients who are suffering from the same illness... in one case, the doctor says that the patient may die of the side effects of the medicine, but the second doctor says that there is hope and then starts the treatment. In one case, the patient is given hope and in other a fear psychosis is created in the patient’s mind.”  We have developed our own unique way of fighting against COVID-19... we should spread positivity so that people can battle against the virus with courage M. Jagadesh Kumar JNU Vice-Chancellor||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/a-section-of-media-spread-negativity-says-jnu-v-c/article31699890.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi University admission likely to start on June 8||Admissions to Delhi University’s courses may start on June 8, according to a tentative admissions schedule to be discussed at an academic committee meeting scheduled for Friday, sources said. The committee is set to deliberate on matters related to admissions at Delhi University for the academic session 2020-21 including the tentative schedule, bulletin of information containing eligibility criteria and changes to sports and extra curricular activity admissions. Tentative dates According to the tentative schedule, registration for admissions would begin on June 8, with the first cut of list expected to be released on August 14. The admissions are expected to go on till the second week of September. This includes admissions for merit as well as entrance-test based undergraduate and post-graduate courses. These dates are only tentative and have not been officially announced by the university. The academic committee is also expected to deliberate on any changes to be made to the selection criteria under the sports and extra curricular activities quotas. “In view of the challenges brought about by COVID-19, any change in the procedures for personal appearance of applicants for entrance examinations for ECA, sports and music as well as for verification of certificates shall be notified in due course. , ” a draft UG bulletin reads.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhi-university-admission-likely-to-start-on-june-8/article31699903.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Delhiites flouting norms driven by water woes’||The BJP Opposition alleged on Thursday that the people of Delhi have been stricken by water woes and forced to gather around private water tankers disregarding social distancing norms under the blazing sun. BJP New Delhi MP Meenakshi Lekhi, at a press conference here, exhibited videos of citizens crowding around water tankers as evidence of her claim, alleging that conditions had been such over the last 40 to 50 days. “There are many settlements in New Delhi where people should have got water for free but are not getting it and now people have to pay water tanker mafia around Rs. 10,000 per month to get water. There are many posh colonies in Delhi where there was never a shortage of water, but after the jal board diverted water pipeline, problem started there as well,” she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/delhiites-flouting-norms-driven-by-water-woes/article31699898.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||CAIT writes to Baijal on sanitisation of markets||Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Thursday wrote to L-G Anil Baijal, raising concerns about the lack of sanitation of markets and the “casual” attitude of the Delhi government towards battling the COVID-19 pandemic. “Even after 10 days of opening shops, no sanitisation operations have have commenced in any market of Delhi,” CAIT wrote, adding that heaps of garbage were getting collected at various markets here. Given the heavy footfall at Delhi’s markets and the rising number of COVID-19 cases here, such spots were vulnerable for the spread of the virus, it noted. The traders body appealed for the L-G’s intervention in the matter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cait-writes-to-baijal-on-sanitisation-of-markets/article31699901.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Nikhil- brief||On the occasion of Menstrual Hygiene Day, Women and Child Development Minister Rajendra Pal Gautam and Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) launched “Menstrual Hygiene Campaign”. Under this week-long campaign, the DCPCR will reach out to East and North-East districts of Delhi to distribute sanitary napkins to women and girls in slum clusters.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/nikhil-brief/article31699900.ece
29 May 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- Traders brief||Market associations have sought increased business timings in view of the heat during the next edition of the nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19. According to the Chamber of Trade and Industry, which represents several traders’ bodies in the Capital, as many as 100 representatives from such bodies had sought an extension in business hours since most customers were turning up close to the evening, given the worsening weather conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/jatin-traders-brief/article31699897.ece
