31 May 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. eases a slew of restrictions; malls, religious places to open||As Lockdown 4.0 comes to an end, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Saturday released new guidelines called ‘Unlock 1.0’ that allow the opening of malls, restaurants and religious places in all areas except the containment zones from June 8. It, however, prohibits the opening of bars, swimming pools gymnasiums, entertainment parks, cinema halls, metro rail and international air travel. Wide publicity The permit system for inter-State movement of vehicles has been removed and there shall be no restriction on movement within and outside a State. If the local administration has to regulate the movement in the wake of a surge in COVID-19 cases, it will have to give wide publicity in advance regarding the procedure and restrictions to be followed. The grading of areas as red, orange and green zones will no longer be in force after May 31, when the fourth phase of the lockdown imposed on March 24 ends. However, the State governments could identify buffer zones outside the containment zones and impose restrictions. On Saturday, the MHA issued the guidelines under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, for a “phased reopening” of areas outside the containment zones, which will be effective till June 30. The MHA said the lockdown shall continue to be implemented strictly in the containment zones that will be demarcated by the State governments. “Within the containment zones, strict perimeter control shall be maintained and only essential activities allowed.” “The current phase of reopening, Unlock 1, will have an economic focus,” an MHA statement said. All kinds of social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious congregations would remain suspended.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/govt-eases-a-slew-of-restrictions-malls-religious-places-to-open/article31713585.ece
31 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Seven AI staff among 58 new cases||Kerala reported 58 more COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the State’s total caseload to 1,208 cases. These include seven cases reported amongst employees of Air India (AI). Of the 58 new cases, 17 cases were people who had come from abroad and 31 cases were people who had returned from other States. A health-care worker was found SARS-CoV-2 positive in Palakkad district, while two others were found to have contracted the infection from known sources of infection. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the State is 624, all of whom are undergoing treatment across districts. Till date, 575 have recovered from the disease. The State has put 1,30,157 persons on surveillance and in quarantine, out of whom 1,28,953 are either in home or institutional quarantine and the rest , 1,204 with suspected symptoms, are admitted in various hospitals. The number of hospital admissions on Saturday was 243. The official release said that in the last 24 hours, the State has tested 3,206 samples. Of the 65,002 samples tested so far, 62,543 have been negative. Of the 12,255 sentinel surveillance samples tested so far, 11,232 samples have returned a negative result. New hotspots The State has designated five more areas in Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad districts as hotspots, taking the number of hotspots to 106.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/seven-ai-staff-among-58-new-cases/article31713875.ece
31 May 2020||HUBBALLI,||Workers ferried to Bengaluru, Belagavi||The district administrations in Dharwad and Gadag on Saturday made arrangements to ferry migrant workers to Bengaluru and Belagavi railway stations so as to enable them to catch trains to their native places. As many as 69 migrant workers from Jharkhand who were working in various hotels and sweet-making outlets in Hubballi-Dharwad left for Bengaluru to catch a Shramik Special train from the city on Saturday. The Dharwad district administration made arrangements for ferrying them to Bengaluru in three NWKRTC buses. Before the buses left for Bengaluru from the new bus station in Hubballi, the migrant workers were given breakfast along with masks and sanitisers. N.R. Purushottam, Joint Director of Social Welfare Department, said that they were sent in three buses so as to abide by social distancing norms. “In each bus, there was a nodal officer and they were provided lunch and water. These nodal officers will coordinate with the railway officials to help them [the labourers] board the Shramik Special to Jharkhand,” he said. Earlier, senior officials of NWKRTC and the Labour Department reviewed the arrangements. 38 workers from Gadag In Gadag, 38 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh, who were stranded in various taluks, were sent in two buses to the Belagavi railway station. Earlier at the Zilladalita Bhavan, a health check-up of the workers was done. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath emphasised the need for them to maintain social distancing and take precautionary measures. He asked them to immediately undergo medical tests in case they sense symptoms of COVID-19 on their return to their native places.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/workers-ferried-to-bengaluru-belagavi/article31713800.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||LAC standoff will be resolved through diplomacy: Rajnath||The standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China would be resolved through diplomatic dialogue and India’s effort was also to ensure that tensions did not rise further, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Saturday, in the first comments by a member of the Cabinet Committee on Security on the almost month-long standoff. “As of now, dialogue is on with China both at the military and diplomatic level,” Mr. Singh said in a television interview. India’s policy had been very clear that “we should have good relations with all neighbours.” Both India and China have resolved incidents that arose from time to time through dialogue and existing mechanisms, he said. Giving the example of the 73-day standoff at Doklam in 2017, he said India had held firm but the issue was eventually resolved through dialogue. Trump’s offer Asked about the U.S. President Donald Trump’s offer to mediate between India and China to resolve what he termed a “now raging border dispute”, Mr. Singh said that in a telephonic conversation with his U.S. counterpart Mark Esper on Friday he conveyed that the issue would be resolved bilaterally. “I told him [Mr. Esper] that India and China already had a mechanism that if there is any problem between the two countries, it is resolved by military and diplomatic dialogue. That mechanism is in place and the dialogue is on.” Both India and China had declined the U.S. offer of mediation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/lac-standoff-will-be-resolved-through-diplomacy-rajnath/article31713581.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||No need to panic over surge in cases: Kejriwal||The surging number of COVID-19 cases in the city is a matter of concern but there is no need to panic, said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal during a media briefing on Saturday. The Chief Minister reiterated that Delhi was “fully prepared” to deal with the novel coronavirus threat and his government was “four steps ahead” of the deadly virus. His statement came on a day when the total number of active cases in the city bre-ached the 10,000 mark and fresh cases saw the biggest single-day spike of 1,163. “I want to assure you that we are making arrangements way more than what is required... We cannot engage in a permanent lockdown. We have to learn to live with the virus and we have to arrange for everything required to treat it,” said Mr. Kejriwal. The two “major causes of worry” in terms of the pandemic, according to the Chief Minister, were the death toll and the adequacy of the city’s health infrastructure. More hospital beds He said 6,600 hospital beds are ready in Delhi and another 9,500 would be added by June 5. While 8,500 new cases were reported in the city in the last 15 days, only 500 people were admitted to hospitals. Most of the people were recovering under home isolation, said Mr. Kejriwal.  “Only 2,100 [hospital] beds are occupied and the rest 4,500 remain vacant. We are taking over hotels and oxygen concentrators and beds will be arranged there,” he said.   The Delhi government is also developing an app to guide the families of COVID-19 patients on where to take them for treatment. The app, said Mr. Kejriwal, will show the data of beds and ventilators available in Delhi hospitals. Those who don’t use smartphones can access this information on a website being developed for the purpose. People can also access the data on 1031 helpline.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/no-need-to-panic-over-surge-in-cases-kejriwal/article31713764.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||74 COVID-19 cases, 6 deaths in Telangana||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 2,499 as 74 more people tested positive for coronavirus from Friday evening to Saturday evening. Six more COVID-19 patients died, taking the toll to 77. Of the 74 new cases, 60 are among people from the State, nine migrants and five deportees. Out of the 60 ‘local cases’, 41 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), five from Rangareddy, three from Sangareddy, two each from Mahabubnagar and Jagtial, one each from Suryapet, Wanaparthy, Warangal Urban, Vikarabad, Medchal, Nagarkurnool and Nizamabad. According to details mentioned in the medical bulletin issued by the State Health Department, a 24-day-old pre-term baby boy and a three-month-old boy who suffered from cardiac disease are two among the six persons who died. The remaining four are a 62-year-old man with diabetes and hypertension, a 58-year-old man who had hypertension, a 52-year-old man with hypertension, and a 47-year-old man who earlier underwent cardiac surgery. From March 2 to May 30, a total of 2,499 cases have been recorded in the State. Of them, 1,010 are active cases, 1,412 were discharged, and 77 died. And 212 out of 458 deportees, who were airlifted, tested positive for coronavirus. Besides, over one lakh migrants have reached Telangana and around 82,313 were under home isolation. Officials said that at least 60% of them have come from Maharashtra. A large number of those who have come from Maharashtra have tested positive. Till date, 189 migrants were detected with the infectious disease. Hospital worker, medico A mess worker at Osmania General Hospital, and a Post Graduate student who is working at Modern Government Maternity Hospital, Petlaburj, have tested positive for coronavirus. Sources said that the the worker stopped working at the mess from March 23 and was serving in another wing of the hospital. He visited his village. After returning, he developed fever and tested positive. ‘30k tests done’ Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said that over 30,000 tests for coronavirus were conducted till May 30. People have been demanding number of tests to be mentioned in the medical bulletin. When the demands were taken to notice of Dr. Rao during a press conference held at State Health campus, Koti, on Saturday, he said that they will consider the demand. The senior official said that they are following Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines to conduct tests.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/74-covid-19-cases-6-deaths-in-telangana/article31713822.ece
31 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||SEC case: State to file SLP in SC||Advocate-General S. Sriram announced the State government’s decision to file a Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court in the case pertaining to A.P. Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Act (No.5 of 2020), which was struck down by the High Court on Friday to the effect of restoration of N. Ramesh Kumar as the SEC. The legality of Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s appointment as the SEC was itself doubtful, Mr. Sriram stated. The government sought the High Court’s permission to approach the Supreme Court and wanted the Friday’s verdict to be stayed till the matter was finally adjudicated by the apex court, he stated. Addressing the media, along with Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj and Rural Development) Gopal Krishna Dwivedi, on Saturday, Mr. Sriram said Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s communication to the Commission that he was restored as SEC was a declaration of self-restoration and it did not flow from the High Court judgment. He pointed out that the State government had not yet notified Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s restoration as the SEC upon the striking down of the impugned ordinance and the consequential GOs by the High Court. Since the HC did not give a time-frame for that, the government could take action in two months in compliance with its order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sec-case-state-to-file-slp-in-sc/article31713579.ece
31 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||TikTok traps Assam’s jewel thief||The urge to show off her possessions — jewellery and designer clothes —via TikTok videos led the Assam police to crack a case of theft. Nabajyoti Payeng of Suruj Nagar village in eastern Assam’s Jorhat district had a few days ago informed the local police that his maidservant Sumi Kalita was missing. Missing jewellery He also reported that gold ornaments belonging to his wife and son were missing as were other valuables, including designer clothes and watches. The Pulibor police station in Jorhat registered a case after Mr. Payeng’s wife, Pallabi Phukan Payeng, lodged an FIR. The Payengs did not have to wait long for the missing jewellery to be found. Their attention was drawn to some TikTok videos in which a woman displayed an array of ornaments and clothes that looked familiar. They also identified the woman as their missing maidservant. The Jorhat police traced the woman to Dhopabor village under the Ghanhigaon police outpost in Biswanath district across the Brahmaputra. But the woman in the video sporting the jewellery was Anamika Lahon and not Sumi Kalita, as she had told the Payengs.  Many aliases “She was caught late Friday (May 29) night and brought to the Gohpur police station. A police team from Jorhat is expected to take her away,” Biswanath district’s Superintendent of Police Rajen Singh told The Hindu . The police said Lahon had assumed many aliases. But the police eventually traced her as the daughter of one Bipul Lahon and wife of Manoj Bora, both of Bedati in Biswanath district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tiktok-traps-assams-jewel-thief/article31713583.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Panel for extending lockdown in 4 T.N. districts||The panel of public health and medical experts constituted by the Tamil Nadu government on Saturday suggested to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami not to give any relaxation to Chennai and three neighbouring districts from the COVID-19 lockdown. Addressing mediapersons, after their meeting with the Chief Minister, Prabhdeep Kaur, Scientist–E/Deputy Director, Indian Council of Medical Research–National Institute of Epidemiology, said the panel opposed giving any relaxation to Chennai, Kancheepuram, Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur districts. She said the panel was of the view that there could not be one rule for all of Tamil Nadu. Relaxations could be granted based on the situation prevailing in in the district, she said. Seventy per cent of the COVID-19 positive cases across the country were reported in 30 districts. More cases were reported in cities as they were more crowded, she said.  Since it was a new virus, its behaviour could not be understood completely, she said. Bed capacity Dr. Kaur pointed out that the case fatality rate (number of death in every 100 cases) was low in Tamil Nadu. The State had been increasing the bed capacity, which would help in managing high number of cases. However, there was a need to increase testing of samples. If people had any symptoms, they should approach doctors. Wearing of masks must be strictly complied with, , she added. Dr. P. Guhunantham, member of the panel, said as there were more cases in crowded areas, there was a need for awareness among people who lived there.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/panel-for-extending-lockdown-in-4-tn-districts/article31713677.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||India adds 8,520 cases, 207 deaths||India on Saturday registered the biggest single-day spike of 8,520 COVID-19 cases, which took the nationwide tally to 1,81,938 cases. The number of active cases stood at 90,005, while 86,752 people have recovered. The death toll rose to 5,181, with a surge of 207 fatalities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/india-adds-8520-cases-207-deaths/article31713574.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Heralding monsoon||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/heralding-monsoon/article31713576.ece
31 May 2020||GUNTUR,||My actions aimed at eradicating poverty: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has said all his actions are aimed at lifting people out of poverty. In a message to the people to mark the one-year rule of the YSRCP government, Mr. Jagan said he had derived ultimate happiness in taking the welfare schemes to the doorstep of the people. “During my political journey spanning 11 years, I have visited every village and covered every constituency. I have also seen the sufferings, travails of ordinary people, and hence decided to lift the people out of poverty,” he said in a personal note. Stating that ‘Navatatnalu’ had been designed as a manifesto, he said the welfare schemes were aimed at delivering the benefits to every section of society. “I have taken decisions aimed at protecting the interests of six crore people of the State, including the vast number of sisters and mothers. I am happy that I have fulfilled 90 per cent of promises,’’ said Mr. Jagan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/my-actions-aimed-at-eradicating-poverty-jagan/article31713578.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||938 test positive||As many as 938 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the overall tally of cases to 21,184*. However, the recovery rate continued to improve in the State with 687 persons discharged from hospitals.PAGE 2||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/938-test-positive/article31713672.ece
31 May 2020||Ranchi,||Chartered flight for 180 Jharkhand workers||Altogether 180 migrant workers reached Jharkhand from Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Saturday via a State-sponsored chartered flight. This comes a day after 60 stranded workers returned to the State from Leh by a service flight arranged by the Hemant Soren government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/chartered-flight-for-180-jharkhand-workers/article31713767.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||Norms issued for ‘better management’ of bodies||The Delhi government on Saturday issued directions for “better management” of bodies of COVID-19 positive or suspect persons, and fixed responsibility for their timely disposal on the heads of hospitals. The government also fixed time limits for various steps.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/norms-issued-for-better-management-of-bodies/article31713766.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Students to log in for classes from tomorrow||Many private schools in Karnataka have announced that online classes for the 2020-21 academic year will begin from Monday. Schools held parent-teacher meetings over the last week to inform parents of the list of dos and don’ts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/students-to-log-in-for-classes-from-tomorrow/article31713626.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Malls gear up to open shutters||Over two months and many requests later, shopping malls, hotels and restaurants will open their shutters after the MHA on Saturday included them in the first phase of reopening – ‘Unlock 1’ – from June 8. The Shopping Centres Association of India welcomed the move.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/malls-gear-up-to-open-shutters/article31713625.ece
31 May 2020||Yadgir,||18 cases reported in Yadgir district||As many as 18 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Yagdir district on Saturday. This puts the total number of cases at 241. Nine patients have been discharged after successful treatment while one has died. Yadgir, which was in the green zone just 17 days ago with no single positive cases, is now fourth in the State with regard to COVID-19 cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/18-cases-reported-in-yadgir-district/article31713801.ece
31 May 2020||DHARWAD,||Sunday lockdown order withdrawn||The Sunday lockdown order in Dharwad district is now withdrawn. According to an amended order issued on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad, people would be allowed to move about freely till 7 p.m. and all shops including liquor outlets too are allowed to operate.The State government on May 22 issued a notification imposing lockdown on two Sundays [May 24 and May 31], but on Saturday revoked that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/sunday-lockdown-order-withdrawn/article31713802.ece
31 May 2020||Chennai,||1,979 high-risk areas identified in Chennai||The Greater Chennai Corporation has identified 1,979 high-risk areas where people are vulnerable to COVID-19 infection. Street mapping of the areas will begin in all the 15 zones of the city in the first week of June. A few NGOs have started work on training workers for the door-to-door enquiries for mapping vulnerable people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/1979-high-risk-areas-identified-in-chennai/article31713674.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,||CM urges banks to help farmers, MSME sector||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday urged banks to extend loans primarily to farmers, the MSME sector and women self-help groups, as they were essential for reviving various businesses, which were in a critical position due to the lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/cm-urges-banks-to-help-farmers-msme-sector/article31713675.ece
31 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Seven Air India staff among 58 cases in Kerala||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana stood at 2,499 as 74 more people tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. Six more patients died taking the toll to 77. Of the 74 new cases, 60 were among people from the State, nine migrants and five deportees. Kerala reported 58 more COVID 19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the State’s total case load to 1,208 cases. These include seven cases reported among employees of Air India. Of the 58 new cases, while 17 are people who had come from abroad, 31 cases were found in people who had returned from other States. A healthcare worker was found COVID 19 positive in Palakkad district while two other persons were found to have contracted the infection from a known source of infection. The Health department said the tally included the positive test results of a 38-year-old man who had returned from Abu Dhabi and had died on Friday night while in quarantine. The total number of active COVID-19 cases in the State was 624, all of whom were undergoing treatment. Till date, 575 had recovered from the disease. The State had 1,30,157 persons on surveillance and quarantine, of whom 1,28,953 were on home or institutional quarantine and 1,204 with suspected symptoms were admitted to hospitals. There were 243 hospital admissions on Saturday. Andhra Pradesh reported 131 fresh cases in 24 hours until Saturday. Of the total, 70 were locals and 61 were migrant returnees, a Health Department bulletin said on Saturday. No deaths were reported. The overall tally was 3,461 and excluding cases pertaining to migrant returnees and foreign returnees the local cases were 2,944. The tally of foreign returnees remained 111 and all the patients were under treatment while cases of migrant returnees increased to 406. Again, 189 of them have recovered. Meanwhile, 55 persons recovered during the past day and the total recoveries rose to 2,281. There were 1,120 active cases and among local cases, 792 were active cases and 2,092 were discharged, putting the recovery rate at 71%. Bengaluru surges In Karnataka, after a relatively low number of COVID-19 cases reported over the past few days, 33 new cases were reported in Bengaluru Urban on Saturday. This was the highest among all districts, followed by Yadgir at 18. The total number of new cases on Saturday was 141, and the State tally 2,922. Bengaluru municipal authorities said 11 individuals who tested positive were primary contacts of patients. Of the 141 new cases reported on Saturday, 90 were inter-state passengers. Meanwhile, 103 patients were discharged across the State. With this, the total number of discharges stand at 997. With six more persons dying in Chennai on Friday and Saturday, the total number of COVID-19-related deaths across the State increased to 160. Among the deceased was a 37-year-old woman, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on May 27. Her sample returned positive for COVID-19 on May 28, and she died on the same day due to cardiopulmonary arrest.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/seven-air-india-staff-among-58-cases-in-kerala/article31713539.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||Skymet says monsoon is in; IMD waits||The southwest monsoon has arrived in Kerala ahead of its normal onset date of June 1, private agency Skymet Weather announced on Saturday, but the India Meteorological Department said conditions were not yet ripe for the start of the season on mainland India. Jatin Singh, chief executive officer, Skymet Weather, said all conditions such as rainfall, outwave longwave radiation (OLR) value and wind speed had been met to declare the onset over Kerala. Mrutunjay Mohapatra, Director-General, IMD, said conditions were still not right for the onset. Skymet had forecast that the monsoon would reach Kerala on May 28 with an error margin of two days. The IMD had announced June 5 as the onset date, though earlier this week, it said a cyclonic circulation in the Bay of Bengal would help advance the date and the rains could reach Kerala on June 1. “#JUSTIN Southwest #Monsoon2020 finally arrived on the mainland of India, #Monsoon arrived on Kerala before the actual onset date. All the onset conditions including rainfall, OLR value, wind speed, are met. Finally, the 4-month long festival begins for Indian. #HappyMonsoon (sic),” the private forecaster tweeted. Three parameters The IMD says there are three major conditions to declare the onset. The first is if after May 10, 60% of the 14 weather stations — Minicoy, Amini, Thiruvananthapuram, Punalur, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Kochi, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Thalassery, Kannur, Kudulu and Mangalore — report rainfall of 2.5 mm or more for two consecutive days, the onset over Kerala will be declared on the second day. The second is the depth of the westerlies should be maintained up to 600 hectopascals (hPa) and the third is the OLR should be below 200 watt per square metre (wm-2).||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/skymet-says-monsoon-is-in-imd-waits/article31713551.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||A year of bold decisions, says Nadda||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Saturday acknowledged that India faced the twin challenges of combating COVID-19 and the economic pain engendered by the long lockdown, and noted that the Union government’s prescription of self-reliance however, was not a return to the licence quota raj. Addressing a press conference on the first anniversary of the second successive term of the BJP-led government, he said, “The concept of aatmanirbharta or self-reliance expounded by Modi ji [Prime Minister Narendra Modi] is not about going back in time to the license quota raj or anything negative. It is about encouraging our industry and is a progressive policy.” The last one year “will be known for many bold decisions”, and the government’s timely actions to deal with coronavirus had ensured that the situation remained in control when many big and powerful countries found themselves “helpless”, he said. The Modi government had introduced a culture of change in governance, of “doing the right thing because it is right,“ and not procrastinate due to political expediency, he said. Mr. Nadda lambasted Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his criticism of the government’s handling of the COVID-19 situation. He said Mr. Gandhi’s understanding of these issues was limited and that his statements were not aimed at addressing the crisis but were about politics. “Rahul Gandhi doesn’t understand these issues deeply. His understanding and study of issues is limited. That is why he makes confusing remarks by sometimes questioning the lockdown and sometimes demanding why it was not being extended. His statements were for political ends and all about politics, and they have got nothing to do with addressing coronavirus issues.” Mr. Nadda recounted that BJP workers had been on the ground doing relief work during the entire lockdown. He noted that the COVID-19 testing in India had reached 1.6 lakh a day from 10,000 earlier, and the country was manufacturing over 4.5 lakh personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. Key decisions Mr. Nadda cited the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, annulment of Article 370, strengthening of laws against terror laws and those against crimes against children and bank mergers among the government’s key decisions. He said the COVID-19 situation would have an impact on elections campaigns. The BJP had been using technological tools to organise its activities. The Bihar Assembly election in October-November is the first major one to held soon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/a-year-of-bold-decisions-says-nadda/article31713544.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry highlights ‘Vande Bharat’||Highlighting India’s response to the coronavirus pandemic worldwide at the top of its list of “achievements” in the first year of the NDA government’s second term, the External Affairs Ministry on Saturday said India had played a “leading” role globally. A document released on Saturday comes a few weeks ahead of India’s election to the non-permanent seat at the UN Security Council for 2021-22. Equipment exports According to the list released by the Ministry, India supplied COVID-19 related medical supplies to 154 countries, deployed “rapid response teams” (RRTs) in different countries, and held more than 100 “virtual diplomatic meetings”. The achievements listed the government’s “Vande Bharat mission” for its “mammoth coordinating efforts” to bring home more than 40,000 Indians on 230 by commercial flights and naval ships. More than 3,00,000 Indians, who have been stranded in various parts of the world because of the travel restrictions imposed by the government as part of its lockdown, have registered with various Indian missions abroad to return home, and are expected to be flown home, at their own cost, on special flights in the next few months. “Corona-era Diplomacy [was]activated”, the MEA’s list said, referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video conference with leaders of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC), where a special COVID-19 Emergency fund was created. India had contributed $10 million to the fund. In a separate section on India’s “Neighbourhood First” policy, the MEA listed visits by leaders of Bhutan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Myanmar and Mauritius in the last year, and visits by Mr. Modi to Bhutan, Maldives and Sri Lanka. Rallies with Trump In terms of global diplomacy, the MEA listed the “elevation of ties with the U.S.”, including joint rallies by Mr. Modi and President Donald Trump in Houston and Ahmedabad, defence cooperation and space partnership with Russia, and the second Informal India-China Summit in Mamallapuram at the top. In June, the UN General Assembly will hold elections for the five non-permanent member seats in the Security Council for 2021-2022, where India is assured a place as the sole contender for the Asia-Pacific seat.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ministry-highlights-vande-bharat/article31713558.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Disappointment and diabolical pain: Cong.||Describing the second term of the Modi government as 0.2 for its reported “failures”, the Congress on Friday said its first anniversary was marked by “disappointment, disastrous management and diabolical pain”. The party also released a digital pamphlet, Helpless People, Heartless Government to highlight the government’s “policy failures”. In the presentation, the party came up with a set of “six myths” about what the government had promised and what it delivered. The party demanded that a virtual session of Parliament be convened immediately to discuss the pressing issues and the due process be set in motion to convene meetings of parliamentary committees. Be it demonetisation, GST or COVID lockdown, the Congress alleged that all decisions were “Modi-made disasters that results in human tragedy”. At an online press conference, Congress general secretary K.C. Venugopal and chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that the government had been at war with its own people. Referring to reports on 80 migrant workers losing their lives while travelling on Shramik Special trains, Mr. Surjewala demanded the resignation of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal. “It is inflicting wounds on Mother India ... This government is trying to fill the coffers of the select rich and is exploiting the poor and inflicting pain on them.” The two leaders said that while the people were feeling helpless, the government had turned out to be heartless. Responding to BJP president J.P. Nadda’s accusation that the Congress was indulging in politics, Mr. Venugopal said that far from indulging in politics, party leaders such as Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi were giving regular suggestions. “Being a responsible Opposition [party], it is our duty to raise the problems faced by the common people...,” he said. “When Pradhan Sewak becomes an autocratic emperor, the first casualty is democracy. As we pointed out, democracy is under attack by the Modi government which got elected through the democratic process. Subjugation of Parliament has become the norm. Sadly and tragically, the Indian Parliament has been sidestepped in the garb or guise of coronavirus or COVID-19 pandemic,” Mr. Surjewala said. He alleged that grassroots institutions such as panchayats, zilla parishads, municipal councils and corporations had virtually been non-functional and the subordinate judiciary had been non-functional for almost 60 days now.  “While the country has got poorer, the BJP has seen a dramatic rise in its fortunes. The BJP’s income increased from Rs. 970 crore in 2014-2015 to Rs. 2,410 crore in 2019-2020,” the party noted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/disappointment-and-diabolical-pain-cong/article31713541.ece
31 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||State to take up NBFCs’ demand with Centre||The State government will seek the Central government’s intervention to persuade commercial banks to invest in the bonds of Non-Banking Financial Companies (NBFCs) such as the State Financial Corporations (KFC) for offering a lifeline to mirco, small and medium enterprises (MSME) deeply impacted by COVID-19 crisis. The government move comes in the wake of the alleged lukewarm response from the banks to invest in the bonds of the KFC for raising Rs. 750 crore to provide loans to the MSMEs which have a significant presence in the State. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) had on April 17 decided to conduct Targeted Long-Term Repo Operations 2.0 for three years for Rs. 50,000 crore. Of the amount borrowed under this special window, the banks have to invest 10% in securities of microfinance institutions, 15% in bonds of the NBFCs with an asset size up to Rs. 500 crore and 25% in the bonds floated by the NBFCs with an asset size ranging between Rs. 500 crore and Rs. 5,000 crore. The KFC, with an asset size of Rs. 3,500 crore, falls in the second category of the NBFCs. As per the system, banks have to participate in the auction and secure funds. The first auction was conducted on April 23 for Rs. 25,000 crore at an interest rate of 4.4%. The response was far from encouraging and there were only 14 bids for Rs. 12,850 crore against the notified amount of Rs. 25,000 crore. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac told The Hindu that this cold-shouldering by the commercial banks could be construed as their reluctance to lend to small- and medium-sized NBFCs and micro-finance institutions. Banks have not even availed themselves of even one-fourth of the amount set for auction. Moreover, they have set interest rates ranging between 9% and 10% for taking loans.  Unviable rates Such interest rates are unviable for the KFC and similar NBFCs that offer financial support to small and medium traders and entrepreneurs at an affordable rate. This approach would only stymie the proposed aim of the stimulus package to address the liquidity crisis by enhancing the purchasing capacity of the people through banks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-to-take-up-nbfcs-demand-with-centre/article31713878.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India’s recovery rate improves to 47%||India’s COVID-19 recovery rate improved to 47.4% on Saturday from 38.29% on May 18. The Union Health Ministry stated that to scale up testing and enhance reach across the country, city/regional clusters have been established in a hub-and-spoke model. “Institutes and labs which have the capacity and expertise for both sample collection, handling/processing (BSL-2 facility) and testing (RT-PCR) serve as the hubs and they [will] involve a number of laboratories which have RT-PCR machines and the requisite manpower as their extended testing facilities,” a senior health official said. The Ministry added that the hubs are the government labs approved by the Ministries and so far 19 city/regional clusters had been established. These are in Delhi/NCR, Ahmedabad, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Banaras, Palampur among other areas. “Clusters on the other hand will now be scaled up in next four weeks to reach remote corners of the country,” the Ministry said. Meanwhile during the past 24 hours, a total of 11,264 COVID-19 patients have recovered, according to the Ministry. “This is the highest number of recovered patients recorded in a day. Thus, so far, a total of 82,369 patients have been cured of COVID-19. This has resulted in a recovery rate of 47.40% amongst COVID-19 patients, an increase of 4.51% in the recovery rate from the previous day’s recovery rate of 42.89%,” it said. India recorded 7,964 new COVID-19 cases — the highest so far— and 265 deaths in the last 24 hours. Total number of cases in the country now stands at 1,73,763 and 4,971 deaths. Data from State health departments put the total number of cases in the country at 1,76,840 with 87,362 active cases. The nationwide toll was 5,028. The country has seen a steady rise in the average number of cases per day over the last month. The average number of new cases per day for the six-day period of May 8-14 was 3, 675. This figure stands at 6,738 for the period May 22-28. The average number of deaths per day for the two periods is 116 and 164 respectively Doubling time which in the past 14 days was 13.3, has improved to 15.4 in the last three days. The fatality rate is 2.86%, added the Ministry. The Ministry added that cumulatively 36,12,242 tests have been done so far for COVID-19, whereas, 1,26,842 samples were tested on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/indias-recovery-rate-improves-to-47/article31713562.ece
31 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,||It is raining melodies every night on Facebook||It may not be among S. Janaki’s most anthologised songs, but she has not sung too many sweeter melodies than Avidunnen gaanam kelkkaan.  It is one of those gems created by the combination of lyricist P. Bhaskaran and composer M.S. Baburaj. Recently, K.S. Chithra sang that song from the 1967 film Pareeksha during a live show online. She sounded magical. That was just one of the several songs she rendered during her programme that lasted nearly an hour and a half. It has been viewed more than 3.4 lakh times thus far. That is only one of the several live shows being organised by the association of the playback singers of Malayalam cinema, SAMAM; the aim is to raise funds for struggling musicians whose woes have increased on account of the lockdown. The series features more than 60 singers over 60 days and is streamed live on the association’s Facebook page. It had begun on May 4 with a show by the association’s president, Sudeep Kumar, and will go on until July 2. “I don’t think there has ever been a series of music shows featuring so many professional singers anywhere and the response has been overwhelming,” Sudeep told The Hindu on the phone. “Many of our shows recorded more than one lakh views.” M.G. Sreekumar, Shwetha Mohan and Vijay Yesudas have been among the most popular performers thus far. Shwetha’s rendition of Aa nimishathinte nirvruthiyil...(Chandrakantham) , another Janaki classic, Vijay’s version of his father’s great Hindi song Teri tasveer ko...(Sawan Ko Aane Do) and Chithra’s recreation of her own classic Pularkaala sundara swapnathil...(Oru Mey Masa Pulariyil) have all been pleasing to the ear. And there is more to come. “We are trying to get P. Jayachandran to sing,” says Devanand, the association’s joint secretary. Sudeep says the programme has so far raised Rs. 12 lakh. You can watch the programme live at https://www.facebook.com/samamofficial from 8 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/it-is-raining-melodies-every-night-on-facebook/article31713523.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||RS says ‘no’ to joining virtual meeting of House panel||The Rajya Sabha Secretariat has denied permission for members of the Standing Committee on Home Affairs  to join a meeting of the panel through videoconference. The same was conveyed to committee chairperson and Congress leader Anand Sharma by the office of House Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu. The meeting, scheduled for June 3, is slated to discuss the “situation arising out of the lockdown due to the COVID-19 outbreak and its handling by the Ministry”. Mr. Sharma told The Hindu , “It is most unfortunate. If the Prime Minister of India can have summits with leader of other countries, with Chief Ministers via videoconference, if the Rajasthan Assembly could have a virtual session, then why not allow the Indian Parliamentarians to use it? After all we are supposed to be an IT [information Technology] super power.” DMK MP and former IT Minister Dayanidhi Maran, a member of the panel, has written a letter to Mr. Sharma expressing concern over members being asked to travel to Delhi to attend the meeting. “If I travel to Delhi, not only would I be exposing myself to the COVID-19 virus, but I would also be forced to enter into quarantine or isolation for a 14-day period on return to Chennai as per the current SOP, which would affect my parliamentary duties in my constituency,” he wrote. A call will be taken on Monday, after speaking to all the members, whether to hold a meeting as scheduled or not, Mr. Sharma said. Sources said both Houses were exploring the possibility of using videoconference. The rules dictated that parliamentary committee meetings were confidential. The reason videoconference meetings were not being allowed was because it violated the principle of confidentiality, as there was no guarantee of a member sitting alone at such events, the sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/rs-says-no-to-joining-virtual-meeting-of-house-panel/article31713546.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepali Congress backs Oli govt. in vote on new map||The government of Nepal on Saturday secured crucial support of the main opposition party, the Nepali Congress (NC) to grant constitutional status to the updated map of the country that claims the disputed territory of Kalapani. A leading figure of the NC confirmed that the party has decided to back the move of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli and help in passing the amendment next week. “Nepali Congress party today has decided to vote for constitution amendment regarding the new map,” said Dr. Minendra Rijal, a member of parliament, speaking to The Hindu on the phone from Kathmandu. Earlier reports had suggested that NC would support the government while urging it to resolve differences with India through diplomatic means. Several groups from among the Madhesi community of the Terai region, however, maintained that they were unlikely to support the amendment as it includes only the agenda of the revised map and does not address the issues relevant to people living in the plains of Nepal bordering Indian States of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. However, Madhesi opposition is unlikely to significantly alter the outcome as the Nepal Communist Party of Prime Minister Oli can get the amendment passed easily with the support of the NC, led by former Prime Minister Sher Bahadur Deuba. The map once constitutionally guaranteed will also figure in text books and other state symbols and official documents, currency notes. Experts said parliament’s stamp for the new map will alter the status quo from the Nepalese side and make a future solution difficult. Nepal has accused India of unilateral actions like building roads in the disputed Kalapani territory. Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali has urged India to withdraw troops from Kalapani-Lipulekh region and restore status quo.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/nepali-congress-backs-oli-govt-in-vote-on-new-map/article31713555.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Track COVID-19 exposure, ICMR tells States||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday advised the States to conduct sero-surveys to measure the coronavirus exposure in the population using IgG ELISA Test. As per the direction of the council, the coronavirus exposure in the general population as well as in high-risk populations would be measured and the outcome will help “decide the future course of action against the pandemic”. “The numbers and frequency in different groups to be tested has been entrusted with the States depending upon the requirement and situation in that particular area,” the note said. The sero-survey would be conducted using an IgG ELISA kit. Scientists at the ICMR-National Institute of Virology, Pune, have developed and validated an indigenous IgG ELISA test for antibody detection for SARS-CoV-2. The test has undergone intense validation in three stages and has been found to have high sensitivity and specificity. The ICMR said that it had offered to provide technical support to the States/ Union Territories, if required, in planning and carrying out sero-surveys using IgG Elisa test kits and also interpreting the results.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/track-covid-19-exposure-icmr-tells-states/article31713565.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||CSIR chief flays HCQ trial suspension||The head of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) — India’s largest chain of industrial laboratories — and two other scientists have castigated an influential study published in the Lancet , which purported to show hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), a prominent antimalarial, as being unhelpful and harmful to COVID-19 patients. The letter signed by Shekhar Mande, Director-General, CSIR; Anurag Agrawal, physician and Director, Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology — a CSIR institute — as well as Rajeeva Karandikar, Director, Chennai Mathematical Institute, says the World Health Organization’s decision to suspend trials of the drug was a “knee-jerk” reaction. “The observational data is sloppy, and the statistics underlying them is faulty. There is no doubt that it will not stand the test of time. You can’t compare apples with oranges,” Mr. Mande told The Hindu . The study, “Hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine with or without a macrolide for treatment of COVID-19: a multinational registry analysis” , was published online on May 22. It studied records from 96,032 patients hospitalised between December 20, 2019, and April 14, 2020, and sought to investigate whether COVID-19 positive patients on HCQ alone, HCQ combined with an antibiotic, choloroquine (CQ, an older version of HCQ), and CQ with an antibiotic, benefited over those who were on other treatments. ‘Benefit’ here was defined as either having improved in-hospital survival or less likely to suffer from irregular heartbeat, a side effect associated with HCQ. The study concluded that the drug regimens increased in-hospital death by 33-45% and increased frequency of ventricular arrhythmias by several degrees. On May 25, the WHO cited this study and said it had “temporarily suspended” clinical trials of hydroxychloriquine as a potential treatment for COVID-19. This trial was part of a so-called solidarity trial being overseen by the WHO where four drug combinations — all of them developed for other diseases but showing promise for COVID-19 treatment — were being tested at four hundred hospitals in 35 countries. France, Italy and Belgium have also halted HCQ trials. A WHO pause doesn’t stop a country — even India — from conducting any form of trial, Mr. Mande said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/csir-chief-flays-hcq-trial-suspension/article31713567.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Curfew relaxation triggers spike in primary contacts||Lockdown relaxation has led to enormous coronavirus infections in the city by increasing the number of primary contacts pertaining to each index case. Officials on condition of anonymity said that primary contacts, which were limited to family members in the cases before lockdown, are now extending to workplaces and other locations too. Further, family and community events such as birthday parties, engagements and funerals, are turning out to be the hotspots of infection. On an average, the number of primary contacts in each case have doubled and tripled post lockdown, making contact tracing by officials a herculean effort. Reluctance of patients to share information about the events they attended is also proving to be a major roadblock. “If the source of infection is traced, 90% of our job would be done. But several patients go into shock when they learn about their positive status, and do not reveal anything about the places they visited, making it extremely difficult for us to trace the contacts,” an official shared. Several positive cases from city and outside have the funeral of an aged person at Jiyaguda as their source. The range of infection from that event spread from Saroornagar to Shadnagar, officials say. Spike in cases post lockdown in Telangana is especially alarming in Amberpet and Musheerabad circles, where no single source could be pinpointed so far. The number of active cases hover around 75 in the Secunderabad zone, which constitute more than half the number of total cases here. Circles such as Begumpet, Malkajgiri and Secunderabad, where the number was brought down to zero during lockdown, have started registering fresh cases. “Cases have spiralled unimaginably during the past one week since lockdown was relaxed. They are diffuse, and cannot be traced to any single source. Several were of patients who frequented hospitals and clinics for various ailments,” said an official. Patients who approached hospitals with respiratory distress being tested for COVID-19 now. Large number of police personnel too have tested positive across the city. Though officials peg the number at 26, sources say the number could be higher. Added with their primary contacts, the number spiralled enormously. For instance, 12 family members of an ASI from Gowlipura tested positive after him. Eleven constables who tested positive were from Lal Darwaza area, and one was from Vivekanand Nagar. Six to seven policemen were from Amberpet and Musheerabad areas. Six to seven GHMC sanitation workers too have tested positive, along with family.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/curfew-relaxation-triggers-spike-in-primary-contacts/article31713832.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||Eight States, UTs yet to lift foodgrains||Eight States have so far not lifted any foodgrains allocated by the Centre under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat package, which aims to ensure free supply of foodgrains to all migrants who are not covered under the Food Security Act for the next two months. As part of the scheme, which targets around 8 crore migrant workers who do not have ration cards, the beneficiaries are supposed to get free supply of 5 kg of either rice or wheat and 1 kg of chana or pulses. Till Thursday, out of the 8 lakh metric tonne (LMT) allocated under the scheme only 2.06 LMT had been lifted by the State governments, as per the statistics available with the Ministry of Food and Public Distribution. Eight States and Union Territories have so far not lifted any foodgrains under the scheme: Delhi, Chandigarh, Assam, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and West Bengal. Another six States —Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Uttarakhand and Arunachal Pradesh— have picked up less than 40% of the foodgrains. The Centre has laid the onus of identification of the migrant workers and deciding the mechanism for allocating the foodgrains on the States. Speaking to reporters over a videoconference on Friday, Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan said, “We are not raising any ifs and buts, it is up to the States to come up with a policy and distribute the grains. By July 15, they should submit a list of beneficiaries whom these grains have been distributed to”. Separately, Delhi and West Bengal were yet to lift the foodgrains allocated for the month of May under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGAY), Mr. Paswan said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/eight-states-uts-yet-to-lift-foodgrains/article31713547.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka CM’s close relative gets key post||The Karnataka government on Saturday appointed N.R. Santosh as political secretary to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Mr. Santosh, former personal secretary to Mr. Yediyurappa, had played a key role in luring Congress and JD(S) MLAs and destabilising the coalition government in 2019. He is also a close relative of the Chief Minister. Once close to the Chief Minister and his family, Mr. Santosh had in recent times distanced himself from them. In fact, he was identified with the faction that is unhappy with Mr. Yediyurappa and has now raised a banner of revolt. Despite his denials, he was linked to two anonymous letters that questioned Mr. Yediyurappa’s leadership and that were widely circulated. The move to appoint him as Mr. Yediyurappa’s political secretary is seen as an effort to placate him. Mr. Santosh is the fourth political secretary to the Chief Minister. The other three political secretaries are M.P. Renukacharya, S.R. Vishwanath and Shankaragouda Patil.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/karnataka-cms-close-relative-gets-key-post/article31713520.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Free Varavara Rao immediately’||In the wake of arrested revolutionary poet Varavara Rao's admission to JJ Hospital, Mumbai, from Taloja Jail amidst varied news reports, his wife P. Hemalatha has requested the Central and State governments of Maharashtra and Telangana to enable the family members know the actual status of Mr. Rao’s health condition by arranging a video conference with him immediately. Ms. Hemalatha (72) in a statement signed by her and released here on Saturday said that they came to know through the local Chikkadapalli police around 8.30 p.m. on Friday that Mr. Rao’s health condition was precarious and he was moved to JJ Hospital. They informed the family members that they got that one sentence information from Pune police and did not have any further details. Later after three hours of gruelling anxiety and enquiries, she said that the family came to know that Mr. Rao fell unconscious on Thursday evening in jail, moved to hospital, and by Friday evening all vitals recorded normal. But then another news appeared that he was hospitalised in Taloja jail for three days and only then he had to be moved to JJ Hospital. “In these various news items, we do not know which contains how much truth and gives out the exact health condition. In the meanwhile, the statement by Telangana police officials that they will make arrangements for the family to visit Mumbai is much more worrying,” she said. Since the noted revolutionary poet took part in Telangana movement ever since 1969, as a worthy son of Telangana, it is the responsibility of Telangana government to take care of his health, well-being and security, she said. Ms. Hemalatha, who is not in good health and under severe stress for the last 12-14 hours and 18 months in general, said she was not in a position to travel. As a legal attempt to get permission for the family to meet him was being undertaken in Mumbai, if the court grants permission, her family members would go to Mumbai to visit him in hospital. It is enough if the government would give permission needed in the context of COVID-19 and the family would take care of its travel arrangements. She urged the Centre and Maharashtra and Telangana governments to release Mr. Rao immediately on bail as he had already undergone 18 months of incarceration on "fabricated charges and without any trial". If the news of falling unconscious is true, comprehensive medical examination should be initiated to find out the reasons. He had pre-existing health issues like piles, prostrate enlargement, coronary artery disease, oedema, hypertension, acidity, sinus/migraine and a thorough medical examination by a team of doctors to know on which of these reasons or any other new reason led to the present emergency has to be initiated immediately, she said. The NIA has been acting in a “particularly vindictive manner” against Mr. Rao and his co-accused. Deputy Home Minister G Kishan Reddy, who himself is a Telugu person, should take this responsibility, she said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/free-varavara-rao-immediately/article31713525.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Follow rescue protocol’||Principal Chief Conservator of Forests R. Shoba, through a video conference on Saturday, alerted the foresters across the State to the need to follow wildlife protocols while protecting wild animals. Rescue operations should be carried out without any harm to animals and keeping in view the safety of public and staff. Mock drills have been ordered by PCCF in all wildlife divisions to ensure protocol. Directions by the PCCF come on the heels of a botched-up rescue operation in Marriguda on May 28, in which a leopard died after being rescued by teams from the zoo and the Forest department.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/follow-rescue-protocol/article31713825.ece
31 May 2020||KOCHI,||HC asks police chief to probe 30-year-old case||The Kerala High Court has directed the State Police Chief to conduct an inquiry into the investigation and submission of the final report by the police in a case relating to seizure of counterfeit notes worth Rs. 75 lakh in 1990. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan, while disposing of the appeals filed by the accused, observed that the police officers had turned hostile in the case to save the accused during the trial. There was an unholy nexus between the police officers and the accused in this case. The court ordered that if any criminal offence was made out in the inquiry, a case should be registered and investigated. The court directed the DGP to file an action-taken report before the court in six months. The seizure took place 30 years ago. The then Circle Inspector, Hill Palace police station, had seized counterfeit currency notes and machinery used for printing notes from the accused persons. Two witnesses had deposed that the accused persons were present at the place from where the seizure was made. However, the investigating officer and other police officers later turned hostile. The court also observed that there was no explanation for the delay in submitting the final report.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hc-asks-police-chief-to-probe-30-year-old-case/article31713876.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM CARES not within the ambit of RTI Act: PMO||The Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has refused to disclose details on the creation and operation of the PM CARES Fund, telling an RTI applicant that the fund is “not a public authority” within the ambit of the RTI Act, 2005. The Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund accepts donations and provides relief during the COVID-19 pandemic, and other similar emergencies. Sri Harsha Kandukuri, a law student, filed an RTI request on April 1, asking the PMO to provide the Fund’s trust deed and all government orders, notifications and circulars relating to its creation and operation.  “PM CARES Fund is not a Public Authority under the ambit of Section 2(h) of the RTI Act, 2005. However, relevant information in respect of PM CARES Fund may be seen on the Website pmcares.gov.in,” the reply said.  Another RTI request on the issue, filed by activist Vikrant Togad, had also been refused in April citing a Supreme Court (SC) observation that “indiscriminate and impractical demands under RTI Act for disclosure of all and sundry information would be counterproductive”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/pm-cares-not-within-the-ambit-of-rti-act-pmo/article31713549.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC raps Telegram on Jagran e-paper row||The Delhi High Court on Saturday directed the messaging app Telegram to disclose the identity of users who are running channels on its platform to illegally share the e-paper version of the Dainik Jagran newspaper on a daily basis. The High Court also directed Telegram to take down the channels which were indulging in copyright infringement activities against Jagran Prakashan Ltd., the publishers of Dainik Jagran , within 48 hours. Jagran Prakashan had moved the High Court complaining that Telegram, a Dubai-based company, has allowed its users to create various channels without disclosing their identity. Some of the users, Jagran Prakshan said, have created channels on which e-papers of the Dainik Jagran are being uploaded in PDF format on a daily basis. It said Telegram with the help of these channels is not only permitting availability of current editions of the e-paper but also previous editions. Jagran Prakshan said this feature is available only to subscribers. It contended that Telegram through the channels was not only causing “serious financial loss” but also violating its trademark rights as well as copyright in the e-newspaper.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/delhi-hc-raps-telegram-on-jagran-e-paper-row/article31713560.ece
31 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala issues data security guidelines||The State government has issued a set of guidelines for the collection and processing of personal information in the wake of the Sprinklr controversy. The order issued by Chief Secretary Tom Jose on May 18 surfaced in the public domain only on Saturday. The directive seems to be of some political consequence for the Left Democratic Front government. Denies wrongdoing It had repeatedly denied any wrongdoing in engaging the U.S.-based data analytics firm and that it had contracted Sprinklr as an emergency measure to crunch the health data of citizens to understand how the pandemic would behave in Kerala. However, the Opposition United Democratic Front had dragged the government to the High Court accusing it of having used the outbreak as a cover to allow the firm to “harvest and monetise” the medical information of the State’s population. The government order seems to address some of the points raised by the High Court when it considered the Opposition’s plea. It insists that agencies and departments should collect sensitive personal data of citizens only with their legally recorded informed consent. Citizens should be informed about the purpose of the collection and how third parties might use the information. Aggregators should ensure that such data are anonymised and only sent in encrypted form to third parties, if at all. SDC factor Authorities should store the sensitive data of citizens in the State Data Centre (SDC) to the “extent possible”. (The Opposition had alleged that most of the data collected by health workers using a smartphone application provided by Sprinklr had gone irretrievably into the cloud servers maintained by the company in the U.S., far beyond Indian jurisdiction). The SDC should examine whether the software or analytic tools they sourced from third parties would compromise the security of the information stored in its repositories. The administration should store data only in cloud servers leased by the government with the approval of the Central government. The IT rules should inform collection, storage and analysis of sensitive data. The order also came against the backdrop of the plea filed by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the alleged scam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/kerala-issues-data-security-guidelines/article31713528.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Restrictions eased; malls, religious places to open||In Phase III, dates of their opening would be decided based on the assessment of the situations. Shramik Special trains and a limited number of domestic flights and trains would continue to run. “All activities that were prohibited earlier will be opened up in areas outside the containment zones in a phased manner with the stipulation of following Standard Operating Procedures to be prescribed by the Health Ministry,” said the statement. Religious places, hotels, restaurants and shopping malls would be permitted to open from June 8 and the Health Ministry would issue the SOPs. The decision to reopen schools and educational institutes will be taken in the second phase in July. Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla wrote a letter to all the Chief Secretaries on Saturday asking them to send feedback on consultation held with parents and other stakeholders so that a “timely decision” can be taken for opening of educational institutions. He said the new guidelines have been issued after suggestions were received from the States following a videoconference with the Cabinet Secretary on May 28. The State governments, based on assessments, may prohibit certain activities outside the containment zones or impose restrictions as deemed necessary. Persons above 65 years of age, those with comorbidities, pregnant women, and children below the age of 10 have been advised to stay at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes, the MHA said. The authorities have been advised to encourage the use of the Aarogya Setu app. Wearing of face masks and maintaining social distancing was compulsory at all public and workplaces. The National Directives for COVID-19 management had been reiterated and work from home as far as possible was advised. It prescribed staggered work hours, frequent sanitisation and social distancing at workplaces. The number of people in marriage functions cannot exceed 50 and for funerals and last rites the number had been capped at 20. Spitting in public places would be a punishable offence. Any kind of violation of lockdown measures would be punishable under the DM Act, 2005. The maximum containment zones are in 13 cities/regions — Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi / New Delhi, Ahmedabad, Thane, Pune, Hyderabad, Kolkata / Howrah, Indore, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Chengalpattu and Thiruvallur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/restrictions-eased-malls-religious-places-to-open/article31713536.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Standoff will be resolved through diplomacy’||Except for a few statements from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and one message from Army chief Gen. Manoj Naravane, the government had maintained silence on the ground situation. The MEA had said that the issues would be resolved according to five agreements on border management signed by India and China between 1993 and 2013. Mr. Singh did not respond to a direct question on whether Chinese troops crossed over into Indian territory. Instead he said there were differing perceptions on the alignment of the LAC due to which both sides patrolled across the LAC till their lines of perception. The country “should be assured that we will not allow India’s dignity to be hurt under any circumstances”, he said. The government has so far not said why the tense situation came about and why were the bilateral mechanisms activated other than the two acknowledged May 5 and 9 incidents which, the Army said, were locally resolved. Movement of troops However, sources said that beginning early May, Chinese troops moved inside Indian territory with vehicles and equipment at several points along the LAC, including Pangong Tso, several points in Galwan Nalah area and Demchok in eastern ladakh and Naku La in Sikkim, where PLA soldiers also blocked Indian patrols and pitched tents. In response, India, too, moved troops forward and also redeployed additional troops to the Ladakh region. Satellite images Satellite images put out by Open Source Intelligence handles on Twitter show construction and build-up by Chinese troops at several points both inside Indian held territory and also on their side close to the LAC. Images by open source intelligence expert detresfa, an analyst with ShadowBreak Intl, show Chinese units moving upwards from the base area at finger 4-5 of Pangong Tso. India holds up to Finger 4 area of the 135-km-long Pangong Tso but claims up to Finger 8 while China claims up to Finger 2. Similarly, images show large-scale activity by Chinese troops at Gogra and Hot Springs sectors too. Images dated May 22, put out by an analyst with the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, an independent think tank based in Canberra, show about 80 tents set up by Chinese soldiers along the Galwan river. They also show vehicles and other structures.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/standoff-will-be-resolved-through-diplomacy/article31713534.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two COVID-19 cases in CPWD office||Two officials of the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) headquarters at Nirman Bhawan tested positive for COVID-19. While a member of the clerical staff of the Additional Director General (ADG) tested positive on May 22, a PS of the ADG (HR) tested positive on Friday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/two-covid-19-cases-in-cpwd-office/article31713542.ece
31 May 2020||Kolkata,||BJP to offer homeopathic drug to Howrah residents||In West Bengal, where homeopathy enjoys a respectable status and where Assembly elections are due next year, the BJP in Howrah will distribute free of cost a homeopathic drug to boost immunity in the fight against COVID-19. On Saturday, a party worker went around the streets of Howrah in a battery-run rickshaw, announcing the free distribution of Arsenicum album 30 — the homeopathic drug — at the local party office on Sunday. The man could be heard announcing repeatedly in Bengali: “The drug is being sold in the market for Rs. 100, Rs. 150, Rs. 200. In fact, now it is not even available in stores. But we BJP workers, who have been trying hard to fight the pandemic, are going to give it you for free so that people in the neighbourhood stay fit and healthy.” He cautioned that the drug was not meant to treat COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bjp-to-offer-homeopathic-drug-to-howrah-residents/article31713553.ece
31 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Six dead in Assam floods||A person drowned in the Kampur area of Nagaon district of central Assam, taking the flood-related death toll in the State to six in less than a week even as more than 4,000 people went back home from relief camps on Saturday. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority said the floodwaters had been receding since May 28 with the number of affected districts down from 11 to six. The number of affected people also came down from 3.81 lakh to 3.72 lakh in a span of 24 hours with Goalpara in western Assam continuing to be the worst hit. Some 1.59 lakh people remained displaced in the district, followed by 1.07 lakh in Nagaon district and 94,445 in Hojai. “One person drowned in the Kampur area of Nagaon,” an ASDMA spokesperson said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/six-dead-in-assam-floods/article31713556.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bar Council slams former judge Lokur||The Bar Council of India (BCI) on Saturday said some former judges and senior advocates are in a conspiracy to weaken and browbeat the Supreme Court through a “sustained and synchronised attack” on the institution. The BCI, in a statement signed by its chairman Manan Kumar Mishra, names former Supreme Court judge, Justice Madan B. Lokur. “It is painful to see that only a few days after two advocates made unfair and unhealthy remarks against our apex court, Mr. Justice Madan Lokur also joined this bandwagon fully knowing that such idle talk lead to undermining the authority of judiciary as a whole,” the BCI said. Justice Lokur has been vocal about the court’s intervention in the migrant workers’ crisis.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/bar-council-slams-former-judge-lokur/article31713563.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Border vigil||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/border-vigil/article31713532.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Hydroxychloroquine tablets distributed SANGAREDDY||A police constable working in Hyderabad tested positive for coronavirus. He has been residing in the district headquarters. In this backdrop, Superintendent of Police S. Chandarasekhar Reddy distributed Hydroxychloroquine here on Saturday. He suggested use of the tablets for seven weeks with precautions. The police personnel were directed to take all precautions while meeting with the public. Staff were asked to for medical test at the government hospital if there was any complaint of fever and running nose.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/hydroxychloroquine-tablets-distributed-sangareddy/article31713826.ece
31 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,||Shramik Special brings hundreds from Mumbai to Nizamabad||A Shramik Special from Mumbai carrying nearly 1,700 passengers, including 482 migrant workers, belonging to Gadwal, Narayanpet, Jagtial, Karimnagar and other districts, arrived at the railway station here on Saturday amid tight security and special arrangements made by the district administration and railway department. Authorities of medical and health department and police personnel allowed them out of the railway station only after each passenger was thermal-screened and a quarantine stamp put on their hands. Sources said some of them showed symptoms of the virus. The administration arranged special buses to send them to their respective native places directly from railway station. Meanwhile, BJP cadres on behalf of MP D. Arvind distributed fruits, food packets, face masks and sanitisers to them. Thereafter, the train proceeded to Jagtial and Karimnagar. The railway station was sprayed with disinfectants before and after arrival of the train.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/shramik-special-brings-hundreds-from-mumbai-to-nizamabad/article31713627.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||sudoku||D D||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/sudoku/article31713552.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,||State govt. says no total lockdown today||The State government on Saturday announced that there will be no total lockdown on Sunday and all activities will be allowed between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. A curfew had been imposed last Sunday, which many doctors and virologists had said would help contain the spread of COVID-19. A similar curfew was expected to be followed every Sunday. However, a communique from the Chief Minister’s Office said that this decision was taken following “demand by the public.” All BMTC and KSRTC buses, private vehicles will be allowed on Sunday. Shops and establishments as well as markets can also remain open till 7 p.m. Around 3,500 buses are expected to run on Sunday, said officials of the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation and the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation. However, the regular curfew from 7 p.m. on Sunday till 7 a.m. on Monday will remain in effect, said Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar in an order. Hoteliers, however, are disappointed as they were hoping to be given permission to allow patrons to dine-in from June 1 onwards. Though the government had announced that all places of worship could welcome devotees from June 1, and had issued Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) on Saturday, now there is uncertainty as the Centre’s guidelines has indicated June 8 as the date for opening. The SOP calls for the premises to be sanitised and people to maintain physical distance and wear masks. All employees barring those who will be inside the sanctum sanctorum have to wear masks. Thermal scanning and hand santitisers are mandatory.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/state-govt-says-no-total-lockdown-today/article31713517.ece
31 May 2020||Hyderabad,||4 journalists test positive||A national news channel reporter and three cameramen tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. Sources said that on Friday afternoon, swabs were collected from 25 reporters and cameramen at Fever Hospital in Nallakunta, out of which four tested positive. All of them were given home quarantine. They were actively reporting on migrant workers and other issues during lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/4-journalists-test-positive/article31713830.ece
31 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||KSRTC insists on 50% fare hike to run inter-district||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has made it clear to the government that it will be able to operate inter-district services adhering to physical-distancing norms only if the bus fare is hiked. The KSRTC has suffered heavy loss while operating intra-district ordinary services even after the minimum fare was raised by 50% and the fare per subsequent km from 70 paise to Rs. 1.10 to offset the loss incurred due to COVID-19 protocols. “Normally, fast passengers ply on inter-district routes and their fare should be hiked by 50%. The minimum fare should go up from the present Rs. 11 to Rs. 17,” a top KSRTC official told The Hindu . The KSRTC has also demanded doubling of the deluxe service fare, based on the evaluation of ordinary services from May 20. “We are awaiting the reply of the government,” he said. Low occupancy The ordinary services that operated from 94 depots in the State had an occupancy of 10 to 20 on an average per bus. Officials said figures showed that for every 1 km there was only one passenger. The KSRTC, which used to ferry 28 lakh passengers daily, carried only three lakh passengers in intra-district services a day. The kilometres covered came down from 16.5 lakh to 3 lakh due to restrictions like night curfew, inter-district, and inter-State travel. “Our assumption that we will incur a loss of Rs. 11.65 per km by enforcing the physical-distancing norms has been proved right. The revenue from the ordinary services was sufficient only for purchasing high-speed diesel,” he said. On May 28, the KSRTC’s revenue from the fleet was Rs. 82,11,803 from 4,03,876 passengers, with earning per km coming to Rs. 26.86 and earning per bus, Rs. 4,722. The KSRTC had initially demanded that the fare be hiked in such a manner that it would earn Rs. 60.35 a km. But, the proposal was turned down. If the fare is not hiked by 50% for inter-district services, further crisis would result, the official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/ksrtc-insists-on-50-fare-hike-to-run-inter-district/article31713527.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,979 high risk areas identified||The Greater Chennai Corporation has identified 1,979 high risk areas where people are vulnerable to COVID-19 infection. Street mapping of the high risk areas will begin in all the 15 zones of the city in the first week of June. A few non-governmental organisations have started work on training workers for door-to-door enquiries for mapping vulnerable people. “The challenge is to connect the vulnerable residents with the sanitation inspectors of the Corporation. Most residents are unwilling to get help from civic workers during the pandemic. Some are scared of even giving samples for testing,” said an official. The civic body is now planning to intensify community intervention with the support of NGOs in such high risk areas. Rise in numbers With a rise in the number of Corporation employees testing positive for COVID-19, the work on containment has been affected in a few areas, the officials said. Some new employees recruited for the work had not joined duty, they pointed out. Lack of manpower resulted in poor coordination among various departments and zonal offices of the Corporation. As a result, there were complaints that many streets had been barricaded although they were not in containment zone. In many areas, the Corporation had sent NULM workers to create awareness among residents about COVID-19 cases in their streets after putting up barricades.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/1979-high-risk-areas-identified/article31713684.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai accounts for a majority of fresh cases||At 616, Chennai accounted for a majority of the 938 fresh cases reported in the State on Saturday. Among the new cases were 599 men, 338 women and a transperson. The total number of positive cases in Chennai stood at 13,980. The case count steadily increased in Chengalpattu district, where 94 more infections were reported. The recovery rate in the State is around 56%. As on date, a total of 12,000 people have been discharged from hospital after treatment, while the number of active cases stands at 9,021. With six more persons dying in Chennai on Friday and Saturday, the total number of COVID-19-related deaths across the State increased to 160. Among the deceased was a 37-year-old woman, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on May 27. Her sample returned positive for COVID-19 on May 28, and she died on the same day due to cardiopulmonary arrest, right lower lobe COVID pneumonia, hypoxic respiratory failure and acute encephalopathy. A 54-year-old man who was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, died on Friday due to COVID pneumonia, respiratory failure and acute respiratory distress syndrome. A 69-year-old man with diabetes, systemic hypertension, chronic kidney disease on maintenance haemodialysis and hepatitis C positive status, died at RGGGH on Saturday, due to factors including cardiopulmonary arrest, sepsis and septic shock. Returnees test positive Of the 938 fresh cases, 856 were reported from within 26 districts, while the remaining 82 were persons who had returned from other States and countries. Apart from Chennai and Chengalpattu, fresh cases were reported in Tiruvallur (28), Kancheepuram (22), Salem (23), Thoothukudi (15) and Madurai (10). There were 9 cases in Tiruvannamalai, five each in Cuddalore and Tiruchi, four each in Kanniyakumari and Tiruvarur, three each in Nagapattinam and Tirunelveli, two each in Kallakurichi, Thanjavur and Villupuram, and one each in Karur, Krishnagiri, Perambalur, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Tenkasi, Theni, Tirupattur and Virudhunagar. Among the 82 returnees, 46 were from Maharashtra and 12 from West Bengal. Three persons, who had returned from Kuwait, also tested positive for COVID-19. The trio had returned to Kanniyakumari district through Thiruvananthapuram airport. Five others, who had returned to T.N. from Chandigarh, Delhi, Gujarat and Karnataka by flights, tested positive. As per the airport surveillance data of domestic flights up to May 30, a total of 7,856 persons had returned to the State on 128 flights which arrived at the airports in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai and Tiruchi. Of them, 15 have tested positive so far. Of the 2,716 passengers who have returned to T.N. on international flights since May 9, as many as 89 have tested positive. As many as 195 of the 10,222 persons who have returned by train since May 14 have tested positive. Since May 19, a total of 47,811 persons have returned to the State by road in their own vehicles, and 24,877 by bus. As many as 1,176 of them have tested positive.  Samples tested A total of 12,605 samples were tested on Saturday, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 4,79,155. A private laboratory — Karpaga Vinayaga Institute of Medical Sciences, Chengalpattu — has been approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are 43 such laboratories in the government sector and 29 in the private sector. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)  As on date, a total of 12,000 people have been discharged from hospital after treatment||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/chennai-accounts-for-a-majority-of-fresh-cases/article31713713.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC rejects plea to cancel R.S. Bharathi’s interim bail||The Madras High Court on Saturday refused to cancel an interim bail granted by the Principal Sessions Court here on May 23 to Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam organising secretary R.S. Bharathi, also a Rajya Sabha member, in a case booked under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar rejected a plea by the Central Crime Branch, attached to Greater Chennai police, to cancel the interim bail granted till May 31 on the ground that the family members of the accused were doctors and hence, if he was lodged in prison, there was a possibility of the other inmates testing positive for COVID-19. The judge also allowed a direction petition filed by the MP and directed the Principal Sessions Court to consider grant of regular bail to him right on the day when he chooses to surrender before the court. The Sessions Court had on May 23 itself directed the accused to surrender before the court on June 1 without fail subject to orders passed by the High Court. When he was arrested and produced before the Sessions Court for being remanded to judicial custody on May 23, a battery of lawyers including senior counsel N.R. Elango, P. Wilson and advocate R. Girirajan claimed that the arrest was politically motivated. They pointed out that the direction petition related to surrender was pending in the High Court since May 21. Despite having taken notice in that petition, the police had deliberately transferred the First Information Report (FIR) from Teynampet police station to the CCB and arrested the sitting MP, they said. The court was also informed that the MP’s wife and son were attending ward duty at a Government General Hospital and therefore he himself was in home quarantine. Agreeing with the counsel, Principal Sessions Judge R. Selvakumar said the police appeared to have abused their power and arrested the accused by transferring the FIR behind his back after having taken an adjournment till May 27, before the High Court, in the direction petition. He, however, agreed with the prosecution that a prima facie case had been made out against the MP. Therefore, after remanding him to judicial custody till June 5, the Sessions Judge said: “The claim that the family members of the accused are doctors is undisputed. While so, in view of COVID-19 situation prevailing, there are possibilities of infection to the other inmates of the jail due to the admission of the present accused in the jail.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hc-rejects-plea-to-cancel-rs-bharathis-interim-bail/article31713691.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||We need to acquire immunity without leaving it entirely in nature’s hands: Kamal Haasan||In an effort to seek “action plans” and answers to “common man’s questions”, Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan will take part in a conversation with Kerala’s Health Minister K.K. Shailaja, popularly known as Shailaja Teacher, Ramanan Lakshminarayanan, founder and director of the Center for Disease Dynamics, Economics & Policy (CDDEP) in Washington, D.C., and psychiatrist Shalini on Sunday. The discussions will aim to cut through the misinformation being spread on social media about the COVID-19 pandemic, and will be streamed live on the MNM’s YouTube channel and through Mr. Haasan’s Instagram handle. In a telephonic conversation a day ahead of the dialogue, Mr. Haasan said he would be discussing the “new normal” in a post-COVID-19 society with the panel of experts. “There are two reasons why I am doing it,” he said, adding, “They (the experts) are qualified, and we are sort of being bombarded with gossip. We are, as they say, getting wisdom from WhatsApp University. I am not talking about WhatsApp itself, but its users, who are spreading all sorts of information. Most of the time, it is confusing and alarming. What we are trying to do is talk to the experts and look at the new normal after COVID-19. We want to discuss practical problems instead of waxing eloquent about theories, and look at action plans,” Mr. Haasan said. Lessons to learn He suggested that there were many lessons to be learnt. “There are going to be many phases (of the COVID-19 outbreak), and we have to acquire immunity without leaving it entirely in nature’s hands,” Mr. Haasan said, adding that the dialogue will be an effort to bring that wisdom into Tamil Nadu. Mr. Haasan pointed out how, in times like these, “citizens’ partnership and knowledge” were important to developing a basic know-how and coming up with suggestions on good and bad practices to ensure our well-being. Heaping praise on Kerala’s Health Minister, Mr. Haasan said she was one of the very few Ministers who seemed to know what she was talking about. “Being a science teacher, she has approached the issues scientifically and logically. The Kerala government has functioned autonomously [during the pandemic],” he said. When asked if he thought the Opposition parties had adequately performed their duties, the MNM leader suggested that the Opposition should also think about “how right we can be”. “In politics, I don’t like calling any one party the Opposition. It is all semantics and linguistics. You don’t have to be enemies, as people have given their votes to them (the Opposition parties) too. The Opposition should also think about how right we can be. That is what I am trying to do,” he said. In a similar vein, he said he did not like the term ‘lockdown’. “We borrowed the word from China, whose authoritarian government had used it. I prefer ‘stay at home’ or ‘home alone,’” he said. While admitting that the Tamil Nadu government was not ‘floundering’ in its response to COVID-19, unlike first-world countries like the United States of America, he said there were many areas where it could have done better.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/we-need-to-acquire-immunity-without-leaving-it-entirely-in-natures-hands-kamal-haasan/article31713707.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MTC asks maintenance staff to report for duty||The Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) has directed the workers of the maintenance department to report for duty, as over 1,700 buses, nearly half of its fleet, need fitness certificate. A senior official of the MTC said the utility runs 3,600 buses and during the lockdown around 300 buses were operated for government staff and essential services. The fitness certificate of 1,775 buses will expire in June. The buses have to be in good condition when renewal of their fitness certificates is sought from Regional Transport Offices (RTOs). The work involves repair, i changing engine oil, replacing worn out tyres and other maintenance work before giving a fresh coat of paint, he said. While the officials would have to work daily, the staff would work on alternate days. Wearing of masks and gloves has been made compulsory along with regular washing of hands and maintaining a minimum of 3 ft. physical distance in the office.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/mtc-asks-maintenance-staff-to-report-for-duty/article31713687.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Filming for TV projects with 60 persons on set to be allowed from today||Shooting for small-screen projects will be allowed with up to 60 persons on set from May 31, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced on Saturday. The decision was taken after the Film Employees’ Federation of South India (FEFSI) and stakeholders of the Tamil television industry submitted a representation to the Minister for Information and Broadcasting, Kadambur Raju, seeking the relaxation of the norms laid down earlier, which allowed only 20 persons on set. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said the makers of television projects which involve filming in Chennai will have to get prior permission from the Chennai Corporation Commissioner, and in the case of other districts, from the respective collectors. “They will need to obtain permission just once, before the entire duration of their shoot,” the statement read. All television actors and crew members have been asked to follow Central and State government norms for preventing the spread of COVID-19. FEFSI president R.K. Selvamani said a meeting is scheduled for Monday between members of FEFSI, Tamil television actors, crew members and representatives of TV channels. “We are going to discuss the safety measures which can be implemented on sets. Following our discussions, we expect filming of television shows to resume,” he said. Under the earlier guidelines, only indoor shoots were allowed, with only 20 cast and crew members on set. ‘Large number’ “While this recent announcement is a great boon to technicians and the industry, we need to take several precautions on set, since 60 is a large number. Shooting spots in Chennai, for instance, need to be chosen with care, and there needs to be infrastructure in place, such as sanitisers and disinfection tunnels for the cast and crew,” said Radikaa Sarathkumar, founder of Radaan Mediaworks. Ms. Radikaa said she expects more clarity to emerge on how to go about filming after the discussions with other stakeholders on Monday. “We are also awaiting information on a possible change in norms with regard to the lockdown. Based on these factors, we will plan and proceed with filming for our shows,” she added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/filming-for-tv-projects-with-60-persons-on-set-to-be-allowed-from-today/article31713704.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Locusts attack in T.N. unlikely: CM||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday assured that farmers need not be alarmed since the possibility of desert locusts attacking the State was remote. According to an official release, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami chaired a meeting with Ministers and officials to review the situation. Following reports, officials along with scientists from Tamil Nadu Agriculture University undertook a study only to find out that grasshoppers found in some parts of the State were not desert locusts, as it was originally feared. Though the chances of desert locusts attacking the State were remote, the Chief Minister instructed officials to undertake certain precautionary measures and to monitor the situation in various districts. “Farmers need not be alarmed over hoppers found in fields by mistaking them for desert locusts. However, if they are found, farmers could inform officials in agriculture and horticulture departments at once,” the Chief Minsiter said. Farmers could also take images of the pest and upload them on Uzhavan mobile app to consult with officials, he added. Meanwhile, Agriculture Principal Secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi said, “Based on reports that there were grasshopper attacks in Krishnagiri, Kanniyakumari, a team of experts from the Agriculture, Horticulture departments had visited the spots and confirmed that these are not desert locusts.” There are nearly 250 species of local grasshoppers, of which 40-50 serve some favourable purpose, said Mr. Bedi. The department was in touch with the neighbouring States and the Locust Warning Organization on a day-to-day basis. All districts have been asked to be prepared with tractor-mounted sprays and pesticides should the need arise. The government suggested biopesticide, and three other chemicals to be used by farmers, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/locust-attack-in-tn-unlikely-cm/article31713702.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Districts along Western Ghats may experience thunderstorms||Some districts along western ghats region in Tamil Nadu may experience thunderstorm for two days. A weather system over southeast Arabian sea would influence rain in the areas and also usher in the Southwest monsoon over Kerala around June 1, according to the Meteorological Department. While Skymet, a private weather forecasting agency, said that Southwest monsoon has arrived over Kerala two days ahead, the India Meteorological Department has maintained that the conditions are favourable for the onset of SW monsoon over Kerala around June 1. Speaking to The Hindu , Madhavan Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, said “The Southwest monsoon has not arrived yet over Kerala. The criterion for the onset of the monsoon has not been met. Otherwise, the IMD would have declared it by now.” He tweeted on Saturday that the news about monsoon onset over Kerala on social media was not correct. S.Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said a low pressure area is likely to form over southeast and adjoining east central Arabian sea by Monday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/thunderstorm-rain-likely-in-some-districts/article31713703.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Woman, son found dead||A 75-year-old woman and her 41-year-old son were found dead at their home in Ashok Nagar. The police identified the victims as Rajeshwari and her son Vikram. Those with suicidal tendency can call State’s health helpline 104 or 044-24640050 for counselling.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/woman-son-found-dead/article31713679.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police chief honours staff cured of COVID-19||Sixty personnel personnel of the Armed Reserve Police who returned to work after being cured of COVID-19 were given a warm reception on Saturday. Police band played music and welcomed the personnel at Rajarathinam stadium. Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan and other senior police officers greeted them and handed over to them certificates of appreciation. Over 320 personnel, including an Additional Commissioner of Police, two Deputy Commissioners of Police, tested positive for COVID-19. Of them, 120 had recovered and were discharged from hospitals. Mr. Viswanathan said, “In the city, 102 police personnel were cured of COVID-19 and have joined duty. As many as 123 personnel of the Armed Reserve Police had COVID-19. Of them, 62 rejoined duty here today.” “Always at the risk of getting infected, the police personnel, along with other front line medical staff and health workers of the Corporation, have been constantly working to ensure physical distancing and maintain law and order to prevent the spread of the pandemic. This kind of reception will boost the morale of our personnel besides giving hope to public,” he said. At the event, he handed over kabasura kudineer to police personnel. Senior officers, including Additional Commissioner of Police H.M. Jayaram, were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-chief-honours-staff-cured-of-covid-19/article31713681.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami urges banks to extend loans to farmers, MSMEs, SHGs||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday urged banks to extend loans, primarily to farmers, the MSME sector and women’s self-help groups (SHGs), as they were essential for reviving various businesses which were in a critical state due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Speaking at the State Level Bankers’ Committee meeting at the Secretariat, Mr. Palaniswami urged bankers to give their full-fledged support to the Tamil Nadu government to serve the people. Observing that the economy had been affected by the lockdown, and that the Centre and the State government had taken various steps, he said, “Loans are essential for various businesses during these critical times.” Farmers, the MSME sector and women’s self-help groups needed loans, he said. Since there was sufficient water in Mettur dam, kuruvai cultivation in the Delta region would continue, he said. “I urge you to extend loans to farmers since agriculture is essential to the country’s economy,” he said. Stating that the loans extended thus far to the MSME sector were inadequate, Mr. Palaniswami urged banks to provide more loans to MSMEs. The CM also exhorted the lenders to extend loans to women’s self-help groups. Mr. Palaniswami also released the ‘Annual Credit Plan — Tamil Nadu State 2020-21’, drafted by the State Level Bankers’ Committee, at the meeting. During his speech, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam said that most of the steps being taken for the benefit of the MSME sector depended on the banks. “Hence, banks should act promptly to improve the economy,” he said. Industries Minister M.C. Sampath, Rural Industries Minister P. Benjamin, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and other senior officials were present on the occasion.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/palaniswami-urges-banks-to-extend-loans-to-farmers-msmes-shgs/article31713710.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Controversy over amount of solatium for matron’s family||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday condoled the death of a matron of Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) in Chennai and announced a relief of Rs. 5 lakh to her family. However, the move sparked a controversy, since a Village Administrative Officer (VAO), who died in a road accident near Tiruchi while returning home after COVID-19 duty earlier this month, was considered a frontline worker and his family was given Rs. 50 lakh as solatium. The Chief Minister on April 22 announced that Rs. 50 lakh compensation would be granted to the families of frontline staff — police, sanitary workers, officials of the Revenue Department and government healthcare officials — should they die while on COVID-19 duty. Mr. Palaniswami confirmed that matron John Mary Priscilla was “involved in work related to fighting COVID-19 infection” in RGGGH and died on May 27. “I extend my condolences to the bereaved family members of Mrs. John Mary Priscilla, who died while at work.” “As a mark of recognition of Mrs. John Mary Priscilla’s selfless service and commitment in work related to COVID-19 infection, I have ordered for considering this a special case and grant solatium of Rs. 5 lakh from the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund,” Mr. Palaniswami said. “When the families of a police man and Village Administrative Officer were given Rs. 50 lakh as solatium after they died on COVID-19 duty, why is the government not doing the same for the matron’s family? The government should explain on what basis they have denied the same amount for her. She had retired on March 31, and her service was extended for duty during COVID-19 pandemic. Does it not make her eligible for the solatium? The government should give the family Rs. 50 lakh solatium as per the announcement,” a doctor said. When asked about the difference in the solatium for these two cases, Revenue Department officials pointed the finger at Health Department officials, who have been maintaining that the deceased matron was not on COVID-19 duty. However, the CM’s statement maintained that she was.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/controversy-over-amount-of-solatium-for-matrons-family/article31713714.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. will fix rates for COVID-19 treatment in pvt. hospitals: Minister||The government will, in the next few days, fix and announce the rates that could be charged by private hospitals for treating COVID-19 patients, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Saturday. The announcement followed allegations that some private hospitals were charging exorbitant rates. The Minister said the rates would be fixed based on the facilities available in the hospital. Interacting with the media after inaugurating a 1,400-bed facility for quarantining and treating COVID-19 patients with mild symptoms, he said this was the time for the private sector to be service-oriented. “I am appealing to private hospitals, while at the same time firmly telling them that they should not overcharge [patients],” he said. Testing costs He said that once the government announces the regulated fee structure, any complaints of overcharging would be taken seriously and necessary action initiated under the Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments (Regulation) Act.  Mr. Vijayabaskar said that the government was in talks with private laboratories to bring down the cost of COVID-19 tests to below the Indian Council of Medical Research-fixed rate of Rs. 4,500. He said that free tests were being done in government establishments for everyone, while private laboratories performed the tests for Rs. 2,500 for those covered under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS). He said the new 1,400-bed premises had oxygen facility, separate rooms for medical personnel, lifts and an ambulance service. “Though we still have beds available in hospitals and are scaling up our facilities there, places like these can provide a homely environment for the patients. Medical teams will decide who among the patients can be accommodated here, depending on their symptoms, age, comorbidities and other criteria,” he said.  The rates would be fixed based on the facilities available in the hospital||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/govt-will-fix-rates-for-covid-19-treatment-in-pvt-hospitals-minister/article31713715.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Containment zones in T.N. down by half||As the number of COVID-19 positive cases is concentrated in specific geographical locations, the number of containment zones has come down by half during the past week. Except for Tiruvannamalai, all other districts have reported a decrease in the number of containment zones. As on May 29, there were 568 containment zones across the State, against 1,143 such zones declared on May 22, according to an extraordinary government gazette issued on Saturday. Tiruvannamalai had 54 zones the week before last, but it has 63. A senior official told The Hindu : “There are fewer containment zones because the cases being reported are from a few specific areas. In other words, there are several cases from a few areas.” The number of containment zones in Chennai came down from 635 last week to 254 as on May 29, according to the gazette. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur districts have 91 and 33 zones, which were earlier 107 and 119 the week before. Kancheepuram had 35 earlier and has 18 now. Other districts with COVID-19 containment zones are: Cuddalore (20), Ariyalur (18), Kallakurichi (14), Tenkasi (nine), Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli with seven each, Thoothukudi (six), Madurai, Nagapattinam and Pudukkottai with four each, Kanniyakumari, Theni, Tirupattur and Virudhunagar with three each and Karur and Ranipet with two each. Though 30 districts had containment zones as on May 22, only 21 have them as on May 29. The list of containment zones is notified updated and published every week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/containment-zones-in-tn-down-by-half/article31713700.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK failed to protect OBC’s interests, says Dhinakaran||The Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) founder and R.K. Nagar legislator, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, on Saturday, criticised the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) for having failed to protect the interests of candidates belonging to Other Backward Castes (OBC) in respect of admission to medical courses under the all-India quota. Calling upon DMK president M.K. Stalin to find an “appropriate retribution” for not having ensured due representation of OBC students instead of getting an “empty resolution” adopted, Mr. Dhinakaran complained that since when the DMK was part of the Congress-led government in 2007, there had not been proper representation of OBC candidates. It did not bother about interests of the OBCs while in power. Now, it had acquired “concern” for them. The AMMK leader wanted the BJP-led government to correct the position and show as much interest in according a fair treatment to the OBC candidates as it did in respect of economically-weaker sections among the general category.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dmk-failed-to-protect-obcs-interests-says-dhinakaran/article31713692.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police net Rs. 8.84 cr. as fine||The total fine collected from those who defied prohibitory orders touched Rs. 8.84 crore as the lockdown entered 68th day. As on Saturday, there were 5,18,391 violations reported across the State. The violators have been booked for offences punishable under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the IPC and their vehicles are seized, and fines collected. Police said so far 5,53,543 violators were arrested and released and 4,33,101 vehicles were seized from them. An amount of Rs. 8,84,87,944 has been collected as fine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-net-rs-884-cr-as-fine/article31713678.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel gets more time to submit report||The expert panel constituted by the School Education Department to examine academic and teaching issues caused by the COVID-19 crisis has been granted another week’s time to submit its report. The group, headed by the Commissioner of School Education, had earlier been given 15 days to submit a report to the State government. A government order dated May 29 from School Education Secretary Dheeraj Kumar stated that the deadline had been extended by a week. Four members have been added to the expert group to facilitate broad-based participation — Ajeeth Prasath Jain, founder, Dr. APJ Education Consultancy, P.R. Velumani, chairman, Bharathi Vidyalaya Education Institution, C.S. Manoharan, president, CBSE Schools Management Association, and Sundaraparipooranan Pakshirajan, former member, Tamil Nadu State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights. These members will join the group, which includes the Directors of School Education, State Council of Education Research and Training (SCERT), elementary education, matriculation school and government examinations, representatives from Samagra Shiksha, Kalvi TV, Parents Association (PTA), Unicef, TNeGA and IIT Madras. The expert group aims to identify gaps in teaching and learning as well as examine how they can make up for the loss of time caused due to the lockdown. They are also expected to work on formulating an action plan by integrating and leveraging technology and online facilities to ensure uninterrupted learning and quality education.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/expert-panel-gets-more-time-to-submit-report/article31713689.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancel NEET: Ramadoss||PMK founder Dr. S. Ramadoss on Saturday demanded that National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for MBBS courses scheduled on July 26 be cancelled considering the increasing number of COVID-10 cases across India.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cancel-neet-ramadoss/article31713979.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senior IPS officer made State Intel chief||Senior IPS officer C. Easwaramoorthy will hold full additional charge as Additional Director General of Police, Intelligence. Incumbent Inspector General of Police, Intelligence, K.N. Sathiyamurthy, is retiring on superannuation.  Mr. Easwaramoorthy has served in State intelligence divisions for long. He was also SP and DIG in the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) from 2007 to 2012. He was DIG (Internal Security) from 2012 to 2016 and was later promoted as IG, Internal Security, in December, 2016. In June, 2019, he was posted as IG/ Additional Commissioner of Police, Central Crime Branch. Last May, he was given additional charge of the post of IG, Internal Security.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/senior-ips-officer-made-state-intel-chief/article31713694.ece
31 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Two migrant workers end life||A man and woman from West Bengal were found dead in their house in Selaiyur on Saturday. The man appeared to be around 30 years of age, while the woman appeared to be in her 20s, police said. Enquiries revealed that the two moved to Chennai in search of work earlier this year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-migrant-workers-end-life/article31713701.ece
31 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ticket booking for passenger trains resumes at Coimbatore Junction||Ticket booking for two passenger special trains, set to run from Coimbatore Junction starting June 1, resumed at the passenger reservation system (PRS) counters at the Coimbatore Railway Station on Saturday. Only three out of the five counters were opened at 4 p.m. to avoid crowding as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures. M.A. Saravanan, a resident of R.S. Puram, said that he booked ticket for Train No. 02083 Coimbatore –Mayiladuthurai Janshatabdi special train for June 3. “I am yet to apply for the e-pass,” he said. A railway official said that only 36 applications for 72 passengers were received at the PRS counters. While 53 tickets were booked for Janshatabdi special train, only 19 tickets were booked for Train No. 02680 Coimbatore- Katpadi Intercity Superfast special train. “Most passengers go for online booking, which is what we insist,” he said. Booking through the Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) will allow easy cancellation of tickets, help in verifying the particulars of passengers and will avoid crowding at the counters, the official said. Although tickets are provided to passengers without e-pass, they are advised to have the e-pass ready before booking the tickets either online or at the counters. The Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai Janshatabdi train will run on all days except Tuesdays and will have stoppages at Tiruppur, Erode, Karur, Tiruchirappalli, Thanjavur and Kumbakonam. Coimbatore- Katpadi Intercity Superfast special will be a daily train with stoppages at Tiruppur, Erode, Salem and Jolarpettai. The ticket reservation counters at the Coimbatore Railway Station will remain open from 8 a.m to 8 p.m from Monday to Saturday and from 8 a.m to 2 p.m on Sundays.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/ticket-booking-for-passenger-trains-resumes-at-coimbatore-junction/article31713739.ece
31 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SRIOR launches free oral cancer screening bus||Sri Ramakrishna Institute of Oncology and Research (SRIOR) launched a free oral cancer screening bus on Saturday on the eve of World No Tobacco Day, which is observed on Sunday. D. Lakshminarayanaswamy, Managing Trustee of SNR Sons Charitable Trust, flagged off the bus on the hospital premises. He also released awareness videos in Tamil and English on the Institute’s Youtube channel on the effects of COVID-19 on smokers’ lungs. A release issued by the hospital said that the mobile oral cancer screening unit was equipped with all dental equipment, a dentist team, counsellors and para medical professionals. The bus would be taken to schools, colleges, and factories in and around Coimbatore region and adjoining districts for free screening, thereby targeting the young generation who were most vulnerable and the best targets for tobacco industry, said the release. The medical team would screen people for general oral health, oral cancer and pre-cancerous lesions. The team would also educate people on the ill-effects of tobacco and in case someone needed help to quit tobacco, it would offer a nicotine replacement therapy free of cost. For children and adolescents, audio visual presentation would be played in the bus to educate them about the ill-effects of tobacco. “On this year’s World No Tobacco Day, WHO is launching a counter-marketing campaign in response to the tobacco and related industries’ systematic, aggressive and sustained tactics to hook a new generation of users. The global campaign will debunk myths and expose devious tactics employed by these industries,” said SRIOR director P. Guhan. Institutions and industries can contact the front desk of SRIOR and ask for tobacco counsellor at 95007-22667 from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday to Friday, except government holidays. R. Sundar, Joint Managing Trustee SNR Sons Charitable Trust, Swathy Rohit, Chief Operating Officer, C.V. Ramkumar, Chief Executive Officer, P. Sukumaran, Dean, Sri Ramakrishna hospital and K. Karthikesh, Chief surgical oncologist at SRIOR, were present at the launch event.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/srior-launches-free-oral-cancer-screening-bus/article31713722.ece
31 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||6 air passengers, including 4 from Coimbatore district, test positive||Six persons who reached Coimbatore by flights from Delhi and Bengaluru on Friday have tested positive for COVID-19, according to Health Department sources. Four persons of them are from Coimbatore district and were admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. Earlier, two more Coimbatore natives who returned from Chennai, a 24-year-old man who landed here on May 25 and a 34-year-old woman who landed here on May 27, had also tested positive for the disease a day after their arrival. However, the six persons who landed on Friday were not included in Coimbatore District’s tally of positive cases, which remains at 146 from May 3. Three of the six persons are transgenders who came from Delhi. While two of them are from Coimbatore and Pollachi, the third person belongs to Theni and has been shifted to a hospital there. The other three who came from Bengaluru included a man and a woman from Coimbatore and a man from Salem who was shifted to a hospital in his home district. Other than the six air passengers from Coimbatore district who landed on May 25, May 27 and on May 29, a man who recently came from Chennai by road, a driver by profession, also tested positive for COVID-19. While five air passengers and the driver were admitted to the ESI Hospital, the 34-year-old woman was admitted to a private hospital, Health Department sources said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/6-air-passengers-including-4-from-coimbatore-district-test-positive/article31713728.ece
31 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for robbery||Three persons who trespassed into a house at Vadavalli and robbed two persons of their valuables on May 22 were arrested. The arrested were Satham Hussain (29), who runs a fish stall at Kuniyamuthur, M. Sathya (29) from Gandhi Nagar near Edayarpalayam, and G. Sudheesh (29) from Kanjikode in Palakkad. Police said that Sathya went to the house of K. Shanthi (51) at Kamadenu Nagar near Vadavalli on the pretext of borrowing Rs. 10,000 to buy a second-hand two-wheeler. K. Pradeepkumar (37), an auto consultant, joined them. After he entered the house, five men wearing masks trespassed into the house and took away 12.5 sovereign of jewellery, Rs. 8,500 cash and mobile phones. The accused also forced Sathya and Pradeepkumar to pose for photos. During investigation, police found that the men committed the robbery following the direction of Sathya.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-arrested-for-robbery/article31713746.ece
31 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||324 recruits attested into MRC||A total of 324 recruits were attested into the Madras Regiment of Indian Army at the Attestation Parade held at Shrinagesh Barracks of the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington in the Nilgiris district on Saturday. In a release, the MRC said that the recruits, who underwent 46 weeks of training, marched past the enclosed drill square, wearing olive green uniforms during the parade. Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh, Commandant, MRC, reviewed the parade. Brigadier Singh congratulated the recruits and commended the efforts of the instructors and staff at MRC, who managed to train the recruits amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The parents of the recruits were not present in the audience to witness the parade due to the lockdown restrictions, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/324-recruits-attested-into-mrc/article31713718.ece
31 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dead hare’s video lands trio in trouble||The Forest Department booked three persons on Saturday and imposed a fine of Rs. 7000 each after a Tik Tok video of one of them holding the carcass of a black-naped hare ( Lepus nigricollis ) and three native hounds jumping for it at a coconut grove went viral. Forest officials first nabbed Karthee (18) of Mettuvavi near Coimbatore, who was seen in the video. He said two more persons -- Kumar (23) and Thamizhvaanan (20) of Mettuvavi -- were also involved in the incident. The hare died when it was hit by an autorickshaw they travelled by recently.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/dead-hares-video-lands-trio-in-trouble/article31713719.ece
31 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for Facebook post against PM, CM||The Rathinapuri police arrested a man for making derogatory remarks against the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister in social media. Police said Sikkandar Basha (41), a member of Social Democratic Party of India, was arrested on Friday. He had posted derogatory remarks on the Facebook page ‘Agni Paravai’, accusing the leaders of supporting the citizenship laws. He was held based on a complaint filed by S. R. Kumaresan, district organiser of Bharat Sena.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/man-held-for-facebook-post-against-pm-cm/article31713745.ece
31 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||18 direct procurement centres to be opened in Erode||The district administration has proposed to open 18 direct procurement centres through Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation in June, as paddy harvesting begins in Erode. According to Agriculture Department officials, paddy crop cultivated on about 70,000 acre in the district for the current season is ready for harvesting. Water was released from the Bhavani Sagar Reservoir and the farmlands were irrigated through Kalingarayan Canal, Thadapalli – Arakankottai Canals and Lower Bhavani Project canal. Farmers were educated on selection of quality seeds, mechanised planting of saplings, fertilizer usage, weed management and insect control measures. Harvesting using machines has commenced in Gobichettipalayam and Erode blocks and farmers were encouraged to sell their produce at the centres for which minimum support price was announced. Collector C. Kathiravan said that Grade A variety paddy is procured for minimum support price of Rs. 1,905 a quintal and the common variety is purchased for Rs. 1,865 a quintal. Villages where centres would function from June 1 are Kanjikovil and Pethampalayam, from June 5 – Gugalur, Nanjagoundampalayam, Puduvalliyampalayam, Pudukaraipudur, Karattipalayam, Mevani, Kasipalayam, T.N. Palayam, Elur, Kallipatti, Athani (Soundapur), Nanjai Puliyampatti, Ponnachipudur and Vairapalayam and on June 8 at Ganapathipalayam and June 10 at Kodumudi.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/18-direct-procurement-centres-to-be-opened-in-erode/article31713736.ece
31 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers urge officials to send them home||Urging officials to send them home in special trains, over 300 migrant workers with tokens for train tickets came to a private marriage hall here on Saturday. Shramik trains are operated to enable migrant workers in the district return home. Over 17,000 workers have registered with the district administration wanting to return home. So far, over 4,500 workers were sent home in trains that departed from Erode Railway Junction and also from stations in the nearby districts. Registered workers were issued tokens and were allowed to assemble at private marriage halls where medical screening is done and food provided to them. On Saturday, workers along with their children and luggage came to the hall and urged authorities to send them home. Town Deputy Superintendent of Police Raju and revenue officials held talks with the workers who were assisted by police personnel in translating to Hindi. Officials told them that no special trains were operated on Saturday and clarified that workers would be informed of the date of departure of trains so that they could be present on the particular day. Workers were asked to return to their earlier place of stay after which they left.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-urge-officials-to-send-them-home/article31713723.ece
31 May 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||9,700 swab samples tested so far in Erode district||A total of 9,700 swab samples were tested so far in the district that had recently reported two active COVID-19 positive cases. New Delhi returnees After two Thailand nationals, admitted to the isolation ward at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital, at Perundurai, tested positive on March 21, persons in direct contact with them, persons returned from New Delhi and their family members were quarantined. A total of 3,250 swab samples were taken till April 27 in which 70 positive cases were reported in the district of which one person died while 69 others recovered and were discharged. The district was without active positive case from April 28 and moved to green zone. However, a 50-year-old-man from Kavundapadi and a 35-year-old woman from Chennai tested positive this week taking the number of cases in the district to 72. Another 40-year-old man from Maharashtra, who tested positive, is yet to be included in the district tally. Deputy Director of Health Services S. Soundammal told The Hindu that a total of 9,700 swab samples were taken after the outbreak of the virus in the district in the second week of March. She added that samples continue to be lifted from persons with symptoms and are tested at Perundurai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/9700-swab-samples-tested-so-far-in-erode-district/article31713725.ece
31 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Board exam results in July’||The results of the Class X and XII board examinations will be declared in July, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan has said. Addressing the media, he said the evaluation of the Class XII answer scripts had begun, and arrangements were being made to conduct the Class X exams. “Results will be declared in July,” he said, adding that the reopening of schools was “not possible in the current situation”. When asked whether any decision had been taken on reducing the curriculum load for students, Mr. Sengottaiyan said a 16-member high-level committee had been formed to look into the issue and submit a report to the School Education Department. “Once we receive the report, a decision would be taken in consultation with the Chief Minister,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/board-exam-results-in-july/article31713705.ece
31 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance works in the electric lines, there will be no power supply in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on June 1, Monday .  Arachalur and Kasturba village sub-station: Arachalur, Thachankattu Valasu, Vadugapatti Pudur, Mettur, Velankuttai, Chinnakinaru Palayam, Sillankattu Pudur, Kasturba Village, Vadapalani, Odanilai, Kandasamipalayam, Senathipalayam, Alagu Goundan Valasu, Kumarapalayam, Nachivalasu, Thandampalayam, Pooma Goundan Valasu.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/power-shutdown/article31713724.ece
31 May 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Agri Dept. dismisses locust scare||A locust scare in a village in Shoolagiri was put to rest after they were found to be weed-eating grasshoppers and not the desert locusts that have invaded parts of north India. The Agriculture Department officials have been directed to spray chemicals in the blocks where they are reported. Late Friday, grasshoppers with greenish dots on the exterior were found on Calotropis Giganea, commonly known as milkweed in Neralagiri village in Shoolagiri, triggering a scare. The grasshoppers, though a few in number, were padded to the milkweed that had proliferated in the village. These were seen feeding on the milkweed plants. Many were seen in the adjacent plantains too. Following this, a team from the Agriculture Department, led by the Joint Director K. Rajashekar, inspected Neralagiri village on Saturday. Mr. Rajashekar told The Hindu that the grasshoppers were greenish with dots camouflaging with the weed. They were feeding only on the weed, and were seen resting in the plantain. There was an adjacent cabbage field that was untouched by the grasshoppers indicating they are not locusts. Besides, when the weeds were sprayed with chemicals, the grasshoppers had dropped dead, he said. According to him, grasshoppers are sighted during summer and it was not a cause for worry. Earlier, Krishnagiri Collector S. Prabhakar visited the village, and inspected the spraying of the chemicals. He had directed the department officials to coordinate with the block development officers and ensure spraying. The locals of Neralagiri heaved a sigh of relief after it was clarified by the administration that they were grasshoppers and not locusts.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/agri-dept-dismisses-locust-scare/article31713742.ece
31 May 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers leave for native States||A total of 664 migrant workers, who worked in different districts, left for their native States by a Shramik special train from Karur on Saturday. Of them, 355 workers were from Karur, 225 from Madurai, 22 from Perambalur, 16 from Ariyalur and 46 from Dindigul. Collector T. Anbalagan saw them off at the Karur Railway Junction. The workers belonged to Utter Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Assam and other States. Earlier, the workers were transported to Karur by special buses from Madurai, Perambalur, Ariyalur and Dindigul for beginning their journey to natives. They were given food packets and water bottles. Mr. Anbalagan said that 7,779 workers from different States were working in Karur district. Of them, 2,663 migrant workers had expressed their willingness to return back to their natives. They were being sent in batches. Tiruchi Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu said that 7710 migrants had so far been sent to their native States from Tiruchi. They were sent in batches. Of them, 328 workers had left for their natives by a special train from Tiruchi on Wednesday. Similarly, 2580 persons had so far come to Tiruchi by trains and flights. While 470 persons belonged to Tiruchi district, remaining 2110 persons were from other districts of the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/migrant-workers-leave-for-native-states/article31713966.ece
31 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two pairs of special daytime trains to be operated||Southern Railway will operate the following special trains from Monday: Train No.02636 Madurai- Villupuram Intercity superfast special will leave Madurai at 7 a.m. It would leave Dindigul at 8 a..m., Tiruchi at 9.15 a.m., Ariyalur at 10.10 a.m. and reach Villupuram at 12.05 p.m. In the return direction, train No.02635 will leave Villupuram at 4 p.m., Ariyalur at 5.25 p.m., Tiruchi at 6.40 p.m., Dindigul at 8.05 p.m. and arrive Madurai at 9.20 p.m. Train No.02627 Tiruchi– Nagercoil superfast special will leave Tiruchi at 6 a.m., Dindigul at 7.15 a.m., Madurai at 8.15 a.m., Virudhunagar at 8.57 a.m., Tirunelveli at 11.10 a.m..and reach Nagecoil at 1 p.m. In the return direction, train No.02628 will leave Nagercoil at 3 p.m., Tirunelveli at 4.25 p.m., Virudhunagar at 6.25 p.m. Madurai at 7.25 p.m. and reach Tiruchi at 10.15 p.m. Passenger reservation system counters at the originating/destination stations of the above trains and also at stations where the trains have scheduled stoppages have been opened for booking of tickets from 4 p.m. on Saturday. Only two counters will be functional for the purpose of only booking tickets. In view of extended time limit for claiming refund and to keep less crowd, no refund shall be granted. Also, in view of the prevailing threat of COVID-19, passengers are requested to use online ticket booking facility, a statement said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/two-pairs-of-special-daytime-trains-to-be-operated/article31713946.ece
31 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 tally is 259 in the 10 southern districts||With 10 people testing positive for COVID-19 here on Saturday, the tally of the cases has reached 259. All 10 people, including two girls, who tested positive did not have any travel history and they were residents of Anuppanadi, P and T Nagar, Mettupatti, Attapatti, Usilampatti, Dhoddappanaickanur and Karungalakudi. According to the State bulletin, five people have been discharged and the active case count stands at 99. While one new COVID-19 positive case was reported in Virudhunagar district, eight patients were discharged from hospital, to take the total number of cases so far to 121. The number of active cases stood at 63 with 58 patients having been discharged. In Ramanathapuram district, 13 tested positive and 12 of them had travel history. The patients, who are in isolation centre, belong to Mudukalathur area and they had returned from Kolkata recently. In Theni, a lone case was reported. The patient had close contacts with a COVID-19 positive person in Muthalapuram. There was a single case reported in Sivaganga district, taking the number of active cases to 32. There were no cases from Dindigul. Southern districts Southern districts recorded 29 new cases, including 17 in Thoothukudi. Of the 17, only two are from other States - one each from Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh - while the remaining 15 cases are from Thoothukudi itself. However, health officials say there is no community transmission in the district that has 87 active cases now. Tirunelveli district, being tormented by the heavy influx of positive patients from Maharashtra for the past two weeks, had seven fresh cases on Saturday, including four persons from that State. There are 168 patients undergoing treatment in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. A 23-year-old youth from north India, who was living in a tent along with a few others on a ground close to the Government Girls’ Hostel at Veeramanickapuram, swooned on Saturday evening and breathed his last while being rushed to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital. The Melapalayam police and Corporation officials visited the spot and inquired people living there. Kanniyakumari district had four new cases, taking the tally to 86. The district has 35 active cases. Tenkasi district’s tally moved to 86 with the addition of one more case. The district has 25 active cases.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-tally-is-259-in-the-10-southern-districts/article31713941.ece
31 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Excavation resumes||The sixth phase of archaeological excavation at Keeladi, which was stopped for a day following heavy rain on Thursday, resumed on Saturday. An official from the State Archeological Department said that due to heavy rain on Thursday evening, the trenches at Keeladi cluster- comprising nearby villages of Konthagai, Agaram and Manalur became wet. “We usually place a tarpaulin sheet above the trenches after completion of excavation work. This helps to ensure that rainwater was not stagnant in the trenches. So, it took a day for the soil to become dry so that the excavation work could resume,” he said. Due to imposition of lockdown, excavation was stopped on March 23. After a gap of several weeks, it resumed on May 19. Safety measures Personal distancing was strictly enforced at the excavation site. As a precautionary measure, face masks and hand sanitisers were provided to all workers, the official added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/excavation-resumes/article31713937.ece
31 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC Bench to resume staggered open court functioning from tomorrow||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court will resume staggered open court functioning from June 1. Guidelines have been issued to advocates and court staff to follow, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Wearing masks has been made compulsory. According to the notification issued by the court, the open court proceedings will be held from 10.30 a.m to 1.30 p.m and hearing of cases by video conferencing will be held at the request of the counsel from 2.30 p.m to 4.45 p.m. Cases to be listed for hearing in the Open Court will be decided by the Judges concerned and the cause list hosted on the website. The seating arrangement in court halls will be in compliance with physical distancing norms and regulated by the court. Advocates have been asked not to wear coats/gowns/robes and instead wear plain white shirts and white pants/black pants/white salwar kameez/white sari with plain white neckband. Apart from physical filing, the procedure of e-mail filing will continue till further orders. Filing of cases by parties-in-person and hearing of those cases will be only by e-mail and video conferencing respectively. Litigants and advocate clerks have not been permitted to accompany advocates. For the sake of effective control of entry and exit, only the main entrance, the Mahatma Gandhi Statue entrance will be kept open and senior advocates and advocates, whose cases are listed, will alone be permitted to enter the High Court. Advocates were requested to subject themselves to sanitisation by the CISF personnel at the main entrance and by Court Attendants before entering court halls. Vehicles must be parked only in the parking area inside the High Court. Intra-Court appeals - viz writ appeals - can be filed using the order hosted in the website. Requests for urgent motion shall be made by e-mail to the Registrar (Judicial), Madurai Bench, through email IDthamilj1968@gmail.com, who, in turn, will place the matter before the judge dealing with the portfolio in question and the matter will be listed subject to the convenience of the judge. The Bar Associations and law chambers will not be opened until further orders. However, on specific requests made to the Registrar (Administration) by e-mailadmnchambers@gmail.com, the law chambers concerned will be opened between 10.30 a.m. and 1.30 p.m. on all working days for the advocates to take their papers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/high-court-bench-to-resume-staggered-open-court-functioning-from-tomorrow/article31713939.ece
31 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Hold e-auction for cardamom’||Cardamom growers of Theni district have moved Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Spices Board to conduct cardamom e-auction at Bodinaickanur. In a petition, the Idukki District Traditional Cardamom Producer said every week the board conducted e-auction in Bodinaickanur and Puttady in Kerala. But, due to the pandemic, it was not held in the two places. With the Central and State governments having relaxed the lockdown conditions and allowing agriculture related activities to resume, a representation was sent to the Spices Board to conduct the e-auction. However, Puttady had been declared a COVID-19 red zone by the Kerala government. Under these circumstances, the e-auction should be conducted at Bodinaickanur in the interest of growers. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan adjourned the hearing in the case by a week after the court was informed that a meeting would be convened by the Theni district administration during the weekend, to resolve the issue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/hold-e-auction-for-cardamom/article31713936.ece
31 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not reopen Gandhi Market’||A public interest litigation petition filed before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has urged the Tiruchi district administration against re-opening of the 150-year-old Gandhi Market for business. In his petition, K. Krishnamoorthy of Tiruchi said that the market was closed in view of the COVID-19 lockdown. The market was congested and it would be difficult to ensure physical distancing there. Temporary markets were opened in certain parts of the city for the benefit of the public. With the relaxation of business and trade, it is said that Gandhi Market will be reopened. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi ordered notice to Tiruchi district administration and adjourned the hearing.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/do-not-reopen-gandhi-market/article31713942.ece
31 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Girl follows mother to the grave||A 17-year-old college girl, S. Archana, who attempted self-immolation on May 7 after her father and mother quarrelled over the father’s drinking habit, succumbed to burns on Saturday. The mother, Parameswari (37), who had also suffered serious burn injuries in her attempt to save her daughter, had died on May 17. Police said that both were admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital after the incident that occurred on the day TASMAC shops resumed sale of liquor after the lockdown. When Sivakumar, a construction worker, returned to his house in Alanganallur drunk and attempted to open another bottle to drink, Parameswari objected to it. After shouting at him, she poured kerosene over her body. However, her minor son prevented her from committing self-immolation. Even as the verbal quarrel continued between the couple, Archana, who was doing her first-year graduation, suddenly set herself ablaze after dousing herself with kerosene. Parameswari was also injured when she tried to save Archana. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/girl-follows-mother-to-the-grave/article31713944.ece
31 May 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Alcohol bottle surgically removed from man’s rectum||In a bizarre case, an alcohol bottle was surgically removed from the rectum of a man hailing from Nagore here on Friday. The man, supposedly in an inebriated state, had inserted an empty bottle into his anal cavity and was unable to remove it, hospital sources said. The 29-year-old man shocked hospital staff at the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital when he arrived with severe pain in the abdominal area and rectum on May 28. An X-ray was taken and a glass bottle was found lodged in his body. “There was a whole 250-ml bottle in his large intestine. When asked how he inserted it there, he narrated the entire incident,” S. Pandiyaraj, General Surgeon at Nagapattinam GH said. The inebriated man had inserted the bottle in his anal cavity on May 26, and had suffered from pain for over two days. He was ashamed and had not told anyone, not even his family members. After the pain became unbearable, he rushed to the GH, Dr. Pandiyaraj said. The patient had made several attempts to remove the bottle on his own but in the process, had pushed it further up to the sigmoid colon in the large intestine. “I have never seen a case like this. If the bottle had broken in his intestine, we would have had to surgically remove it piece by piece and then also stitch each tear caused in the intestine by the breakage. It would have become a complicated surgery,” Dr. Pandiyaraj said. Spinal anaesthesia was administered and in a two-hour surgery, the bottle was carefully removed by a team of doctors led by Dr. Pandiyaraj. The patient is now stable and is under observation. “He is still experiencing some discomfort but the wounds will soon heal,” doctors said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/alcohol-bottle-removed-from-mans-rectum/article31713688.ece
31 May 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||They are grasshoppers, not locusts: Collector||Allaying fears that insects spotted in some areas of Thiruvattar taluk were grasshoppers and not desert locusts, Collector Prashant M. Wadnere on Saturday assured farmers that they could be easily controlled. After farmers of Kannanur and Mulavilai villages under Thiruvattar taluk informed officials about the invasion of ‘desert locusts’ in their area, a team of experts visited the farms. The team included Thirukumaran of Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Thiruppathisaaram, agriculture scientist Kavitha, Personal Assistant to Collector (Agriculture) Gunabalan, Assistant Director of Agriculture (Quality Control) Manoranjitham and senior officials from the Departments of Agriculture and Horticulture. The farmers and experts, who inspected the ranches, sent images of the insects to the Department of Entomology, Tamil Nadu Agriculture University, Coimbatore, which identified them as “ordinary grasshoppers”(aularches milliaris) that affected only coffee plantations. Although the grasshoppers were found in small numbers in rubber and pineapple plantations, they caused “insignificant damage” only to plantain crop. “Though there are 28,500 grasshopper species across the globe, only 50 of them, including desert locusts, severely damage crops,” Collector Prashant M. Wadnere said in a statement. “This particular variety found in our district isaularches milliaris, which is usually seen here during this season, and causes minor damages to coconut, teak, mango, plantain and areca nut. These grasshoppers, which cannot fly for longer distances like the desert locusts, can be easily controlled. Hence, there is no need for panic,” the Collector said. According to experts, 2 ml of malathion, 50% EC or chlorpyrifos, 20% EC should be diluted in a litre of water and sprayed on plants and weeds to control the insects.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/they-are-grasshoppers-not-locusts-collector/article31713938.ece
31 May 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patient undergoing treatment dies in Namakkal district||A 49-year-old COVID-19 patient, who was undergoing treatment at the Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital died late on Friday. This is the first COVID-19 related death reported in the district. According to Health Department officials, the patient, a truck driver, was a resident of Kothapalli near Thiruchengode who was working in Erode. He had travelled to Rajamundri in Andhra Pradesh on May 13 and was there for about 10 days. Deputy Director of Health Service S. Somasundaram said that the patient started his return journey on May 24, but since he was feeling sick, another driver brought him back here. According to Health Department officials, the patient was first admitted to the Thiruchengode government hospital and was later shifted to Namakkal hospital after the patient tested positive. “He tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment. Despite best efforts, the patient died on Friday. He did not have any co-morbid conditions but he was a smoker,” Dr. Somasundaram said. The standby driver, who accompanied the patient, has been quarantined in Erode. District Collector K. Megraj said, “during his return journey from Andhra Pradesh the patient took treatment at a hospital in Kalahasti after he felt dizziness. The officials there have been alerted. The funeral was conducted following protocols with a limited number of people and taking all precautionary measures. His immediate family will be advised to go into a quarantine facility.” Minister for Electricity P.Thangamani said that necessary containment measures are being taken in the neighbourhood where the patient lived.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/covid-19-patient-undergoing-treatment-dies-in-namakkal-district/article31713730.ece
31 May 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Nod sought for reopening places of worship from June 1||The territorial administration has requested the Centre to allow the reopening of places of worship in Puducherry from June 1, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy said on Friday. Mr. Narayansamy had written a letter to the Prime Minister seeking a relaxation of lockdown norms, so that religious places could reopen from June 1. In an audio message to the media, he said, “I hope the Prime Minister will take a favourable call on the subject. Heads of all religious places have adhered to the lockdown norms for more than two months and now they have requested for resumption of religious activity by taking personal safety precautions,” the Chief Minister said. Terming the decision of Centre to privatise power distribution in the Union Territory “unilateral,” Mr. Narayanasamy said his government will oppose the move as it was against public interest. Power being in the concurrent list, the Chief Minister said the Centre should have consulted his government before taking any decision. Altering the present structure of the Electricity Department would require legislation in the Parliament and in the Assembly, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/nod-sought-for-reopening-places-of-worship-from-june-1/article31713693.ece
31 May 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Pudukottai man dies of COVID-19 abroad||A 44-year-old crane operator of Andikulapampatti in Pudukottai has reportedly died after testing positive for the novel coronavirus in Saudi Arabia. He had been working at a private company in Dammam, Saudi Arabia, for over 20 years. He would visit his family once or twice a year and would return to his job after a month-long break each time. “He had come eight months ago and had brought us all presents and sweets. Little did we know it would be that last time,” said his brother. The deceased is survived by his wife and three children - two boys studying in class 7 and 4, while the third child is a year-old baby girl. He had returned to Dammam after the birth of his baby girl as they had constructed a house here and had loans to pay off. According to his brother, the deceased had fallen ill nearly 40 days ago. “He called us and informed us that he had contracted the virus, but would soon recover and would be sent home to India. We were not allowed to speak to him after that,” he said. All communication was through his colleagues or through his boss in Dammam. A week after they were informed of his admission to a hospital, the family was told that he had been shifted to the Intensive Care Unit at the hospital but is responding to treatment. “The entire family conducted prayers for his well-being day after day following that phone call,” his cousin said. On Friday night, the family received a call from the hospital informing them that he had died. “His wife is inconsolable. She wishes to see him one last time. But what can we do now?” he said. Soon after, an email from the employer was sent to his wife, seeking consent to bury him in Dammam itself. Although the family has had no direct communication with the Indian Embassy in Saudi Arabia, the employer is communicating with them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/pudukottai-man-dies-of-covid-19-abroad/article31713973.ece
31 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||E-pass must: Collector||District Collector S.A. Raman said that persons travelling to Salem should possess e-pass issued by the State government. Mr. Raman said, “persons travelling to Salem are checked at border check posts and their samples are collected for COVID-19 tests. We are considering possibilities of taking action against those travelling to district without e-pass.” Mr. Raman advised public to wear masks when venturing out in public and ensure hand sanitation. “Stern action would be taken against those venturing out without wearing masks”, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/e-pass-must-collector/article31713743.ece
31 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||10 discharged in Salem||As many as 10 persons who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, here, were discharged on Saturday. The discharged include six men, three women and a girl child. They were given hand sanitisers, masks and were advised to remain under home quarantine for the next 14 days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/10-discharged-in-salem/article31713740.ece
31 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||51 cases registered in Salem district||Salem City police on Friday registered 51 cases and detained two vehicles for violating prohibitory orders.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/51-cases-registered-in-salem-district/article31713729.ece
31 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Release Rajiv murder case convicts on parole’||The Thamizh Deisya Periyakkam has called upon the Tamil Nadu government to consider releasing of the Rajiv Gandhi Murder Case convicts on long-duration parole to save them from contracting COVID-19 virus. Citing reports that 31 inmates of Chennai Central Prison at Puzhal in Tiruvallur district have been tested positive for the COVID-19 virus,the TDP general secretary K.Venkatraman urged the State government to grant parole to the seven convicts. The Supreme Court had also suggested that convicted prisoners could be released on parole and those arrested for small crimes could be released on bail to avoid the prisons becoming the hotspot for spreading of coronavirus, he said. The TDP also sought grant of long-duration parole for other prisoners undergoing imprisonment for long duration in the Puzhal prison and bail for remand prisoners.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/release-rajiv-murder-case-convicts-on-parole/article31713965.ece
31 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Youth beheaded by gang; 10 held||Tension prevailed in a village near Authoor in Thoothukudi district after a youth was beheaded by a gang from a neighbouring village on Friday night. Ten persons were picked up in connection with the murder. Police said P. Sathyamurthy, 22, of Thalaivanvadali left home around 6 p.m. and did not return. His family members started searching for him and found his headless body beneath a culvert near the village late in the night. Arumuganeri police rushed to the spot, but were prevented by locals from sending the body to hospital for post-mortem. The villagers demanded that the head be retrieved and the assailants arrested first. After prolonged talks held by Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan, they allowed the police to send the body to Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. As the police continued their search on Saturday, the head was recovered from a spot about 400 metres away from where the trunk lay with multiple cut injuries. During investigation, police found that a group of people from neighbouring Keezha Keeranur village opposed the burial of the bod y of a person from Thalaivanvadali about seven months ago. As Sathyamurthy played a lead role in ensuring the burial of the body, it triggered enmity between him and villagers of Keezha Keeranur. It worsened a week ago, when unidentified persons stole tender coconuts from a grove close to Keezha Keeranur. The villagers accused the youth of Thalaivanvadali of theft and a minor scuffle broke between the two groups. Against this backdrop, Sathyamurthy was brutally murdered on Friday night. Meanwhile, a group of people from Thalaivanvadali ransacked 30 houses in Keezha Keeranur, forcing the police to deploy around 600 personnel in both hamlets. Rajesh, Palanisamy, Kutti alias Muniyasamy, Stephen Raj, Sridhar and Vinodh, all from Keezha Keeranur, and four from other areas were detained in connection with the murder. Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu and SP Arun Balagopalan visited the villages on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/youth-beheaded-by-gang-10-held/article31713953.ece
31 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||All beds in MGMGH to have oxygen supply||Gearing up to face any eventuality in the wake of increasing COVID-19 cases, the State government has decided to provide oxygen supply to all beds in the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi. The hospital attached to the K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College serves patients from Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Karur and Pudukottai districts and has about 1600 beds. When COVID-19 began to spread, a special isolation ward with 12-beds was set up initially. One more ward was added subsequently. The fast spreading cases forced the hospital authorities to allot a super speciality block to treat COVID-19 patients. As far as Tiruchi district was concerned, it is claimed that the spread of COVID-19 virus is under control. As on Saturday 17 patients, who had tested positive for COVID virus, were under treatment at the MGMGH. However, it remains to be seen whether the trend will continue when public transport and inter-district movement is allowed. To face the worst case scenario, the State government has asked the MGMGH authorities to ramp up facilities for treating as many patients as possible. In the first phase, it had been decided to connect at least 700 beds with oxygen supply. K. Vanitha, Dean, MGMGH, told The Hindu that the there were 7 Intensive Care Units (ICU) in the hospital. All of the beds in ICUs had oxygen connection. In addition to them, it had decided to provide oxygen supply to as many beds as possible. Though it was aimed at creating facilities for COVID-19 patients, it would serve all kinds of patients in the long run. R. Yeganathan, Medical Superintendent, MGMGH, said that the Public Works Department had been executing the project on urgent basis. All 32 beds in the speciality block, where COVID-19 patients were treated, have been provided with ventilators. It had been decided to create a centralised suction unit at the COVID-19 ward to treat the patients. The work had already been started and would be completed within a week.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/all-beds-in-mgmgh-to-have-oxygen-supply/article31713972.ece
31 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||GI tag enthuses Arumbavur wood carving artisans||Enthused by the Geographical Indication (GI) tag granted by the Geographical Indications Registry for the Arumbavur wood carvings, artisans in the remote village in Perambalur district are anticipating better business in the months ahead. Arumbavur is famous for its wood carving tradition and its community of wood carvers, who make wooden cars for temples, statues, decorative and other wooden products of various kinds. About 200 wood carving artisans’ families, who continue the tradition. The craftsmen follow rules of iconography prescribed in the Shilpa Shastra. Though the lockdown has impacted business, the grant of the GI tag came as a morale booster for the artisans early this month. According to IPR attorney and GI advocate Sanjai Gandhi, who was instrumental in getting the GI tag for the wood carvings, this is the first product from Perambalur district to get the tag. “We are very happy to get the tag and it has already resulted in many enquiries for our products. Though the lockdown has affected our business, we hope to do good business in the coming months. The GI tag definitely offers an advantage and we look forward to leverage it,” said P.Murugesan (61), president, Arumbuvar Temple Car and Wood Carving Artisans Welfare Associations, who learnt the art of wood caring at a tender age of 10. The Arumbavur wood carvings are primarily made out of vaagai, maavilangai, aththi, vembu, vengai and teak wood. Temple cars are mostly made of illuppai . They are handmade with the artisans using traditional instruments. No machine is used for different stages of carving right from sizing, chiselling and carving the patterns and details. Mr.Murugesan, who owns a workshop now, said that although the artisans faced difficult times some years back, demand has been good over the past decade or so. “Our products are known more widely now. There are buyers who come to us directly for their requirements such as decorating houses or offer gifts on special occasions such as house warming or wedding ceremonies,” said Mr.Murugesan. The artisans have also made several temple cars in the state. As the Arumbavur products have grown in popularity, many youngsters who had migrated for higher study and jobs, are returning to the village to take up the family vocation. According to Mr.Murugesan there are even engineering graduates, including his son, who are into the business now. M.Manikandan, a 33-year-old Electronics and Communication Engineering graduate who had worked for six years in a IT company and as an assistant professor, has returned to the family business as he could not find satisfaction in the jobs. “ There are six or seven engineering graduates working in our village now. There are a few who had done courses in fine arts colleges too,” said Mr.Manikandan. According to him, wood carving artisans who do not own workshops can earn minimum of Rs. 20,000 a month. In recent years, government sponsored training and MUDRA loans have helped the business grow. Awareness of Arumbavur products was already growing thanks to social media and the GI tag has definitely helped it gain a better exposure, he says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gi-tag-enthuses-arumbavur-wood-carving-artisans/article31713968.ece
31 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Twenty more test positive in central region||Twenty patients from the central region tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Saturday as per the State Health Department bulletin. Of them, seven hailed from Tiruchi, four from Tiruvarur, five from Nagapattinam, two from Thanjavur and one each from Karur and Perambalur districts. In Tiruchi, five of the seven patients had returned to Tiruchi from Mumbai via Bengaluru on the IndiGo flight on May 29. The patients, all men, were aged 55, 63, 25, 52 and 27. The patients were kept at a quarantine facility until the tests arrived and were shifted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital as soon as the tests results arrived, senior health officials at the hospital said. Meanwhile, the other two patients, a 75-year-old man and a 67-year-old man, both residents of Palakkarai in Tiruchi had visited the MGMGH complaining of fever and cough. “Since both are over the age of 50, we immediately admitted them and took throat swabs. Unfortunately, they have tested positive. They are being monitored by a team of doctors and are responding well to treatment,” official sources said. In Nagapattinam, five patients, including an eight-year-old girl tested positive. The girl and her family were residing in Chennai where her father is a food delivery executive. He had tested positive for COVID-19 after he had returned to Chennai. “We tested his family here immediately and found his wife tested negative but the child is positive,” health officials in Nagapattinam said. Two men, aged 46 and 27 were the driver and cleaner on a special bus arranged to drop migrants from Nagapattinam to Jharkhand. The bus had travelled with migrants through Chennai and Andhra Pradesh too. They also picked up migrants from Jharkhand and neighbouring states, hailing from Tamil Nadu, officials here said, attributing their travel to these districts as the source of infection. A 43-year-old woman who travelled on that bus from Thiruvallur to Nagapattinam too, has contracted the infection. A 50-year-old man has also tested positive, however, the source of his infection is unknown. In Karur, a 30-year-old man tested positive for COVID-19. He has been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. In Perambalur, a 52-year-old mechanic who travelled to Attur in Salem from Perambalur and returned was tested for the virus. Officials intercepted him on arrival at Perambalur and samples were lifted. He was admitted to the Salem Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital after the test results returned positive. Of the 140 COVID-19 cases in the district, 139 have recovered and returned home. Four men, aged 26, 25, 28 and 24 tested positive in Tiruvarur, while two men aged 54 and 24 tested positive for the virus in Thanjavur. Meanwhile, a communication from the district communication from Pudukottai said that two patients, a 45-year-old man and a 16-year-old girl with travel history from Gujarat have tested positive. They had returned to the district on May 23. Throat swabs were lifted from them on May 29. Resultswere positive on Saturday when they were admitted to Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial District Headquarters Hospital in Pudukottai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/twenty-more-test-positive-in-central-region/article31713974.ece
31 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Three special trains||The Southern Railway will operate three special trains via and from Tiruchi from June 1: Train No. 02083/02084 Coimbatore- Mayiladuthurai – Coimbatore Janshatabdi special will run except Tuesdays. The train will leave Coimbatore at 7.10 a.m. and reach Mayiladuthurai at 1.40 p.m. In the return direction, it will leave Mayiladuthurai at 2.50 p.m. and reach Coimbatore at 9.15 p.m. The train will have 12 second class chair car coaches and four second class chair car-cum-break van coaches T. No. 02636 Madurai – Villupuram Intercity Superfast special (daily) will leave Madurai at 7 a.m. and reach Villupuram at 12.05 pm. In the return direction, T.No. 02635 Villupuram –Madurai Intercity Superfast special the training will leave Villupuram Junction at 4 p.m. and reach Madurai at 9.20 p.m. The trains will have one AC 2-tier, three chair cars, 13 second class chair cars, three second class and two luggage cum generator car coaches. T. No. 02627 Tiruchi- Nagercoil Superfast special (daily) will leave Tiruchi at 6 a.m. and reach Nagercoil at 1 p.m. In the return direction T.No.02628 Nagercoil-Tiruchi Superfast special will leave Nagercoil at 3 p.m. and reach Tiruchi at 10.15 p.m.. PRS counters at the originating/destination stations of the above trains and also at stations where the trains have scheduled stoppage have been opened for booking of tickets from Saturday evening. Only a minimum of two counters will be functional for the purpose of only booking tickets. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic passengers have been requested to use online ticket booking facility.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-special-trains/article31713977.ece
31 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Officials deputed to Chennai for COVID-19 prevention||Several health officers and sanitation inspectors belonging to central districts have been deputed to Chennai and its suburbs to carry out preventive measures against the spread of the novel coronavirus. Upon direction from the senior officials of Health Department and Commissionerate of Municipal Administration, the Corporation and Municipalities in Tiruchi, Thanjavur and other districts, except those with large number of COVID-19 positive cases, had prepared a list of health officials to be sent for deputation work in Chennai. A section of them have already reported for duty in the areas allotted to them in Chennai, sources said. Two sanitation inspectors belonging to Tiruchi City Corporation have been sent to Avadi. Similarly, three officials from Thanjavur City Corporation have been deputed to Chennai. A. Jaganathan, health officer, told The Hindu that the deputation would in no way affect the COVID-19 prevention and other routine works in the city as it could manage the situation with existing workforce and supervisors. During Chennai floods too, officials were sent on deputation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/officials-deputed-to-chennai-for-covid-19-prevention/article31713969.ece
31 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three held for cheating migrant workers||Tiruppur City Police on Friday arrested three persons on charges of cheating migrant workers by distributing fake tokens for Shramik special trains. Police said that Rajesh (24), Raj Kumar (35) and Manish Kumar (25) cheated 60 workers by issuing counterfeit tokens to the special trains operated from Tiruppur Junction to their respective States. The accused charged Rs. 400 a token and had collected a total amount of Rs. 24,000. The police recovered nearly Rs. 15,000 from the accused following the arrest. However, all the migrant workers who were cheated had already left the district, police said. While Rajesh is from Kerala, the other two accused are from Bihar. Anupparpalayam police registered a case against the three accused under Section 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the Indian Penal Code and remanded them in judicial custody. Further investigations are on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-held-for-cheating-migrant-workers/article31713737.ece
31 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Police constables help pregnant woman reach hospital||Two constables from the Tiruppur City Police helped a pregnant woman reach hospital in the early hours of Saturday. Anupparpalayam Police Station Inspector P.N. Rajan said that the city police control room received a call at 4 a.m. on Saturday seeking help for Boyampalayam resident Sandhya (24), who was experiencing labour pain, to reach hospital. Grade-I Constable Karthi and Head Constable Ganesan rushed to the woman’s home and arranged a private vehicle to shift her to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. According to a release, Commissioner of Police Sanjay Kumar and Deputy Commissioner of Police V. Badri Narayanan congratulated Mr. Karthi and Mr. Ganesan on Saturday for their work.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/police-constables-help-pregnant-woman-reach-hospital/article31713744.ece
31 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three trains operated from Tiruppur Jn.||Salem Division of Southern Railway operated three Shramik special trains from Tiruppur Junction for migrant workers on Saturday. The trains were bound for Hajipur, Bihar, Muzaffarpur, Bihar and Rourkela, Odisha which left the Junction at around 11 a.m, 2 p.m and 7 p.m. respectively. On Saturday morning, hundreds of migrant workers from Assam reached Tiruppur Railway Station after hearing rumours that a train to Assam will leave at 3 p.m. However, as there were no trains to Assam on Saturday, the workers returned disappointed, police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/three-trains-operated-from-tiruppur-jn/article31713726.ece
31 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Held for Facebook post||The Veerapandi police arrested a DMK member for an alleged defamatory post on Facebook against Minister S.P. Velumani on Saturday. The police said Ranjithkumar (24) was arrested at 3.30 p.m. and released on bail at 6.30 p.m. Based on a complaint from AIADMK member Pandiarajan, the police booked Ranjith.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/held-for-facebook-post/article31713720.ece
31 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Digging of percolation pits on channels resented||Digging of percolation pits on irrigation channels in Tiruvarur district has annoyed farmers who are already bogged down by the problem of inadequate supply of water for irrigation through `C’ and `D’ irrigation channels. Complaints of water not reaching the tail-end areas surfaced during the last crop season despite the claims made by the Public Works Department that smooth passage of water for irrigation to tail-end areas had been achieved. However, the issue did not snowball into a crisis thanks to the timely and adequate quantity of showers the district received during the last season. Against this backdrop, the present move to create percolation pits on irrigation channels in interior places under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme has been resented by the farmers. Claiming that creation of such groundwater recharging facilities on the irrigation channels in interior areas would definitely impede the flow of water to ayacuts, general secretary, Federation of Farmers Association of Delta Districts, Arupathi P. Kalyanam, urged the officials to concentrate on ensuring adequate water supply for surface water irrigated areas. The existing problems such as `A’ channels not remaining at the sill level of the primary irrigation channels – the Cauvery and Vennar, and clogging of `A’ channels branching off from rivers near major towns should be addressed first, he added. State Joint Secretary, Thamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam, P.S. Masilamani and the General Secretary, Thamizhaga Cauvery Farmers Association, P.R. Pandian suggested that such pits with 2 to 3 feet could be dug on the drainage channels. Meanwhile, the Collector, T.Anand inspected the MGNREGS job work of creating small percolation pits on the Edaiyanji irrigation channel passing through agriculture fields at Sellur village panchayat in Koradachery Panchayat Union at a cost of Rs. 5.95 lakh, on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/digging-of-percolation-pits-on-channels-resented/article31713971.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Tamil Nadu Bovine Breeding Act provisions unscientific’||An animal lover from Madurai has moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court challenging the constitutional validity of certain provisions of the Tamil Nadu Bovine Breeding Act, 2019. The petitioner said the provisions were unscientific and arbitrary In his petition, S. Venkatesh of Madurai said certain provisions were in direct violation of the Constitution. Pointing to Section 12 (10) of the Act, he said it mandated the animals declared/certified unfit for breeding be eliminated by the owner. This is cruel on the animals and the animal owners as it simply legalised the elimination of one’s own animal just because it was not considered fit. The Act also restricts and prohibits natural mating of the cattle population. This means that under the guise of the Act, the State will regulate the mating and breeding of bovines by allowing breeding of fit animals, approved by the State alone. It will only benefit Corporations and destroy individual interest in animals. The primary objective of the Act was to regulate artificial insemination in animals as well as preservation of semen samples for future breeding in animals. However, it has taken an unnecessary and unwarranted step in the direction of natural breeding and mating, he said. He said this would wipe out indigenous species. No authority can arbitrarily trample or destroy the rights or needs of any living being, including animals, by means of regulation or in the name of regulation, he said. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi adjourned the hearing by four weeks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/tamil-nadu-bovine-breeding-act-provisions-unscientific/article31713952.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cooperative societies, banks to give soft loans to small vendors: Minister||The Tamil Nadu government has proposed to issue micro personal loans to small roadside vendors through Cooperative societies and banks, said Minister for Cooperation Sellur K. Raju here on Saturday. The Minister was giving away essential goods packs to the residents in the city, in a function organised by the Madurai Corporation Commissioner, S Visakan. Later speaking to reporters, he said that to help the lowest strata of population, who are into selling wares and run eatery outlets on pavements among other occupations, they would be given Rs. 50,000, as personal loan. They can repay this in 350 days and the rate of interest is very meagre. After producing their ration card, the advance would be credited to their accounts directly. This would help prevent the poor from approaching private money lenders and also give them hope to stand on their own economically during the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. Lauding Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for his COVID-19 management, he said that the cash relief of Rs. 1,000 to the card holders had been successfully disbursed through the 36,945 ration outlets in the State. As many as 1.88 crore people had benefited and the rate of success was 98.69 %. Not only the people of Tamil Nadu, but even others in the country, had appreciated the measures, he said. The Amma Unavagams were serving free food to the needy. Some of the outlets even provided eggs. The objective was to support the downtrodden and those who really required assistance. The distribution of herbal concoctions, vitamin tablets and fruits in a kit bag was to give people a helping hand to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Raju said. DMK president M K Stalin's accusation against the government and the CM was nothing but politically motivated. “We don't expect him to appreciate the government... but at least, he should realise that the people are satisfied with the functioning of the machinery. Even the petitions received by the DMK don’t say that the public have not received the cash assistance or essential goods through the PDS outlets. Hence, he should remain silent.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/cooperative-societies-banks-to-give-soft-loans-to-small-vendors-minister/article31713951.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gang attacks man over lost-and-found phone||An armed gang unleashed a murderous attack on 36-year-old S. Raja of Iravathanallur near Viraganur on Friday over a lost-and-found mobile phone. The victim, a cargo van driver, sustained bleeding injuries on his shoulder, forehead and head and was admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital. Raja had recently lost his mobile phone. S. Prabhu, 21, of LKT Nagar found it and contacted Raja and demanded some money to return the phone. Raja did not give the money but got the phone after a negotiation with Prabhu and his friends who were angered over this. On Thursday, when Raja was driving through Viraganur, the gang intercepted the vehicle and attacked him with lethal weapons. The police have arrested M. Panneerselvam, 26, and R. Ramar, 22, of Viraganur. The Silaiman police are on the lookout for three others, including Prabhu, who was involved in four criminal cases, including a murder and an attempt-to-murder.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/gang-attacks-man-over-lost-and-found-phone/article31713943.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||37 new cases in Salem||As many as 37 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Saturday. Fourteen of them had travelled to Salem from other States such as Assam, Delhi, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. The other fresh cases were 14 persons who had travelled to Salem from Chennai, one from Perambalur and eight from different parts of Salem.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/37-new-cases-in-salem/article31713732.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Panel for extending lockdown in 4 districts||Since it was a new virus, its behaviour could not be understood completely, she said. Dr. Kaur pointed out that the case fatality rate (number of death in every 100 cases) was low in Tamil Nadu. The State had been increasing the bed capacity, which would help in managing high number of cases. However, there was a need to increase testing of samples. If people had any symptoms, they should approach doctors, she added. Asked whether there was community transmission in Chennai, Dr. P. Guhunantham, panel member, said if that was so cases would have been reported from all over the places and not just from specific areas.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/panel-for-extending-lockdown-in-4-districts/article31713708.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till May 30     No. of persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No fresh case on Saturday) No. of persons recovered: 145 No. of persons died: 1 No. of active cases: 0    House quarantined: 1,701 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on May 30) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-tamilnadu/coimbatore-district/article31713734.ece
31 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Have suffered torture in BJP: Ramesh Katti||Ramesh Katti, former MP and BJP leader, has claimed that he and his brother (Umesh Katti) have suffered torture in the BJP for a long time. Speaking to journalists at his home in Bellad Bagewadi village on Saturday, he said, “We are only asking our party leaders to keep their promises of giving us our due. Our leaders have been promising us posts in the party and government, but those promises have not been kept.” He reiterated that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had promised him a Rajya Sabha nomination after he could not get ticket to contest the Lok Sabha polls. “I have just reminded Mr. Yediyurappa about his promise. We are not engaged in any dissident activities,” he said. He said that he was not worried about his brother, who was not made a Minister despitewinning eight elections. “He [Umesh Katti] is like a diamond. He will become a Minister in the State, even if he has to wait for another year. But I am talking to our leaders about my political future,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/have-suffered-torture-in-bjp-ramesh-katti/article31713811.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students to log in for online classes from tomorrow||From Monday, students of many private schools will have to wear uniforms, sit in front of their laptop or computer and log in to their classroom. While the Centre announced on Saturday that a decision on the reopening of educational institutions will be taken in July in consultation with State governments and other stakeholders, many private schools have mapped out a plan of action to make up for the lost time. They have announced that online classes for the 2020-21 academic year will begin on Monday. Schools held parent-teacher meetings over the last week to inform parents of the list of dos and don’ts. Some managements have even instructed parents to sit with their children while classes are under way. If both parents are working, schools have told them to try and make arrangements for a relative to take over. School managements have also told parents to install parental control apps that will allow them to monitor their children’s browsing history. Sumanth Narayan, founder of Shanthinikethana School, said online classes will be similar to the school timetable. “Students have been given timetable and will have to log in five minutes before nine. They will have to wear uniforms. There will be a morning prayer after which classes will commence,” he said. Dakshayini Kanna, principal of Harvest International School, said that from Monday, students from classes one to three will have to attend four classes — one of which will involve an extra-curricular activity, while students in higher grades will have to attend five hours of lectures. There will be a 10-minute break between classes. “Students will have one hour in the evening to get their doubts clarified,” said Ms. Kanna. Unlike other schools that have insisted on uniforms, the dress code at Harvest international is “business casuals”. “They will have to sit in a corner, which preferably has a plain background. We have told them that they cannot sit on the bed. We have also requested parents not to join the classes,” she added. D. Shashi Kumar, general secretary of the Associated Managements’ of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that many schools are planning on giving assignments and trying to limit screen time. “They are first planning to have online classes for high school students and later start it for other classes,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/students-to-log-in-for-online-classes-from-tomorrow/article31713650.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||TBM parts lowered at Cantonment, Shivajinagar||The Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has started lowering parts of four tunnel boring machines (TBMs) inside the shafts at sites of the proposed Cantonment and Shivajinagar Metro stations. From Thursday onwards, with the help of cranes, giant components of TBMs, such as cutter heads and middle shields, will be lowered. The BMRCL had imported the machines from China. After reaching the Chennai port, they were transported in trucks and arrived in the city between February and March. Due to the lockdown, the BMRCL had halted construction work for a while, but resumed projects on April 23. At present, approximately 950 people are working on the underground line from Vellara Junction to Tannery Road. The four tunnel boring machines are called Avani, Urja, Lavi and Vindhya. BMRCL Managing Director Ajay Seth said, “The machines are being assembled and site testing is being done by contractor engineers.” In phase II, for the first two packages from Vellara Junction to Tannery Road, the BMRCL is deploying four TBMs. Among the four TBMs, two machines will tunnel from Cantonment Station to Shivajinagar. After completing the task, the machines will be deployed back to Cantonment towards Tannery Road metro station. The other two machines will build a tunnel from Shivajinagar towards Vellara Junction. Mr. Seth said that the TBM work will need three years. Commissioning of the line may require another year. Amidst the lockdown and migration of employees in lakhs in trains, the BMRCL, through its contractors, has managed to retain 6,000 construction workers in the city. An official said that around 2,400 to 2,700 workers have left the city to their hometowns in northern parts of the country. Under phase II, the BMRCL is building a tunnel network from Dairy Circle to Nagawara wherein the total length of the UG line is 13.92 km. In total, nine TBMs will be used in the second phase. The city had first witnessed tunnelling work in May 2011, in the first phase of Namma Metro, where the BMRCL had deployed two machines (Helen and Margarita) to build a tunnel from Majestic to Cubbon Park metro station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/tbm-parts-lowered-at-cantonment-shivajinagar/article31713641.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Problem of plenty in Belagavi is the root cause of rebel trouble in BJP||Fault lines of the politics of Belagavi district, which triggered dissidence that eventually toppled the erstwhile JD(S)–Congress coalition government, seems to have been the trigger for dissidence this time too. On Thursday, eight-time MLA from Belagavi district Umesh Katti hosted what he described as a “casual dinner meet”, which has yet again triggered rumours of rebellion. He has for long been unhappy over being not inducted into the State Cabinet. “Despite being one of the senior-most MLAs, Mr. Umesh Katti has inexplicably been left out, even as Laxman Savadi, who lost the 2018 Assembly polls,has been made Deputy Chief Minister. Ramesh Jarkiholi and Shrimant Patil, who joined the BJP recently, besides Shashikala Jolle — all of them from Belagavi district — have been made Ministers. Mr. Umesh Katti feels he alone has been given the short shrift,” said a senior BJP leader. The Chief Minister is known to have promised Mr. Umesh Katti that he will be made a Minister. RS ticket demand Now, however, Mr. Katti has a new demand — his brother Ramesh Katti be given ticket to contest the Rajya Sabha elections scheduled for June. “I have sought a Rajya Sabha ticket for my brother. I will wait and watch as to what the party will say,” Mr. Umesh Katti announced. The Chief Minister, however, is said to have asked him to choose either a ministerial berth for himself or ticket to the Upper House polls for his brother, reportedly upsetting Mr. Umesh Katti . He is learnt to have pointed out that while Ms. Jolle is a Minister, her husband is a Lok Sabha member from the district. Katti brothers’ denial The Katti brothers, however, continued to deny that they are behind any “rebellion”. Earlier, Belagavi politics had spelt trouble for the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy. Mr. Jarkiholi, then CongressMLA from the district, led the rebellion against the previous Congress–JD(S) coalition government. He and two other MLAs from the district joined the BJP and all three of them won the byelections and two of them are now Ministers. Ironically, it is this overwhelming presence of Belagavi MLAs in the Yediyurappa Ministry that is creating problems now for the BJP. Mr. Umesh Katti, who was earlier in the JD(S), defected to the BJP in 2008 through ‘operation lotus’ and was made a Minister. He is now upset that he has not found a berth in the Cabinet owing to other leaders, including new defectors, being accommodated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/problem-of-plenty-in-belagavi-is-the-root-cause-of-rebel-trouble-in-bjp/article31713654.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bidar has best testing rate per million population among districts||While Karnataka on an average has tested 3,565 people per million population — a testing rate higher than Telangana and Kerala among southern States but lower than Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu — a district-wise analysis shows that highest testing has been reported from Bidar, followed by Chickballapur and Kalaburagi. Data from the COVID-19 war room (as on May 27) shows that Bidar tops the list with 7,573 tests per million population, followed by Chickballapur with 7,276, and Kalaburagi with 6,901 tests. Among these, Kalaburagi has recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases. The least number of tests have been done in Belagavi, Chitradurga, and Bengaluru Rural districts. These districts have done less than 1,900 tests per million. Chamarajnagar district, which is the only district in the State so far that has not reported a single positive case, has done 2,190 tests per million as on May 27. The testing rate in 12 districts is higher than the State average. H.R. Mahadev, Deputy Commissioner of Bidar district, said the district began testing all people in some neighbourhoods in Bidar in the end of April, after many who returned from Tablighi Jamaat tested positive. “Besides primary and secondary contacts, we wanted to make sure all people with co-morbidities and volunteers were not left out in the testing process. We took special permission and made sure everyone in one of the wards was tested and found the presence of the virus in that particular locality very high,” he said, adding that over the last 15 days, they have been trying to ensure atleast 1,500 samples from the district are sent for testing. “We ensured those who returned from Maharashtra were tested on a large scale,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bidar-has-best-testing-rate-per-million-population-among-districts/article31713665.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Malls gear up to open shutters||Over two months and many requests later, shopping malls, hotels and restaurants will open their shutters after the MHA on Saturday included them in the first phase of reopening – ‘Unlock 1’ – from June 8. The Shopping Centres Association of India (SCAI) welcomed the move. Amitabh Taneja, Chairman, SCAI, said, “We welcome the announcement by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to allow shopping centres, malls to open starting June 8. SCAI has made a stringent set of SOPs, which were submitted to the MHA as well as the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MOHFW) and other authorities. The relaxation is certainly going to help ease an unimaginable amount of pressure that was put on the industry following the lockdown. Revival and resurgence is a long process, which has just about begun. We will await further information from MOHFW to ensure the guidelines are followed in letter and spirit.” But hoteliers are unhappy. The Karnataka Pradesh Hotel and Restaurants’ Association (KPHRA), which has around 15,000 members in the State, was expecting to be allowed to open from June 1. B Chandrashekar Hebbar, president of KPHRA, said, “We had asked for reopening on June 1 and had prepared accordingly. Hotels were sanitised and even vegetables were bought. Now it has been pushed to June 8.” The tourism and hospitality industry is finally sighing a relief. “We have been bleeding since the lockdown in March with almost no support, no income, and yet unavoidable and sustained expenses towards fixed costs. Human Resource is a significant percentage of expenses, and retaining employees has been paramount for businesses in the industry. Fixed costs have been inevitable. Now with the government’s decision to lift the lockdown in Phase I from June 8, we will hopefully see businesses opening up gradually and cash flows. It will, of course, take time to attract people towards travelling, build back hotel occupancies and travel companies to be in business, but with the wheel poised to be set in motion, there is hope," said Sanjar Imam from the Karnataka Tourism Forum.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/malls-gear-up-to-open-shutters/article31713632.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Longer wait for metro services||Citizens who were hoping to see Namma Metro running again will have to wait a while longer. In the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday, the resumption of metro services is slated for Phase-III with no indicative date on when the trains will start running. Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) officials, who are waiting for a green signal from the government, said they have put in place safety guidelines. But even when services do finally resume, travelling on the Namma Metro will be a different experience. “We have to maintain social distancing at every stage. Sanitisers will be placed at entry points, and passengers have to use them before entering the station. Social distancing has to be maintained at entry points, escalators, platforms, and other areas. We cannot allow people to overcrowd at platforms,” the official said. The number of passengers per coach may also be reduced. On normal days a six-car train can carry more than 1,700 passengers. Sources said that BMRCL may allow only those with smart cards to travel and do away with issuing tokens. In the initial days of the lockdown imposed by the State government, the BMRCL had taken various measures while operating the trains, which included sanitization of trains after they reached the depot, disinfecting high-touch areas inside the train, escalators and platforms. At the time, the BMRCL had also restricted the train operations timings.  Public transport systems incurred huge revenue losses during the lockdown. While bus services have resumed to an extent, BMRCL has had no revenue. An official estimated that the metro rail corporation has lost on an average Rs. 50 to Rs. 60 crore in revenue due to COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/longer-wait-for-metro-services/article31713637.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NASSCOM develops data analysis tool to help in fight against pandemic||The State government, in collaboration with the National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM) has developed a data analysis tool to help in its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. “This product can provide all relevant coronavirus-related information including source of infection, its classification, infection rate, statistical information, detecting the infection, as well as treatment, along with real-time information on available infrastructure and human resources,” said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwatha Narayan in a video conference with leaders of the IT-BT sector at launch. He highlighted Karnataka’s management of the situation using the latest technology. He also highlighted the need to improve existing health care infrastructure. “It is important to digitise the healthcare services for which the help of the IT-BT sectors will be essential. We need to use all available resources to provide 24/7 health care in the city. Our work should be a model for other states to follow. I, as a doctor, am ready to provide all possible cooperation. I request all companies to join hands with me in doing this.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/nasscom-develops-data-analysis-tool-to-help-in-fight-against-pandemic/article31713639.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Newborn stolen an hour after birth||The Chamarajpet police are on the lookout for a woman who is on the run after allegedly stealing a newborn boy an hour after birth at a BBMP hospital on Friday morning. The mother, Husna Banu, 29, first went to a private hospital where her sister-in-law was employed as a housekeeping staff. There, the doctor, after examining her, referred her to a civic hospital. She gave birth later in the day, and was shifted to a ward where she was the only patient. According to the police, her husband, Naveed Pasha, left the hospital to drop the sister-in-law at her workplace. The sister-in-law’s husband, Akmal Pasha remained outside the hospital and informed relatives of the arrival of the baby. “While this was happening, a woman walked into the ward, picked up the child and left through the back gate. Husna was sleeping at the time,” said a police officer. It was only when Akmal returned to the ward that they realised the baby was missing. The police, during the course of the investigation, learned that the security guard had opened the back gate to allow the washerwoman to collect laundry. “CCTV footage from the hospital and outside show a woman with a baby entering an autorickshaw. We tracked down the driver who said he dropped the woman at the hospital where Husna’s sister-in-law worked. We have summoned Akmal Pasha and his wife working in the hospital as well as Naveed for questioning,” the police added. Family angry However, the police’s suspicions that they could be involved have angered the family. “The police need to book the hospital for negligence instead of questioning them. The police have been grilling us for many hours since Friday,” said Naveed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/newborn-stolen-an-hour-after-birth/article31713634.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Head constable overcomes COVID-19, receives hero’s welcome on return||A head constable from Pulakeshi Nagar traffic police station, who was the first police official to contract COVID-19 and be hospitalised, is unlikely to forget the events of May 30. Not only was Guruswamy discharged from Victoria Hospital after eight days of treatment, but he got a hero’s welcome from his colleagues and top cops, including Bengaluru Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao. The premises of the hospital was a scene of jubilation. Hundreds of police personnel cheered and clapped when the 35-year-old head constable walked out in his uniform, to the beats of the police band. The police had arranged a floral carpet, and passers-by stopped to take in the scene. After he was greeted by Mr. Rao and senior police officers with a formal salute, he was driven to his family. “The head constable never expected such a welcome. This is a memorable moment for me, one that I will cherish for a lifetime,” said the visibly overwhelmed constable. “Such a gesture will boost the morale of our team and motivate them to work even more during this time,” said Mr. Rao. The head constable had tested positive on May 20, after which he was hospitalised. “This is the first case of a city policeman who has recovered. This moment is special and needs to be remembered,” a senior police officer said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/head-constable-overcomes-covid-19-receives-heros-welcome-on-return/article31713636.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 restrictions: HC to look into issues when trial courts resume work||The High Court of Karnataka has initiated a suo motu case to address legal and technical issues that will crop up when trial courts resume partial functioning from June 1 restricting entry of advocates and litigants into the court premises due to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued in view of COVID-19 restrictions. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Sheeeniwas Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj also asked senior advocates Udaya Holla and C.V. Nagesh to assist the court as amicus curiae to find solutions to the issues. One such issue, the Bench said, will be of insistence by the courts of judicial magistrates for personal presence of the complainants at the time of filing complaints under Section 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and especially, private complaints for the offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. A similar issue will arise about personal presence of the parties at the time of presentation of matrimonial petitions. And Under the Video Conferencing Rules, framed by the High Court of Karnataka, it is permissible to record the statements of the accused under Section 313 of CrPC by video conferencing, the Bench pointed out. It is also permissible to record the statement under Section 164 of CrPC by taking recourse to video conferencing. Another issue is whether video conferencing hearing can be conducted for framing of charge and for recording of plea. The other issue which is relevant in the present day context is of conduct of remand proceedings through video conferencing, the Bench noted. Though confidentiality is attached to the mediation/conciliation meetings, the issue is whether by adopting all possible safety measures, mediation/conciliation meetings can be held through video conferencing hearing, the Bench observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/covid-19-restrictions-hc-to-look-into-issues-when-trial-courts-resume-work/article31713644.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Most new cases from Bengaluru Urban||After reporting a relatively low number of COVID-19 cases over the past few days, a total of 33 new cases were reported in Bengaluru Urban on Saturday. This is the highest among all districts in the State on the day, followed by Yadgir at 18. The number of new cases reported in the State on Saturday was 141, which takes the total figure to 2,922. BBMP authorities said 11 individuals who tested positive were primary contacts of patients. The civic body is tracing the contacts of the remaining individuals. Meanwhile, BBMP is also undergoing the mammoth task of identifying people who came in contact with the councillor who tested positive. “As he is an elected representative, he met a lot of people and we will trace all his contacts. As he was residing in a containment zone, we had advised him not to venture out,” a senior official said. 17 primary and 19 secondary contacts of the councillor have been identified so far, and it could “increase dramatically,” BBMP officials said. A case has been filed against the councillor by the BBMP. Of the 141 new cases reported on Saturday, 90 are inter-state passengers. Meanwhile, 103 patients were discharged across the State. With this, the total number of discharges stand at 997.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/most-new-cases-from-bengaluru-urban/article31713668.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Using smokeless tobacco products, spitting banned||The State government has banned using smokeless tobacco products and spitting in public places across the State. It will now invite penal action. On the eve of World No Tobacco Day, Minister B.S. Sriramulu appealed, particularly to the youth, to stay away from paan masala products. The ban had been implemented in 15 districts. Vishal Rao, member of the high-power committee on tobacco and cancer control, Government of Karnataka, appreciated the move by the State government. Last month, the Union Ministry had asked all the States and Union Territories to take measures to curb public usage of tobacco as it increases the chances of spreading COVID-19.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/using-smokeless-tobacco-products-spitting-banned/article31713669.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New Chief Postmaster General takes charge||Sharda Sampath assumed office as the Chief Postmaster General, Karnataka Circle, Bengaluru, on Wednesday. According to a release, prior to the present post, she was the Chief Postmaster General, Kerala Circle, Thiruvananthapuram. She replaced Charles Lobo, who has been promoted as Member (Operations), Postal Service Board.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/new-chief-postmaster-general-takes-charge/article31713662.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Don’t comment on BJP affairs’||In a strict warning to State Congress leaders, KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar asked party leaders not to make any comments on internal affairs in the ruling BJP to the media. Only he and CLP leader Siddaramaiah would make comments to the media on this issue, Mr. Shivakumar said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-comment-on-bjp-affairs/article31713657.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||The case of three Council aspirants||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had publicly promised R. Shankar, who was among the MLAs who defected to the BJP, that he will be made an MLC and then Minister after he was denied a ticket to contest the byelection to the Assembly. Sources close to the Chief Minister said that now while the Council berth is assured, ministership may not be a cakewalk now. More tricky is the case of two other defectors — N. Nagaraju (MTB) and A.H. Vishwanath — who contested the bypolls and lost. “The problem is all three belong to one community. Mr. Nagaraju stands a chance as he got defeated owing to internal issues of the BJP. While Mr. Vishwanath is also lobbying hard, there seems to be no inclination towards him,” said a source. In Mysuru on Saturday, Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekhar, who was among those who defected to the BJP, said he was in favour Mr. Vishwanath, Mr. Nagaraju, and Mr. Shankar getting nominated to the Legislative Council whose elections are scheduled for June 5. “All of us who won the byelection on the BJP ticket were of the opinion that the trio should be made MLCs,” he told reporters here.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/the-case-of-three-council-aspirants/article31713653.ece
31 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||When vegetables get a communal taint||A direct-to-home vegetable seller in Hassan was shocked recently when one of his employees refused to take vegetables to one particular household. He then learnt that the worker was hurt because when he had gone to the customer’s place, he was asked if he had licked the vegetables to spread COVID-19. The worker never anticipated the question from the customer, to whom he had been supplying vegetables for the past several months. Muslim fruit and vegetable sellers have faced many such experiences in the last over a month in Hassan after the outbreak of COVID-19. People in powerful positions giving statements targeting the community and accusing it of spreading the infection made it worse, they say. The owner of the shop, who takes orders over the phone and delivers the bag of vegetables the next day to houses, said: “We were getting on an average 70 to 80 orders a day before but now it has come down to 40 a day.” He was, on the contrary, expecting good business during lockdown as people had difficulty in going out. The police had given him special passes as he was delivering essential items to houses. Last month, a few miscreants circulated a video purportedly showing fruit-sellers tasting fruits before selling them at Uttara Badavane in Hassan city. The video clip went viral until the police intervened to term it fake and misleading. Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda clarified that they were only selling the fruits, and the video circulated was misleading. He also warned those who upload and circulate misleading videos to disturb communal harmony of strict action. However, the video had done the damage by then, said another vegetable sellers. A vegetable seller in Belur, who used to go around the villages in the taluk carrying vegetables, was sent back in many villages without doing business. A majority of them who asked him not to visit his place again had known him over several years. He felt he lost their trust owing to fake stories and baseless accusations made by certain leaders in power and misleading videos and a section of media picking them up. “Some people respectfully asked me not to visit their village. I had no words to say,” he said. Further, he said a majority of his customers had been Hindus all these years. Now, they “prefer sellers with Bhagwa Dhwaj tied to their vehicles” over people like him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/when-vegetables-get-a-communal-taint/article31713652.ece
31 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||13 more test positive in Hassan||Thirteen more people tested positive to COVID-19 in Hassan on Saturday, increasing the total number of confirmed cases in the district to 157. Among those who tested positive, six are natives of Alur taluk who had returned from Mumbai recently and were quarantined at Alur. They were recently sent home following the direction of the State government to send home all those who have completed seven days of institutional quarantine. However, the laboratory tests of their samples later showed that they were infected. They have been admitted to the COVID hospital in Hassan, said Deputy Commissioner R. Girish. The district administration has declared the localities of their houses containment zones. As of now, there are nine containment zones in the district. The remaining seven people were in quarantine centres at Channarayapatna taluk after returning from Mumbai.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/13-more-test-positive-in-hassan/article31713805.ece
31 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||4 more cases in Haveri||Haveri district recorded four more COVID-19 cases on Saturday. All four persons, from Ranebennur taluk, have a travel history to Maharashtra. Consequently, the locality surrounding the quarantine centre in Ranebennur in which the positive persons were staying, the Devaraj Urs Post Metric Girls Hostel, was declared a containment zone by Deputy Commissioner Krishna Bajpai. Mr. Bajpai said that those who tested positive — a 19-year-old (P-2856), a 13-year-old boy (P-2857), a 15-year-old boy (P-2858), and a 11-year-old boy (P-2859) — were natives of Tumminakatti village in Ranebennur and had returned to Haveri from Thane district in Maharashtra after applying through Seva Sindhu. Including these four persons, a total of 41 people were quarantined at the hostel from May 25. Mr. Bajpai said that an area of 100 metres surrounding the hostel at Eshwar Nagar has been declared a containment zone, while an area of 200 metres surrounding it has been declared a buffer zone. Ranebennur tahsildar Basavanagouda Kotur has been appointed incident commander of the containment and buffer zones. So far, Haveri district has recorded a total of 14 positive cases, and of them three have been discharged from hospital, leaving 11 active cases. Of these, eight persons are natives of Tumminakatti village. Two cases in Dharwad Meanwhile, Dharwad district recorded two more positive cases on Saturday. While one of them, a 26-year-old woman (P-2807), is a contact of P-1123, the other, a 28-year-old woman (P-2808), has a travel history to Maharashtra. Both of them were already in quarantine. Dharwad district now has 46 positive cases; of them, 11 persons have been discharged from hospital.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/4-more-cases-in-haveri/article31713810.ece
31 May 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Bidar reports fourth death, 10 new cases||A 47-year-old COVID-19-infected woman, P-2783, died in Bidar on Thursday, taking the toll in the district to four. As per the evening media bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the patient had been paralysed and bedridden for the last eight years. She also had other comorbidities such as hypertension and convulsion. She was admitted to hospital on May 24 upon having complained of Influenza-like Illness. Earlier, the district had reported three COVID-19 deaths. It reported its first casualty on April 28 with the death of an 82-year-old man, who was admitted to hospital on the evening of April 27 for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and died the next day, before his sample tested positive for the disease on May 29. He was later codenamed P-590. He spread the infection to as many as eight people. The district reported its second fatality on May 12 with the death of a 52-year-old man, P-1041, on May 12. His sample tested positive for COVID-19 on May 15. The deceased, a resident of Chitguppa, had a travel history to Hyderabad and was admitted to hospital as a SARI case. He transmitted the infection to two more people. On May 27, Bidar registered its third casualty with the death of a 49-year-old (P-1712). The patient was admitted to hospital as a case of SARI after he complained of fever, cough and breathlessness. He was also a known case of diabetes mellitus. New cases The district also reported 10 fresh cases of COVID-19, including two girls, aged seven and five, on Saturday, taking the total number of cases to 130. This includes the four deaths and 27 people discharged after recovery. Of the new cases, nine returned from other States — seven from Maharashtra and two from Delhi. The remaining one was a case of Influenza-Like Illness. The district also reported three recoveries (P-857, P-891, and P-892). There were 99 active cases of COVID-19 in the district as on Saturday evening.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bidar-reports-fourth-death-10-new-cases/article31713804.ece
31 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Shramik Special leaves Ballari with labourers||As many as 1,273 migrant labourersstranded in various parts of Ballari district, thanks to the prolonged lockdown, left for their native places in West Bengal by a Shramik Special train from Ballari on Saturday. The top brass of the district administration, including Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul, Superintendent of Police C.K. Baba, Additional Deputy Commissioner Manjunath, and Additional Superintendent of Police B.N. Lavanya, were present at Ballari railway station to send off to the labourers. Before they were taken to the railway station to board the train, the labourers were subjected to a thorough medical exam at Ballari Central Bus Station and Government Model Higher Primary School in Toranagal. Fitness certificate and train tickets were given to the passengers after they were sensitised about the precautions to be taken during the journey. They were also provided with enough food packets and bottles of water to last their journey.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/shramik-special-leaves-ballari-with-labourers/article31713807.ece
31 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Section 144 extended||The imposition of Section 144 of Criminal Procedure Code, which has been in force for the last 74 days in the district in view of COVID-19, has been extended till June 15 in Kalaburagi. Deputy Commissioner and District Magistrate B. Sharat felt the need for extension of restrictions considering the increasing number of positive cases being reported in the district. He issued an order to this end on Saturday. He clarified in the order itself would not stand in the way of supply of essential goods and services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/section-144-extended/article31713812.ece
31 May 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Not all have easy access to smartphone, laptop||Prakruthi, a class 4 student of a private school in Channapatna taluk, wakes up at 4 a.m. every day to complete her assignment on her father’s smartphone. She has to finish before he sets out to the fields because she has no other smartphone, laptop or PC at home. Also, Internet during early morning hours is good and she can watch videos without them buffering. While schools outside Bengaluru are also adapting to online class during lockdown, it is not easy for children like Prakruthi, who lives in a village on Channapatna-Maddur border, because of issues of connectivity and availability of devices. “Our school delivers lectures on digital platforms at scheduled slots to help students to listen to lessons. Nearly 350 students, including those staying at remote villages, have accepted the new mode of teaching since past two months,” said Kiranprasad, trustee of Springfields Public School in Channapatna taluk. However, many schools themselves have connectivity issues. “We are ready to adapt to online teaching, but the Internet speed is very poor,” said the partner of two private schools in Magadi and Ramanagaram. A Block Education Officer who did not wish to be named said that government schools too would follow e-learning activities from 2022-23 academic year in a phased manner. Bengaluru Rural Lok Sabha member D.K. Suresh has gifted many smart classes to government schools in Ramanagaram district, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/not-all-have-easy-access-to-smartphone-laptop/article31713645.ece
31 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana facing new challenges||Professional Yakshagana ‘melas’ (troupes) were forced to give up their daily performances mid-way in March owing to COVID-19 and the lockdown restrictions that ensued. The traditional calendar of these troupes begins in December and ends by May. During this period, they tour different places in coastal and Malnad areas to showcase their performances. The pandemic has thrown up new challenges, and the managers of the troupes are worried about the performances and preparation for the next season. They are trying to figure out and address issues regarding audiences for the performances, the crowding of artistes at the ‘chowki’ (green room for Yakshagana performance), and the sharing of costumes and make-up items, among others. The lockdown has hit various stakeholders associated with Yakshagana and they have incurred losses worth crores. The belt has over 40 professional touring troupes with most of them presenting all-night shows and a few of them performing short duration shows from December to May. he troupes have a minimum of 25 persons to a maximum of 60 persons, including artistes, helpers and others. P. Kishen Hegde, who managed the four performing troupes of Saligrama, Madamakki, Hiriyadkka and Soukuru in Udupi district, told The Hindu that unless a vaccine is discovered, resuming the ‘tirugata’ (season’s daily tour) will be risky. “This is for the first time the ‘melas’ have been forced to wind up the shows en masse for a pandemic,” he said. Keremane Shivananda Hegde, who managed the over eight-decade-old Idagunji Mahaganapathi Yakshagana Mandali in Uttara Kannada, said that the pandemic is “an unimaginable setback” to the artistes and others dependent on Yakshagana. Mr. Hegde, who is the third generation artiste in the famous Keremane family devoted to Yakshagana, said many artistes do not have a life security. “If COVID-19 is not controlled within a year, the future appears bleak.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/yakshagana-facing-new-challenges/article31713643.ece
31 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Inter-district bus services in DK, Udupi to resume from June 1||Of the about 2,000 service buses (inter-district buses and long-route buses within the district) of private operators in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi, 25% will resume services from June 1, according to Rajavarma Ballal, president of Canara Bus Operators’ Association. There will be a hike in travel fares. Addressing press persons in Udupi on Saturday after a meeting of private bus operators of the two districts, Mr. Ballal said the operators had suspended services since the lockdown began. Referring to private city buses, he said 135 of 320 city buses in Mangaluru and 22 of 85 city buses in Udupi would be on the road from Monday. They will operate every 15 to 20 minutes. All the buses will operate between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m., as per the government order, Mr. Ballal said. The general secretary of the association, Suresh Nayak Kuyilady, said travel fares have been hiked by 15% after talks with the government. The fare between Manipal and Mangaluru will be Rs. 85, up from Rs. 68, while the fare for travel between Udupi and Mangaluru will be Rs. 80, up from Rs. 67. The far for the journey from Kundapura to Udupiwill be Rs. 55, up from Rs. 45. The fares applicable after the hike in other prominent routes are Rs. 65 for Karkala-Padubidri-Mangaluru, Rs. 120 for Kundapura-Udupi-Mangaluru, Rs. 62 for Karkala-Moodbidri- Mangaluru, Rs. 45 for Udupi-Hiriyadkka- Karkala. Dilraj Alva, president of Dakshina Kannada Bus Operators’ Association, was also present. Meanwhile, in a statement, J.R. Lobo, former MLA, Mangaluru South, said the government and bus owners should provide health kits and insurance to drivers and conductors before resuming bus services.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/inter-district-bus-services-in-dk-udupi-to-resume-from-june-1/article31713817.ece
31 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||27 from Dakshina Kannada, Udupi positive for COVID-19||As many as 14 people from Dakshina Kannada and 13 from Udupi tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. Nine persons, including four policemen from Udupi district, were discharged following treatment. According to the State bulletin, of the 14 persons in Dakshina Kannada, 13 had returned from Maharashtra. The youngest among them is a 11-year-old girl, while the oldest is a 61-year-old man. All were in institutional quarantine. A 17-year-old boy (P-2871) from Pilar near Someshwar of Mangaluru taluk tested positive on Friday evening. He is a secondary contact of P-947, a woman from the same area who was discharged a few days ago. All the 14 new cases, and 54 others, are under treatment at the Government Wenlock Hospital. Five persons, including a 55-year-old woman found with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness and two men who had returned from the UAE, were discharged. Of 13 who tested positive in Udupi, 12 had returned from Maharashtra while a two-year-old girl (P-2794) had returned from Telangana State. All 13 were under institutional quarantine and have now been moved to the designated COVID-19 hospital. Four policemen Inspector-General of Police (Western Range) Devajyoti Ray greeted the four policemen from Udupi who were discharged. “Police are on the field and run the risk of getting infected,” he told reporters. He encouraged all policemen to continue working courageously as they were here to work of the society. The four policemen will come back to work after they complete their 14-day home quarantine, he said. Mr. Ray said all police stations in the Western Range, comprising of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, Chikkamagaluru, and Uttara Kannada, would be sanitised in phases. A Shramik Special train carrying as many as 910 labourers to Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh, left Udupi at 5 p.m. on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/27-from-dakshina-kannada-udupi-positive-for-covid-19/article31713819.ece
31 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Don’t sail out for fishing till June 4’||The Department of Fisheries has instructed fishermen not to sail out for fishing in in Arabian Sea from May 31 to June 4, in view of possible adverse weather conditions. The sea is likely to be very rough, and the India Meteorological Department has warned that there is likely to be depression in the sea during the period. A release issued on Saturday said that fishing boats already at sea have been advised to return.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/dont-sail-out-for-fishing-till-june-4/article31713818.ece
31 May 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Residents struggle as rain lashes Raichur||Heavy rain accompanied with thunderstorms lashed Raichur district between late night on Friday and Saturday morning. An average of 15.4 mm of rain was recorded across the district. Raichur city received 26.5 mm of rain, Manvi 30.2 mm, Sindhanur 12.7 mm, and Deodurg 7.4 mm. Low-lying areas in Raichur city such as Maddipet, Basavanabavi, Bangikunta, Bandar Galli, Sia-talab and Gadwal road area were the worst-affected by rain and drain water. Residents of many slum areas were removed after poorly maintained drainage did not allow the water to flow easily. “It is the common problem during rainy season. The authorities have completely failed to ensure a scientific drain system in many areas coming under CMC limits,” an elderly person, taking a brief halt from removing water from the path near his house, said. According to sources, many houses partially collapsed and trees were uprooted. But the civic authority or district administration has yet to come out with the specific numbers. Raichur district, which was badly affected by the coronavirus pandemic with 134 positive cases, has experienced the worst with the rain as well. This has increased the burden on the authorities to ensure the safety and health of both urban and rural residents.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/residents-struggle-as-rain-lashes-raichur/article31713809.ece
31 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Six cases in Shivamogga||As many as six persons, including three police constables, tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Saturday. A team of 41 police personnel who were part of the battalion of Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) near Machenahalli in Shivamogga district had been to Bengaluru on bandobast duty on April 21. After their return to Machenahalli, they were asked to remain in home quarantine. The swab samples of three of them tested positive on Saturday. Following this, 50 persons at the KSRP quarters identified as primary contacts of these three have been lodged at a quarantine facility. The remaining three positive cases — a 27-year-old woman, a seven-year-old boy, and a three-year-old girl — were from the Hakki-Pikki camp near Shivamogga city. They had returned from Punjab recently. The camp has been declared a containment zone. With this, the total cases in the district is 41.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/six-cases-in-shivamogga/article31713815.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||UDF hike will make flying abroad a wee bit costlier||Once the aviation sector opens up completely, passengers flying from Kempegowda International Airport (KIA), especially to international destinations, will find that their tickets have become costlier. They will have to shell out more User Development Fee (UDF), which has been increased. The new rates will come into effect on June 1 for passengers taking both international and domestic flights. Bangalore International Airport (BIAL), in a press release on Saturday, announced that the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (AERA) has permitted KIA to collect Rs. 839 from international passengers, an increase of Rs. 123. In comparison, domestic passengers will see a hike of Rs. 5 and will have to pay Rs. 184. Earlier, BIAL was charging Rs. 716 for passengers taking international flights, and Rs. 179 for domestic travellers. AERA has allowed BIAL to increase landing charges and UDF for the financial year 2020-21 to compensate the revenue loss caused by the abolition of Fuel Throughput Charge (FTC), said BIAL in the release. The Ministry of Civil Aviation had issued an order on January 8, 2020 asking the AERA to direct all operators to discontinue the levy of FTC on aviation turbine fuel in all airports. This decision was taken to provide relief to airlines as fuel prices were shooting up at the time. “It (Ministry) further directed AERA to compensate airport operators for this loss of revenue, as FTC was a regulated charge, by recalibrating other regulated charges, such as landing charges and UDF. In response, AERA issued an order on May 26, 2020, allowing BIAL to increase Landing Charges and UDF for FY 2020-21 to compensate for the revenue loss,” stated the release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/udf-hike-will-make-flying-abroad-a-wee-bit-costlier/article31713647.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Zonal teams to respond to rain damage in city||With pre-monsoon showers claiming two lives, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday directed civic agencies and the police to remain on high alert, take necessary measures to ensure the safety of citizens and respond to distress calls. The Chief Minister on Saturday chaired a meeting with Revenue Minister R. Ashoka, Chief Secretary Vijay Bhaskar, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao, and other senior officials to discuss rain preparedness. Departments and agencies have been asked to work in coordination with each other. With increasing number of complaints about the poor condition of roads, the Chief Minister directed the BBMP to ensure that all potholes are covered and that jetting machines and other equipment are ready for deployment at any time in all the eight zones. He warned officials of stern action if they fail to fulfil their duties. Mr. Yediyurappa instructed officials to take all the precautionary measures to prevent overflowing of stormwater drains, inundation of low-lying areas and water-logging on roads. After the meeting, Revenue Minister R. Ashoka said that senior officials have been directed to form teams at the zonal level comprising of employees from BBMP, Bescom, BWSSB, Police, Fire and Emergency Services, to carry out rescue operations, if necessary. Engineers will be made responsible for any mishap. The city has been receiving heavy rains accompanied by gusty winds and thunder storm over the past three days. BBMP control rooms have been flooded with complaints ranging from trees falls to inundation and damage to property.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/zonal-teams-to-respond-to-rain-damage-in-city/article31713631.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Cong. blames Modi’s ‘promotion of personality cult’ for economic failures||The StateCongress has blamed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “promotion of personality cult” for “disastrous economic failures” such as high unemployment, decline of GDP growth, contraction in industrial growth, and migrant crisis. KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar told presspersons here on Saturday that the country witnessed a four-decade high of unemployment and job crisis as the leadership at the Centre was suffering from “the arrogance of personality cult”. The Modi-led government has destroyed the economy that was built over the years and the last one year has been “an insult to the nation and the State,” he said. The BJP governments at the Centre and in Karnataka have miserably failed to live up to the expectations of the people owing to poor leadership that had not consulted experts, economists, and business leaders while taking decisions related to the economy or COVID-19. Instead of reducing petrol and diesel prices following crash in global price, the Centre increased it by levying more taxes, he said. The Rs. 20-lakh crore package announced by the Centre has benefited none, said Mr. Shivakumar. “Neither micro, small and medium enterprises nor small traders have benefited. A large number of migrants died because of hunger,” he alleged. Terming the lockdown as “total failure” both at the Central and the State level owing to inexperienced Ministers and direction-less officials, Mr. Shivakumar said the governments did not make efforts to understand the pain suffered by the people. The governments insulted migrants by denying food and shelter during the lockdown, he alleged.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/cong-blames-modis-promotion-of-personality-cult-for-economic-failures/article31713660.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Private lab testing only for certain categories||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has now clarified that only pregnant women, children below the age of 10, those aged above 80, and terminally-ill patients coming from high-risk States and abroad will have to pay for their pooled samples test. This will cost them Rs. 650. The order issued on Friday had not clearly stated that this is applicable to certain sections of passengers. Speaking at a press conference, Jawaid Akthar, Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said this was to speed up time taken for testing. He said if any of them were unable to pay, they would have to be under institutional quarantine set up by the government and the State would pay for their testing. The department also said that it was aimed at “improving the participation of private labs that have been approved by ICMR in testing and were currently running at sub-optimal level.” It has been done also to help special category passengers and their attendants to leave early after giving the sample once the swab collection centres are established at airport/railway stations etc. The department clarified that there is no change in the institutional quarantine period for those coming from high-risk States and they would have to complete seven-day quarantine.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/private-lab-testing-only-for-certain-categories/article31713666.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||1.77 lakh auto, taxi drivers apply for compensation||As of Saturday, 1.77 lakh autorickshaw and taxi drivers have submitted online applications on the ‘Seva Sindhu’ portal to claim the Rs. 5,000 compensation announced by the State government. The Transport Department, in a press release, said in the first phase, money will be transferred to the accounts of eligible applicants in two days. The department has advised those who want to apply in the coming days to link their bank account with their Aadhaar card number. Drivers can also check the status of their application through an OTP on their mobile phones. The State government has estimated that around 7.5 lakh autorickshaw and taxi drivers will benefit from the compensation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/177-lakh-auto-taxi-drivers-apply-for-compensation/article31713661.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMTC AC bus services from tomorrow||The State government has finally permitted the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) to operate air-conditioned buses with city limits. Starting Monday (June 1), 75 AC buses will operate on eight routes: Majestic to Kadugodi, Majestic to Hoskote, Majestic to Attibele, Majestic to Sarjapur, Hebbal to Banashankari, Hebbal to Silk Board, Banashankari to ITPB and Electronics City to ITPB. Due to lockdown, the luxury fleet of AC buses of the Corporation remained off the road for over two months. Regular buses resumed services in Bengaluru on May 19. Commuters can travel in AC buses by purchasing tickets and passes. In some of the buses, the BMTC will provide QR-based payment option. However, no AC services will be operated for some time on the airport routes. A BMTC official said, “At present, we may not get the required number of passengers to operate the airport services. We will take a call on this at a later date.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/bmtc-ac-bus-services-from-tomorrow/article31713633.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||PAC plans privilege motion against Speaker||The Public Accounts Committee (PAC) of the State legislature is planning to move a privilege motion against Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri for stalling a probe into alleged corruption in the procurement of devices and protective equipment to fight COVID-19. The PAC, headed by the former Minister and senior Congress leader H.K. Patil, had sought a report from the Health and Family Welfare Department on the alleged complaints related to siphoning off public funds to procure the devices and protective equipment. Mr. Kageri issued an order on May 27 barring House committees from conducting field visits or meetings with officials in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. This irked Mr. Patil, who alleged that Mr. Kageri’s order was “tantamount to promoting corruption and curtailing the rights and privileges of legislators and members of the PAC”. The committee will take a final decision on moving the privilege motion at its meeting on June 2, Mr. Patil said at a press conference on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/pac-plans-privilege-motion-against-speaker/article31713655.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Headed home||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-karnataka/headed-home/article31713814.ece
31 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Body of COVID victim cremated||The body of the Pandanad native who died of COVID-19 on Friday was cremated in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol at the Chathanad gas crematorium here on Saturday. Earlier, authorities decided to bury his body at the cemetery of his local church at Pandanad. The plan was abandoned after water was seen when digging the grave. “As per the COVID-19 protocol, the grave should be 12 feet deep. But at the cemetery, water was found at five feet. We informed this to his family members and the priest. With their consent, the body was cremated at a gas crematorium of the Alappuzha municipality,” said an official. The 38-year-old man had come from Abu Dhabi on May 27. According to officials, the person developed haematemesis on Friday morning while at a COVID-19 care centre. He was immediately transferred to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, and died there in the afternoon. The deceased was suffering from chronic liver disease. He was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 posthumously. Meanwhile, one more person tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The patient, a young man, hailing from Cherthala taluk, came from Rome in Italy on May 22. He was in institutional quarantine at a covid care centre after reaching the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/body-of-covid-victim-cremated/article31713927.ece
31 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Cardamom prices fall at e-auction||The reopening of e-auction after a gap of 68 days at the Spices Park in Puttady on Friday saw prices of cardamom falling. At the auction held by the Kerala Cardamom Processing and Marketing Co. Ltd, the maximum price quoted per kilogram was Rs. 2,410 and the average price, Rs. 1,769. Out of 16,219 kg that came for auction, 16,104 kg was sold. As many as 32 auctioneers participated in the auction. In the wake of COVID-19, only a single auction has been arranged per day against two auctions in the pre-COVID days. The difference between the current prices, both for maximum and average, from the last auction held on March 19 was high. The maximum price quoted then was Rs. 3,1198 and the average price, Rs. 2,359. ‘No lull in demand’ An official says the current fall in prices is not an indicator of the trend as the auction is still in the initial stage. The price is decided by the demand-and-supply factor. There is no slowdown in demand and the prices may pick up. A Spices Board of India official says though there had been no auction before Friday, hill produce merchants had been procuring cardamom from the farmers at very low prices. Hence, there was demand from the farmers to open the auction to get a competitive price. Reason cited The fall in prices, according to marketing sources, is largely due to the long shutdown that left stock unsold. Farmers had also withheld the earlier produce hoping to get higher price later. The slump now could also be because of the hope of getting fresh produce with crop being readied for harvest in July/August when the season begins. There are also predictions that the coming harvesting season is favourable in terms of production. But with the economy slowing down, a higher production may have a negative impact on the prices, according to market sources.  Only one auction held as against the usual two Price likely to pick up, say experts||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cardamom-prices-fall-at-e-auction/article31713914.ece
31 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Police stop migrants walking to Bihar||The police on Saturday stopped a group of migrant workers at Lakkidi on the Wayanad-Kozhikode district when they were walking to their native places in Bihar, nearly 2,500 km away from here. The Vythiri police took 15 migrant workers into protective custody and informed the District Labour Officer K. Suresh. District Police Chief R. Ilango told The Hindu that it was suspected that they had taken the extreme step after they were misled by some people. However, no case had been registered in this connection, he said. The workers said that they had been working in a brick kiln at Pandi Kadavu near Mananthavady. But dearth of work, money, and inadequate supply of food after the lockdown had made their life miserable. Later, the District Labour Officer held discussions with the workers and assured them that they would be sent back to their native places by train at the earliest. The workers had registered through the local administrative bodies for their return journey, but a train for the purpose was yet to be allotted, Mr. Suresh said. The delay might have compelled the workers to take the extreme step, he said. A train for registered workers would be readied in a few days, he added. The workers were sent back to their camps in a vehicle after being provided with food and drinking water.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/police-stop-migrants-walking-to-bihar/article31713887.ece
31 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Collectors to discuss opening of dams||A meeting of the district collectors of Wayanad and Mysuru will be held at Beechanahalli in Karnataka on June 1 for a coordinated opening of reservoirs across the Kabani or Kapila river to avert floods during the monsoon. There are three dams across the river – Karapuzha and Banasura Sagar in Kerala, and Kabini reservoir at Beechanahalli – and the lack of coordination in opening the shutters of the dams caused floods in Wayanad. Senior officials of the Revenue and Minor Irrigation departments in both the States and dam safety officials of Karapuzha, Banasura Sagar, and Kabini reservoirs will attend the meet. District Collector Adeela Abdulla said the administration would make a list of people living in low-lying areas and who were shifted to relief camps during the floods in the last two years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/collectors-to-discuss-opening-of-dams/article31713879.ece
31 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New strategies take centre stage as markets reopen||The national lockdown and the subsequent halt to normal market activities have forced administrators, market players, and people’s representatives to rethink strategies for a sustainable post-COVID-19 scenario. Two of Kochi’s major fish markets — Varappuzha and Champakkara — have reopened to business as restrictions were eased earlier this month. The first signs of the need for a new protocol are visible at what used to be called the most traditional of fish markets at Varappuzha. Famed for its fresh catch of brackish water fish, the market thrived mostly on goodwill, while the more important aspects of hygiene took a back seat. However, that may be a thing of the past, said B.K. Mani, a veteran trader at the market. For around three months now, it is a daily ritual to chlorinate the entire market area after the day’s sales. This is a new way of going about the business, one that is taken for granted. It is now obvious that we have to take care of the health aspects more seriously, Mr. Mani added. M.S. Jayan, a worker at the Champakkara market, said there was a visible change in the way people conducted themselves in the COVID-19 situation. The hustle and bustle has come down, not because of fall in business but owing to an awareness that more needs to be done to keep the market clean and tidy. V.P. Chandran, corporation council member from Champakkara, said it was single shift in the market now as against the earlier double shift. Loading and unloading are done well before 5 a.m. on all working days, with only retail sales taking place till 8 a.m.. Varappuzha panchayat president K.S. Mohammed said the local body was aware of the big responsibility it had in the wake of the pandemic outbreak. The activities have been split into two. Retail sales take place within the market space, while wholesale transactions are carried out outside the market to prevent crowding. Mr. Mohammed said a bio-gas plant was being established at the market to dispose of fish waste. The tender for the project, costing around Rs. 1 crore, will be finalised soon, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/new-strategies-take-centre-stage-as-markets-reopen/article31713893.ece
31 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Philippine naval ships depart after eventful stay||Two ships of the Philippine Navy BRP Ramon Alcaraz and BRP Davao Del Sur , which were in Kochi for an extended duration, departed three days ago. The ships visited Kochi on May 6 for repatriation of stranded Philippine nationals from India and collection of stores including face masks. But on May8, during the return passage, BRP Ramo Alcaraz had an incident of fire on board. A sailor who was injured was soon evacuated using a helicopter to the naval hospital, INHS Sanjivani . BRP Ramon Alcaraz re-entered Kochi on that day for repairs. Technical teams from the Naval Ship Repair Yard (Kochi) in close coordination with the Philippine crew undertook repairs and rendered the ship sea worthy within 10 days, said a defence press release.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/philippine-naval-ships-depart-after-eventful-stay/article31713896.ece
31 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Dengue cases on the rise again||Dengue fever cases are again on the rise in Ernakulam though they had been brought under control recently. As many as 523 suspected cases have been reported in the district so far, of which 44 have tested positive. The total number of cases has doubled compared to last year. Over the past three days, around 80 suspected cases were reported in the eastern belt of the district. Maradi, Piravom, Payipra, Nellikuzhi, Varapetty, and Kothamangalam have reported disease clusters. The pre-monsoon showers have created breeding sources for aedes aeqypti, the dengue vector mosquito. The reduced footfall in public and market spaces owing to the lockdown has resulted in an exponential rise in the number of breeding sources, with water getting collected in containers, parked trucks, and scrap materials. Moreover, water tanks kept in public as part of the hand hygiene protocol have turned out to be potential breeding sources for mosquitoes, according to Health officials. As part of the vector control measures, intensive fogging has been taken up in places where dengue cases were reported. According to Health officials, the disease spread could be contained provided ward-level activities are taken up in right earnest. They said besides dengue, people should take precautions against leptospirosis too. Quite a few cases were reported after contaminated water was consumed by fishers. The fatality rate of leptospirosis is more compared to other communicable diseases, they warned.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/dengue-cases-on-the-rise-again/article31713888.ece
31 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC panel inspects work under Op Breakthrough||A monitoring panel constituted by the High Court inspected the progress of work taken up under Operation Breakthrough, the district administration’s project to fight waterlogging, and the condition of the Thevara-Perandoor canal. Sections of Changadampokku Thodu and the Thevara-Perandoor canal were inspected. The inspection was conducted after the Kochi Corporation informed the court that the part of the Thevara-Perandoor canal after the railway overbridge was not within its ambit, said a release. Baji Chandran, executive engineer, Minor Irrigation Department, who heads the implementation of the second phase of Operation Breakthrough, inspected the sites along with the team of advocates. According to corporation sources, the end of the Thevara-Perandoor canal near the Vaduthala overbridge is a part of the backwaters and not the responsibility of the civic body.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/hc-panel-inspects-work-under-op-breakthrough/article31713890.ece
31 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Govt. moves High Court to recall bail order||The State government has moved the Kerala High Court, seeking to recall an order granting bail to an accused in a case relating to the rape and murder of a 17-year-old girl, in the wake of the allegation that the prosecutor had deliberately concealed the filing of the final report during the hearing of the bail plea. In its petition, the government pointed out that the final report had been filed on March 23, and, as a result, the Sessions Court had dismissed the bail plea. However, the fact was not clearly conveyed to the prosecutor when the bail petition was taken up for hearing. The accused, Safarsha of Panangad in Kochi, was granted bail on May 12 in view of the submission by the government pleader that no final report had been filed in the case. Granting bail to the accused, the court had observed that the investigating officer was not able to complete the investigation within the statutory period of 90 days and file a final report in the case.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/govt-moves-high-court-to-recall-bail-order/article31713891.ece
31 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||ESAF Bank posts rise in net profit||The Thrissur-based ESAF Small Finance Bank has recorded 110.86% increase in its net profit for the year ended March 31. The net profit for the fiscal rose to Rs. 190.39 crore from Rs. 90.29 crore registered the year before. “The encouraging results show the strong performance of the bank. They also highlight the fact that we are keeping our focus on empowering the poor,” said K. Paul Thomas, managing director and CEO, ESAF Bank.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/esaf-bank-posts-rise-in-net-profit/article31713889.ece
31 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Special flights from Nigeria, Dammam||Special chartered flights from Nigeria and Dammam with evacuees will arrive at the Cochin International Airport on Sunday. This will be in addition to the evacuation flights scheduled under the Vande Bharat Mission. A flight with 300 passengers from Nigeria operated by M/S Air is scheduled to land at 8.30 a.m. An Indigo flight with 180 passengers from Dammam will arrive at 7.30 p.m. Eighteen domestic and three international evacuation flights were operated through the Kochi airport on Saturday. Four return domestic services from Delhi, Mumbai, and Hyderabad were cancelled. More international airlines are gearing up for evacuation flights following the Centre’s endorsement of carrying out chartered operation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-flights-from-nigeria-dammam/article31713894.ece
31 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||4 more test positive in Kollam, active cases 29||Four more persons from the district tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday raising the number of active cases to 29. The first patient is a 45-year-old Kottiyam resident who travelled on a chartered bus with 22 others from Mumbai. He reached Kollam on May 19 and was transported to an expatriate welfare centre for institutional quarantine the same day. His sample was collected when one of his co-passengers tested positive on May 23. Another patient, a 37-year-old from Punalur, contracted the infection from his wife who travelled on a Riyadh-Kozhikode flight on May 19. He was in home quarantine after his wife tested positive. He was taken to Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Parippally, following symptoms. The third person, a 44-year-old from Thazhava, was identified in the sentinel surveillance conducted by the Health Department. He had travelled on the IX-538 Abu Dhabi-Thiruvananthapuram flight on May 16 and was in institutional quarantine at Kottarakara. Sample collected Since a number of people who travelled on the same flight tested positive, his sample was collected on May 21 at Kottarakara Taluk Hospital. But his reports were not issued and he was later taken to the MCH for collecting samples on May 25. The fourth patient had reached Kerala on a Kuwait-Thiruvananthapuram flight on May 28. The 49-year-old was taken to Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, the same day following health issues. As more expatriates are returning, the administration has stepped up surveillance and home quarantine monitoring. A total of 1,084 squads including 2,577 persons were involved in the activities connected to COVID-19 containment on Saturday. Over 10,000 houses were visited and guidelines for bed-ridden patients and those in home quarantine were given. Ninety rapid response teams were deployed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/4-more-test-positive-in-kollam-active-cases-29/article31713961.ece
31 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Job aspirants flout physical-distancing norms||Physical-distancing norms went for a toss when hundreds of people gathered on the premises of the District General Hospital here, a designated COVID care centre, here on Saturday to attend a walk-in interview for various temporary posts. The candidates, mostly women and some of them carrying babies, lined up in front of the hospital since morning in response to a newspaper notification. The interview, for vacancies of staff nurse, junior health inspector, nursing assistant and attenders, was originally scheduled from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. As jobseekers continued to pour in even from faraway places, the queue began to grow longer on the National Highway 183 near the hospital. As the candidates jostled against each other, attempts by the hospital authorities and the police to ensure physical distancing fell flat. Meanwhile, the huge gathering caused traffic disruptions on the road. As things spiralled out of control, officials directed the hospital authorities to suspend the proceedings. Soon, they directed the candidates to submit their application online and appear for an online test. The candidates are now required to submit their application on Monday between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/job-aspirants-flout-physical-distancing-norms/article31713929.ece
31 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||One more tests positive in Kottayam||A 26-year-old pregnant woman, who returned home from Dubai, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, taking the number of COVID-19 patients in the district to 20. The woman, who landed here on May 11, had been undergoing home quarantine at her residence in Perumbanachi, Changanassery, and did not exhibit any symptoms of the virus infection. She was subjected to a serum sample examination after five of her co-passengers from Dubai tested positive. Earlier in the day, a 31-year-old patient from Neendoor was discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital here after he tested negative in consecutive tests. As many as 3,659 samples were sent for examination from the district so far.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-more-tests-positive-in-kottayam/article31713962.ece
31 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Thachankary told to face trial in assets case||A Vigilance court here has dismissed a discharge petition filed by senior IPS officer and Additional Director General of Police (Crime Branch) Tomin J. Thachankary in a disproportionate assets case against him. Considering the petition on Friday, Inquiry Commissioner and Special Judge (Vigilance) K.G. Sanil Kumar directed the complainant to face trial and posted the case to July 26 for framing of charges. The case, registered in 2007, was shifted to the Vigilance court here in December 2019. As per the prosecution, Mr. Thachankary amassed wealth around Rs. 65 lakh disproportionate to the known sources of his income. The case was initiated against him on the basis of a petition filed by activist P.D. Joseph of Thrissur. Though the chargesheet against Mr.Thachankary was submitted in 2013 in the Thrissur Vigilance court, it was later transferred to the Muvattupuzha Vigilance court. Later, Mr.Thachankary approached the Kerala High Court seeking to transfer the case to Kottayam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/thachankary-told-to-face-trial-in-assets-case/article31713898.ece
31 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||One-year-old child tests positive||A one-year-old child was among the four persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Saturday. Two of them had returned from abroad and the rest from other States. Right now, Kozhikode has 36 active COVID-19 patients, including a 24-year-old Air India staffer from Maharashtra who is undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, Malappuram. In a release, District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said that the child hailed from Koduvally and had returned from Qatar along with its mother on May 18. The second patient, a 48-year-old native of Kuttiyadi, had returned from Chennai by a private vehicle on May 14. That person had been under observation since then and body fluid samples tested positive for the virus on May 29. The third patient is a 48-year-old from Eramala who came back from Chennai in a private vehicle on May 28. The fourth patient, a 64-year-old from Mavoor, had returned from Riyadh on May 20 and landed at the Kannur airport. The number of people under surveillance is 7,440, of whom 2,042 are expatriates. In Kannur Eight more persons were confirmed positive for SARS-CoV-2 virus in the district on Saturday. District Collector T.V. Subhash said all the eight were returnees from Mumbai. In Kasaragod Three more people tested positive for the virus in Kasaragod district on Saturday. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients treated in the district has reached 73.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/one-year-old-child-tests-positive/article31713882.ece
31 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rail passengers may have to rebook tickets||With the Ministry of Railways approving the State government’s demand to remove halts at destinations other than one station in a district for special trains beginning on June 1, several passengers who had booked tickets in advance will now have to cancel or rebook their tickets at the nearest allotted stations, even for travel within the State. The Railways has been sending SMS alerts to passengers who have booked tickets online, stating that the full refund is being arranged owing to the regulations adopted by the State government. The norm is applicable even for Thiruvananthapuram-Kozhikode Jan Shatabdi Express and Kozhikode- Thiruvananthapuram Jan Shatabdi Express. The trains will not have the regular halts at Aluva, Cherthala, Kayamkulam and Varkala Sivagiri. Likewise, the Jan Shatabdi trains in the Thiruvananthapuram-Kannur section will not have the regular halts at Thalassery, Vadakara, Mavelikkara and Kayamkulam. Railways officials said the State government did not have the facilities and manpower to check passengers at those stations. Similarly, the Thiruvananthapuram Central-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Thiruvananthapuram Central Express will not halt at Varkala Sivagiri, Karunagapally, Kayamkulam, Haripad, Cherthala, Aluva, Divine Nagar, Kuttipuram, Tirur, Parappanangadi, Vadakara, Thalassery, Kannapuram, Payyannur and Kanhangad. The Ernakulam-Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam daily superfast special will not have halts at Aluva, Pattambi, Kuttipuram, Parappanangadi, Feroke, Koyilandy, Vadakara, Thalassery, Payyanur, Nileshwar and Kanhangad.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/rail-passengers-may-have-to-rebook-tickets/article31713883.ece
31 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Man stabbed to death in drunken brawl||A man was stabbed to death during a drunken brawl at Tanur on Saturday. Another man was admitted to the Government District Hospital at Tirur with serious injuries. The deceased was identified as Shihabuddin from Thalakkadathur. The police said Shihabuddin was drinking with K. Rahul, Sufiyan, and Ahsan, under a railway culvert near Tanur when the quarrel took place. Shihabuddin died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. Ahsan was grievously injured, and was admitted to the District Hospital, Tirur.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/man-stabbed-to-death-in-drunken-brawl/article31713884.ece
31 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad in for stern steps||The district administration is gearing up to handle any emergency if the COVID-19 situation goes out of control. Having got 128 cases under treatment, Palakkad district, which reported 30 cases on Saturday, has at present the largest base in the State with Ottappalam taluk remaining a potential hotspot. The administration has identified the high-risk areas and is preparing to impose a total curfew if the number of cases continues to spike. Ottappalam taluk has dozens of cases. Kadambazhipuram, Sreekrishnapuram, and Ambalapara grama panchayats and Ottapalam municipality have been identified as most vulnerable for a potential flare-up. “We are only sending warning signals now. If people behave well by complying with the norms, there will be nothing to worry. Otherwise, it can turn out to be disastrous,” District Collector D. Balamurali told The Hindu . He said the high number of cases being reported every day should not be considered as a bad omen. “Identifying and isolating infected people are a good thing for the community. If the infected people go unidentified, the end result can be disastrous,” he said. All but six of the 128 patients in Palakkad have people who returned either from other States or from abroad. Health authorities said six cases were family members of the infected returnees. And the secondary infection rate in the district is almost zero. No deaths So far, the district has reported no COVID-19 death. Curfew in large areas will not be viable any more. The district administration has prepared charts and maps to pin down the specific areas of concentration in the case of a flare-up.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/palakkad-in-for-stern-steps/article31713913.ece
31 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Train cancellation irks migrant workers||The last-minute cancellation of a Shramik Special train to Patna in Bihar by Railways led to tension following protests by a group of dejected migrant workers in Pathanamthitta town, Enathu, Pullad, and Kozhencherry on Saturday. The authorities here had informed the migrant workers that the train would set off from Thiruvalla on Saturday afternoon. Migrant workers who wanted to travel by the train were asked to assemble at Kannankara in Pathanamthitta town, Enathu, Pullad, and at Kozhencherry town by Saturday. Protest Transport was arranged for them to the Thiruvalla railway station. The workers vacated their rented rooms and assembled at these places by 12 noon. However, when informed of the last-minute cancellation of the train, the irate workers staged a sit-in and laid siege to the Thiruvalla-Kumbazha State Highway, disrupting traffic for about an hour. The police resorted to caning when the workers failed to disperse despite repeated plea by the authorities. Similar incidents occurred at Pullad, Enathu, and Kozhencherry. The police chased way the workers who even made an attempt to assault the officials attached to Revenue and Labour Departments at Pullad. The authorities said the administration had made arrangements for the workers to travel by another Shramik Special train from the Alappuzha railway station at 1 a.m. on Sunday. No new case of COVID-19 was reported from Pathanamthitta on Saturday. The total number of people in quarantine here has gone up to 4,147 and 62 persons remained under observation. With two persons cured, the district now has 24 patients.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/train-cancellation-irks-migrant-workers/article31713964.ece
31 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Two more cases in capital||Six grama panchayats in the district — Vamanapuram, Pullampara, Nellanad, Pulimath, Mudakkal and Manickal — have been declared containment zones, given the COVID-19 scenario. The District Disaster Management Authority issued orders in this regard on Saturday. Existing lockdown relaxations will not be applicable in the six panchayats until further orders. “Only essential activities will be allowed in the containment zones. The movement of persons in or out of the zones will not be permitted except for medical emergencies, maintaining supply of essential goods and services and to attend public exam,” the order said. The administration has directed the public to wear masks and respect physical-distancing norms. The order will be reviewed every day and relaxation will be allowed once a week. Two COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Saturday. One patient, a 42-year-old man from Vamanapuram, had arrived by bus from Pune on May 18. A 36-year-old man from East Fort who had arrived from Delhi on May 23 also tested positive, officials said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/two-more-cases-in-capital/article31713932.ece
31 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poor tech support may impede online classes||Though colleges are set to log in to the online mode of instruction on June 1, several impediments remain for the much-vaunted reform. While managements, bereft of technical support, are largely left to fend for themselves, the student community is worried that accessing five hours of live-streamed sessions a day could burn a hole in their pockets. The crisis has presented the State with an opportunity to adopt web-based teaching techniques. While the government has latched on to the chance, many feel its hasty implementation could jeopardise the teaching-learning process. The endeavour comes a week after a survey by the Directorate of Collegiate Education found that over 30% of the student community in government colleges do not have access to the Internet. Factoring in a similar section in aided and unaided institutions, it is likely that a large cross-section will be left out. The cost factor Besides, many students are concerned that they will be required to shell out large sums for Internet data plans to access the sessions. In the absence of a public-funded initiative to subsidise connectivity or any other feasible alternative, the financial burden is expected to discourage many from attending online classes. On the other hand, many teachers claim that the government is yet to extend technical support for the initiative, despite assuring support through the Additional Skill Acquisition Programme, ICT Academy of Kerala, and other agencies. “Since there are around 12,000 teachers in the government and aided sectors, we are bound to generate at least 30,000 hours of video content a day. Besides a major boost in Internet bandwidth, colleges will require adequate servers to upload content and archive them. Under the present circumstances, not many colleges are capable of handling that amount of data,” a teacher in a government college said. Disrupted sessions Several teething issues cropped up when colleges put the system on trial. With many web-conferencing applications streaming content free of charge only for certain duration, several sessions were disrupted. U. Abdul Kalam, Principal of Iqbal College, Peringamala, said several students could not attend the classes owing to Internet connectivity issues at their native places. Dr. Kalam, who is also the State general secretary of the Kerala Private College Teachers’ Association, said while the teachers are willing to cooperate with the government initiative given the present crisis, they could persist with it only with technical support.  A Directorate of Collegiate Education survey found that over 30% of students in govt. colleges do not have Net access||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/poor-tech-support-may-impede-online-classes/article31713919.ece
31 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Exam worries over for students||With the Higher Secondary Education (HSE) and Vocational Higher Secondary Education (VHSE) examinations ending on Saturday, the curtains came down on the annual examination calendar for State schools for the 2019-20 academic year. The SSLC examinations had concluded on Thursday. A total of 5,19,700 of the 5,25,615 students who had registered appeared for the HSE examinations. The attendance was 99.2% for Plus One and 98.7% for Plus Two. For the VHSE, 35,916 of the 36,369 registered candidates appeared for the examination, with the attendance being 98.69% for Plus One and 98.93% for Plus Two. No glitches The examinations, which began on May 26, went off without major glitches, despite concerns over conducting them amid the COVID-19 threat. The State spared no efforts in ensuring the security of students, teachers and staff on examination duty. Importantly, the answer scripts were put in plastic bags, sealed, and despatched to valuation centres to be opened only after seven days. The valuation will begin on Monday. At least a week will be required for tabulation, before the results can be declared. Students who could not appear for the examinations will get another chance along with the Save-a-Year examinations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/exam-worries-over-for-students/article31713903.ece
31 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CM’s call to join cleanliness drive||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has appealed to the public to join in the effort to clean-up surroundings ahead of the southwest monsoon on Sunday. In a press release here on Saturday, he said that local bodies, voluntary organisations and residents’ associations should actively take part in the cleaning drive. The volunteer force formed by the government during the COVID-19 pandemic will also take part in the drive. Due to the prevailing situation, the cleaning activities will be carried out by following strictly the physical-distancing norms put out by the Health Department. The cleaning of storm-water drains and areas around water sources should be carried out. All objects, including coconut shells, egg shells and empty bottles, in which water can collect should be removed. Sunday is being observed as 'dry day' with the focus on controlling vector-borne diseases. The Suchitwa Mission informed local bodies to use all their resources to take up pre-monsoon cleaning activities on Sunday. The waste that is removed from the drains should not be accumulated by the roadside and steps should be taken to remove them. Fogging activities should be carried out in all wards. Cleaning activities have to be carried out in all institutions and houses on May 31 and June 7. Municipal wards can utilise as much as Rs. 25,000, while Corporation wards can use Rs. 35,000 for clean-up activities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/cms-call-to-join-cleanliness-drive/article31713907.ece
31 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Peers lend a helping hand to laid-off IT sector employees||The times have been tough for IT employees in Kerala ever since the COVID-19 outbreak with lay-offs and the uncertainties due to lack of openings. Now, their peers from various Information Technology (IT) companies are pitching in with initiatives to get them find opportunities elsewhere. ‘Support and Survive IT’ is one such initiative, a collective of various groups of techies, which has opened a job portal exclusively for those who have lost jobs during this pandemic. Talent poll Applicants can submit their details, skills, areas of expertise and resume to itparksjobs.com/ssit . A talent pool is being created, which can be accessed by IT companies in Technopark, Infopark and other IT firms outside these parks. “It is a completely free service. Over the past few weeks since we opened the website, 340 people have registered for it. Twelve of them have been placed in some companies, while the appointment process is on for 15. We are filtering the registrations to include only those who were laid off during this period,” says Renitjh Ramachandran of TechnoparkToday, which along with a few other groups is running the service. Prathidhwani, welfare organisation of IT employees across Kerala, will be launching a similar job portal for laid-off employees on Monday. The website jobs.prathidhwani.com will work as a link between the laid-off employees and companies looking for experienced hands. Alert to openings “We keep hearing of openings in various mailing groups, but it can be difficult to track for everyone. Consolidating it all in one place would be useful for those looking for jobs. We have reached out to companies to alert us whenever there are openings. The laid-off employees will also have accounts on the website, where all their details will be uploaded,” said a Prathidhwani representative.  The Hindu had earlier this month reported that IT companies in Kerala, including those in Technopark and Infopark in Kochi, have started laying off employees, without even the necessary compensation. Struggling lot Although ‘performance issues’ are being cited in all cases, those who have got the pink slips say that this is just a reason being made up to cut down numbers and save on employee cost. Many of them have been struggling post the job loss as they have loans and EMIs pending, as well as rents and school fees to pay. Memo submitted  Prathidhwani had submitted a representation to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan to give a direction to the companies to desist from such harsh measures during the pandemic period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/peers-lend-a-helping-hand-to-laid-off-it-sector-employees/article31713905.ece
31 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF stir against quarantine fee||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has accused the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government of failure to honour the commitment to protect the interests of expatriate Keralites. Mr. Chennithala was inaugurating a State-wide agitation by the UDF against the proposed paid quarantine facilities for returned migrants. Observing that many of the 103 Keralites who had succumbed to COVID-19 in Gulf countries were financially backward, he called for a special assistance package for their families. He said the Chief Minister’s office was behind the scam involved in awarding the contract for BevQ, the virtual queue management system for liquor sales in the State. The selection process for the contract was mired in corruption, he said, daring Mr. Vijayan to prove his allegation wrong. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran said the government was fleecing return migrants by charging fee for quarantine instead of offering solace to them. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said the government viewed expatriates as paying guests. “A fraction of the astronomical amount spent on the Loka Kerala Sabha will have been enough to provide free quarantine for them,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/udf-stir-against-quarantine-fee/article31713921.ece
31 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special trains from tomorrow||Railways will run daily special trains between Thiruvananthapuram Central and Ernakulam Junction and Tiruchirappalli and Nagercoil from June 1. From June 1 to June 9, 06302 Thiruvananthapuram Central–Ernakulam Junction special will leave here at 7.45 a.m. and reach Ernakulam Junction at 12.30 noon. In the return trip, 06301 Ernakulam Junction–Thiruvananthapuram special train will leave Ernakulam Junction at 1 p.m. and reach Thiruvananthapuram at 5.30 p.m. From June 10 onwards, 06302 Thiruvananthapuram Central–Ernakulam Junction daily special train will leave here at 5.15 a.m. to reach Ernakulam Junction at 9.45 a.m. In return, 06301 Ernakulam Junction–Thiruvananthapuram Central special train will leave Ernakulam Junction at 1 p.m. to reach Thiruvananthapuram at 5.30 p.m. The trains will run with one AC chair car and 18 second class chair car coaches.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/special-trains-from-tomorrow/article31713923.ece
31 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chief Minister heaps praise on Tom Jose||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday said outgoing Chief Secretary Tom Jose contrasted with “certain other bureaucrats who viewed the elected political executive as a hindrance to governance.” Speaking at his send-off function here, Mr. Vijayan said Mr. Jose had worked competently within the bounds prescribed by the Constitution. He had implemented the policies of the elected government without dilution. Mr. Jose did not work in privileged seclusion, far removed from the people. He was in lockstep with the government and sensed the aspirations of the public he served, Mr. Vijayan said. Adversities had always dogged Mr. Jose’s official life. He had cut his professional teeth assisting the Centre to manage the national emergency after terrorists hijacked Indian Airlines Flight 814 to Kandahar in Afghanistan in 1999. In Kerala, Mr. Jose was involved in the fight against the Nipah virus outbreak and the floods in 2018 and 2019. He was the moving force behind the Kochi metro, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Vijayan said the government was bidding Mr. Jose farewell with extreme reluctance. It hoped to turn to him for counsel and would use his expertise as required. Acceptance speech In a personal note sent to his colleagues, Mr. Jose said he was still the ‘starry-eyed’ village boy from Pala at heart. He started his Civil Services career as Subcollector, Thrissur. Life had taken him on strange paths, but they all seemed to lead home. In his acceptance speech, Mr. Jose quoted Nelson Mandela: “Remember me for my mistakes and how I recovered from them,” he said. Incoming Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta and the entire Cabinet attended the function.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/chief-minister-heaps-praise-on-tom-jose/article31713916.ece
31 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State wants Centre to retain two dropped tourism projects||Kerala has suffered a major setback with the Union Ministry of Tourism dropping the Sree Narayana Guru spiritual circuit and the spiritual circuit linking 133 places of worship in the State from the Swadesh Darshan scheme. Assistant Director General, Swadesh Darshan Division, Ministry of Tourism, has not cited any reasons for dropping the Rs. 69.47-crore Sree Narayana Guru spiritual circuit and the Rs. 85.23-crore spiritual circuit linking 133 places of worship in a letter to the Secetary, Kerala Tourism. The decision, with the ‘approval of the Union Minister of State for Tourism’, was communicated in the letter. The two projects were approved under Swadesh Darshan — integrated development of theme-based tourist circuits — launched by the Union Ministry of Tourism in 2014-15. State Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran urged the Union Tourism Ministry to cancel the decision to drop the Sree Narayana Guru spiritual circuit. The Sree Narayana Dharma Sanghom and those involved in promoting the ideals of the Guru should raise voice against the decision, he said. Sivagiri project The Minister said the concept prepared by Kerala Tourism for the Sivagiri project in 2017 had put the estimate at Rs. 118 crore. In between, the Sivagiri Madhom prepared another concept. The estimate was downsized to Rs. 69.47 crore and ITDC was entrusted the execution. Former Union Minister of State for Tourism K.J. Alphons kicked off the project in February 2019. “We had doubts but were extending all support to the project despite having no control,” he said. In the case of the other spiritual circuits, the Minister said Kerala Tourism was awaiting the first tranche of funds for commencing the works. “All documents asked were submitted to the Ministry and we were planning to complete the project in 36 months,” he said. The Tourism Minister said dropping the two projects estimated at Rs. 154 crore without any warning is a setback to the tourism sector in the State.  Sree Narayana Dharma Sanghom and those involved in promoting the ideals of the Guru should raise voice against the decision Kadakampally Surendran Tourism Minister||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/state-wants-centre-to-retain-two-dropped-tourism-projects/article31713900.ece
31 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Total lockdown to be enforced today||Private vehicles will not be allowed on the road on Sunday as a total lockdown will be in effect, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said on Saturday. The lockdown will be strictly enforced, he said. Private vehicles, other than those required for essential services and medical emergencies, should keep off the road. All shops, excluding those selling essential commodities, should remain closed. Medical shops will function. Home delivery also will be allowed. For making purchases, the public should visit shops closest to their homes, the DPC said. Private vehicles caught violating the lockdown stipulations will be seized. The City police initiated action against the owners of 2,254 vehicles — including 2,150 two-wheelers — for transporting more than the permitted number of passengers. Petty cases were charged against 290 people for failing to wear face masks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/total-lockdown-to-be-enforced-today/article31713930.ece
31 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Varsity education to be revamped||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the government will initiate a scheme to radically change the State’s university education system. In his weekly televised interaction with the public on Saturday, Mr. Vijayan said merit would be the sole criterion for nominating persons to top posts at universities. Seniority alone would not be a factor in selection. Higher education hub He said the Senates and Syndicates of the universities should focus on academic issues and not service matters of teachers and staff alone. Mr. Vijayan said Kerala should emerge as a global destination and hub for higher education. Students should come to Kerala for higher studies instead of going abroad. Universities in the State should link up with their counterparts in foreign countries. They should lay stress on online learning.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/varsity-education-to-be-revamped/article31713917.ece
31 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Send-off for police officers||As many as 18 senior police officials due to retire from service on May 31 were given a send-off on Saturday. State Police Chief Loknath Behera participated in the function held over a video conferencing network. The officials include DGPs Jacob Thomas and A.Hemachandran, Police Training College Principal A.Vijayan||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/send-off-for-police-officers/article31713922.ece
31 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four NDRF teams to arrive in State||Four teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) will be despatched to Kerala as part of the State’s arrangements for the coming southwest monsoon season. The teams, which are expected here by Monday or Tuesday, will be deployed in Wayanad, Idukki, Thrissur and Alappuzha districts, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) said on Saturday. The four teams will complement the NDRF team stationed in Thrissur. On the basis of a KSDMA recommendation, the government had requested the NDRF to despatch 10 teams before the onset of the monsoon.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/four-ndrf-teams-to-arrive-in-state/article31713908.ece
31 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Railways revise stoppages of special trains||The Railway Board has again revised the stoppage list for the 100 pairs of special trains that will run from June 1. Ernakulam Junction-Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Junction daily special trains (02617/02618) will not stop at Aluva, Pattambi, Kuttippuram, Tirur, Parappanangadi, Ferok, Koyilandy, Vadakara, Thalassery, Payangadi, Payyannur, Neeleswaram and Kanhangad, according to a press release issued by Railways. No stoppages Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Thiruvananthapuram Central-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus daily special trains (06345/06346) will not halt at Varkala Sivagiri, Karunagappally, Kayamkulam, Haripad, Ambalappuzha, Cherthala, Aluva, Divine Nagar, Kuttippuram, Parappanangadi, Vadakara, Thalassery, Kannapuram, Payyannur, Charvattur and Kanhangad. At Tirur Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Thiruvananthapuram Central-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus daily special trains (06345/06346) have been provided stoppage at the Tirur station, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/railways-revise-stoppages-of-special-trains/article31713915.ece
31 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala blasters||The Kerala Blasters football team authorities on Saturday handed over two lakh hydroxychloroquine sulphate tablets to Sports Minister E.P.Jayarajan as part of their contribution to the State’s fight against COVID-19. Last month, the team had brought in one lakh tablets. Mr.Jayarajan lauded the team’s gesture. The tablets were procured through the club’s owner Nimmagadda Prasad from a drug manufacturing company based in Vishakhapatnam.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/kerala-blasters/article31713906.ece
31 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Distinction for couple||Sushama Nandakumar has been elected the Second Vice District Governor of Lions Clubs International District 318D, which comprises the Lions Clubs in the three revenue districts of Thrissur, Palakkad, and Malappuram. The elections were held on May 25. V.P. Nandakumar, Ms. Sushama Nandakumar’s husband, is an International Director of Lions Clubs International and a former District Governor. The couple have now become the first husband and wife duo to be elected to the Governor’s post among Lions Clubs in Kerala.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/distinction-for-couple/article31713885.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Patient wait||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-kerala/patient-wait/article31713926.ece
31 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan’s rule autocratic: APCC||Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government’s one-year functioning was like a single man’s autocratic rule and nowhere democratic principles of governance prevailed with several of his decisions getting overturned by the courts, said Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee president Sake Sailajanath. “What happened to the Special Category Status, for which Mr. Jagan had campaigned vociferously before elections?” he questioned. Stating that the YSRCP had stopped stalking about it now, he wanted to know if the Chief Minister had a secret understanding with Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the issue. “Were there some conditions put for getting financial packages under the Special Category Status provisions?” Mr. Sailajanath asked. ‘Unconstitutional methods’ Right from his decision to remove State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, which the A.P. High Court had overturned, to the colours on government buildings, the government had been functioning against the constitutional provisions and the government officers were doing the rounds of the courts on several issues, the APCC chief said at a press conference here on Saturday. He also took objection to the government ‘lowering the dignity of the Governor’s office by wrongly getting an ordinance issued through him’. “Do you call it ‘suparipalana’ (good administration) if the government goes for external loans of Rs. 87,000 core in just one year and and harps on running the State welfare schemes by selling public/government lands?” the Congress leader asked. ‘Schemes renamed’ The welfare schemes which the Chief Minister tom-tommed at every meeting were designed by the Congress party and had been renamed by the Y.S. Jagan government, he alleged. Even the decentralisation of the capital city was overturning his own decision to support Amaravati as capital during the TDP rule in 2014, he observed.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagans-rule-autocratic-apcc/article31713989.ece
31 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur to have 859 RBKs, first one opened at Ramagiri||Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav and District Collector Gandham Chandrudu, along with Rapthadu MLA Thopudurthi Prakash Reddy, inaugurated the district’s first Rythu Bharosa Kendra(RBK) at Ramagiri on Saturday. They launched the online booking of seeds and fertilizers through the kiosk set up on the Ramagiri Village Secretariat premises, and said that 859 centres would be installed in the 14 constituencies of the district. While the booking of the seeds, fertilizers will begin right away at all the RBKs, the kiosks are yet to be installed at several places, said Joint Director Agriculture Habib Basha, who was present on the occasion. “We only need power and internet facility at the RBKs and it can start functioning,” he added. While earlier many farmers in Anantapur district used to wait for seeds even till the end of July during kharif season, more than 80% of the groundnut seeds (total 3.34 lakh quintals) has been disbursed at 40% subsidy in the villages entailing no expenditure for farmer to transport the seeds, Mr. Gorantla Madhav claimed. Praising the government, the MP added that fulfilling more than 90% of the promises in the first year itself by bringing administration closer to the people’s doorstep was a landmark achievement for the Jagan Mohan Reddy government.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/anantapur-to-have-859-rbks-first-one-opened-at-ramagiri/article31713586.ece
31 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SHG opposes setting up of RBK in its building||Members of the Self Help Groups at K. Gundumala village in Madakasira mandal of Anantapur district sat on a dharna on Saturday in front of the ‘Mahila Saadhikarita’ office at Chandranna Bhavan, where the State government proposes to set up the Rythu Bharosa Kendra(RBK). The women said they had been running the Mahila Samakhya (federation of SGHs) from the Chandranna Bhavan for the past 15 years, but the government was trying to snatch it from them, while there were two-to-three other government buildings available in the village. Police personnel were deployed at the venue, while the Agriculture and Revenue department officials tried to convince the women.. The agriculture department officials said with no other government building available suitable for the setting up of the RBK, the district administration had proposed to utilize the room. These women had initially agreed to part with the room, but due to pressure from some local politicians, they were opposing it now, on the day of formal inauguration, they said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/shg-opposes-setting-up-of-rbk-in-its-building/article31713598.ece
31 May 2020||B. ChandrashekharHYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KRMB convenes board meeting two weeks after Centre’s directions||Two weeks after being directed by Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to convene the board meeting immediately to discuss about the detailed project report on the diversion of about 8 tmcft of Krishna water every day from Srisailam reservoir by Andhra Pradesh, the Krishna River Management Board has convened its 12th meeting on June 4 here. In a letter addressed to the irrigation department authorities of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana on Saturday, Member Secretary of the board A. Paramesham informed them that the 12th meeting of the board would be held in the board’s office at 11 a.m. here on June 4 and the agenda points would be communicated separately. Apart from the Board Chairman, Member Secretary and two other Members, the Members — Administration and Technical — from the two member States, Secretaries of Water Resources/Irrigation Departments and Engineers-in-Chief and other supporting staff would attend the meeting. Although the agenda has not been sent immediately, sources said it would include the contentious issues raised by both the States against one another. “Although the Union Minister has directed the board on May 15 to convene a meeting immediately to discuss the water diversion plans of Andhra Pradesh with the help of Rayalaseema Lift Scheme and enhancement of the Pothireddypadu head regulator’s water drawal capacity, the agenda is expected to include the issues raised later, in response to Telangana’s complaint, by Andhra Pradesh”, a senior irrigation official said. After the Telangana Government complained to the board against Andhra Pradesh’s “illegal” plans, the Andhra Pradesh Government too had complained against Telangana that it had increased the capacity of Kalwakurthy, Nettempadu and Srisailam Left Bank Canal (SLBC) projects without any appraisal by the board and approval of the Apex Council. Further, Andhra Pradesh had also complained that Telangana had also taken up Palamuru-Rangareddy, Dindi, Bhakta Ramadasu, Tummilla lift and drawal of water for drinking water grid — Mission Bhagiratha. Telangana officials said that Palamuru-Rangareddy project was sanctioned during the combined Andhra Pradesh itself and other projects were taken up to utilise the allocated water. Meanwhile, the board has also written to the two member States to submit the DPRs of all the projects completed by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/krmb-convenes-board-meeting-two-weeks-after-centres-directions/article31713990.ece
31 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chinta warns of agitation by lockdown victims||Former Union Minister P. Chinta Mohan on Saturday said that the Central and State governments should immediately respond to the plight of migrant workers across the country and rescue them from starvation, failing which there could be a possibility of agitations erupting as a form of backlash against the lockdown. Mr. Chinta Mohan said that the death of migrant workers due to starvation and exhaustion during transit and at railway stations was deplorable. ‘Steep interest rates’ He said that loss of unemployment and shortage of ration could escalate starvation deaths and suicides in the country, if the governments do not respond to the crisis. Mr. Chinta Mohan said that the poor and downtrodden sections were taking private loans at steep interest rates of up to 40%. He alleged that authorities of the Tirupati Municipal Corporation were fleecing over 15,000 shop owners to pay taxes or vacate the premises, despite a relaxation in tax collections. He said that if the officials failed to stop collecting taxes, a public agitation would ensue.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/chinta-warns-of-agitation-by-lockdown-victims/article31713589.ece
31 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman jumps to death from hillock in Chittoor||A 27-year-old homemaker allegedly committed suicide by jumping off a hillock on Saturday at Guttakinda Palle village of Vempalle panchayat of Madanapalle mandal. According to the Madanapalle police, Sujana Kumari of Guttakinda Palle village was married to a software engineer of Madanapalle ,Viswanath (30), a few years ago. Residing at Bengaluru, the couple few days ago came to Madanapalle for a visit. The woman had been reportedly depressed as she could not go to her village nearby. In the early hours of Saturday, Sujana reportedly insisted that her husband take her to the Shiva temple at Mallanna Konda hill, near her native village. She also reportedly forced her elder brother to accompany her. While the trio was worshipping in front of the closed temple atop the hill, Sujana allegedly left her husband and brother, stood at a cliff point and jumped into a 200-foot gorge below. On information, the taluq police from Madanapalle rushed to a slope overlooking the cliff, and recovered the body. The police suspect family disputes to be the reason behind her extreme step.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-jumps-to-death-from-hillock-in-chittoor/article31713591.ece
31 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman staff of ACB held for fraud||The M.R. Palle police of Tirupati on Saturday night arrested a woman employee, identified as Kalpana, working in the local Anti Corruption Bureau office in Tirupati. The ACB officials on detection of embezzlement of cheques to the tune of Rs. 7.8 lakh with the alleged involvement of the employee lodged a complaint with the area police. She was shifted to Chittoor for remand. She joined the department with Group-IV services in 2014.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/woman-staff-of-acb-held-for-fraud/article31713985.ece
31 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farmer, two daughters killed by lightning||A farmer and his two daughters were killed on the spot when lightning struck them in the fields at Tippireddipalle village of Peddapanjani mandal under Gangavaram police circle limits on Saturday night. According to the Gangavaram police, Ramakrishna (50) was in the fields close to the the village late in the evening to milch the cows. Around 7.30 p.m., his two daughters Rama Devi (24) and Meena (22) reached the spot to assist their father. All of a sudden, gales and rain started, forcing the trio to take shelter under a tree in the field, when lightning struck them, killing all the three on the spot. The Gangavaram police rushed to the spot. A case has been registered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/farmer-two-daughters-killed-by-lightning/article31713984.ece
31 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boy killed during house demolition||Bharat Kumar (14), was killed after a concrete block of a building that was being demolished fell on him, close by his residence in Tirupati, on Saturday. According to Tirupati East police, the boy and his father stopped their SUV a few meters away from their house. The father asked the boy to give a bag of provisions at home and come back. The boy reportedly strayed into the building demolition zone and a huge block fell on the boy when the workers were demolishing a sunshade.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/boy-killed-during-house-demolition/article31713587.ece
31 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire at power transformers’ unit in Chittoor||Equipment worth about Rs. 2 crore was gutted at the transformers’ assembling unit of the power department at Greamspet locality in Chittoor on Saturday. According to officials, fire broke reportedly due to short-circuit at the unit, and this led to a commotion in the locality. Fearing spread of fire, officials asked people nearby to vacate their houses.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/fire-at-power-transformers-unit-in-chittoor/article31713590.ece
31 May 2020||G.V. Prasada SarmaVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Return of migrant workers key to revival of realty sector: builders||The prolonged lockdown from March 22 has hit the real estate sector in the city hard, bringing it to almost a standstill. The sector, heavily dependent upon migrant labour from the other States as well as from within Andhra Pradesh, sees their return to work as a major factor for resumption. Migrant labourers from various States contribute to each of the components of the construction industry. While scaffolding and rod bending work is taken care of by workers from Bihar and Jharkhand, electrical work is mostly done by those from Kerala. Plumbing workforce comes from Odisha and tile-laying from Gujarat and West Bengal. Since workers had faced several hardships in reaching home, it is difficult to say when they will return, builders say. Construction activity will not resume just like that even if the lockdown is lifted since it may take a few months for workers to return, says Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India, Andhra Pradesh, Chairman K. Subba Raju. He estimates that all over the State around one lakh migrants were working. Though workers had been provided for nearly two months in his project after the lockdown had begun, once the relaxations were announced they had left to their places, says a prominent builder. Before the government announced relaxations for movement of migrant labourers it should have consulted the stakeholders, feels CREDAI Visakhapatnam Chapter Chairman K. Ramakrishna Rao. He sees uncertainty over the return of workers with the spike in cases by the day and projections that the coronavirus spread would peak in June and July. “Real estate is the only sector that received no support so far from the government to overcome the stress caused by the lockdown,” says Mr. Subba Raju. Waiving the interest on project loans for the moratorium period and rescheduling them by giving an extension of two years and reducing GST by half for two years are the exemptions being sought by the CREDAI.  Sand woes On its part, the State government should give some incentives by reducing various charges, he says. But more importantly, though sand piled up at the stockyards people are not able to order with the online site either not opening or displaying ‘no stock,’ he says. Only in recent days some activity in small ventures has begun, say sources.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/return-of-migrant-workers-key-to-revival-of-realty-sector-builders/article31714015.ece
31 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Uncertainty surrounds Group-1 Mains exam||Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) Group-I aspirants continue to remain in uncertainty regarding the Mains examinations which have been postponed several times till now. Exactly one year after the APPSC conducted the Group-I prelims examination, 8,351 candidates who cleared prelims are eagerly waiting for the APPSC to conduct the Mains examination. Repeated court cases and APPSC’s lack of sensitivity towards serious aspirants has led to frequent postponement of Mains examination. According to the Group-I notification for recruitment of 169 top State service posts, Mains examinations were supposed to be held in June 2019 but a delay in announcement of results led to postponement of exams to the first week of December, the first time the exams were postponed. As the schedule was clashing with the UPSC’s Indian Forest Service Mains examination, the APPSC again deferred it to the last week of December and later to the first week of February for giving more time to candidates. The APPSC gave a shocker to the candidates by again postponing it to April. After the COVID-19 outbreak, they were moved to May. Now, with Lockdown 5.0 being imposed, there is no clarity on when the Mains will be held, say aspirants. “So many postponements for such a prestigious examination has demotivated us. Even today, we have no clarity on when the Mains examination will be held,” says a candidate from Guntur. Some of them want the APPSC to hold a meeting to decide on the schedule of the examination and make efforts to get the pending case against Group-I resolved in the High Court so that they can prepare for the exam without any uncertainty.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/uncertainty-surrounds-group-1-mains-exam/article31713998.ece
31 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘RBKs will provide all support to farmers’||The Rythu Bharosa Kendrams have been set up to instil confidence among farmers and ensure that they are provided with quality seeds and other farm products, said District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar. Addressing a gathering of farmers after Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy launched an RBK at Chagantivaripalem village near Muppala mandal, Mr. Ananda Kumar said that 852 RBKs had been set up in 17 Assembly constituencies across the district, each equipped with a Farm Purchase Centre and Farmer Knowledge Centre. The district would soon have hubs at Tenali, Bapatla, Rompicharla and Piduguralla market yards to store farm products and the AP Agros would be the nodal agency for the storage hubs.  Sattenapalli MLA Ambati Rambabu said that the Chief Minister had taken a revolutionary decision to set up RBKs through which the farmer would get all possible assistance. Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar, Joint Director, Agriculture Vijaya Bharathi and RDO Bhaskar Reddy were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rbks-will-provide-all-support-to-farmers/article31713986.ece
31 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 test positive in E. Godavari||Sixteen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Gollala Mamidada village of East Godavari district on Saturday. The total number of COVID-19 cases reported in this village touched 99 on Saturday. “At least 16 persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. All of them belong to Gollala Mamidada village. Four persons over 60 years of age have been sent to the State COVID hospital in Visakhapatnam for better treatment,” East Godavari District Medical and Health Officer B. Satya Susheela told The Hindu . The other 12 persons have been admitted to Konaseema Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Amalapuram.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/16-persons-contract-covid-19-in-east-godavari/article31713592.ece
31 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women kick this habit for good||Reverse smoking, the once widespread practice among women in the north Andhra region, is now on its way to oblivion. Women, mostly engaged in agricultural activities, have the habit of reverse smoking the tobacco-rolled cigarette only to feel more heat than it actually generates. The habit is more pronounced among the women during monsoon as they had to be in ankle-deep water for hours for sowing and allied activities. In such conditions, the women opt for reverse smoking in order to keep themselves warm. The practice of sharing the cigarette among themselves once existed in Srikakulam district. “Reverse smoking is almost on its way out in the North Andhra region. Barely 10 cases of oral cancer have been reported in the limits of our health centre in the Srikakulam Agency since 2016. All the patients are women with the habit of reverse smoking,” E.N.V. Naresh Kumar, Deputy DMHO and general surgeon at the Community Health Centre at Seetampeta in Srikakulam district, told The Hindu . “Though the number of oral cancer cases establishes the fact that the habit is fast disappearing in the Agency area, it still exists among the elderly people,” Dr. Nagesh Kumar observed. ‘Unnoticeable’ “Reverse smoking, mostly by women from the rural areas in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts, is causing hard palate cancer. The immediate symptom is a painless ulcer on the palate and it goes unnoticed by women,” said Suman Das, head of Oncology Department at the Apollo Caner Hospital in Visakhapatnam. The young and middle-aged women are not acquiring the habit owing to awareness about the health complications. “A decade ago, women of our district were known for the habit. However, in the recent years, we stopped gathering data on its prevalence as it has almost disappeared,” said K. Kala, Deputy DMHO, Non-Communicable Diseases, Srikakulam district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/women-kick-this-habit-for-good/article31714000.ece
31 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,129 RBCs opened in Kakinada||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Saturday said that at least 1,129 Rythu Bharosa Centres (RBC) have been opened in the district. Deputy Chief Minister Pilli Subhash Chandrabose, accompanied by Mr. Muralidhar, inaugurated the RBC at Ganganapalli village. Mr. Bose said that the concept of RBC has opened a new chapter in the agricultural reforms in the State.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/1129-rbcs-opened-in-kakinada/article31714002.ece
31 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials sound alert as prisoner tests positive||Four more patients, including a remand prisoner, tested positive for coronavirus in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours. While a 25-year-old man from Tripurantakam had returned from Chennai, the second person, a 32-year-old man, has returned from Mumbai. A six-year-old boy, a primary contact of a woman from Innamanamelur village who has a travel history to Chennai, was also infected, COVID-19 nodal officer John Richards said. Alarmed over a prisoner testing positive, health staff tested all the 140 prisoners and 56 staff members in the sub-jail for the disease on Saturday. Over 30 primary contacts of the infected prisoner aged 22 years were isolated within the sub-jail. The prisoner hailing from Vijayawada was arrested in connection with a theft case here on April 12 by the Ongole Taluka police. Deputy Inspector General(Prisons) M.Vara Prasad who rushed to oversee the health situation in the sub-jail, said all precautionary measures were being taken to avert the spread of the disease among the prisoners. So far, thirteen persons with Chennai connection had got infected in the district. Three others had returned from Maharashtra. The total number of confirmed cases in the district rose to 79 with the addition of four fresh cases. Test reports of 585 persons were found negative for the disease on Saturday. No case in Nellore Meanwhile, no case was reported in Nellore on Saturday. The number of active cases stood at 55 after discharge of one person.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/officials-sound-alert-as-prisoner-tests-positive/article31713595.ece
31 May 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP groups clash in Prakasam village||Tension mounted after two groups of the ruling YSRcp activists clashed at Ramapuram village near Chirala on Saturday. Supporters of Chirala MLA Karanam Balaramakrishnamurthy, who crossed over to the ruling party after winning the Assembly elections on the TDP ticket and those of his rival YSRCP candidate Amanchi Krishnamohan came to blows after a wordy duel, police said. Police chased away the members of the two groups, who had been at loggerheads since the Assembly elections, and restored order. Differences cropped up between the two groups over electing the village elders’ committee.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ysrcp-groups-clash-in-prakasam-village/article31713596.ece
31 May 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||22 govt. staff held for smuggling liquor, ganja||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), in association with Police and Prohibition and Excise (P&E) personnel arrested 22 employees of various departments for their alleged involvement in sand, liquor and ganja smuggling in the State. The SEB Assistant Superintendents of Police (ASPs), the district and excise police conducted raids at various check-posts, and conducted vehicle checkings and seized huge quantity of liquor. They arrested 22 employees working in the police, panchayat raj, banks, CISF, AP Transco and other departments for allegedly transporting liquor illegally. With Director-General of Police and SEB Ex-officio Principal Secretary D. Gautam Sawang directing the officers to act tough against the smugglers and take steps to prevent illegal transportation of liquor, ganja and sand and arrack brewing, the accused were arrested and produced in the court, said SEB Commissioner and Inspector General of Police (IGP) Vineet Brijlal. “We wrote to the departments concerned to take disciplinary action against the arrested staff. Arrests were made in Guntur, Chittoor, Nellore, Krishna, Anantapur, West Godavari, Kurnool and other districts,” the SEB Commissioner told The Hindu on Saturday. The employees were caught allegedly smuggling liquor and ganja, abetting illegal transportation of sand through bikes, four-wheelers and autos, Mr. Brijlal said. The Government issued GO.41 creating SEB on May 15, and appointed ASPs for all districts and allotted 70% of staff from P&E for effective functioning of the bureau. More raids in offing “The cooperation from the SP and other district officers is good. We conducted raids on State borders and destroyed arrack and jaggery wash during raids in villages. More raids will be conducted to control ID liquor and smuggling of sand, ganja and IMFL,” said Krishna district SEB ASP Vakul Jindal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/22-govt-staff-held-for-smuggling-liquor-ganja/article31713629.ece
31 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will ensure early completion of irrigation schemes: Minister||Minister for Roads and Buildings Dharmana Krishnadas on Saturday promised to turn barren lands into fertile fields with the early completion of Vamsadhara-Nagavali linkage scheme, Neradi barrage on Nagavali River and other projects in Srikakulam district. After inaugurating Rythu Bharosa centre in Narasannapeta in Srikakulam district on Saturday, the Minister said the Jagan Mohan Reddy’s government had been implementing farmer-friendly policies, and like other scehemes, establishments of the centres would boost agriculture and economic activity. “Farmers will no longer have to approach middlemen because the RBCs will also serve the purpose of a procurement centre,” he said. Speaker of A.P. Legislative Assembly Tammineni Sitaram formally inaugurated the Rythu Bharosa centre at Togaram of Amdalavalasa constituency. He said the farmers would get suggestions from agriculture officers and scientists regularly with the establishment of RBCs in the State. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Pamula Pushpa Srivani formally launched the centre in Mentada in Vizianagaram. She said that all the departments such as agriculture, marketing, animal husbandry, fisheries would provide required support to villagers through these centres.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/will-ensure-early-completion-of-irrigation-schemes-minister/article31714003.ece
31 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Returnees contribute to rise in COVID-19 infections in State||Andhra Pradesh like many other States has been facing a fresh threat of the spread of novel coronavirus since the third phase of the lockdown as thousands started moving back to their native places here from various parts of the country. It was during the third phase (May 4 to May 17) that inter-State movement of people (migrant workers) was allowed for the first time and a large number of them came back to the State. The first two phases (March 24-April 14 and April 15-May 3) of the lockdown initially saw cases of a few foreign returnees, who had returned to the State before the lockdown was announced, and their primary and secondary contacts. It later witnessed a huge number of cases due to the Delhi returnees. New challenge In the third phase, at a time when the outbreak hotspots were identified and the rate of spread came down, the new challenge of incoming migrant workers came up before the authorities. Besides, the State began detecting the cases of infection linked to Koyambedu, a hotspot in Tamil Nadu. Currently, as the number of cases due to migrant returnees and those related to Koyambedu continue to grow the return of people from Gulf countries further increased the infections in the fourth phase of the lockdown, May 18 to May 31. However, except for the cases linked to Koyambedu the other cases of transmission outside the State did not contribute to the outbreak in the local population as they were quarantined and isolated immediately upon their arrival in the State. Non-local transmission As of Saturday, the State detected 406 cases among migrant returnees and 111 among foreign returnees. Due to Koyambedu link 226 cases were reported and all the three factors together at 743 cases accounted for at least 21% of the total 3,461 cases. All the cases were detected in the third and fourth phases of the lockdown during which a total of 1,878 cases surfaced and 39% are due to non-local transmissions. Excluding the non-local transmission cases, there are a total of 2,944 cases and the last two phases saw only 46% cases while the first two phases saw 54%. The State government has not been owning the cases caused due to transmissions outside the State and they are being separately mentioned in the bulletins. As the domestic flight operations resumed the State has been witnessing the return of more persons from major cities like New Delhi, Chennai and Mumbai where there is a high incidence of cases. All those with symptoms and those coming from hotspot cities are being put under institutional quarantine for at least seven days until their samples turn negative.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/returnees-contribute-to-rise-in-covid-19-infections-in-state/article31713983.ece
31 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Have fulfilled 77 of 129 poll promises’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that 77 of 129 election promises have been fulfilled and 36 more are in the offing, and that the government is leaving no stone unturned to deliver the remaining 16 commitments. “The establishment of Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) is the most significant promise I have made to the farmers, and I am happy to launch them on the occasion of completion of one year of my government,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said while addressing the farmers through video-conference after launching 10,641 RBKs with the press of a button from his camp office on Saturday. Mr. Jagan said his government implemented 40 other schemes that were not part of his manifesto, and was determined to do more for the well-being of the people, particularly the farmers. He stated that copies of the manifesto would be sent to all households soon to enable them to rate the government’s performance, rather than indulge in self-aggrandisement. Welfare schemes Mr. Jagan said a sum of approximately Rs. 40,630 crore was remitted to the bank accounts of 3.58 crore beneficiaries under various schemes. Nearly Rs. 1,500 crore was being spent on social security pensions, and dues under the Aarogyasri programme, amounting to Rs. 686 crore, were cleared, he added. A number of schemes such as Aarogya Asara, Vidya Deevena, Kanti Velugu, Nethanna Nestham, and Matsyakara Bharosa were being implemented, he said. ‘Sunna Vaddi’ in July Dwelling on the issues related to the agriculture sector and farmers, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said a sum of Rs. 2,000 crore would be paid under the Sunna Vaddi scheme in July. Various crops were being procured by the government and all assistance was extended to the beleaguered farmers. The government was in the process of eliminating middlemen, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/have-fulfilled-77-of-129-poll-promises/article31713993.ece
31 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. leader files caveat in Supreme Court in SEC case||APCC working president Sk. Mastan Vali has filed a caveat petition in the Supreme Court, requesting it not to pass any order related to the Special Leave Petition (SLP) likely to be moved by the State government against the High Court order on the A.P. Panchayat Raj (Second Amendment) Ordinance (No.5 of 2020). The petitioner’s advocate, N. Srinivasa Rao, has appealed to the apex court not to pass any order without giving a notice and listening to them in the matter, as the State government is preparing to challenge the verdict in the aforementioned case. Mr. Mastan Vali was one of the persons who had questioned the validity of the ordinance, which resulted in the premature termination of the services of N. Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner (SEC) and appointment of retired judge of the Madras High Court V. Kanagaraj in his place. Chief Justice of the A.P. High Court Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice M. Satyanarayana struck down the impugned ordinance and ordered that Mr. Ramesh Kumar be reinstated with immediate effect.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/caveat-plea-filed-in-sc/article31713529.ece
31 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hope sense prevails’||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) Politburo member Varla Ramaiah on Saturday said that the completion of the YSR Congress Party’s one year in office was an occasion “not to celebrate but instead a time to conduct a soul-searching exercise”. “The court’s rap on the ruling party’s knuckles should instil some sense in the government at least now,” the TDP leader said, referring to the High Court order reinstating N. Ramesh Kumar as the State Election Commissioner.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/hope-sense-prevails/article31713991.ece
31 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rythu Bharosa Kendra inaugurated||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao and District Collector V Vinay Chand along with political representatives from the region took part in the inauguration of Rythu Bharosa Kendra (RBK) at Gudivada village in S Rayavaram mandal in the district on Saturday. Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy took part in the opening ceremony online and addressed the officials in a videoconference. The RBKs will have digital kiosks to help farmers to know the real time market price and also to place orders. Various departments like Agriculture, Horticulture, Sericulture, Fisheries, Animal Husbandry Departments and a few others will jointly monitor the functioning of RBKs. During the interaction programme, a farmer from Gudivada village, D. Atchyuta Ramaraju, appealed to the Chief Minister to construct a bridge over Varaha river. A few coconut growing farmers brought their problems to his notice.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/rythu-bharosa-kendra-inaugurated/article31714010.ece
31 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Govt. planning to set up more airports’||The Confederation of Indian Industry on Saturday underlined the importance of digital technologies at a digital seminar titled ‘New dimensions to environment health and safety-recent challenges and measures’. In his address, R. Karikal Valaven, Special Chief Secretary, Industries and Commerce Department, sought inputs from CII on upgradation of industrial estates in the State. He also stressed on the need to follow safety measures while restarting industry in the State and mentioned about the restart packages announced by the government. He said that government has plans to set up more airports and seaports in the State to accelerate growth and development. Mr. Valaven expressed a keen interest in interacting more frequently with CII members to understand and address the concerns of the industry in a timebound manner. Principal Secretary of Labour, Factories and Boilers B. Udaylaxmi mentioned about the higher standards to be set for environment, health and safety management. “This requires a structured approach to the identification of hazards and the evaluation and control of work related risks,” she said.  EHS policy She said that the EHS policy should clearly outline the role and expectation for the organisation to prevent and mitigate human and economic losses, comply with laws and regulations. In his keynote address, Raju B. Ketkale, Deputy Managing Director, Toyota Kirloskar Motors shared his experience about restarting operations after the COVID-19 lockdown. CII-AP chairman D. Ramakrishna spoke about the impact of the lockdown and how the pandemic had a severe economic impact on activities across the State. To help in the changed environment, CII-AP had constituted a task force on COVID-19 to represent industry issues to the government and also work with all the stakeholders, Mr. Ramakrishna said. Senior officials representing sectors like auto components, healthcare, pharmaceuticals, logistics, fertilisers, textile and automobiles took part. CII AP vice-chair D.T. Raju and zonal chairman J. Srinivasa Raju were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/govt-planning-to-set-up-more-airports/article31714004.ece
31 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan betrayed SCS mandate, says CPI||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna on Saturday accused the YSRCP government of betraying the people’s mandate by not fighting for grant of Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh. Mr. Ramakrishna, along with party State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy, told the media here that after coming to power, the YSRCP had forgotten to take up the issue by saying that the BJP-led coalition at the Centre had secured absolute majority on its own. Commenting on the government completing one year in office, Mr. Ramakrishna said that the YSRCP, despite having 22 MPs and four Rajya Sabha members, had failed to make any mark in Parliament. Had the YSRCP wanted, it could have stalled the controversial bills on Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and National register of Citizens (NRC). Mr. Ramakrishna said the BJP would not have secured easy passage had the YSRCP MPs opposed the bills at the time of voting. He also wondered how an industrialist could be nominated to the Rajya Sabha on the recommendation of Union Home Minister Amit Shah. Prohibition, sale of lands He said, while promising total prohibition at the time of elections, the YSRCP government had allowed sale of liquor even during lockdown and deployed police and teachers to ensure social distancing at wine shops. The CPI leader said that in a desperate bid to raise funds, the government went to the extent of selling away lands of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) and government lands in Visakhapatnam and Guntur. While the TTD land sale attempt was dropped following public outcry, the bid to auction government lands in Visakhapatnam and Guntur was stayed by the High Court. Mr. Ramakrishna said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was acting like a faction leader and only a coterie close to him was taking crucial decisions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-betrayed-scs-mandate-says-cpi/article31713995.ece
31 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CBI files FIR in Vizag doctor’s case||The CBI on Friday filed an FIR against unknown police officials, public servants and others in the Dr. K. Sudhakar case. The CBI was directed by the High Court on May 22 to probe the case of the suspended doctor, who was undergoing treatment at the Government Hospital for Mental Care after being booked in a public nuisance case by the city police. Besides the PILs filed by a few individuals, the High Court took cognisance of a report from the Visakhapatnam District Magistrate, who stated that there were six injury marks on the doctor, the details of which were missing from the government’s report, and ordered a CBI probe into the case since the local police, in the opinion of the court, cannot be entrusted with the task. The CBI filed cases under IPC Sections 120-B, 324, 343, 379 and 506 for criminal conspiracy, voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons of means, wrongful confinement for three or more days, theft and criminal intimidation. Based on the statement of Dr. Sudhakar before the Magistrate, the FIR stated loss and theft of property, including a two-wheeler, two mobiles, car keys, Rs. 10 lakh in cash, Rs. 1,000 in cash and purse with ATM cards. On May 17, the police took Dr. Sudhakar into custody allegedly by tying his hands to his back and beating him.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/cbi-files-fir-in-vizag-doctors-case/article31713530.ece
31 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man tries to enter police chief ’s office with knife||A man created a flutter when he tried to enter the block that houses the Police Commissioner’s office with a knife here on Friday. According to police, the person who is a resident of K.D Peta area, had entered the premises claiming to be a petitioner. However, while undergoing a check at the Door-Frame Metal Detector (DFMD) point, he was found to be carrying a knife. Police suspect that he might be a mentally unstable person. In the past, he had made some TikTok videos holding weapons such as knives and iron rods. The II Town police have taken him into the custody. The accused was bound over under IPC Section 109 by the MRO.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/man-tries-to-enter-police-chief-s-office-with-knife/article31714008.ece
31 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four new positive cases reported in the district||Four new COVID-19 positive cases have been reported in the district, while two patients who were undergoing treatment got discharged after testing negative here on Saturday, according to the Health Department. With the new positive cases, the total number of cases in the district stands at 109, while the number of persons discharged is 76 as on Saturday. The number of active cases as on date is 32 and one person from Chengalraopeta had died. According to the officials, among the four new cases, one case has been reported each from Maharanipeta and P.M Palem area in the urban limits. Meanwhile, two cases were reported from Munagapaka area in the rural areas. With this, Mungakapaka has been declared as new containment zone in the rural area. The Health Department officials with the help of the police are identifying primary contacts of the affected persons.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/four-new-positive-cases-reported-in-the-district/article31714012.ece
31 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan has ushered in a new era: YSRCP leader||Within a year in office, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had ushered in an era of good governance by living up to the expectations of people who gave him a landslide mandate in April, 2019 elections, said senior party leader Koyya Prasad Reddy on Saturday. Mr. Prasad Reddy told reporters here that Mr. Jagan had fulfilled 90% of the promises made by him at the time of elections. The Navaratnalu scheme aimed at improving the livelihood of the poor and marginalised sections and fee reimbursement scheme for students were being implemented on a grand scale. Mr. Prasad Reddy said by deciding to set up Executive Capital in Visakhapatnam, the Chief Minister had already sent positive signals to the investors. His decision to focus on development of North Andhra had already attracted investors to the region, he stated.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/jagan-has-ushered-in-a-new-era-ysrcp-leader/article31714017.ece
31 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction waste recycled at C&D plant||Processing 44,000 tonnes of construction waste, 1,000 tonnes of sand, 3,000 tonnes of 40 mm construction metal and cement blocks have been readied at the construction and demolition waste management plant at Kapuluppada. The C & D waste management plant has been set up on the land provided by the GVMC at the dumpyard. Municipal Commissioner G. Srijana on Saturday visited the plant and reviewed its progress. She appealed to people to participate in improving cleanliness and recycling construction material by utilising the services of the plant. Pro Enviro C & D Waste Management will lift construction waste on payment of Rs. 360 per tonne from anywhere in the GVMC limits. Those requiring the services or recycled material may contact 180042500009.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/construction-waste-recycled-at-cd-plant/article31714016.ece
31 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 held, banned tobacco products seized||The Sabbavaram police intercepted a lorry and seized 823 kg banned khaini and gutkha products at Chinnayyapalem area in Visakhapatnam on Friday night. According to the Sabbavaram police, based on credible information, the police team seized the lorry and arrested two persons who belong to Venkannapalem area of Chodavaram mandal. The two persons had loaded the banned tobacco stock in interior areas of Rayagada in Odisha and were shifting it to Sabbavaram. In order to escape from police, they kept the tobacco products under a load of husk. A case has been registered and investigation is on.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/2-held-banned-tobacco-products-seized/article31714007.ece
31 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Slow progress of works irks GVMC Commissioner||Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana expressed dissatisfaction over the slow progress of works in the Energy to Waste plant, here in the city. She inspected the project works here on Saturday. Ms. Srijana questioned the representatives over the delay of project works and said that the plant had not become operational even after the deadline passed. She asked them submit in written format if they need any other help and directed them speed up the works. Chief City Planner R.J. Vidyullatha and others were present.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/slow-progress-of-works-irks-gvmc-commissioner/article31714009.ece
31 May 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||INS Circars sees change of guard||Commodore Rahul Vilas Gokhale took over the command of INS Circars from Commodore K.A. Bopanna here on Saturday. Later, the outgoing Commanding Officer was given a farewell by officers and sailors of INS Circars through the traditional pulling out ceremony. Commodore Bopanna is retiring from active naval service on Sunday after an illustrious career of 35 years. INS Circars is the oldest naval establishment on the East Coast and the base depot ship providing administrative and logistics support to the Headquarters, Eastern Naval Command and a large number of units based in and around Visakhapatnam. Commodore Gokhale, who will be the twenty-third Commanding Officer of INS Circars, is an alumnus of National Defence Academy and was commissioned into the Indian Navy on January 1, 1992. A navigation and direction specialist, he has commanded ships INS Khukri and INS Kolkata. His other tenures include Director Personnel Policy at Naval Headquarters, New Delhi and Naval Advisor, High Commission of India at Islamabad, Pakistan. The officer has undergone courses at DSSC Wellington, Naval War College, Goa and the Australian Defence College, Canberra. Prior to this appointment, he was Fleet Operations Officer, Eastern Fleet.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/change-of-guard-at-ins-circars/article31713867.ece
31 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Green Iguanas hatch young ones at zoo||For the first time, Green Iguanas hatched young ones here at Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) in Visakhapatnam. The IGZP has two female and one adult male Green Iguanas. Both females hatched young ones on May 25 and May 28, announced IGZP CuratorYesoda Bai on Saturday. It took 90 days for the breeding from March 5.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/green-iguanas-hatch-young-ones-at-zoo/article31714013.ece
31 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ex-MLA’s driver allegedly commits suicide||Upset by the alleged harassment from a grama volunteer over a land, a 41-year old man reportedly ended his life in his residence at Nunaparthi area under Atchutapuram police station limits, in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. The deceased has been identified as M. Sanyasi Naidu (41), a driver of former TDP MLA Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy. According to the Atchutapuram police, Sanyasi Naidu reportedly consumed poison at around 4 a.m. on Saturday. Voice message Police said that the victim was constructing house in one of his sites. Village volunteer J. Narasinga Rao had been reportedly harassing him over the land. Naidu reportedly sent a voice message on the issue and ended his life. A case was registered. The police reportedly took the grama volunteer into custody. Police helpline Those who are in distress can contact the police helpline No. 100.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/ex-mlas-driver-allegedly-commits-suicide/article31714006.ece
31 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM / SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need to discourage use of tobacco products: experts||Prolonged lockdown may have caused untold miseries to people in general. But it has certainly benefited those who are addicted to smoking. With non-availability of cigarettes and chewable tobacco, many persons have stopped using nicotine products for almost two months now. Experts say people addicted to the vice can kick the habit permanently with proper guidance from doctors and moral support of family members. ‘Positive change’ “Lockdown has brought about a positive change among the smokers. Proper guidance of medical experts will help them overcome the addiction on a permanent basis,” says Ramesh Jagarapu, founder of Spandana Neuro Psychiatry in Vizianagaram. Member of Indian Medical Association - Srikakulam and expert in neuropsychiatry Bendi Sairam has urged the government to undertake an anti-tobacco campaign on the lines of its initiative to discourage consumption of alcohol. A few organisations are planing awareness programmes on Sunday on the occasion of ‘World No Tobacco Day’, which is observed on May 31 every year. Disturbing figures According to World Health Organisation (WHO) study, as many as 8 million people die every year due to consumption of tobacco. Around 1.2 million among them die due to passive smoking. Around 10 lakh people have fallen prey to the addiction in India. Many people from the low-income groups are ruined financially as some of them spend at least Rs. 120 per day to buy cigarettes and other tobacco products. Many people in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts were suffering from various forms of cancer due to their addiction to tobacco, says Voona Murali Krishna, MD of Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital and Research Institute. “People who chew tobacco will also have the habit of spitting in public places. This may result in spread of coronavirus quickly. That is why the government should ban sale of cigarettes and other products immediately,” said Dr. Murali. “On the occasion of No Tobacco Day, youth should take an oath that they will not acquire the habit of smoking and other such vices,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/need-to-discourage-use-of-tobacco-products-experts/article31714001.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||131 fresh COVID-19 cases detected||The State has reported 131 fresh COVID-19 cases during the past 24 hours as 9,504 samples were tested. Of the total, 70 are of locals and 61 cases are of migrant returnees, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department on Saturday. No deaths were reported and the toll remains at 60. With this, the tally has gone up to 3,461 and excluding the cases of migrant returnees and foreign returnees the local cases tally stands close to the 3,000 mark at 2,944. The tally of foreign returnees remained at 111 and all the patients are under treatment while migrant retureens cases’ increased to 406 and 189 of them have recovered. Meanwhile, 55 persons have recovered during the past day and the total recoveries increased to 2, 281 which is 65% of the total cases. Currently, there are 1,120 active cases and among the local cases, there are only 792 active cases and 2,092 have been discharged putting the recovery rate at 71%. So far, the State has tested 3.63 samples reaching a tests per million population ratio of 6,850 which is highest in the country. The positivity rate remained at 0.95%.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/131-fresh-covid-19-cases-detected/article31713988.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pushed to the brink||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/pushed-to-the-brink/article31713997.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Empty hands, hungry eyes||||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/empty-hands-hungry-eyes/article31713602.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC case: State to file SLP in Supreme Court||Mr. Sriram said, apart from claiming to be automatically restored as the SEC, Mr. Ramesh Kumar made a phone call to SEC standing counsel V.V. Prabhakar Rao on Saturday morning and instructed him to tender his resignation within a day by expressing his intention to infuse fresh blood in the Commission. Mr. Ramesh Kumar wanted Mr. Prabhakar Rao to facilitate the appointment of a new person in his place by June 1. The A-G said Mr. Ramesh Kumar’s self-restoration as SEC was outside the conceivable mandate of law, and he could, therefore, not issue any direction to Mr. Prabhakar Rao. He further said since it had been ruled that the State had no power to appoint the SEC through the advice of the Cabinet, he was at loss to understand how could the State restore Mr. Ramesh Kumar to that post. “As there are overarching constitutional issues involved in the matter, which also pertains to the HC judgment, we are knocking at the doors of the Supreme Court. While doing so, we will abide by all directions of the High Court, subject of course to our right to appeal. We don’t consider it (the HC judgment) as a victory or defeat,” Mr. Sriram asserted.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-andhrapradesh/sec-case-state-to-file-slp-in-supreme-court/article31713987.ece
31 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||A2 tiger moved back to forest: officials||The A2 tiger which was spotted on the outskirts of Bellampally town on the intervening night of May 29 and 30 has moved back to the forest towards Murliguda and Dharmaraopet forest areas in Bellampally town, according to the forest department. A press release issued by the department said the tiger, which was seen in the Goleti and Kairiguda open cast coal mines, had moved towards Bellampally town but three tiger tracking teams were formed to monitor its movement continuously, the release added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/a2-tiger-moved-back-to-forest-officials/article31713847.ece
31 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||25 gelatin sticks seized, three nabbed||An area domination operation by the police along with the CRPF men in Chintaguppa forest area in Charla mandal resulted in the seizure of a consignment of gelatin sticks on Saturday morning. A joint squad of Charla police and CRPF personnel reportedly nabbed three persons moving under suspicious circumstances in the forest area in the early hours of the day. The squad seized a gunny bag containing 25 gelatin sticks from their possession, police said. The police identified one of them as a member of the CPI (Maoist)’s Revolutionary People’s Committee and another a “courier”, both hailing from Kurnapalli village of Charla mandal.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/25-gelatin-sticks-seized-three-nabbed/article31713862.ece
31 May 2020||Chintalapalem (suryapet),TELANGANA||Two end lives||A man and woman, married to different persons but were allegedly in a relationship, were found dead on the village outskirts on Saturday. The man, P. Veerababu, 32, was found dead and the woman Madhavi, 28, died at a nearby hospital, after she was rushed there. Both had consumed a chemical substance, the police said. (Roshni, suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/two-end-lives/article31713834.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Massive surge in cases post relaxation||A comparison of COVID-19 cases in the State both before and after the four phases of lockdown indicates a massive spike in positive cases after the relaxation of norms. While there were 1,003 COVID-19 cases in the State from March 2 to May 3, affecting 546 families, 1,005 cases were reported from May 4-29, affecting some 470 families. A total of 2,008 people from the State tested positive. A total of 2,425 cases are recorded in Telangana till May 29, and officials have segregated them into migrants, foreign evacuees and deportees. While 2,008 locals tested positive, 417 are from the other groups. Cases up after May 8 Positive cases started to go up after May 8, and there was a massive rise in number of cases on a single day for the last 22 days. It was published in these columns over a week ago that health officials are expecting a surge in cases as more number of people are moving out of their homes to offices, and other places. They are expecting a further rise in number of cases. However, the surge is not as much as officials feared. Health officials took up various surveys to know if the high number of cases are reported from any locality. Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANM) and Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) conducted fever surveys to track the number of patients getting admitted to hospitals, and reasons for illness or admission were also recorded. Besides, number of deaths and reasons behind them were surveyed too. People with Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI) were tracked and tested. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said that if there is a surge in any data from a particular locality, they would keep a close watch. If a high number of SARI cases are reported from a locality, surveillance will be increased there to check the spread of coronavirus. Usually, around 900 people die in a day in the State due to various reasons. Dr. Rao said that deaths have gone down by 30% from March 22 to May 2. “Everybody is taking good care of themselves and family members with co-morbidities,” he said. Over 4,700 SARI cases were recorded in April and May, he said. Samples were collected from all of them for tests. Dr. Rao said that only 2.8-3% of them tested positive for coronavirus. Senior health officials said that this data indicates that the virus did not spread to the extent they have feared.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/massive-surge-in-cases-post-relaxation/article31713828.ece
31 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Restaurant owners not too excited||Word about easing of lockdown and opening up of restaurants and hotels from June 8 was greeted with eagerness laced with trepidation in Hyderabad. On Saturday evening, the Ministry of Home Affairs outlined new lockdown guidelines that allow hotels, restaurants and hospitality industry to function from June 8. “This is great news. But right now for us it is about sustaining and we will stick to take-away as we are not prepared for dining in the absence of robust systems to ensure customer safety,” says Nishant Sinha of Roastery in Banjara Hills. In many countries where the hospitality sector has been opened up after the COVID-19 lockdown, new seating arrangements have come into play. Instead of menu cards on table, the old practice of writing on the wall has been resumed. Food choices have been reduced to cut wastage. In Hyderabad, a glimpse of this was available with take-away being resumed by many restaurants over the past fortnight. “It is 'something is better than nothing' scenario and the Day Zero for reopening has to start somewhere. Most restaurants are anyway operating take-away. This is a logical extension,” says entrepreneur and foodie R. Ravikanth Reddy. Limited hours But not everyone is happy about the reopening with limited hours. “It is a good move. But now we are not sure whether customers will come back. How do we regain customer confidence is a big question. Unless we can run to full capacity and normal working hours it will be a difficult,” says S. Venkat Reddy, a hotelier and president of Telangana State Hotels Association. “I am getting calls from hotel owners who are being pushed to pay rent and electricity bills. Once they open up, their vendors will start asking for money, that’s a big worry. Nearly 40% of hotel and restaurant staff have gone back to their native places. It will take time before they come back and we can put systems in place,” says Mr. Reddy. “A large chunk of our staff has gone to their native places in West Bengal and Odisha, they have been in quarantine. Even if they come back I will have to have them in quarantine here before they start working for us,” says Mr. Sinha.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/restaurant-owners-not-too-excited/article31713841.ece
31 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dug-up roads pose a challenge to citizens||It is a breeze to drive on Hyderabad roads in the night after restrictions on movement are enforced by police. Long stretches of roads in the city appear like runways in airports after the Comprehensive Road Management Programme work by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation. At some places like Masab Tank, Shaikpet and Mehdipatnam, work is still going on with some restrictions on vehicular movement. But away from the smooth tarmac-like stretches, danger lurks in other locations where trenches have been dug for laying cables and pipelines. A few days ago when it rained in the afternoon, water flowed out of the unfinished channel near Old Top Khana on the Nizamshahi road and flooded the street with filth, debris and foul water. “Luckily our shop is at a higher level and there was no damage. The whole area had bad smell due to the filth that dried up,” said one of the shopkeepers in the locality. According to the citizens in the area, work has been going on at the small bridge near the abandoned police station for two years but has not been completed. A similar situation exists where a pipeline has been laid under the road on the Old Bombay Highway bringing the sewage from Durgam Cheruvu. It was on this stretch of the road that citizens of western part of the city had to face the brunt of urban flooding over the past two years. On Friday, as normal working hours have been restored in many offices and with almost all the shops opening up, traffic turned into a mess on the road connecting Shaikpet to Biodiversity Junction. The stretch of road has become narrow as it has been dug up for laying cables. In the Dargah area, outside the perimeter wall of Laxman Bagh temple, the stretch of road has become so narrow that only two vehicles can pass abreast. The result: traffic got backed up till the Shaikpet Junction on Friday. The road stretch connecting Mindspace Junction to Gachibowli-Miyapur too has been dug up, affecting flow of traffic.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/dug-up-roads-pose-a-challenge-to-citizens/article31713843.ece
31 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Semester system may be done away with this year||Semester system for first year students in degree colleges and other professional courses may be done away with this year given the uncertainty over the start of academic schedule due to COVID-19. Officials in the Education Department revealed that dilemma over the delay in academic schedule is one of the reasons why the universities are keen on going ahead with the old annual academic system at least for this year. The consensus emerged after a series of meetings to discuss the restart of academic year and safety issues to be tackled. However, the varsities have to take the final decision seeking approval to the changes in their academic and administrative bodies. “There seems to be no other option but to cancel semester system for the first year students at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels,” a senior official revealed, seeking anonymity. Officials say as per the present calendar, degree and post graduate courses start by June and the next semester begins in December. But due to the pandemic, there is no clarity as to when the classes would begin, throwing the entire schedule out of gear. The government has already taken a decision to promote the first and second year students to higher classes irrespective of their backlogs to give them some breathing space. With regard to technical courses, first year engineering course is already annual exam-based as the classes usually begin in August after a prolonged admission process. From second year, however, the course shifts to semester mode. Officials are now in touch with the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) to understand if the present second and third year students can be shifted to the annual mode for this year as the classes will invariably be delayed. All technical courses have to function as per AICTE norms and the council’s nod is mandatory for any changes. Telangana State Council of Higher Education is calling for a meeting of engineering colleges in the first week of June to work out the modalities of the changes it proposes, keeping in view norms of social distancing. Krishna Rao of Stanley Engineering College opined irrespective of the changes, colleges are getting ready to adopt the new normal of maintaining physical distancing in classes. He proposes a blend of online and classroom teaching though it would double the work for teachers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/semester-system-may-be-done-away-with-this-year/article31713853.ece
31 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR’s ‘surprise gift’ promise to farmers a mirage: Uttam Reddy||Reacting to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s statement that a ‘surprise gift’ was awaiting farmers, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) President, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said the CM should first fulfil old promises. Addressing a video-conference with party Zilla Parishad Territorial Constituencies at Gandhi Bhavan, Mr. Reddy said the Chief Minister was good at “misleading people” and the statement made at the inauguration of Kondapochamma Sagar project was just to grab headlines and divert people’s attention. Mr. Reddy asked Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao to first fulfil the promise of crop loan waivers of up to Rs. 1 lakh and also pay Rythu Bandhu assistance to all farmers without imposing any conditions. He reminded that nearly 40% of farmers were being deprived of Rythu Bandhu aid on one pretext or the other. He said that the farmers neither got proper Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their produce nor the Market Intervention Fund of Rs. 1,000 crore earmarked in the annual budget was ever utilised to support the farmers. No assistance was provided to families of 4,500 farmers who committed suicide since 2014. Further, he said that the farmers never got any compensation for crop losses following natural calamities like drought or unseasonal rains. “And the surprise gift will be just a mirage,” he said. The TPCC chief claimed that the Chief Minister was deceiving the people by showing the ayacut of Sriramsagar Project as of Kaleshwaram’s. Telangana farmers benefited only with the irrigation projects constructed during Nizam era and Congress regime. Mr. Reddy demanded the Chief Minister to withdraw the new agricultural policy which forces the farmers to grow crops suggested by the government. The move was dictatorial in nature and does not guarantee any protection to farmers’ investments in a crop, he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kcrs-surprise-gift-promise-to-farmers-a-mirage-uttam-reddy/article31713855.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Negligent behaviour can lead to spread’||Out of the 2,499 COVID-19 cases in Telangana till date, a little over 200 are senior citizens above 60 years, who contracted the disease though they did not step out of home. Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said that case probe revealed that the elderly got the virus as their family members, who went out of home, did not maintain precautions outside and after returning home. At a press meet at the State Health office on Saturday, Dr. Rao and Director of Medical Health K. Ramesh Reddy stressed the need for precautions, with hundreds of families contracting the virus as someone among them was careless. Dr. Rao said that if there are elderly or children at home, people should be cautious, and maintain personal hygiene. “While talking to elderly, maintain distance,” he said. There are over 200 children among the patients who tested positive. Dr. Reddy said that though the State government is taking all measures, it is everyone’s responsibility to contain the spread of virus. To make his point clear, he cited clusters of cases. “A man from Borabanda went to his grandmother’s place at Pahadishareef. He attended a function with 20 people and infected 14 from his own family and 11 more families. Another man from Hyderabad went to Vikarabad to attend a function and when he returned, his family members, including relatives, both in Hyderabad and Vikarabad, got infected because of him,” Dr. Rao said. Listing out important precautions that one should follow, he urged people to wear masks, follow physical distancing and maintain personal hygiene and cleanliness. The senior official said that the purpose of a lockdown is not to eliminate or control COVID completely but to extensively control the spread. “Lockdown gives time to governments and health systems to prepare for the pandemic,” he said. The DME also said that they have equipped hospitals with all kinds of medical equipment and resources to face any eventuality.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/negligent-behaviour-can-lead-to-spread/article31713829.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kaleshwaram project to have 5 more pump houses to lift 3rd tmcft of water||As part of the State government’s decision to enhance the water lifting and conveying capacity of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP) from the present 2 tmcft to 3 tmcft a day, it would have five new pump-houses between Yellampally barrage and Mallannasagar. This would be in addition to the increase in the number of motors at Kannepally – to lift water from Medigadda barrage – Goliwada (from Annaram barrage) and Gunjapadugu (from Sundilla barrage) pump-houses to carry one more tmcft water a day from the Godavari river. According to Irrigation Department officials, the three pump-houses linked to the main barrages would have 6, 4 and 5 additional motors, respectively, in the Link-I of the project. Work of installing the additional motors has been entrusted to the agency that had constructed and operating the three pump-houses of the project head works, MEIL, by the State government. Additional motors in the three pump-houses would also be with 40 MW capacity each and require additional power supply mechanism to handle load of another 600 MW. Keeping in mind the difficulties faced in executing the work on tunnels and in land acquisition for open/gravity channel supply to lift and convey 2 tmcft of water, the project authorities have decided to have piped conveyor system in five stretches running for a total length of about 42.5 km for the third tmcft of water. Sources said the piped canal system would require smaller extent of land compared to the open-cum-tunnel water conveyor system. The five stretches of piped water conveyor system would be between Yellampally barrage and Devikonda reservoir; Devikonda reservoir and Manair river (to allow further flow of the one tmcft of water into Mid Manair Reservoir); Mid Manair to Ananthagiri reservoir; and Anantagiri to Mallannasagar. The new pump-houses would be located between Yellampally and Manair river (2), Mid Manair Reservoir and Ananthagiri reservoir (1) and Ananthagiri reservoir and Mallannasagar (2). Officials said the piped water conveyor system would be in rows of pipes ranging from 8 to 12 and the diameter of pipes ranging from 3.2 to 4 metres in five stretches. The government has finalised tenders with an estimated cost of Rs. 21,000 crore recently for lifting the third tmcft of water in KLIP.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/kaleshwaram-project-to-have-5-more-pump-houses-to-lift-3rd-tmcft-of-water/article31713848.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KRMB convenes meet||Two weeks after being directed by Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to convene the board meeting immediately to discuss about the detailed project report on the diversion of about 8 tmc ft of Krishna water every day from Srisailam reservoir by Andhra Pradesh, the Krishna River Management Board has convened its 12th meeting on June 4 here. In a letter addressed to the irrigation department authorities of AP and Telangana on Saturday, Member Secretary of the board A. Paramesham informed them that the 12th meeting of the board would be held in the board’s office at 11 am here on June 4 and the agenda points would be communicated separately. Apart from the Board Chairman, Member Secretary and two other Members, the Members – Administration and Technical – from the two member States – Secretaries of Water Resources/Irrigation Departments and Engineers-in-Chief and other supporting staff would attend the meeting. Although the agenda has not been sent immediately, sources said it would include the contentious issues raised by both the States against one another. “Although the Union Minister has directed the board on May 15 to convene a meeting immediately to discuss the water diversion plans of AP with the help of Rayalaseema Lift Scheme and enhancement of the Pothireddypadu head regulator’s water drawal capacity, the agenda is expected to include the issues raised later, in response to Telangana’s complaint, by AP”, a senior irrigation official said. After the Telangana government complained to the board against the AP’s “illegal” plans, the AP government too had complained against Telangana that it had increased the capacity of Kalwakurthy, Nettempadu and Srisailam Left Bank Canal (SLBC) projects without any appraisal by the board and approval of the Apex Council. Further, AP had also complained that Telangana had also taken up Palamuru-Rangareddy, Dindi, Bhakta Ramadasu, Tummilla lift and drawal of water for drinking water grid – Mission Bhagiratha. Telangana officials said the fact that Palamuru-Rangareddy project was sanctioned during the combined AP itself and other projects were taken up to utilise the allocated water. Meanwhile, the board has also written to the two member States to submit the DPRs of all the projects complained by them.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/krmb-convenes-meet/article31713864.ece
31 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||6 policemen suspended for ‘role’ in oil pilferage||Six police personnel, including an inspector of the Special Operations Team, were placed under suspension by the Rachakonda Police Commissioner for alleged connivance with petrol and diesel pilferage mafia. On May 18, the police had arrested five persons involved in diesel theft from tankers and seized over 20,400 litres of diesel and other incriminating material worth Rs. 13.87 lakh from their possession. During the interrogation, the accused told the police that they had greased the palms of a few police officials from SOT, Medipally police station, and Special Branch to carry on the illegal business. They also stated that they had been in the business for the past several years and that local police were ‘aware’ of their activities. “An initial inquiry into the allegations revealed the role of six police officers, including SOT Admin inspector Ratnam, a head constable from SB and three constables from Medipally police station,” a senior officer said. Further inquiry was on to verify the involvement of other police officials, including a few seniors. The officer said there were more than 40 cases of pilferage of petrol and diesel dumps at several places in and around Cherlapally, Chengicherla and Medipally.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/6-policemen-suspended-for-role-in-oil-pilferage/article31713839.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Notices to govt. over illegal pharma firms||Taking up a letter written by a lawyer as PIL petition, Telangana High Court has issued notices to Telangana Pollution Control Board and different wings of State government over operation of unauthorised chemical and pharmaceutical factories in and around Hyderabad. Ch. Ravinder, in his petition, stated that closure of these chemical and pharma companies being run without permission and safety precautions are crucial in the light of the recent gas leakage from a factory on the fringes of Visakhapatnam in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. He stated that authorities of PCB were keeping eyes wide shut over the operations of such factories which were causing severe pollution by releasing chemical wastage into drains passing through residential localities. Many such factories were located in Jeedimetla, Bachupalli, Nacharam, Cherlapally, Kukatpally, Balanagar, Pashamailaram, IDA Bollarum, Patancheru, Sanathnagar, Uppal, Borampet, Turkayamjali, Hayathnagar, Moosapet and Miyapur, the petitioner said. The HC issued notices and instructed the PCB and different wings of State government to file counter affidavits. The petition would be heard again on June 8.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/notices-to-govt-over-illegal-pharma-firms/article31713835.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS-bPASS only after Cabinet approval||The Telangana State Building Permission Approval and Self Certification System, also known as TS-bPASS, will come into force only after approval by the Cabinet and not from June 2, as announced earlier, a statement by the Municipal Administration and Urban Development department said. The TS-bPASS is the online building permission and layout approval system part of the Town Planning wing. It is being developed on the lines of TS-iPASS for industrial permissions, and aimed at according building approvals based on self-certification process.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/ts-bpass-only-after-cabinet-approval/article31713844.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IT firms prefer to wait and watch||With lockdown extended till June 30 from May 31 and no let-up in spread of COVID-19, there is no certainty if life can go back to pre-lockdown phase even with major relaxation in guidelines announced by the Centre on Saturday. As per the new guidelines, the malls, restaurants and religious places can reopen from June 8 except in containment zones and night curfew timings are revised from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m instead of 7 p.m. to 7 a.m. The State government conveyed the message that one has to live with the virus with due precautions and with no vaccine in sight. The night curfew will continue and it is for the individual to take care of himself or herself while commuting to work or shopping. Given the situation and no large-scale testing happening for the virus in the city and State, the IT and ITES sector, which had taken to ‘Work From Home’ mode right after imposition of lockdown in March last week, thinks it is better to wait and watch and see how the situation evolves over the next few weeks. Big IT companies with global operations are wary of exposing their employees to the infection with numbers still high and given the concern that there may be a large number of asymptomatic virus carriers moving around owing to lack of testing. In a survey conducted by some MNCs and IT corporates among their employees, they found that only 10% of them were willing to come to their offices from June 1. Mr. Bharani Aroll, president, Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA), said that though relaxation was given for IT sector to have 100% of their employees working from their offices, the curfew hampers night shifts that have to be aligned with US, UK timings. At present 90% of the employees have been working from home with digital infrastructure in place and there is no need to immediately ramp up on-site operations. Some IT/ITES companies want to continue WFH mode till June-end, some till September-end and some others till December-end as employees are also apprehensive of the virus. Mr. Murali Bollu, ex-president of HYSEA says that the night curfew makes it difficult for IT companies due to overlap of timings with their overseas clients. Only about 10% to 15% of employees come to work now at clients’ insistence over data security issues. The number of essential services passes given to IT companies to run cabs for employees coming to work is meagre.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/it-firms-prefer-to-wait-and-watch/article31713865.ece
31 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Appoint an epidemologist as adviser to CM’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee Treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy has asked the State government to immediately appoint an epidemiologist to assist the Chief Minister with professional advice on tackling the COVID-19 situation. At a press conference here, he said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is ‘totally dependent on IAS and IPS officers who lacked expertise’ while experts cannot reach him with their advice. He said an epidemiologist should be hired along with a team of experts to advise the government on a daily basis. Mr. Reddy said as many as 1409 cases were officially reported in the last one month while 664 cases were registered since May 22), claiming that the actual number could be at least 200% higher.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/appoint-an-epidemologist-as-adviser-to-cm/article31713851.ece
31 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man held for ‘raping’ daughter||A 37-year-old man was arrested by Vikarabad police on the charge of raping his 13-year-old daughter. The accused, a resident of Allapur under Karankote police, was sexually assaulting his daughter, a Madrasa student, SP M Narayana said. She had been sent home due to lockdown. The girl is the child from his third wife. The SP said the incident came to light when the man left her at his brother’s house, where family members found her upset and questioned. She narrated the incident to them, who approached the police.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/man-held-for-raping-daughter/article31713837.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SBI vertical to focus on financial inclusion||A Financial Inclusion and Micro Market (FIMM) network is being set up by the State Bank of India in Telangana as part of the bank’s enhanced focus on micro market, agriculture and allied activities as well as micro and small enterprises. The FIMM Network in the State will be headed by a General Manager. It is being established with a sales hub and processing cells at district level for quicker delivery of services to customers of rural and semi urban branches, State Bank of India Hyderabad Circle Chief General Manager O.P.Mishra said on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/sbi-vertical-to-focus-on-financial-inclusion/article31713836.ece
31 May 2020||JANGAON DT.,TELANGANA||Villagers stage protest||The villagers of Chinna Pendyal staged a silent protest here on Saturday demanding the release of revolutionary poet P. Varavara Rao, who hails from the village. Speaking about the silent protest, Chinnapendyal village sarpanch M Linga Reddy said that they have learnt that the poet was admitted to JJ Hospital in Mumbai after he fell sick while in Taloja jail. Since COVID-19 outbreak is causing a panic-like situation in Mumbai, the family members of Mr. Varavara Rao and the entire village is worried about the condition of the jailed poet, he added . As the elderly are more vulnerable to the coronavirus, Mr Varavara Rao should be released on bail was the villagers’ demand.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/villagers-stage-protest/article31713868.ece
31 May 2020||KAMAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Plans are afoot to fill NSP with Godavari water’||Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy on Saturday said that plans are afoot to bring Godavari river water under Kaleshwaram project to fill the Nizam Sagar Project via the Haldi reservoir. Thereby, water would be released to different areas by lifting it at Nagamadugu, he added. To solve the water woes of farmers, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has designed new projects since the formation of Telangana and those were becoming a reality one after another, said Mr. Prashanth Reddy. Growing crops to an optimum level in the State was the CM’s wish, he added, addressing an awareness camp for farmers on new agriculture policy at Achampet in Jukkal constituency. Advising the farmers to grow only those crops which had demand in the market, he made it clear that the State government was not ready to purchase more than 40% of the produce. The Chief Minister has asked officials to purchase 100% produce as of now, but this could not be expected every time, he added. The government has constituted two expert committees to suggest raising crops on different kinds of soils and how to market them, he said. Attacking the Congress, Mr. Prashanth Reddy said those who ruled the State for 50 years were critical of TRS government’s agriculture policy, but they never thought of supplying free power 24x7 to farm sector, providing water, seed and fertilizers. He said in the current season, paddy was cultivated on 80 lakh acres but it would be enough if raised on 70 lakh acres, of which ‘sannam rakam’ variety of paddy must be grown more as a majority of people prefer that.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/plans-are-afoot-to-fill-nsp-with-godavari-water/article31713859.ece
31 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Official clarifies||Municipal commissioner Valluru Kranthi clarified that the municipal authorities were taking all measures for supply of water daily through taps to people of the town within two to three weeks. Responding to a news item, “Daily water remains pipe dream”, published in these columns on Wednesday, she said they had started trial run on May 5. They were also scouring the newly laid pipelines.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/official-clarifies/article31713845.ece
31 May 2020||Karimnagar/ Mahabubabad/ Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri/ Bhadradri-Kothagudem,TELANGANA||Rain brings relief from heat, pours misery on farmers||Sudden downpour in various parts of the integrated Karimnagar district on early Saturday morning brought much-needed respite from the blistering heatwave conditions. The mercury, which had been touching the 45-degree Celsius mark for the past one week, fell by five degrees after the rain. However, it caused extensive damage to the farming community as their harvested paddy got washed away at various procurement centres in Ganneruvaram, Naganuru, Choppadandi, Manthani, Peddapalli, Jagtial, Korutla and Metpally among other places. Mango orchards were also damaged in several parts of the Jagtial and Karimnagar districts. State coordinator of Kisan Congress Sashibushan Kache visited a few paddy procurement centres in Manthani where the rains had damaged the paddy produce. He alleged that the delay in procurement of the paddy had resulted in the produce staying at the centres and eventually getting damaged in the heavy rain. He demanded that the State government procure the damaged paddy at the earliest. In rural parts of Mahabubabad district too, the sudden rainfall proved to be a bane for scores of farmers who had brought their paddy for sale at procurement centres. Heavy rain lashed at least 11 procurement centres in Gudur mandal, washing away the paddy and leaving many bags dripping with rain water. Damage assessment District Collector V.P. Gautam said revenue and agriculture officials were deputed to the procurement centres to assess the damage. “It is too early to tell the extent of damage,” he told The Hindu . For the general population across the undivided Warangal district, however, the rain brought respite from the searing heat wave. Warangal city, too, witnessed slight showers. Overnight rains in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri district till Saturday morning lashed five mandals, affecting the final stage of paddy procurement. Officials said Gundala mandal received the highest 30.6 mm rainfall, while Bibinagar and Ramannapet followed with more than 15 mm. Yadagirigutta received a minimum rainfall of 3.4 mm. Since there was no standing crop in the season, no current losses were reported. However, paddy procurement that is in the final stage was affected. According to officials, as on Friday 9 a.m., 2.95 lakh metric tonnes paddy was procured from 277 various IKP and PACS centres. Nearly half of the centres were also closed, and only about 3.5% (9685 metric tonnes) of the procured paddy was pending to be sent to rice mills. A total of 35, 336 farmers of the 44, 880 were already given payments worth Rs. 393.7 crore. In Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, the unseasonal showers lashed several Agency mandals including Gundala, Pinapaka and various other parts of the district bringing respite from the heatwave. While Gundala mandal received 6.4 mm rainfall, Pinapaka, Tekulapalli, Bhadrachalam and Burgampadu mandals recorded 5.4 mm, 5.2 mm, 4.4 mm and 4.8 mm rainfall respectively in the last 24 hours, sources said. Kothagudem received light showers in the early hours of the day. There were no immediate reports of damage to fruit orchards due to the sudden spell of showers. However, unconfirmed reports said mangoes and other harvested agricultural produce stocked in the open fields were partially damaged owing to the unexpected showers in Aswaraopeta and some other mandals in the district.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/rain-brings-relief-from-heat-pours-misery-on-farmers/article31713860.ece
31 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||Honour for writer-activist||Writer, publisher and political activist Karra Yella Reddy was conferred the ‘Suravaram Pratap Reddy Sahithi Award’ by Karimnagar-based Navyasahithya Parishath. The organisation gives away the annual award on Suravaram Pratap Reddy’s birth anniversary on May 28. Its president Malayasri presented a memento and shawl to Mr. Yella Reddy at the latter’s Warangal home. Mr Yella Reddy, 57, an advocate by profession, has published 54 books, thus serving Telugu language, particularly Telangana dialect. The Telugu Adhikara Bhasha Sangam (Telugu Official Language Commission) had honoured him with an award in 2009 recognising his services made to the development of the language.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/honour-for-writer-activist/article31713861.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Pregnant woman delivers on ‘locked’ PHC premises||A pregnant woman hailing from Bihar, working at a cement factory here, delivered a baby boy on the premises of the Mattampally Primary Health Centre on Saturday, as the facility ‘remained locked’. Both the mother and the newborn are safe. Officials said the delivery was “inside the premises of the PHC but no staff was present.” According to locals, the couple -- Beerendra Kumar and Laxmini Devi, both aged 26, arrived at the PHC around 6 a.m.Photos and video of the premises suggested marks of the delivery on the entrance ramp. PHC officials spoke to The Hindu , and said the facility was not locked as it was a 24-hour service that operates three work shifts, and that only the door was shut. “The delivery started at 6.05 a.m. near the delivery room. However, there was no staff at the moment as the duty staff nurse, who resides in the house adjoining the facility, had gone to the restroom,” an official said. "The nurse was back by 6.25 a.m. and shifted them to the delivery room, where the placenta was removed and other procedures completed. The newborn and the mother were medically stable and soon shifted to Huzurnagar general hospital," the official added. Inquiry ordered Meanwhile, an inquiry was initiated by District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy. Officials served a memo on the staff nurse for her absence and full disciplinary proceedings against her would be completed in two days.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-telangana/pregnant-woman-delivers-on-locked-phc-premises/article31713863.ece
31 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Lockdown is driving Gurugram cab, bus operators out of business||Anil Hada, a Wazirabad-based cab operator, owns 27 taxis and has been in the business for almost two decades. Hit hard by the lockdown, he is now planning to switch trade and open a grocery store. Mr. Hada, in his 40s, said his business has been on a decline since 2014 when cab-aggregators such as Ola and Uber entered the market. He mostly hires out taxis to automobile firms in Manesar. Even before the lockdown, he lost almost half his business due to the economic slowdown. He claimed to have received just five bookings over the past two months. The earnings have not been enough to meet expenses such as loan instalments on ten taxis, amounting to Rs. 3.5 lakh per month, and salaries of drivers. “My business involves the risk of accidents, fear of challans and police action. It is not worth it anymore. I see my father running a grocery shop. He leads a relaxed life. I too will open a grocery shop if the situation persists,” said Mr. Hada. He brought his son into his business a few years back but now regrets it. Mr. Hada recalled the good old days of the business when loan instalments and salaries of drivers were low, and bookings were in abundance. Over time, expenses have gone up even as bookings have dipped. Moratorium scheme Apart from automobile firms, he gets bookings for routes where Ola and Uber do not ply. Mr. Hada has availed the loan moratorium scheme, now extended for another three months, but doubts that he will be able to pay back the money even six months after the lockdown is lifted. “After the moratorium period, I need to pay a huge interest along with the instalments. It would have been better had the government increased the loan tenure and not imposed the interest,” said Mr. Hada. Jagbir Singh Yadav of Konasth Travels Private Limited too has been struggling to remain afloat. Having a fleet of around 500 taxis, Mr. Yadav caters to IT firms, BPOs and airlines ferrying their employees. But with the shutting down of offices due to the lockdown, he is totally out of work. Mr. Yadav said a couple of his client companies had called him to inform that they might not need transportation for another one year and wanted to terminate the agreements. “It is a wait-and-watch situation. Nothing much can be done. It is difficult to even switch to new business in these times,” he said. Mr. Yadav has been partially paying salaries to his drivers but said that he will not be able to keep it up if the situation persists. With monthly loan instalments of around Rs. 15 lakh-Rs. 20 lakh, he has availed the moratorium, but that too is a costly option to exercise with huge interest on the deferred EMIs. Mr. Yadav said that most of his vehicles were on loan with instalments ranging between Rs. 17,000 and Rs. 26,000 per month. The company has 500 drivers, meaning around 2,500 people have been affected. The only solution is to “learn to live with the situation”; no one can afford to sit at home for long, said Mr. Yadav. “It is a turbulent time for the transport and hospitality industries. The government has not announced any package for us,” he rued, adding that a lot of uncertainty prevailed as the companies were allowed to open but the borders were sealed. Running a bus tours and travels agency, Satbir too has been hit hard by the lockdown. He mostly catered to companies in Manesar ferrying their employees, but there has been no business for almost two months now. “A couple of buses have gone back to work, but with the industries not running at full capacity, the demand is very low. Now, it is all at the mercy of the Almighty,” said Mr. Satbir. He had been running a few buses to cater to foreign and domestic tourists as well, but tourism has completely stopped. “It may take several months, if not years, for the tourists to return,” lamented Mr. Satbir, who runs Bright Tours and Travels from Sector 12. Heavy fines Amid the lockdown, the cab operators have also been hit by a flurry of e-challans for speeding by Delhi Police. Mr. Hada claimed he had received as many as 270 challans worth Rs. 5.70 lakh in April for speeding of his cabs from November 2019 till March this year. “Since most of the drivers have now left, I need to pay these on my own. It has been an additional financial burden when the income is nil. Many operators have received these challans worth lakhs,” said Mr. Hada. Mr. Satbir too said he had received challans for speeding of the buses plying to neighbouring States. Not just the big cab and bus operators, independent cab drivers too are struggling to survive. Brijender, who is attached to Ola, said he had returned to work in the first week of May after the “Janata Curfew” on March 24. He would earlier make Rs. 2,500-Rs. 3,000 per day, but now earned just Rs. 1,000-Rs. 1,500 per day. “I hope for more passengers after June 1 since more relaxations are expected,” said Brijender. Mr. Yadav said that the independent drivers attached to his company were hit even harder since they could not afford to pay the EMIs for the vehicle loan.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/lockdown-is-driving-gurugram-cab-bus-operators-out-of-business/article31713778.ece
31 May 2020||Gurugram,||COVID-19 death toll rises to 20 in Haryana, cases climb to 1,923||In the highest single-day jump, Gurugram — which is one of Haryana’s worst-hit districts — reported 157 new COVID-19 cases. The total number of virus cases in the district now stands at 677, according to the health department bulletin.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-20-in-haryana-cases-climb-to-1923/article31713770.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||1,163 new cases, 18 deaths in city||The Capital reported 1,163 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 18,549, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. This is the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases in the city so far and the third consecutive day of over 1,000 cases. Also, 18 more deaths were reported taking the total to 416. But all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 8,075 people have recovered and there are 10,058 active cases.    Meanwhile, the number of containment zones in the city have increased from 73 on May 18 to 103 on Saturday, according to the bulletin. A containment zone has a stricter form of the lockdown and people are not allowed to enter or leave the sealed off areas.    Meanwhile, a technical staff working at the Delhi government’s Lok Nayak Hospital, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died on Saturday, according to hospital authorities.  “He had tested positive around 15 days back and was admitted in the ICU of our hospital. We will be writing to the Delhi government for the Rs. 1 crore compensation for his family,” a hospital official added. The employee was scheduled to retire in just over a month, said officials. On April 1, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced Rs. 1 crore as compensation for the family of any person who loses his/her life while serving any COVID-19 patient, including sanitation workers, doctors, nurses or any other staff, temporary or permanent, from the government and private sector. The hospital authorities added that the medical director has also tested positive for COVID-19. LNJP Hospital has the highest number of COVID-19 patients among all the hospitals in the city. DJB employee dies A Delhi Jal Board (DJB) employee who was COVID-19 positive has died, a DJB spokesperson said on Saturday. “The employee had a fever and tested positive on May 22. He died on May 27,” the spokesperson added. The DJB has written to the Delhi government for compensation for the employee’s family.  More cases Three more employees at the New Delhi Municipal Corporation (NDMC) tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday, taking the total number of positive cases to 20, according to officials. The NDMC headquarters was sealed on Thursday and a total of 11 employees have tested positive till now. Also, multiple officials of the General Administration Department (GAD) at the Delhi Secretariat have tested positive for COVID-19, according to officials. Meanwhile, the Delhi government has decided to make all 1,500 beds of GTB Hospital a COVID-19 treatment facility, instead of 500 beds as decided on Friday, according to a fresh order issued on Saturday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/1163-new-cases-18-deaths-in-city/article31713776.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. issues directions for ‘better management’ of bodies||The Delhi government on Saturday issued directions for “better management” of bodies of COVID-19 positive or suspect persons, and fixed responsibility for their timely disposal on the heads of hospitals. The government also fixed time limits for various steps. “The responsibility of timely disposal of dead bodies of COVID positive/suspect shall be of medical director/director of the hospital. Respective Municipal Corporation shall make all arrangements to cremate /bury such dead bodies,” stated the order issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department. The in-charge of the linked mortuary should report to the hospital head for disposal of bodies. “The hospital shall send body to mortuary within 2 hours. If family/relatives contact the mortuary within 12 hours of death, the hospital shall schedule cremation/burial in consultation with the kin and area civic body in next 24 hours,” the order added. In case of unidentified bodies, Delhi Police should complete all legal formalities within 72 hours of death and dispose of the body in the next 24 hours as per the protocol, the order stated. Out of State “If the address of the deceased is outside Delhi, the medical director shall send a notice to resident commissioner of the State/Union Territory to contact within 48 hours. If no reply is received, the shall be cremated by thehHospital in the next 24 hours,” read the order.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhi-govt-issues-directions-for-better-management-of-bodies/article31713774.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||Seventh COVID-19 death in Gautam Buddha Nagar||A 58-year-old man died of COVID-19 in Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar on Saturday, taking the death toll in the district to seven, the government-run hospital where he was admitted said. He was the first patient aged under 60 in the district who died of the virus. Gautam Buddha Nagar, adjoining Delhi, also detected 18 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the number of total cases in the district to 405, officials said. The number of active patients, however, stood at 105, they added. The man from Noida, was admitted to the COVID ICU of Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida on Thursday. He had pneumonia with acute respiratory distress syndrome, said GIMS Director.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/seventh-covid-19-death-in-gautam-buddha-nagar/article31713772.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||Court extends interim bail of Ashu Khan||A Delhi court on Saturday extended by 45 days the interim bail of local leader Ashu Khan who was arrested for allegedly rioting and instigating a mob during anti-CAA protests here on December 15 last year. Additional District Judge Vipin Kumar Rai granted the interim relief to Khan in two cases related to the violent protests at Jamia Nagar and New Friends Colony on furnishing a bail bond of Rs. 2 lakh. The court directed him not to tamper with evidence or leave the country without its permission. Mr. Khan was earlier granted interim bail in the case in April.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/court-extends-interim-bail-of-ashu-khan/article31713769.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi’s drug market shut till June 4||The Delhi Drug Traders’ Association (DDTA) has decided to shut down India’s largest wholesale drug market in Bhagirath Palace, Chandni Chowk, till at least June 4. 14 cases so far A total of 13 traders and one staff have tested positive for COVID-19 in the past two weeks. The market has about 1,500 wholesale drugs and medical equipment shops. “In the past two weeks, we have had 14 people test positive. We are unable to maintain social distancing in such a busy market,” said DDTA secretary Ashish Grover. “The AC Market in Central Bank Building has at least 4-5 positive cases so it was closed on Saturday till June 4. The other parts of the market housed in Omkar Bhawan, Milaap Bhawan and rest of the drug market in Bhagirath Palace will be closed from June 1 onwards,” he said. He added that the shutting of the market is essential for the safety of the people.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-newdelhi/delhis-drug-market-shut-till-june-4/article31713768.ece
31 May 2020||Ahmedabad,||COVID-19: Gujarat govt. hiding actual numbers, says Cong.||The Gujarat Congress has accused the State government of hiding the actual figures of COVID-19 cases by earlier reducing the number of tests and now by not sharing proper information with the public and portraying a rosy picture that infections had reduced in the State. The Congress alleged that the BJP-led government had removed certain information from its coronavirus dashboard, stopped daily briefings and has not shared district-wise figures. Instead of containing the spread of novel coronavirus, the BJP government was busy hiding the real figures of infected people, the Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi alleged. “The State government has stopped daily briefings by principal secretary health, Jayanti Ravi. It has removed crucial information from its coronavirus dashboard, which it used to update daily and it has stopped disseminating details like city-wise cases,” Mr. Doshi said. After its miserable failure in combating the pandemic, the State health department had now decided to sweep the matter under the carpet, he claimed, adding that the authorities were playing with public health. “This is being done to portray a rosy picture that number of cases have come down in Gujarat,” he alleged. The State government had earlier reduced the number of tests conducted on a daily basis to detect COVID-19 cases, the Congress leader said. The COVID-19 dashboard at gujcovid19.gujarat.gov.in now contains number of active cases, total samples tested, patients recovered, people under quarantine and total deaths, but nowhere does it have total number of confirmed cases either in the State or districts, he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-gujarat-govt-hiding-actual-numbers-says-cong/article31713798.ece
31 May 2020||Alok Deshpande Mumbai,||Hold exams, but make sure students are safe: Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday directed the Higher and Technical Education Department to conduct final year examinations in Maharashtra while ensuring the safety of students. Mr. Thackeray held a video-conference with vice-chancellors of all non-agricultural universities in the State to discuss the issue of pending final year examinations. Technical and Higher Education Minister Uday Samant, Minister of State Prajakt Tanpure, chief secretary Ajoy Mehta and other senior officials also took part in the video conference. “It is clear that the examination cannot be held in July. The situation in cities is changing with every passing day. We have to think about using technology to overcome the crisis. We will think of options. Examinations will be conducted ensuring the highest level of safety standards. In addition, options of giving average marks or grades or checking the legality of optional examination for those who want to improve their grades can also be looked into,” said Mr. Thackeray. Mr. Samant had, in a recent letter to University Grant Commission (UGC), sought permission to cancel final year examinations in the State in the wake of novel coronavirus pandemic. The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) had opposed such a move which led to Governore Bhagat Singh Koshyari getting involved and complaining to Mr. Thackeray. Mr. Samant later clarified that it was his personal opinion, and the State government had not reached any conclusion. Mr. Samant on Saturday said that the government is conducting meetings with vice-chancellors. “We are taking into consideration the existing situation at different regions, and the psychology of students. Students are at the centre of every discussion and the government is checking all options to ensure examinations are held,” he said. Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta said the government would ensure exams are held. “We will not let talented students suffer,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hold-exams-but-make-sure-students-are-safe-thackeray/article31713790.ece
31 May 2020||Aurangabad,||‘Workers will have to register on return’||Migrant labourers who have gone back to their home States amid the lockdown following the coronavirus crisis will have to register themselves when they return, State Industries Minister Subhash Desai said here on Saturday. He also said that Maharashtra has enough labour force of its own. “[Migrant] Labourers have returned to their home States just with their clothes. They may come back after some time. At present we have enough labour force to supply to our industries,” he said, speaking to reporters. “But if labourers from other States return, they will need to register their names here,” said Mr. Desai, who is a senior Shiv Sena leader. The Minister also visited a special hospital for COVID-19 patients being set up at Chikalthana and a testing laboratory at Dr. Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University here. “The laboratory will also study how front line warriors can be saved from getting infected while serving coronavirus patients,” Mr. Desai said. He also ordered fever clinics be set up, an official said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/workers-will-have-to-register-on-return/article31713799.ece
31 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Seven injured in Odisha accident||At least seven persons were injured on Saturday when a bus carrying migrant workers from Kerala to West Bengal overturned in Odisha’s Balasore district. The accident took place at 6.30 a.m. when the driver lost control over the bus at a bridge on NH-16, according to Paresh Rout, Inspector-in-Charge of Industrial Police Station, Balasore. There were 30 persons in the bus, including 28 migrant workers and two drivers.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/seven-injured-in-odisha-accident/article31713779.ece
31 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab extends lockdown till June 30||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday announced a 4-week extension in the lockdown in the State, till June 30, with certain more relaxations, subject to the guidelines of the Central government. Though experts have advised against opening of the hospitality industry and malls, Captain Amarinder said the State would take into account the Central government guidelines for Lockdown 5.0. The Chief Minister announced this after an on-ground assessment of the COVID situation through a videoconference with health experts, top officials and his Ministers. The move is also in line with the Central government’s decision to extend the national lockdown beyond May 31. Captain Amarinder said during a Facebook live session that the threat of COVID was not over yet, and if necessary, he would continue to take tough measures to save the lives of Punjabis. Making it clear that the extension of the lockdown in Punjab would be conditional to strict adherence to safety protocols, including physical distancing and wearing of masks, the Chief Minister also ordered distribution of free masks to the poor. He said non-reporting to health authorities by those returning to the State, especially from abroad, was a big challenge. He said that 9,560 had been traced and tested, and some positive cases had been found among these. Punjab recorded 36 fresh cases on May 30 and reported two deaths, taking the tally to 44, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 2,233.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/punjab-extends-lockdown-till-june-30/article31713780.ece
31 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Don’t scrap free power to farmers, warn Akalis||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Saturday warned the Congress government in Punjab against any move to scrap free power facility to farmers even as the Chief Minister ruled out any such plan. SAD held a meeting of its core committee and announced to launch a mass movement if the government scraps free power for agriculture directly or indirectly. The meeting, chaired by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, passed a resolution on the issue. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said his government is willing to forego the portion of fiscal deficit enhancement offered by the Centre but would not compromise with the farmers’ interest. He also asked Mr. Badal and Union Minister and Akali leader Harsimrat Kaur Badal to quit the NDA. He pointed out that it was the Centre that directed the States to withdraw free power, and also failed to come to the rescue of the State during the COVID crisis and lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/dont-scrap-free-power-to-farmers-warn-akalis/article31713787.ece
31 May 2020||CUTTACK,||COVID-19 victims won’t be revealed, govt. assures HC||The Odisha government has assured the Orissa High Court that necessary steps would be taken to ensure that identity of any person, found infected with the corona virus in the State, is not disclosed in any government communications or in any media platforms, including the social media. State Advocate-General A.K. Parija gave this assurance to the High Court following the Thursday’s direction in this regard from a Division Bench headed by Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq. The High Court had asked the government to ensure that identities of persons, testing positive to COVID-19 in any centre, are not disclosed. This direction from the High Court came during adjudication of a PIL filed by advocate Ananga Kumar Otta, who had alleged that several cases have been reported in the State where identities of the persons testing positive for COVID-19 have been publicised or disclosed in intra-departmental communications. The HC has directed to list this matter on June 4.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/covid-19-victims-wont-be-revealed-govt-assures-hc/article31713784.ece
01 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland Governor told to defer delimitation process||The apex body of a major ethnic community has asked Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi to pursue the State’s delimitation exercise only after the peace process with the extremist groups is settled. Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio had in March told the Assembly that the delimitation exercise would be conducted soon. The Centre had in 2002 asked the State to conduct the exercise but the State government rejected it citing “faulty and unrealistic” project of the population in 2001. The State was prodded again after the 2011 Census showed negative population growth over the decade. Mr. Rio had later admitted that delimitation would be a “very difficult exercise” as it would have to be rational and based on the population. The State’s population of 19.79 lakh in 2011 was 11,000 less than in 2001. The Sumi Hoho, the main social organisation of the Sumi Naga community, pointed out that one of the major demands of the “negotiating parties” was increasing the number of Assembly seats in the State. The negotiating parties include the National Socialist Council of Nagalim or the Isak-Muivah faction of NSCN and the Naga National Political Groups, a conglomerate of seven other outfits. The talks have been on since mid-1997. “It is learnt that the Government of India is all set to carry out delimitation exercise in Nagaland along with some other States, which contradicts the expectation of the Nagas. Therefore, keeping in view the anticipated favourable outcome of the Indo-Naga peace talks... keep the delimitation in abeyance as of now and ensure the conclusion of Naga political talks at the earliest,” the Sumi Hoho said in a statement on May 28.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/nagaland-governor-told-to-defer-delimitation-process/article31713783.ece
31 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Democratic, liberal ethos being undermined: Gehlot||Describing the first year of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s second term as the worst for the majority of common people in the country, Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday said the democratic and liberal ethos of India as an inclusive society had been completely undermined in the BJP government. In his remarks on the anniversary of the Modi government 2.0, Mr. Gehlot said the ruling dispensation at the Centre was tampering with the autonomy of institutions, while the public sector undertakings were being sold and communal harmony was being disrupted with a “divisive agenda”. “Instead of taking the nation forward, the government is taking it backwards,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted, while affirming that the last six years of the Modi government would be remembered as one of those periods in Indian history when people suffered the most and faced unbearable hardships. ‘Trial and error’ “Even after six years of trial and error on the economic front, we still see no silver lining how the government is going to revive the economy, provide jobs and look after the people, who have no money and no work,” he said. A thriving economy under the UPA had been completely destroyed by the NDA, he added. The Chief Minister said Mr. Modi’s tenure would be remembered as the time when lakhs of people lost everything and faced unbearable hardships during the COVID-19 lockdown. “The government remained a mute spectator to the suffering of people. The nation saw a most insensitive government [which was] least bothered about lives or livelihood of crores of Indians,” he said. Commenting on the operations of Shramik Special trains ferrying the migrant workers, Mr. Gehlot said as many as 40 trains had been delayed, one took nine days to reach its destination and 80 deaths had been reported so far. He said Railways Minister Piyush Goyal should be divested of his portfolio, as such a mess was never heard of before. “Let him concentrate on fundraising for the BJP,” he said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/democratic-liberal-ethos-being-undermined-gehlot/article31713786.ece
31 May 2020||Mumbai,||HC seeks report on procedures migrants need to follow to leave||The Bombay High Court has directed the Maharashtra government to file a report, by June 2, listing the entire procedure that a migrant worker is required to follow to be eligible to leave the State. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice K.K. Tated was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations (PIL) filed by Centre of Indian Trade Unions and others. The PIL raises concerns about the migrant workers who have submitted applications to leave the State by Shramik Special trains and buses during the continuance of the lockdown. It says they have been left in the dark on the status of their applications and that till such time they can board the trains/buses to leave for their native places, they have to live in cramped and unhygienic shelters, without being provided food and other essentials. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the Union of India, informed the court that the Supreme Court is seized of the issue of migrant workers and a detailed order was passed on May 28 on their plight. The Bench said, “At this stage, neither are we empowered nor do we wish to make any order contrary to the spirit of the order of the Supreme Court. However, having regard to the peculiar local conditions, we consider it fit and proper to call upon the State to file a report indicating therein how the plight of the migrant workers, who have been assembling at the railway stations/bus stands in Mumbai and places around it, are being addressed.” The court added that, “In fact, we have come across photographs in newspapers showing congregation of migrant workers not only on railway platforms but also on the streets adjoining the railway stations. Such congregation, if allowed, would run counter to the object, for which the lockdown has been imposed.” The Bench directed the State to file a report by June 2 indicating the whole procedure that a migrant worker is required to follow to be eligible to leave, the likely time within which he could board a train/bus, the nature of shelter he is provided with during the waiting period as well as provisions made for sustenance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/hc-seeks-report-on-procedures-migrants-need-to-follow-to-leave/article31713792.ece
31 May 2020||Navi Mumbai,||BMC staffer cheated on OLX by man posing as Army officer||The Kamothe police has booked a man who posed as an Army officer on OLX and cheated a Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) staffer of Rs. 26,025. The complainant Petras Borade (32) was trying to purchase a phone for Rs. 8,000 from one Vikas Patel, an Indian Army personnel, who managed to convince him to make eight transactions claiming the payment was not in the correct format. The case was registered on May 27. Mr. Patel agreed to sell the phone for Rs. 8,000 and also asked for Rs. 550 as courier charges. Mr. Borade paid Rs. 3,450 for the phone as partial instalment along with courier charges. Soon after, a person identifying himself as Navinsingh Tomar, got in touch with Mr. Borade and told him Indian Army did not accept the amount in such a format, and instructed him to pay Rs. 3,725, promising refund of the previous payments. Later, Mr. Tomar told him to pay an additional Rs. 5,150 as security charges. Mr. Borade borrowed from a friend to pay this. Two more demands for payment of various amounts were made and Mr. Borade again borrowed from another friend. After shelling out Rs. 26,025, when Mr. Tomar asked him to pay another Rs. 10,000, Mr. Borade realised he was being cheated, and approached the police. “We have registered a case of cheating, and under sections of IT Act,” said an officer from Kamothe police station.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/bmc-staffer-cheated-on-olx-by-man-posing-as-army-officer/article31713788.ece
31 May 2020||Panaji,||Goa planning to bring back approved travel pass system||With Goa witnessing a huge influx of people in the last couple of days, the government is planning to go back to its previous system of issuing travel passes, that require approval by authorities, instead of the self-generated e-passes introduced earlier this week. As those who enter the State have to undergo COVID-19 test, the influx in large numbers is putting a strain on the medical infrastructure, a minister said. The issue was discussed during a meeting of the MLAs and office-bearers of the ruling BJP at the residence of the Chief Minister. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane, who took part in the meeting, told reporters that it was discussed that travel passes need to be reintroduced in place of the self-generated e-passes. “The State witnessed a huge inflow of people in the last few days. We need to cap the number of arrivals in the State. Once the travel pass system is introduced, the health authorities will know how many people are going to arrive on a particular day,” he said. As per the previous system, district collectors would issue travel passes to people if they wanted to enter the State. State unit BJP president Sadanand Tanavade, who also attended the meeting, said the government might revert to the earlier practice in which people had to apply for the travel passes and get approval by the authorities. However, no decision to that effect has been taken yet, he said. “There is a tremendous inflow of people, due to which there is a stress on COVID-19 testing infrastructure,” he said. The Goa Cabinet had on Wednesday made it compulsory for everyone entering the State to either get themselves tested or carry COVID-19 negative certificate. On the same day, the Chief Minister had launched the self-generated e-pass system, according to which those entering the State could apply online for e-pass without having to wait for the approval of authorities.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/goa-planning-to-bring-back-approved-travel-pass-system/article31713795.ece
31 May 2020||Panaji,||Gang of 15 men held for mid-sea robbery in Goa||The Goa Coastal police on Saturday arrested 15 men for stealing fish and navigational equipment from a trawler between the coast of Goa and Malwan in Maharashtra, an official said. The gang of 15 men, headed by one Narayan Adkar, was arrested for robbing a trawler and decamping with fish and equipment, around 60-65 nautical miles away from Goa coast, the senior official said. The arrest was made after a complaint by trawler owner Joao Fernandes, who alleged that the accused had come aboard his trawler on Friday morning and held the crew hostage, before escaping with the stolen goods in another trawler.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gang-of-15-men-held-for-mid-sea-robbery-in-goa/article31713793.ece
31 May 2020||Rajpipla (Guj),||Gujarat MLAs detained on way to protest||Eight Congress MLAs and 20 others on their way to join tribal people protesting the fencing, by the State government in six villages near the Statue of Unity in Kevadiya in Narmada district, were detained on Saturday, the police said. Inspector R.N. Rathva of Rajpipla police station said the eight MLAs and 20 others were detained soon after they left the collectorate here to reach Kevadiya to join the protests. Congress MLAs Anil Joshiyara, P.D. Vasava, Chandrikaben Baria, Punabhai Gamit and local leaders were opposing fencing work being carried out by the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL), which claims the land had been acquired in the 1960s. In a memorandum to the Narmada collector, the MLAs asked if written permission was taken to carry out such works during the ongoing lockdown.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/gujarat-mlas-detained-on-way-to-protest/article31713796.ece
31 May 2020||Ranchi,||After Leh, Jharkhand flies back 180 workers from Andamans||Altogether 180 migrant workers reached Jharkhand from Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Saturday by a State-sponsored chartered flight, expressing relief from over two-month-long hardships due to lockdown. Migrants were flown back home from Andaman & Nicobar a day after 60 stranded workers returned from Leh by a service flight arranged by the State government. “The expenses of both the flights are borne by the Hemant Soren government,” an official statement said. The returnees will be sent by buses to their respective districts after health test, officials said. The migrants said they were given food and shelter by the Andaman administration, NGOs and fellow natives, settled in the island for several decades. Migrant workers were flown back home in chartered flights by the Jharkhand government after Mr. Soren wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah on May 21, seeking permission to operate flights to bring back stranded workers from Andaman-Nicobar Islands, Ladakh and the north-east as they could not be ferried by buses or trains. Sought govt. help These returnees had requested the government to make arrangement for their return. After emerging from Ranchi’s Birsa Munda Airport, a labourer said, “Many of us worked in road construction projects.” Another labourer said, “We were staying in South Andaman and got food from the administration, NGOs and some people from Jharkhand who have stayed there for a long time.” Water & Sanitation Minister Mithilesh Thakur, who reached the airport to welcome the migrants, said another flight would take off from Andamans on Sunday.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-national/tp-otherstates/after-leh-jharkhand-flies-back-180-workers-from-andamans/article31713782.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Military bonding beyond borders||The blow-back from remarks by the Army chief, Manoj Naravane, implying that Nepal was raising imaginary border claims with India at China’s behest could hit a vital pillar of India’s national security — the seven prized Gurkha regiments comprising battle-hardened troops, with a proven record of loyalty and valour. Speaking at an online seminar on May 15, Gen. Naravane raised eyebrows when he asserted that Nepal’s objections to India’s construction of a link road to the Lipulekh Pass may be “at the behest of someone else”. “There is reason to believe that they might have raised this issue at the behest of someone else and that is very much a possibility,” the Army chief had said, in an obvious reference to China. The General’s remarks raised a firestorm in Nepal, where tensions with India were already high following Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s inauguration of an 80-km stretch of a “pilgrim” road earlier in May. The entire road would provide easier access to Indian worshippers bound for Kailash-Mansarovar in China via the Lipulekh Pass. Mount Kailash is about 96 km away from the Pass. Following the road inauguration, the India-Nepal dispute over the status of Lipulekh has flared. Indian maps have shown Lipulekh as an Indian territory, with the area to the east of the Pass, belonging to Nepal. Nepal, on the contrary, claims that the Lipulekh Pass is part of its territory, located in its Dharchula district of Sudurpashchim Pradesh. Nepal PM K.P. Sharma Oli stoked the fires of nationalism to a new high, by delivering a defiant speech in Parliament, slamming India not only over territorial claims, but also for spiralling COVID-19 infections in his country. Growing bitterness Amid the growing bitterness, the Nepalese Army, which has historically enjoyed unique and privileged ties with India, has refrained from reacting to Gen. Naravane’s statement. Spokesperson of the Nepal Army, Brig. General Bigyan Dev Pandey, refusing to respond to General Naravane's comments, spotlighted that the controversy fell in the “political” and not the military domain. But, on the contrary, Nepal’s Defence Minister Ishwor Pokhrel, who is also Deputy Prime Minister, has slammed the Indian Army chief’s utterance. Gen. Naravane’s comments, he said, had hurt the sentiments of Nepalese Gurkhas, who have a long tradition of sacrifice for India, he said on May 25. “With this, the Indian Chief of the Army Staff has also hurt the sentiments of the Nepali Gurkha Army personnel who lay down their lives to protect India,” Mr. Pokhrel said in an interview. He added the Nepal Army “would definitely play its role in the right time, as per the directives of the government based on our Constitution... If needed, it will fight”. Amid the cross-fire between the Army Chief and the Nepalese political leadership lies the danger that the controversy may breed alienation among segments of at least 40 Gurkha battalions, mainly comprising Nepali soldiers who are the Indian Army’s pride. That would be a major Indian concern as New Delhi cannot afford any dissonance in the strong and reliable relationship with Gurkha troops, which has been tested and forged in the line of fire, for more than two centuries. Recruited by the British Ties between British-India and Nepali Gurkhas, who originate from the mountenous region of Gurkha, go deep, and can be traced to the famous Treaty of Sugauli, signed at the end of the Anglo-Nepalese war. That was in 1816, when troops of the British East India Company discovered that despite losing the war, the Nepali Gurkhas had fought with exceptional valour and grit, worthy of recruitment in the British-Indian forces. Consequently, the first battalion of the Gurkha Regiment was raised. The gamble of the Massachusetts-born General of the East India Company, David Ochterlony, the force behind the induction of the Gurkhas in the military, paid off, as the recruits from Nepal played a significant role in the consolidation of the British Empire in India. Gurkhas had engaged in combat during the Gurkha-Sikh War, Anglo-Sikh wars, and the Afghan wars. By the time the First World War began, 10 Gurkha regiments had already been raised in the British Indian Army. Unsurprisingly, they distinguished themselves in major combat theatres across the globe, ranging from Monte Cassino — a rocky hill about 130 km southeast of Rome — in the West, to tropical Rangoon in the East. The German Afrika Korps, the German expeditionary force in Africa during the Second World War led by Gen. Erwin Rommel, went on record to acknowledge the ferocity of these khukri -wielding fighters. “Rommel enjoyed touring the front lines. We would go deep into the desert to explore. One time we came across 14 German soldiers who seemed asleep. When we got closer we saw each had his throat cut. Nearby we found a khukri — the knife of the British Gurkha soldiers. I still have that knife,” recalled Rudolf Schneider, a former Afrika Korps soldier, who was also Rommel’s driver, as reported by The Independent newspaper. Gurkhas have fought in the Falklands war and served the British in Hong Kong, Cyprus, Sierra Leone and East Timor. Ties with Indian Army After India gained Independence, six Gurkha regiments were transferred from the British to the Indian Army as part of a tripartite agreement between Nepal, India and Britain. A seventh regiment was raised after Independence. Currently, there roughly are 32,000 Gurkhas who make up the 40 battalions serving in the seven regiments in the Indian Army. There is not a single military campaign launched by independent India, where the battalions have not left their indelible mark. In recent decades, many retired Indian Army officers would recall the sheer tenacity, courage and combat skills of Gurkha troops at the dizzy heights of the Siachen Glacier in Ladakh. Resolutely defending Bilafond La, one of the “gates” leading to the glacier, the third battalion of the fourth Gurkha Rifles regiment blunted repeated assaults by the Pakistani troops, all at a height of 20,000 feet. In the battle fought on September 20-24, 1987, 13 Gurkha troops were killed and 23 wounded. For their bravery, the unit earned 3 Maha Vir Chakras (MVC) and 5 Vir Chakras. During the 1971 Indo-Pak war, a Gurkha battalion pioneered amphibious operations. Amid the Indian Peace Keeping Force operations in Sri Lanka, two Gurkha battalions participated in combat with distinction, but Lt. Colonel Inder Bal Singh Bawa, one of the battalion commanders, was injured and later died, along with many of the unit’s officers and troops. Col. Bawa was later decorated with an MVC. Speaking of the Gurkhas, Sam Manekshaw, India’s first field Marshall, who himself belonged to the eighth Gurkha Rifles regiment, once famously said: “If anyone tells you he is never afraid, he is a liar or he is a Gurkha.”    There is not a single military campaign launched by independent India where the battalions of the seven Gurkha regiments have not left their indelible mark||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/military-bonding-beyond-borders/article31713501.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The sorrow of fallen trees||There are places that one associates with Calcutta — or Kolkata — but in reality they are not situated in the city. Take Howrah Station, for example. The red-brick train terminus lies across the River Hooghly in the district of Howrah, and is connected to the city by the iconic Howrah Bridge. Then there is the historic botanical garden — named after Jagadish Chandra Bose as recently as in 2009 — which also lies across the river in Howrah. The garden dates back to the time when the British were still traders in India. It was set up in 1787 — thirty years after Robert Clive won the Battle of Plassey and consolidated East India Company’s hold over Bengal — by Robert Kyd, a lieutenant-colonel in the British Army who was known to have a personal interest in horticulture. In creating the garden he was driven not so much by nature as by the idea of commercial gain: he wanted to grow plants that would bring money to the company. A botanist’s delight Kyd died in 1793, aged 47. He had wanted the garden, which had over 4,000 plants by now, to be his final resting place but he was instead buried in Calcutta, at the South Park Street Cemetery. Over the years, the garden grew into a botanist’s delight with trees from all corners of the world taking root here. Today, the botanical garden is counting ‘dead bodies’. On May 20, Cyclone Amphan tore through its 273-acre spread — containing 15,000 plants belonging to 1,300 species — felling hundreds of trees. “There are so many dead bodies you can’t imagine. It is a painful sight. Until the other day these trees were with us, but now they are gone,” says Dr. Kanad Das, the garden’s joint director and head of office. Only a botanist — or sensitive souls who consider plants as living beings — will refer to a fallen tree as a dead body. They recognise that trees take time to grow. People who plant a sapling don’t always live to see it fully grown. And the longer a tree lives, it becomes like the planet’s ‘family gold’, passed on from generation to generation. The demise of a tree that is a century or two old is, therefore, no less than catastrophic. And in the botanical garden, dozens of them, that had withstood countless storms, were toppled by Amphan. The Great Banyan Had the cyclone been slightly longer in duration and stronger in force, it would also have wiped out the garden’s biggest asset: the Great Banyan, which predates the establishment of the garden. It survived two cyclones in the 19th century and in 1925, its decayed main trunk was removed, but it continued to grow. According to Dr. Das, 15 to 20% of the tree was damaged by Amphan. “We may be able to salvage 5% of the part that is damaged.” But many of its contemporaries are gone for good. Like the African baobab, brought from Madagascar. The tree has a lifespan of 6,000 years and can hold up to 500 litres of water. Then the numerous mahogany trees, some of them brought from the West Indies in 1795 by William Roxburgh, the botanist who, after Kyd’s death, moved from Madras to take charge of the garden as its first full-time superintendent. The mahogany trees, when they fell, also crushed several species of bamboo. Amphan’s other victims include the ‘mad tree’, whose leaves were differently shaped from one another, and a mountain rose from Venezuela. “The cyclone has done to the garden what COVID-19 has done to Italy and Spain,” says Dr. Das. More ‘bodies’ are likely to be discovered once the damage-assessment takes place in full swing. The garden, which comes under the Ministry of Environment and Forests, is short of staff at the moment because the area around it has been declared a containment zone due to the spread of COVID-19. “It won’t be proper on my part to ask them (staff) to join duty when restrictions are in place,” says Dr. Das. As of now, two small teams are examining the extent of damage. They are at a loss because they are unable to figure out where to begin: Everybody is in a state of daze. “It’s a hotchpotch at the moment,” says Dr. Das. Lucky are those who have ticked the garden in their list of must-visit places. For when it reopens, it will no longer look the same. It’s like the botanical equivalent of the Taj Mahal being wiped off the face of earth. For it to look the way it did until May 20, it could take another 200 years.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-sorrow-of-fallen-trees/article31713503.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The General in the government||Benny Gantz, a relative neophyte in Israeli politics who vowed during three inconclusive elections not to serve under a criminally indicted Prime Minister, was sworn in on May 17 as Benjamin Netanyahu’s Deputy Premier. Under the deal he agreed in April, which supporters have derided as a betrayal of trust, the former Army Chief of Staff will swap roles after 18 months with the country’s longest-serving leader. Mr. Netanyahu had previously resorted to a relentless smear campaign against his opponent, calling Mr. Gantz a traitor because he was willing to take the support of Israel’s Arab parties to dislodge him. The latter has, however, justified his U-turn in terms of having to save the country from COVID-19 and to avert a fourth general election. ‘The Prince’ Mr. Gantz is best remembered for the 2014 military campaign he spearheaded against Hamas. The son of Holocaust survivors, he was drafted to the Israeli Defence Forces in 1977. His rise through the military ranks was quick — he became a Brigadier General at 39 and Major General at 42. Soldiers called him “the Prince”. In December 2018, three years after retiring as Chief of Staff, Mr. Gantz launched the Hosen L’Ýisrael, or Israel Resilience Party, pledging to enhance national security and the rule of law. Resilience merged with two other parties in February 2019, marking the beginning of the centrist Blue and White coalition, just weeks before the first of the three general elections that started in April. In poll campaigns, Mr. Gantz channelled popular antipathy to Mr. Netanyahu’s record in office, exemplified by the attacks on the judiciary and investigation agencies in the wake of ongoing criminal in corruption cases. Last year, he supported the creation of a “contiguous Palestinian entity” on 65% of the West Bank and called for a freeze on building settlements outside the major settlement blocs. No majority Blue and White emerged the largest combine in the September election, but without a clear majority. During coalition talks after the March 2 election, Israel’s Arab parties, the Joint List, decided to back the alliance and held out hopes of harmony between the nation’s diverse religious communities. This momentum enabled Mr. Gantz to rally support among smaller opposition parties to legislate term limits for the Prime Minister — Mr. Netanyahu is now serving a fourth consecutive term. Another measure Mr. Gantz proposed sought to strip indicted politicians of eligibility to run for high office. All of these have, for the moment, been put on ice. In an evident acknowledgement of his growing strength, President Reuven Rivlin invited Mr. Gantz to form the government. In a bid to kick-start the new legislature, the latter secured a judicial injunction in late March to expedite the election of the Knesset Speaker. The process was nonetheless circumvented, as the incumbent resigned his post, rather than heed the court’s ruling to hold an election to choose his successor. In a dramatic about-turn in 24 hours, Mr. Gantz nominated himself as the Speaker and announced his backing for the so-called unity government with his arch-rival. Commentators ascribe the abrupt shift to the resistance within Blue and White legislative factions to cohabiting with the Arab parties, forcing Mr. Gantz to either collaborate with Mr. Netanyahu or risk a fourth election. West Bank settlements Crucially, Israel’s highly contentious proposal to annex settlements in the occupied West Bank is the only aspect, besides the response to the pandemic, where the coalition deal gives Mr. Netanyahu a free hand. The Joint List and Israel’s traditional left supporters have criticised such a stance as complete capitulation on the part of Mr. Gantz. It perhaps also explains his silence right through his electoral campaigns on statehood for the Palestinians. More broadly, it points to the limitations of the catch-all appeal of the party and Mr. Gantz’s political approach, given Israel’s highly fragmented polity. It may hence prove especially hard for him to resurrect his reputation as a rallying force for the country’s opposition. Such an opportunity may yet arise when the courts pronounce on Mr. Netanyahu’s criminal trials in the coming months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/the-general-in-the-government/article31713505.ece
31 May 2020||San Francisco,||FB stays neutral even as Twitter confronts U.S. President||Earlier this week, as Twitter executives waded into a confrontation with President Donald Trump, Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive of Facebook, took a very different tack: he kept his head down. On Tuesday, Twitter added a fact-check link to one of Mr. Trump’s tweets criticising mail-in voting. The company said the President violated rules regarding voter suppression. Mr. Trump posted the same words on Facebook, which has similar rules around voter suppression. But Facebook didn’t do anything to it. Twitter’s face-off escalated on Friday morning, when the company attached an addendum to one of Mr. Trump’s tweets. The company said the tweet had the potential to incite violence amid protests in Minneapolis. Facebook didn’t do anything when the same post was added to its service. Jack Dorsey, chief executive of Twitter, took to his site not long after to say Twitter would not back down, presenting a stark contrast to Mr. Zuckerberg, who, in an interview a day earlier, said Facebook wasn’t going to judge Mr. Trump’s posts. “We’ve been pretty clear on our policy that we think that it wouldn’t be right for us to do fact checks for politicians,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. “I think in general, private companies probably shouldn’t be — or especially these platform companies — shouldn’t be in the position of doing that.” No interference Mr. Zuckerberg’s reminder that Facebook would not interfere with posts from Mr. Trump — even if they violate rules that would apply to other people — was in part the product of his longtime belief that his company should avoid getting into the political fray and let its three billion users have their say. His assurance that his company would not be an “arbiter of truth” in political discussion was also indicative of an aggressive effort over the last year or so to court Republicans in Washington and conservative voices in the media. The goal: to keep regulators off his giant Internet company’s back. By staying on the sidelines as Twitter does battle with Mr. Trump and his allies, Mr. Zuckerberg could gain unlikely Republican friends to stave off regulatory intervention into his business, which lawmakers around the world have threatened for more than a year. Many people in the tech industry believe regulators are the one existential risk to Mr. Zuckerberg’s business. But Mr. Zuckerberg’s hands-off approach to Mr. Trump’s increasingly incendiary behaviour on social media runs the risk of alienating some users who think the rules about what can be posted to Facebook should be applied equally to everyone, including world leaders. It could also infuriate some of the company’s Silicon Valley workforce. And it could lend more ammunition to critics who say Mr. Zuckerberg is still unwilling — or unable — to own up to his company’s role in disseminating information to the world, particularly when many news organisations are collapsing. The pushback Twitter has started to experience the repercussions of taking on the White House. Several Republican lawmakers and regulators argued — on Twitter — that Twitter was being hypocritical because it was focusing on Mr. Trump while allowing other world leaders to spread lies. In truth, Facebook’s and Twitter’s rules are not all that different. Both companies have said they would take down posts, even from a President, if they contained threats and incitement to violence or attempts to suppress voter turnout or citizens’ ability to participate in elections. But when it comes to political discussion and advertising, the companies have diverged over the last year. In October, Twitter said it would stop accepting political advertising because of issues with disinformation and the effect that false political ads could have on civic discourse. Facebook continued to accept political advertising and said it would not fact check those ads.  Late on Friday afternoon, Mr. Zuckerberg wrote a post to his personal Facebook page explaining why Mr. Trump’s posts were not flagged in any way. He also addressed employees in a question-and-answer video session. Despite what he called his own “visceral negative reaction” to Mr. Trump’s language, Mr. Zuckerberg said he felt compelled to keep the posts up on Facebook and Instagram, and that the President’s language did not violate the company’s policies.NY Times||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/fb-stays-neutral-even-as-twitter-confronts-us-president/article31713513.ece
31 May 2020||Washington,||Trump cuts ties with WHO as COVID-19 grips Latin America||President Donald Trump said he is severing ties with the World Health Organization (WHO) over its handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, as the death toll from the disease spiked again in the U.S. and Brazil. The virus, which has killed more than 3,64,000 people and devastated the global economy, is progressing at different speeds across the globe, with Europe continuing to open up from lockdown on Saturday after seeing its number of infections steadily fall. Italy’s iconic Leaning Tower of Pisa reopened, while Parisians flocked to parks open for the first time in months. But countries in Latin America are bracing for difficult weeks ahead, especially Brazil, where the death toll shot up by 1,124 on Friday and there was a record number of new infections. The unprecedented challenge of the pandemic has put pressure on the WHO, and Mr. Trump’s decision to end hundreds of millions of dollars in funding comes when the UN agency needs it most. Mr. Trump initially suspended funding to the WHO last month, accusing it of not doing enough to curb the early spread of the virus and being too lenient with China, where the virus emerged late last year. On Friday, he made that decision permanent in a major blow for the agency’s finances, as the U.S. is by far its biggest contributor, pumping in $400 million last year. The President told reporters the U.S. would be redirecting WHO funds “to other worldwide and deserving urgent global public health needs”. ‘U.S. turns rogue’ The move sparked a fierce backlash on Saturday, with German Health Minister Jens Spahn saying the “disappointing” decision was a setback for global health. Richard Horton, editor of The Lancet medical journal, said it was “madness and terrifying both at the same time”. “The U.S. government has gone rogue at a time of humanitarian emergency,” he tweeted. Nearly six million people have been confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 across the world, and a vaccine remains elusive. As the disease spreads across South America, the poor have been hit hard in countries like Brazil, which now has the second highest number of cases in the world after the U.S. “In 26 years, I’ve never seen so many people living in fear, so many people going hungry,” said Alcione Albanesi, founder of charity Amigos do Bem, which distributes supplies to communities in the impoverished Sertao region of Brazil’s northeast. “Everything has ground to a stop. But hunger doesn’t stop.” Chile also logged another record number of deaths on Friday, pushing its total to almost 1,000. Positive signs In European countries that seem on the other side of their outbreak peak, there has been pressure to lift crippling lockdowns despite experts warning of a possible second wave of infections. Tourism-dependent Greece said it will restart its two main airports for arrivals from 29 countries from June 15. But some European nations hard hit by the virus are not on the list, including France, Spain, Britain and Italy. In Austria, hotels and cinemas were allowed to take in customers again on Friday under special guidelines, provided masks are worn. “It is very important that things return to normal, because I am a person who lives alone and is very interested in culture,” film buff Rotraud Turanitz said at Vienna's Admiral Kino cinema. Hotels and shopping centres in Ukraine’s capital Kiev also reopened on Saturday. Turkey too has moved ahead with easing its restrictions as mosques opened for the first time in months. And Denmark said it would reopen its border to visitors from Germany, Norway and Iceland from June 15, although Britain and the rest of the EU will have to wait a few more months.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/trump-cuts-ties-with-who-as-covid-19-grips-latin-america/article31713516.ece
31 May 2020||Kabul,||Abdullah ready for dialogue with Taliban||A top Afghan official appointed to lead the much-awaited peace talks with the Taliban said Saturday his team was ready to start dialogue with the insurgents “at any moment”. Abdullah Abdullah, who heads a council to represent the government in negotiations, said an ongoing lull in violence triggered by a surprise ceasefire offered by the insurgents had set the tone for launching discussions. “The announcement of the ceasefire, a reduction in violence and the exchange of prisoners have all paved the way for a good beginning,” Mr. Abdullah said at his first press conference since taking on the role. “The negotiating team is ready to begin the talks at any moment,” he said. However, he insisted on a fresh ceasefire during the talks.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/abdullah-ready-for-dialogue-with-taliban/article31713507.ece
31 May 2020||Washington,||Biden calls for rooting out ‘systemic racism’||Joe Biden lamented the “open wound” of the nation’s systemic racism on Friday as he responded to the police killing of a black man in Minnesota. “The original sin of this country still stains our nation today,” Mr. Biden, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, said in remarks broadcast from his home in Wilmington, Delaware. “It’s time for us to take a hard look at uncomfortable truths.” As the country endures another spasm of racial unrest, the central premise of Mr. Biden’s campaign is being tested. Mr. Biden is responding by positioning himself as an empathetic counter to Mr. Trump. Mr. Biden said he spoke with Floyd’s family and demanded justice for his death while calling for “real police reform“. “This is no time for incendiary tweets. This is no time to encourage violence,” Mr. Biden said. “[We need] leadership that will bring everyone to the table so we can take measures to root out systemic racism.” Later appearing on PBS, he said, “I think this President has stoked racism.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/biden-calls-for-rooting-out-systemic-racism/article31713510.ece
31 May 2020||Washington,||Merkel not to attend G7 meet in U.S.||German Chancellor Angela Merkel will not attend an in-person summit of G7 leaders that U.S. President Donald Trump has suggested he will host despite concerns over the COVID-19 pandemic, the Politico website quoted her spokesman as saying on Friday. Leaders from the Group of Seven, which the United States heads this year, had been scheduled to meet by video-conference in late June. Mr. Trump last week, however, indicated that he could hold the huge gathering after all, “primarily at the White House” but also potentially parts of it at Camp David. Ms. Merkel has declined. “As of today, considering the overall pandemic situation, she cannot agree to her personal participation, to a journey to Washington,” said German government spokesman Steffen Seibert.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/merkel-not-to-attend-g7-meet-in-us/article31713508.ece
31 May 2020||London,||London, May 30, 2020 (AFP) -||Britain, France and Germany on Saturday strongly condemned a U.S. decision to end sanctions waivers for companies from nations that remain in a nuclear accord with Iran. They allowed European, Chinese and Russian companies to work on the conversion of a heavy water reactor in Arak, in western Iran.AFP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-international/london-may-30-2020-afp/article31713509.ece
31 May 2020||Mini TejaswiBengaluru,||COVID-19 setback to business could be serious: Infosys||The COVID-19 pandemic has its footprints all over Infosys’s annual report of fiscal 2020 that was released on Saturday. The economic slowdown or other factors affecting the economic health of the U.S., the U.K., the EU and Australia are expected to cast a gloom on the financials of the Indian IT services giant. Infosys, on account of its revenues being concentrated in a few geographies, expects to see a serious impact. “In fiscal 2020, 61.5%, 24.1% and 11.8% of our revenues were derived from projects in North America, Europe and the rest of the world, respectively,” the report said. In fiscal 2020, it derived 31.5% of its revenues from the financial services and insurance industry. “Instability and uneven growth in the global economy has had an adverse impact on the growth of the IT industry in the past and may continue to impact it in the future. This instability also impacts our business and results of operations and may continue to do so in the future,” the report added. If the economies of the U.S., U.K. or the EU weaken or growth remains uneven — including as a result of the uncertainty surrounding Brexit — Infosys believes its clients may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly. This may, in turn, lower the demand for its services, negatively impacting its revenues and profitability. Meanwhile, during the fiscal, its employee count rose 6.09% over the previous fiscal, the report said. Infosys had 2,42,371 employees, of which 228,449 were professionals, involved in service delivery to clients. During the previous year, it had grown over 11%. During the year, Nandan M. Nilekani voluntarily chose not to receive any remuneration for his services rendered to the company. As an independent director, Biocon’s executive chairperson Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw received $150,000. During the fiscal ended March 31, CEO Salil Parekh received a total remuneration of $6 million, which was 27% higher than his previous year’s total remuneration of $4.8 million. COO Pravin Rao’s total remuneration also rose to $2.2 million from $1.7 million last year, a 29% rise.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/covid-19-setback-to-business-could-be-serious-infosys/article31713499.ece
31 May 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Airline sector was already weak, COVID-19 exposed it’||With five of India’s six airlines operating with weak balance sheets that are compounding their problems in the time of COVID-19, industry experts have called for immediate structural and regulatory changes that could reverse their fortunes. They were speaking at a webinar organised by leading aviation consulting firm CAPA India. “The main issue with Indian airlines is their low-yield and high-cost structure. We would look for a higher yield market [to make airlines sustain]. The next 4 to 6 months are crucial as to who [which airline] will be around,” said Jeffrey Goh, CEO, Star Alliance. He said despite the setback, India must invest in improving aviation related infrastructure. Stressing that Indian aviation had been suffering on account of profitless growth, Kapil Kaul, director and CEO, CAPA Advisory said, “Despite many positive developments since deregulation almost 30 years ago, India’s potential has not been realised. Indian aviation has been caught in a cycle of profitless growth, punctuated by regular crises every 5-7 years.” “The sector was already weak. COVID simply exposed just how vulnerable the industry is. [This] must be used as a turning point to [become] a more profitable, resilient industry,” he said. Some of the main problems with the airlines sector is the low entry barrier as airlines require paid-up capital of just $7 million to start and the renewal of an AOP does not involve any test of financial fitness. “Airlines without cash, that are technically bankrupt, continue to expand. The operating environment in India is characterised by high costs and poor planning. Due to their inability to control costs in FY19 SG [SpiceJet], G8 [GoAir], UK [Vistara] and I5 [AirAsia India] combined lost an average of $5/passenger,” he said. Stating that COVID has provided a pause for reflection, he said the last three months has delivered negative outcomes that were previously unthinkable.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/airline-sector-was-already-weak-covid-19-exposed-it/article31713488.ece
31 May 2020||MUMBAI,||IDBI Bank in black after 13 quarters||IDBI Bank has reported a net profit of Rs. 135 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2020 compared to with a net loss of Rs. 4,918 crore in the year-earlier period. The lender posted a net profit after a gap of 13 quarters as additions to non-performing assets fell sharply during the quarter. “First time NPAs reduced to Rs. 727 crore in Q4-2020 from the Rs. 1,781 crore in Q4-2019,” the bank said. “The profit would have been higher but for the recoveries which were adversely affected during March due to COVID-19 impact,” said Rakesh Sharma, MD & CEO, IDBI Bank in an interaction with the media. The net NPA ratio improved to 4.19% as on March 31, 2020 against 10.11% as on March 31, 2019 and 5.25% as on December 31, 2019. The gross NPA ratio stood at 27.53% as on March 31, 2020 against 27.47% as on March 31, 2019 and 28.72% as on December 31, 2019. “All the parameters have shown improvement. Net NPAs have also come down and aging provisions are evenly spread so that there is no extra burden,” he said. Improved CAR Tier 1 capital and capital adequacy ratio (CAR), which was at 10.57% and 13.31% respectively as on March 31, 2020, have improved as against 9.14% and 11.58% as on March 31, 2019. “The bank has achieved all PCA parameters for exit, except RoA,” the lender said. While there is an overall write-back in provision of Rs. 1,511 crore during the quarter compared with the Rs. 7,233 crore provided during the fourth quarter of the previous year, a Rs. 247-crore provision was made against standard assets as per Reserve Bank of India (RBI) norms for moratorium accounts which are in default. While the central bank had allowed the lenders to make the provision in two quarters, IDBI Bank had made the entire provision in the January-March quarter.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/idbi-bank-in-black-after-13-quarters/article31713490.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Only 10% of non-food retailers have money to pay salaries||Retailers selling both essential and non-essential items have reported a 40% and 100% drop, respectively, in their sales due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The government should step in and provide a package that will help them survive, says Kumar Rajagopalan , CEO, Retailers Association of India in an interview. Excerpts:  What has been the impact of COVID-19 on the retail sector? Business [retailers selling essentials] had dropped by as much as 20% to 25% by the end of February 2020. In the past one and a half months, it has reduced by a further 15%. For non-essential items, business has reduced by 100%. These include apparel, jewellery, shoes, consumer electronics, durables and IT, among others. Apparel sector could face revenue losses of up to 40%, and many small and medium players in the apparel industry are contemplating closure of businesses. In the absence of any major support from the government, as many as 20-25% of the retailers may be out of business or will need financial infusion to stay afloat. Which sections of the retail sector are the most affected due to the lockdown? Modern food retail has de-grown by 30-40% due to supply chain problems, shortage of manpower with attendance below 30% and lower customer entry due to social distancing. Almost all stores dealing in garments, sarees, electronics, mobile phones, furniture, hardware are closed. Non-grocery/food retailers have reported an 80 to 100% reduction in sales. Even retailers of essential items are facing losses as they aren’t allowed to sell non-essential items, which would bring them higher margins. A recent Retailers Association of India survey pointed out that the industry is experiencing severe liquidity challenges which can lead to large scale unemployment. The cash inflow of the industry has come to a standstill, while fixed operating costs remain intact. Only 10% of non-food retailers have money to pay salaries. What has been the banking sector’s response? Banks are not giving any kind of finance to retailers although the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has stepped in. Many retailers enjoy credit facilities for capital expenditure from scheduled banks, co-operative banks and non-banking finance companies. The moratorium that the RBI has announced does not cover these alternative finance instruments as yet. Also, working capital enhancements are not being provided by banks for reasons such as payment of salaries and rental, which are the key fixed expenses that retailers have to pay during these times of nil-revenue. What are your expectations from the government? We have requested the government and financial institutions to come together to help retailers retain jobs through wage subsidies of up to 50% for blue-collared workers drawing wages of up to Rs. 25,000 or minimum wages, whichever is higher; The government must also provide 25% of additional working capital credit lines to pay salaries and wages on time. It must also provide working capital loans to the extent of 2-3 months of sales at low interest rates and under a moratorium of 6-9 months for repayment. All earlier loans also should get a similar moratorium. The government must also reduce GST across the board to boost consumption and revive consumption by opening all forms of retail units, including malls, in a safe environment. What is the size of the retail market ? Over 15 million retailers nationally generate a business of almost Rs. 4.74 lakh crore and employ more than 46 million people. The sector contributes approximately 40% of India’s consumption and 10% of the country’s Gross Domestic Product.  The sector contributes almost 40% of India’s consumption and 10% of the GDP||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/only-10-of-non-food-retailers-have-money-to-pay-salaries/article31713486.ece
31 May 2020||New delhi,||Yes Bank to reclassify promoter group as public stakeholders||Yes Bank on Saturday said there will be reclassification of shareholding as the Madhu Kapur Group has consented to be categorised as public stakeholders. “This is to inform that the bank has received a letter dated May 28, 2020 from Madhu Ashok Kapur; Shagun Kapur Gogia; Gaurav Ashok Kapur and Mags Finvest Private Limited (collectively referred to as Madhu Kapur Group) consenting to reclassify their shareholding in the bank as ‘non-promoter shareholders’ (i.e. public shareholders),” Yes Bank said in a regulatory filing. “The bank would take further necessary action to give effect to this,” it added. Yes Bank was co-founded by Rana Kapoor along with Ms. Madhu Kapur’s late husband Ashok Kapur in 2004. Following the ouster of Mr. Rana Kapoor, who is in police custody on alleged charges of corruption and financial mismanagement, among other charges, Yes Bank is now led by State Bank of India alongside many private lenders. As on March 31, 2020, Ms. Madhu Kapur held 1.12% in Yes Bank, while Mags Finvest had 0.30%, according to data on the BSE. Acquires Dish TV stake Meanwhile, Yes Bank said it had acquired over 24% stake in Dish TV India following invocation of pledged shares due to debt default by the DTH service provider and other group firms. Further, the bank said there was default/breach of terms of credit facilities sanctioned by it to Essel Business Excellence Services, Essel Corporate Resources, Living Entertainment Enterprises, Last Mile Online, Pan India Network Infravest, RPW Projects Private, Mumbai WTR and Pan India Infraprojects. These companies are a part of the Subhash Chandra-led Essel Group. Dish TV is a direct to home (DTH) entertainment service provider. The company reported a consolidated total income of Rs. 6,218.28 crore as on March 31, 2019.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/yes-bank-to-reclassify-promoter-group-as-public-stakeholders/article31713497.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||Draft e-com policy for comments soon: DPIIT||The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) will very soon put a draft e-commerce policy in the public domain to seek views and comments, a top government official said on Saturday. DPIIT Secretary Guruprasad Mohapatra said e-commerce is a fast emerging sector and it is difficult to predict where it will go in the next couple of years. The country does not have an e-commerce policy and the department is currently working on this, he added. Several foreign e-commerce firms have raised concerns over some points in the draft pertaining to data. It is now recognised that the country should have a definite, clear and coherent policy, which is keeping in tune with the requirement of the society and service providers, he noted. “So, the e-commerce policy firstly should lay down a very clear policy on what is data; what kind of data the e-commerce companies can use; how the citizens’ right of privacy can be protected; how the e-commerce data is being leveraged for other purposes, other commercial benefits accrue to the e-commerce data holder; how citizens like you and me can have access to those benefits. “Secondly, there are a lot of counterfeit and inferior products and violation of various safety standards. How can these be taken care of, how can consumer rights be protected...? We have now finalised a (draft) e-commerce policy; very soon, we will put [it] in the public domain. At the time, we will request all of you to give comments on how to improve on the content of the draft e-commerce policy,” he added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/draft-e-com-policy-for-comments-soon-dpiit/article31713493.ece
31 May 2020||Chennai,||Hyundai exports 5,000 units in May||South Korean car maker Hyundai Motor India Ltd. has exported more than 5,000 cars in May 2020.  “We have once again made a humble beginning towards normalcy by exporting more than 5 000 units in May 2020. This is a testimony of Hyundai’s resilient efforts towards localisation and to accentuate economic recovery," said S.S. Kim, MD & CEO, Hyundai Motor India. The first shipment left Chennai Port on May 26.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/hyundai-exports-5000-units-in-may/article31713491.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||New PoA norms from August 1: SEBI||SEBI has extended to August 1, the date for implementing norms concerning power of attorney (PoA) given by clients to trading members (TM) or clearing members (CM). In February, SEBI had specified guidelines with regard to margin obligations to be given by way of pledge and re-pledge in the depository system.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/new-poa-norms-from-august-1-sebi/article31713494.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. blocks WeTransfer||The government has ordered internet service providers (ISPs) to block computer file-sharing website WeTransfer due to security reasons. The order issued by the Department of Telecom (DoT) on May 18 directed all ISPs to block two download links on the Dutch website WeTransfer and also the entire website www.wetransfer.com. “The compliance be submitted immediately failing which shall, inter alia, invite initiation of actions under licence conditions,” the DoT order — e-mailed to several ISPs — said. According to sources, the DoT has received reference from the Ministry of Electronics and IT to block the website and two download links immediately. The exact reason for blocking of the website could not be ascertained. However, an official, on the condition of anonymity, said “most probably due to security reasons.” Query sent to the DoT elicited no response.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-business/govt-blocks-wetransfer/article31713495.ece
31 May 2020||Chennai,||‘Chance for cricketers to get fitter, stronger’||The challenge before everyone is to make the most of what is available during these unprecedented times of COVID-19. In the lockdowns caused by the coronavirus pandemic, India’s bowling coach B. Arun sees possibilities. “It’s a testing situation. But in this difficult period, I also see an opportunity,” he told The Hindu on Saturday. Arun elaborated, “You see international cricketers, including pacemen, rarely get such a long break. “So here is the chance for them to get fitter and stronger and recover from injuries and niggles.” Arun said the Indian team’s strength and conditioning coach Nick Webb and physio Nitin Patel have been performing a marvellous job to give the bowlers diverse fitness routines through the internet based on the equipment available. With the government giving permission to international cricketers to practise with their trainers, Arun said, “Now the bowlers can send down deliveries, find their rhythm.” But then, cricketers have to attain match fitness. And so far the government has not given its nod for players to practise together as a team. Arun, who has put together a high-quality pace attack, said, “Once the government says ‘yes’, we need six to eight weeks together as a team. “There has to be a camp, then we need to have practice matches and hopefully we would have some domestic matches by then. “Match fitness and being sharp and ready for international cricket are crucial.” Arun said, “The team-management has been in constant touch with the boys through video conferencing. They are in good spirits and raring to go.” Immediate focus Looking at the campaigns ahead, Arun said, “Our immediate focus is on the next game we play. And every team is tough to beat in its backyard. But the Test series in Australia, later this year, will be a big challenge. We are confident.” Arun termed the Test series setback in New Zealand an aberration, and added: “We are not looking at the past. We are looking ahead.” And dwelling on the contentious issue of the ban on use of saliva for shining the ball owing to COVID-19 concerns, Arun said, “We are allowed to use sweat. So we will work on that. “And during the camp we will also figure out ways to shine the ball without saliva. If the ICC permits artificial substance to shine the ball, it should be the same for everyone.” For Arun, optimism is the key word.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/chance-for-cricketers-to-get-fitter-stronger/article31713611.ece
31 May 2020||Bengaluru,||KSA’s plea to reopen private pools||The Karnataka Swimming Association (KSA) has made an appeal to the government to allow competitive swimmers to resume training here. As per the guidelines for phased reopening released by the Ministry of Home Affairs on Saturday, swimming pools — grouped alongside recreational facilities like theatres and bars — will remain closed. The guidelines assume that these facilities pose a bigger risk of spreading the coronavirus. In a web conference on Saturday, reputed swimming coach Nihar Ameen and KSA President Gopal Hosur disputed this claim. “There seems to be confusion between public pools and private pools used for competitive training. We agree that public pools must remain closed, as it cannot be controlled and monitored. But we want our private pools to be opened, as we will use it purely to train our competitive swimmers with all precautionary measures in place,” Dronacharya awardee Ameen said. Hosur explained that several studies have found that swimming pools are perfectly safe, as the chlorine content acts as a disinfectant to the virus. “To our great dismay, the government has permitted several sports to resume, but not swimming. Our National and international swimmers have suffered — they are losing form and fitness,” Hosur said. A few weeks ago, Hosur and KSA officials met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and sports minister C.T. Ravi to present their case for resumption of competitive swimming training, but their request has not yielded a positive response.  The heavy loss in revenue due to the closure of pools is another issue that has plagued the sport. “Our affiliated clubs are not cash-rich. They have suffered a great deal as summer camps have not been held this year. We request the State government to provide subsidies in electricity bills and other means to ease their burden,” Hosur said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/ksas-plea-to-reopen-private-pools/article31713620.ece
31 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Anand back in India||Finally, Viswanathan Anand is home. Well, almost. The five-time World chess champion, who had been stranded in Germany for about three months because of the coronavirus, landed in Bengaluru on Saturday, but he would have to wait for a fortnight to reach his home in Chennai. “He has gone into 14 days of institutionalised quarantine,” Anand’s wife Aruna told The Hindu over phone. Relieved and happy “He is relieved and happy that he has at last been able to reach India,” said Aruna. She added that Anand was grateful to the central government for facilitating the return of the Indians stranded in different parts of the world. “He appreciated the efforts the governments took in this regard,” Aruna said. “It certainly would not have been easy to organise all these flights.” Anand had gone to Germany in February to play in the Bundesliga. The deadly virus stopped the tournament.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/anand-back-in-india/article31713607.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Kohli hails Dhoni’s role in his rise to captaincy||Virat Kohli credited M.S. Dhoni in his promotion as India captain. In a conversation with R. Ashwin on the Instagram show ‘Reminisce with Ash’, Kohli spoke about the transition from his days as the under-19 skipper to his current role, leading the national team. Taking responsibility “I liked taking responsibility and I was used to leading my club and State teams. I also captained the Ranji Trophy side with seniors. So I was never overawed by captaincy,” said Kohli. “But becoming captain of India was not even in my wildest dreams. It was about wanting to play and be in the XI regularly or at least I wanted to be discussed… is this guy good enough? “Then the transition happens slowly. You start talking to the captain regularly. I was always in MS’s ear. He would deny a lot of things but also discuss a lot of things. He got a lot of confidence I can do this after him. “A large part of me becoming captain was also to do with him observing me for a long period of time.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/kohli-hails-dhonis-role-in-his-rise-to-captaincy/article31713618.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,||‘Get kids to start playing at an early age’||‘Catch them early and give them the freedom to play and have fun. That is the key to developing a footballing culture in the country’ was the message from Ivor Gumm, a UEFA A licensed coach with over 30 years of coaching experience across the world. In a webinar organised by Great Goals — a Chennai-based academy — and Goal Quiz, Gumm said, “We should start by getting kids early, because between seven and 12 is the golden age of learning. “Kids are like a sponge. The more info you throw at them, the more they want to learn.” At the same time, he also stressed the need to have fun without pressures, saying, “At times, parents in India look at quick fixes and start expecting results immediately but it is a long process. “We are not developing football players, but — through sport — a better individual, overall. “Most importantly, kids need to have fun and enjoy playing this beautiful game.” Gumm, the technical director for Great Goals Football, has worked extensively in India and was joined by Mazhar Ahmed, development officer, AIFF-FIFA Forward. Ahmed stressed on the importance of having more women coaches at the grassroots level, as they are very skilled at handling young kids.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/get-kids-to-start-playing-at-an-early-age/article31713671.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||HCA not against reviving pension scheme||Hyderabad Cricket Association is not against giving monthly pension to former First Class cricketers, who have played less than 25 Ranji games, but is waiting for the BCCI to release funds, which are due to it, to revive the pension policy, according to HCA secretary, R. Vijayanand. “The issue of pension, which was given from 2014 to 2016 by the then secretary K. John Manoj before being stopped, was raised by former Ranji players and the current players’ representative on the HCA Apex Council, Parth Sathwalekar,” Vijayanand told The Hindu on Saturday. “In fact, at the last Apex Council in January this year, we decided, in principle, to revive the pension policy to getting BCCI grants. Once that happens, all those deserving cricketers will get a pension of Rs. 4,000 per month,” he said. Letter to BCCI “Our president, Mohd. Azharuddin, has even written a letter to the BCCI to release some funds immediately. “Then we will create a corpus fund and the interest accrued from it can take care of disbursing the pension without a break in the future,” Vijayanand added. However, the players’ representatives — Sathwalekar (men) and Subadhra Suri (women) — insisted that HCA could have started giving pension from the Rs. 10 crore released the last time by BCCI. Vijayanand said that a major chunk of that, around Rs. 5 crore. was paid as GST and the balance for payment of fees to players, coaches and support staff besides salaries to all HCA staff. Major hitch “The major hitch right now is that we have to get the annual audited statement of accounts for the year 2018-19 approved by a certified authority and then get it ratified at HCA’s Special General Meeting to be convened for this purpose. “Once that is done, it will be easier for us to get funds from the BCCI,” Vijayanand added.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/hca-not-against-reviving-pension-scheme/article31713821.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Olympic medal far off, but there is progress’||An Olympic medal in swimming may be unimaginable for Indians at the moment, but Olympian Shikha Tandon said that she could see progress and it was important to stay on track. In a chat with swimmers Srihari Nataraj and S.P. Likith on the web from her home in San Francisco, the 35-year-old Shikha, a product manager with an exercise intelligence company that helps athletes and coaches optimise training and performance, said that it was encouraging to find Indian swimmers looking at the A-qualification mark for the Tokyo Olympics as a realistic target.  “We have to do it step by step. From trying to achieve A-qualification for the first time, we can’t be talking about a medal. We must look at making the semifinals and then the final. It will take two or three Olympics. “We have the talent and I want our swimmers to prove me wrong,” said Shikha, a member of the advisory board of the Sports School in Bengaluru. Interestingly, the Sports School has three FINA-certified swimming pools, including one of Olympic size, with 10 lanes. Shikha, who missed qualifying for the 2008 Beijing Olympics by 0.05 seconds after competing in Athens 2004, still holds the National records in 50m and 100m freestyle. Asserting that the only way to reach world standards was to race regularly with better swimmers, Shikha agreed that the Indians needed better exposure.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/olympic-medal-far-off-but-there-is-progress/article31713750.ece
31 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Rohit Sharma nominated for Khel Ratna||The Board of Control for Cricket in India has nominated Rohit Sharma for the Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna while Ishant Sharma, Shikhar Dhawan and Deepti Sharma have been recommended for the Arjuna Award. If Rohit gets the Khel Ratna, he will become the fourth cricketer, after Sachin Tendulkar, Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Virat Kohli, to win the coveted award.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/rohit-sharma-nominated-for-khel-ratna/article31713605.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nakamura takes it to the decider||Hikaru Nakamura hit back to beat Magnus Carlsen 2.5-1.5 and steered their semifinal encounter to the deciding third mini-match in the $150,000 Lindores Abbey Rapid Chess Challenge. Earlier on Friday, Russia’s Daniil Dubov raced away to a 2.5-0.5 win against China’s Ding Liren and clinched their best-of-three mini-match 2-0 for a place in the final. Like in their first mini-match, Dubov won the first two games and drew the third.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/nakamura-takes-it-to-the-decider/article31713608.ece
31 May 2020||New York,||Federer tops Forbes list, Kohli 66th||Virat Kohli is the only Indian, and lone cricketer, in the Forbes’ list of world’s highest-paid athletes with total earnings of $26 million, jumping to the 66th spot from 100 in the previous list. Roger Federer topped the list for the first time with earnings of $106.3 million. He was fifth last year.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/federer-tops-forbes-list-kohli-66th/article31713615.ece
31 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Weightlifting: revised Olympic qualification system approved||The International Olympic Committee (IOC) has approved the revised Olympic qualifying system for weightlifting for the Tokyo Games next year.  Under the revised system, an additional qualification period — running from October 1, 2020 to April 30, 2021 — has been added. Replacements for the cancelled events, originally scheduled prior to the outbreak of COVID-19, will be held during this period.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/weightlifting-revised-olympic-qualification-system-approved/article31713619.ece
31 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Bir Bahadur passes away||One of the finest footballers ever from the EME Centre (Secunderabad), Bir Bahadur, passed away here on Saturday evening. He was 75 and is survived by wife, two sons and a daughter. He had slipped into coma recently. Bir Bahadur played mostly as a striker and was a contemporary of Peter Thangaraj, Nayeemuddin and Yousuf Khan. He represented Services in the Nationals between 1960-70.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-sports/bir-bahadur-passes-away/article31713820.ece
31 May 2020||Mumbai,||Why it’s safer to postpone elective surgery||Patients with the SARS CoV-2 infection, who undergo surgeries, are at an increased risk of mortality, says a newly published study in the medical journal Lancet . Researchers studied data of 1,128 patients from 235 hospitals across the world and found that the 30-day mortality in such patients was nearly 23.8%, which is much greater than the numbers seen in high-risk patients before the pandemic. The study carried out by experts from University of Birmingham included patients undergoing surgery who had SARS-CoV-2 infection diagnosed within seven days before or 30 days after surgery. Their surgeries were carried out between January 1 and March 31. “Post-operative pulmonary complications occur in half of patients with perioperative SARS-CoV-2 infection and are associated with high mortality,” the study identified further, adding that post-operative outcomes in such patients are substantially worse than pre-pandemic baseline rates of pulmonary complications and mortality. While overall 30-day mortality in the study was 23.8%, it also showed that mortality was higher among men and patients above the age of 70. Mortality in other subgroups was also high: 18.9% in elective surgery patients, 25.6% in emergency patients, 16.3% in those who underwent minor procedures and 26.9% in those who underwent major procedures. “We would normally expect mortality for patients having minor or elective surgery to be under 1%,” co-author Aneel Bhangu was quoted as saying in a press release by the University of Birmingham. “These mortality rates are greater than those reported for even the highest-risk patients before the pandemic; for example, the 2019 UK National Emergency Laparotomy Audit reported 30-day mortality of 16.9% in the highest-risk patients, and a previous study across 58 countries reported a 30-day mortality of 14.9% in patients undergoing high-risk emergency surgery,” he added. Going by the global experience, medical experts in India have been treading cautiously, by postponing elective surgeries and managing patients with conservative treatment. At KEM Hospital, one of the largest public hospitals in Mumbai, all elective surgeries have been postponed but an average of eight emergency procedures including Caesarean sections, laparotomies, fixing compound fractures etc. are being carried out. “In patients with the SARS CoV-2 infection, the postoperative complications are much higher and thus the mortality is high too,” said hospital’s Dean, Dr. Hemant Deshmukh. Dr C. Pramesh, director of the Tata Memorial Hospital said it takes about 10 days for a COVID-19 patient to turn negative and it is wise to wait till then to operate.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-life/why-its-safer-to-postpone-elective-surgery/article31713622.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 07:25 IST,||Sudoku - May 31, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/sudoku-may-31-2020/article31714080.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Get bats out of hell||In April, in the midst of the pandemic, actor Amitabh Bachchan tweeted about a bat that had entered his house; he also drew a link between the creature and the novel coronavirus. The post attracted a fair share of rebuke from people who said it was irresponsible coming from someone with such a large following. Not vermin Bats, creatures of the night that we once took for granted, have suddenly emerged as villains after some scientists said a bat in China was found to have a pathogen similar to the novel coronavirus. However, the exact source of the virus has not yet been identified. “The closest match of the novel coronavirus was found in one out of 1,400 species of bats,” points out Rohit Chakravarty, bat biologist and Ph.D student at Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research, Berlin. And, he says, the bat coronavirus does not infect humans directly, because viruses have a receptor binding site that binds to the cell that it is going to affect, which in COVID-19 is the lungs. “The bat coronavirus does not have the right receptors to bind to our lungs, which further brings scientists to the conclusion that there has to have been an intermediate host.” None of this has made any difference to frightened and ignorant humans. Reports of trees with bats being destroyed have come from Rajasthan, Mysuru, etc., and people have called for the destruction of their habitats in cities such as Bengaluru, where civic bodies and citizens have intervened. Chief Wildlife Warden Sanjay Mohan had to issue a warning last month that anyone found harming bats would be prosecuted. These moves to eliminate bats have seen a sharp spike, agrees Rajesh Puttaswamaiah, Citizen Scientist and Trustee, Bat Conservation India Trust. “It is high time all bat species are brought under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and fruit bats removed from the ‘vermin’ list.” In fact, Puttaswamaiah points out that bats are one of the most important mammals in the ecosystem. “Unfortunately, they are also the most misunderstood, with myths surrounding them. It’s important for people to know their role as pollinators, seed dispersers and pest controllers,” he says. Bad rep The reason bats have a bad reputation might be due more to fiction than fact. And due even more to media, social media and scientists. “Scientists interact with the media and their explanations tend to get oversimplified,” points out Chakravarty. The fact is, “all animals carry viruses,” he says. And while it’s true that bats make very good reservoir hosts, in most cases it requires direct contact between humans and bats for the viruses to be transmitted, and this is very rare. What usually happens is that viruses spread through an intermediate host, explains the bat biologist. And this happens when there is habitat fragmentation and livestock farming on industrial scales, which create environments where bat viruses can jump to other animals and from them to humans. Zoonotic diseases spread either through direct transmission (for instance, rabies, SARS, and Ebola), or through a vector intermediary (Zika, Lyme disease, and Kyasanur forest disease). Typically, regions with a high diversity of potential host species such as bats, rodents, primates and vectors also host the highest diversity of pathogens, explains Abi Tamim Vanak, convenor for the Centre for Biodiversity and Conservation, Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment. “But this by itself does not necessarily increase the risk of emergence of new pathogens,” says Vanak. “Only when it is combined with high densities of humans and livestock, and where environmental degradation is also high, does the risk of pathogen spillover increase. Several researchers have shown that areas in Asia, particularly the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia and south China, are hotspots for the risk of emergence and re-emergence of infectious diseases.” Leave them alone Vanak quotes a recent paper that shows bats and rodents are no more likely to be reservoirs of zoonotic pathogens than any other group of animals, but the reason bats and rodents harbour more viruses is simply because these groups also have the most number of species. Are we really seeing new pathogens ‘emerging’ at a faster rate? Yes, but this could be because of better surveillance and healthcare systems resulting in higher rates of discovery, says Vanak. And if they are spreading rapidly across the world, that is “due to urbanisation, globalisation and an economic system that perversely incentivises the destruction of natural ecosystems for short-term gain.” Rather than fear bats, the solution is not to disturb their habitats. “Studies show that destroying habitats leads to diseases,” says Neha Sinha of the Bombay Natural History Society. “For example, Lyme disease is related to deforestation in North America. Malaria is also linked to deforestation. We should let the animals be. Displacing them creates larger problems.” With climate change, there is increased speculation of new viruses and diseases. “Dengue has moved from tropical to temperate climates. Malaria has increased its range across the world. Viruses have been found in permafrost. It is prudent not to disturb ecosystems further by killing bats, but to take an evidence-based approach,” says Sinha. One hypothesis suggests, Vanak warns, that displacing bat colonies or reducing population sizes can actually increase the risk of viruses such as coronaviruses, filoviruses and the Nipah virus spilling over into humans. If there’s any precaution humans can take, it would be to avoid direct contact with animal faeces and avoid eating fallen fruits or those with bite marks. And if you come across dead or injured bats, call professional rehabilitators or wildlife experts.  Vanak quotes a recent paper that shows bats and rodents are no more likely to be reservoirs of zoonotic pathogens than any other group of animals||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/get-bats-out-of-hell/article31713468.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Lights, camera, lockdown||Karan Johar wants to go back to work. Back to the studios, to his creative collaborators, back to making movies: “It’s oxygen for our souls. [But] right now I feel like I am breathless.” Johar would have started shooting his new multi-starrer historical, Takht , in April had the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown not played villain and made him stop mid-set construction. “It’s [ Takht ] a massive film and I am definitely going to make it,” he says. What he doesn’t know is when. Under normal circumstances, filmmaker-producer Zoya Akhtar and her team would have been in full prep mode for the second season of Made In Heaven . And a new series that she is producing with Reema Kagti, with Sonakshi Sinha in the lead, would have been wrapped up with shooting completed in Rajasthan in May. But her team had to pack up a quarter of the way into shooting. When they will get back is anyone’s guess, so Akhtar’s been using this time to catch up on life’s little things, to read and write and “recharge the batteries and replenish” before moving on to the new era of Indian Cinema 2.0. As with so many other sectors, the lockdown has dealt a crippling blow to the Indian film industry. According to Shailesh Kapoor, founder and CEO of Ormax Media, a Mumbai-based media consulting firm, the gross losses from all-India box-office revenues alone are estimated to be around Rs. 2,500 crore in the last 2.5 months, of which the Hindi film industry accounts for 45-50%. Losses can mount to about Rs. 5,000 crore gross, if theatres remain shut for the next two-three months. Then there are cancelled shoots, dismantled sets, films stuck in the middle of production, professionals without jobs, daily wage workers trying to make ends meet, tentpole films left without theatres and audiences, and many middling to big films ready for release and trying to find homes on OTT platforms. Considered non-essential So what does life ahead look like for the industry when the lockdown lifts? How will cinema be consumed in the future? Will streaming take over theatres? For the moment, everyone is busy framing guidelines for the expected comeback. An ‘Enhanced Safety and Precautions Plan’, drafted by the Multiplex Association of India, under the aegis of FICCI, was submitted to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting last week. The Producers Guild of India has released its guidelines too. The hectic lobbying with the ministry happens for a reason. The situation is trickier for cinema than any other industry. Although films and shows might be keeping people entertained at home, and stars are harnessed for messaging or charity drives, in the economic pecking order, the industry, despite being celebrated as a soft-power, is low in priority when it comes to ‘revival’ packages. Arts, literature, culture and entertainment are invariably bracketed as non-essentials. “There is this thinking that ‘ yeh to ameer log hain, inka kya hai,’ (these are rich people, they needn’t worry),” says filmmaker Sudhir Mishra, who was in the middle of post-production work for his Netflix show based on Manu Joseph’s book Serious Men when the lockdown was announced. Ajit Andhare, COO, Viacom18 Studios, agrees: “We are the backbenchers, perhaps rightly so, because right now we are dealing with a nation that’s struggling to feed its citizens.” Ironically, the debate on the future has started at the last mile — with the focus on how cinema will be consumed. Movies releasing on streaming platforms have caused exhibitors and theatre owners much heartburn. “The battle is unnecessary. It’s not a ‘versus’ situation,” says Johar. “Producers can’t afford to hold back completed films, and if they don’t get oxygen, they will die and there won’t be enough content even for cinema halls.” Sanitised sets Clearly, what the industry needs now is not just new ways of seeing, but new ways of thinking — how content is imagined and created has to see a substantial shift. Rationalisation — in budgets, workforce, equipment — is bound to happen. Containment and sanitisation costs for production houses, studios, makeup rooms, vans and theatres will go up exponentially. The 12-hour shifts might be reduced to eight hours. “The entire system will be upended,” says Bhaskar Hazarika, writer-director of critically acclaimed films like Aamis and Kothanodi . It was evident in Akshay Kumar’s recent shoot for a public service film directed by R. Balki at Kamalistan Studio. The limited crew looked like astronauts, and temperature checks, distancing and hygiene norms were strictly followed.  “Unlike manufacturing, shooting is not a controlled and organised sector,” explains Andhare. “To try and mount protocols on what is fundamentally a creative process will pose challenges.” The first to change, thus, will probably be smaller ventures and TV units, where there’s less at stake. The last to make over will be the big projects with huge scales and stars. Not just because they need more human, financial and technical investment but also because they are the ones who can afford to wait it out. With travel and hotels badly hit, a big question mark hangs over settings and locales as well. Will a story set in Uttarakhand mutate into one with Kolhapur or Goa as backdrop? How will such changes reflect in the characterisation, cultural context, and dialogues? Meanwhile, films are being shot at home. Nandita Das made Listen To Her , a short on domestic abuse, at home, using audio bytes, with herself and her son in key roles. And Prasoon Pandey’s Family, on social distancing and COVID-19, was also shot in the actors’ homes. Another trend is emerging — that of making movies entirely with local talent. Hazarika is stuck in Assam where he had gone to oversee Assam’s first iPhone film, a road trip comedy. What would have been his first Hindi film as director-writer has been pushed back, but some unanticipated projects are emerging. “I am likely to stay on in Assam for the foreseeable future,” he says, where he figures he can shoot at least two Hindi web series with local crew and actors. “We have enough technicians here to mount a Bollywood-level film,” he says. “The opportunity is there; it’s about who gets to exploit it and how... It’s not about being reactive but looking five years ahead and making a move now.” The worst hit are the people involved in production work, but does that mean writers, editors and those in post-production jobs and music composition are working in splendid isolation? Alas, no. Editor Namrata Rao is grappling with “editing in a vacuum.” She misses the luxury of sharing first cuts with others or taking the director’s inputs. “The eyes [that look at a film’s rushes] are mine only. There is no one to soundboard; no counsel... The fun of collaboration is gone,” she says. Unprecedented creative blocks and anxieties are affecting all. “Anyone in content creation will tell you writers are having a tough time,” says Johar. The ambiguity, he believes, is the worst dampener for the creative community. “Angst and inner peace can both give you enough material to write. But how do you create while in limbo?” Wait and watch Actor-director Konkona Sen Sharma prefers to wait and engage with the new reality as it emerges. She anticipates an interesting time, with creativity and innovation coming to the fore. Filmmaker Anjali Menon is busy completing her new script, but isn’t sure what comes next. Like Sharma, she wants to see where things are headed. “It’s a time of great change and we have to be sensitive to it,” she says. Johar grapples with other questions: for instance, will masks, gloves, shields, PPEs become part of the costumes of contemporary films? “If it’s not incorporated in a 2020 film, it would run the risk of being disconnected,” he says. Not just props, the economic, social, political, medical, and emotional impact of the lockdown is bound to reflect in the stories we tell. Says Johar: “We are all combating a massive world war. We can’t go back to normal films and pretend that all we went through didn’t happen. Cinema has always been a grand reflection of its times and these are our times.” Akhtar agrees: “Be it disastrous or cathartic, it has been a massive, globally resonating experience that is going to find a way into all kinds of narratives.” Earlier this month, Gautham Menon released a 12-minute short, Karthik Dial Seytha Yenn , on YouTube, and he set it in the lockdown. A continuation of his 2010 superhit love story, Vinnaithandi Varuvaya , it has Trisha and Simbu as leads and was shot in their homes by their families. Its music and post-production work was also done remotely. It has had more than six million views on YouTube so far. Filmmaker Vetrimaaran says it best: “There are boys who walked from Mumbai to Tiruchi during the first few days of the lockdown. Are we going to tell their stories? Or ignore them? Are we going to question the system for not planning this properly? Or forget this happened and move on? Are we going to question the people who are making it region-specific, religion-specific, caste-specific? These are serious questions we need to ask ourselves.” He then adds, “But whatever the situation might be, the hardships we may have to go through, art should happen... Art is the conscience of man.”  Ironically, the debate on the future has started at the last mile — with the focus on how cinema will be consumed. Movies releasing on streaming platforms have caused exhibitors and theatre owners much heartburn   There are boys who walked from Mumbai to Tiruchi during the first few days of the lockdown. Are we going to tell their stories? Or forget this happened and move on, asks director Vetrimaaran||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/lights-camera-lockdown/article31713434.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The domestic dynamic||Around the mid-point of the Oscar-winning Parasite , right before it pivots to another gear, is a conversation that sums up the film for me. “The madam… is rich but still nice,” says Kim Ki-taek, the father, who is a chauffeur for madam and her family. “Nice because she’s rich,” says his wife Chung-sook, who is a housekeeper in the same family. “Hell, if I had all this money, I’d be nice too.” The four members of the impoverished Kim family in Seoul have conned their way into the employ of a wealthy family. Chung-sook’s retort has been on my mind as we go through the lockdown, arguably the harshest in the world. There’s been a lot of niceness on display, about domestic staff, on social media. I use the word ‘display’ descriptively, not in disdain or irony. Several people have spoken of paying their staff’s full salaries and encouraged others to do the same. Some have spoken of realising how much labour their staff put in, of enquiring about their well-being, supplying them with essentials. A great deal of un-niceness has shown up as well. In the very first week, a video emerged of a woman in a car just outside a residential complex arguing heatedly with the watchman. She has a child next to her and a masked, silent woman in the back seat she refers to as “ meri maid”. The watchman has instructions that domestic staff cannot be allowed in, but the woman challenges this furiously, honking continuously for maximum intimidation, “I am not here to sweep, mop, cook and wash dishes,” she says, before eventually driving in triumphantly. Soon, reports began emerging of domestic workers not being paid in full, some not at all. Early this month, a tweet described a family in Defence Colony who unceremoniously threw out a cook they had hired recently when she tested positive for the virus. She waited, weeping, on the street until the Delhi government sent help. What’s unprecedented about this lockdown is how it has blocked access to cheap domestic labour, a staple of urban India. In the post-Independence era, when wealthy families moved from houses to apartments, as researchers Seemin Qayum and Raka Ray note, it pushed a change from ‘live-in’ help to part-time help. Also, the ‘joint family’, which had meant the unpaid labour of several women, broke down. Women joining the workforce and men not helping with housework meant a huge dependence on domestic help. Through the lens As we entered the first week of lockdown, Parasite became available for streaming in India. Did the film make us examine our “niceness” towards domestic labour? What did Parasite show us about ourselves? Interestingly, Gully Boy , the Indian entry to this year’s Oscars, also features an employer-employee relationship which, while not the film’s focus, frames the action and characters. Murad, the ‘gully boy’ of the title, is the son of a driver to a wealthy Mumbai household; his stepmother is their maid. If period British cinema has the upstairs-downstairs dynamic, both Parasite and Gully Boy offer a sharp back seat-front seat dynamic. When his father breaks his leg, Murad reports for duty. “Your father is a driver. A servant’s son becomes a servant,” his uncle tells him. It is this dead end that triggers his verse, and helps him break into a different class of opportunities. But unlike Parasite , Gully Boy turns a blind gaze on the employers. Murad is from a poor Dharavi family, but his problems are caused by his volatile, dominating father. His mentor, MC Sher, has a drunk for a father. The film’s compelling songs speak of inequality, “eight rooms for four people”, “cars as long as hovels for entire families”, but there is no spotlight on the employers who presumably have the eight rooms and sleek cars. In the absence of such critique, it seems to suggest that poverty is caused by the violence and alcoholism of the poor and a remote ‘economy’. Those who directly control Murad’s life, his employers, are let off the hook.  Gully Boy is unusual in Hindi cinema in that it tells the story from the perspective of the domestic help, but it continues the tradition of romanticising the ‘servant’ and ‘master’ relationship; in particular upholding the ‘servant’ as a noble, upright figure, the classic ‘Ramu kaka ’ of countless Hindi films. In the beginning of the 90s, when Hindi films turned to urban settings, the domestic help became less visible, until Sooraj Barjatya upgraded the figure to the hero’s friendly sidekick in Maine Pyar Kiya (1989), a role Laxmikant Berde reprised in Barjatya’s Hum Aapke Hain Koun..! five years later. Director Anurag Kashyap, whose gritty black comedy is at the other end of the Barjatya spectrum, nevertheless replayed the family retainer as hero’s sidekick in Manmarziyan (2018). Piku (2015) had a Ramu kaka in Budhan, the attendant for the elderly father. Where are the real stories? Worldwide, domestic work is a poorly-paid and unorganised sector, with little or no enforceable rights and a high probability of human rights and safety violations. For instance, passports of staff are routinely confiscated or their personal details submitted for police verification. By any standards, these are violations of human rights and dignity. In India, this is compounded by poor salaries, dehumanising work conditions and caste prejudices. A 2012 government survey estimates that 3.9 million people are employed as domestic workers in India, but a 2014 report by SEWA pegs it at a much higher 50 million. The lack of reliable data is telling. The stories of employer-employee relationships emerging during the lockdown are in sharp contrast to what Hindi cinema shows: the loyal family retainer or even family friend as in Bawarchi . Is it possible to hang out with the person who first submits your details to the police? Is it possible to ignore the fact that you can’t enter your employer’s home because you are the driver? Murad seems to emerge from the wellspring of ‘noble servitude’ in Hindi cinema. Where is the antagonism, the raised hackles, the mutual disregard that Parasite shows? Even Zoya Akhtar’s short in Lust Stories , a searing take on the casual sex a young man enjoys with his domestic help, shows no opposition to his actions, just resignation. Academic María Mercedes Vázquez Vázquez said in an interview that filmmaking isn’t only a function of the politics and aesthetics of filmmakers, but also their socio-economic class. The award-winning Roma, one of a number of Latin American films to look at society through the staff-employer lens, casts an empathetic gaze at Cleo and her long, hard days, but we never hear Cleo’s voice, as critic Richard Brody notes. The film remains only the nostalgic memories of director Alfonso Cuaron. Cinema and art are powerful mediums to assuage class guilt. Arguably, Hindi cinema’s ‘noble servant’ is a defence mechanism, a little clapping and candlelight tribute instead of genuine political honesty. Why not do what Parasite does? Portray subalterns as resourceful and intelligent, even violent, without eroding their dignity? I’ll end with Mrinal Sen’s Bengali film Kharij (1982). A young, affluent couple employs a boy not much older than their own son in a Left-run, 80s Calcutta. The boy dies one night, possibly due to a gas leak in the kitchen where he sleeps. In the ensuing investigation, we occasionally see the boy’s father, but mostly we see the affluent couple and we realise they are not nice at all. Sen uses the real first names of his actors and gives them his own surname. The message couldn’t be clearer — these people are us. The Sens could have easily given the boy a separate room in their large house, like they offer his father when he comes to collect his son’s belongings. Towards the end, when the boy’s father comes up to take the husband Anjan’s leave and raises his hand, Anjan flinches, expecting to be slapped. But the man is only folding his hands in a namaste. Yet, by then, we know that Anjan deserves the slap. The Kolkata-based independent journalist writes on public health, politics and cinema.  If period British cinema has the upstairs-downstairs dynamic, bothParasiteandGully Boyoffer a sharp back seat-front seat dynamic||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-domestic-dynamic/article31713391.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Too many historians in India have obsessed about who is properly nationalist’||Sanjay Subrahmanyam is a historian specialising in the early modern period who currently holds the Irving and Jean Stone Endowed Chair in Social Sciences at UCLA. In this wide-ranging interview, he discusses the problems of Indian historiography, his connected histories approach to pre-colonial South Asia that challenge certain trends in post-colonial studies (such as the Subaltern School), and how ‘modernity’ was a global phenomenon, not something produced in Europe and exported to the rest of the world. How does your connected histories approach to pre-modern and pre-colonial South Asia impact our understanding of the region’s history? Can it be extended easily into the colonial period? The most common way to approach the history of South Asia has been to make a relatively sharp distinction between what is “indigenous” and what is “foreign”. It is interesting to contrast this, for example, to approaches to Southeast Asia or Central Asia, where historians have always accepted the importance of circulation and movement, or what my late friend and colleague Denys Lombard used to call the idea of being at a “crossroads”. I believe that by bringing South Asian history into conversation with other histories, be they of West Asia, Central Asia, Europe or Southeast Asia, there is much to be gained. At the same time, it is also important to understand the extent to which different Indian regions were actually connected (or sometimes not connected) to one another through historical processes. In short, the political boundaries we find today have a history and a contingency. They were not etched in stone, and they are not necessarily the best way of defining the geographical matrices within which we study history. Obviously, the nature of the networks and connections that were operative in the colonial period were different from what obtained in the centuries between 1400 and 1800, which are usually my main focus. But that does not mean that a similar approach cannot be fruitfully employed for certain purposes, as we see from recent Indian Ocean histories. Unfortunately, many prominent historians of the post-1800 Indian Ocean mainly use English-language sources, and this constrains their imagination. Those who don’t do that have often been able to make interesting finds, like Michael O’Sullivan, an economic historian from UCLA who has studied Indian connections with West Asia. You have said that your intent is to “complicate” our understanding of nation and place in the early modern world. Is there still a place for national history in your understanding? And is it always the same as nationalist history? Of course, national history too has its place, especially at an intermediate scale of thinking about history between the smaller micro-region and the larger macro-region. At the same time, there are many ways of doing national history, and one need not do it in a nationalist framework. Unfortunately, too many historians in India —– whether leftist, pro-Congress, or pro-BJP — have obsessed about who is and who is not properly nationalist. When the late British historian C.A. Bayly in the 1980s came out with some provocative (and very productive) ideas, people at once used a litmus test of nationalism on him. This was silly, not because he was infallible, but because nothing good could come from such a false debate. Your provocatively titled 2013 bookIs Indian Civilization a Myth?touches on a hotly contested topic in the current political climate. How does the book approach the concept of “Indian civilisation”? In the book, I argued that an obsession with the idea of a “civilisation” in India (or for that matter, in any part of the world) quickly becomes a claim about the fixity of certain relationships and cultural values. The rhetoric of “clash of civilisations” used by Samuel Huntington and others stemmed directly from this conception. And as such, it is ahistorical or not useful for the purposes of the historian most of the time. I was especially influenced by an essay by the American historian David Ludden, called ‘History outside Civilization’, about the importance of mobility for South Asia. Basically, my point is that when people talk of “civilisation” they immediately fall into the trap of constructing a Golden Age from which we have deviated. They become fundamentalists defending that Golden Age. This is the same problem we see in some parts of Europe today, where people like Alain Finkielkraut or Éric Zemmour imagine that there was a pure European civilisation which is now being contaminated. As it happens, there is a dangerous alliance between some of these elements in Europe and similar elements in India. On the other hand, I have no problem with a word like “culture”, which allows for historical change and is far more flexible in its connotations. Your theory of connected histories challenges certain trends in post-colonial studies (including the Subaltern School), which you have critiqued for seeing the Indian role as one of largely “reacting and adapting to European initiatives.” What is a better way of approaching these questions of interaction? I believe that one of the greatest errors of post-colonial studies was that it transferred the entire onus for historical change onto the colonising (largely European) powers. By so doing, these authors simply reproduced the usual Hegelian clichés about how the non-European world was static and Europe was dynamic. I don’t think all Subaltern Studies authors fell into this trap, but some of them in their so-called “Mark II or second phase” — who were attracted by the writings of people like Mircea Eliade or René Guénon — certainly did. But despite these authors, and despite the writings of the young Marx on India (when he was at his most Hegelian), South Asia was not Sleeping Beauty waiting for Prince Charming (or Not-So-Charming) to show up. Using lazy shortcuts like throwing the previous thousand years of Indian (or for that matter African or Chinese) history into the ragbag of “feudalism” or the “Asiatic Mode of Production” is utterly self-defeating. Fortunately, in the past two decades or so, there has been a progressive revival of interest in Indian history in the many centuries before the British conquest. You have suggested that the societies that existed in the Old and New World prior to 1800 were participants in a nascent modernity that was taking place organically and chaotically on a global level, rather than being engineered by European states. How does this challenge our prevailing assumptions about European colonialism? What I wished to argue was that “modernity” was not something first produced in Europe and then “exported” to the rest of the world, as both European exceptionalists and post-colonialists would have it. Rather it was, as I put it once, a “global and conjunctural” phenomenon, produced by many forms of complex interaction. This does not mean that I wish to deny the existence of asymmetries of power, or that I am blind to processes of political domination. But it is important to understand that India was not “medieval” until 1757, when Robert Clive suddenly made it “modern” in a mango grove at Plassey. What that also implies is that for the non-European world, colonialism does not equal modernity. In fact, this misunderstanding lies at the root of many anti-modern movements found in the later 20th and early 21st. This is why, despite certain problems that go with it, I still like to use the term “early modern” in relation to India and other parts of the non-Western world to speak of the period even before colonial conquest. The interviewer is a filmmaker, columnist and scholar. When not travelling, he hangs out with his cats, toucans and pet iguana.  B.A. and M.A. from the University of Delhi and Ph.D. in economics from the Delhi School of Economics (DSE) Taught at DSE, at the School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences in Paris and in Oxford Author ofThe Career and Legend of Vasco De Gama;Explorations in Connected History: From the Tagus to the Ganges; etc. Awarded the Dan David Prize for History (jointly with Kenneth Pomeranz) in February 2019   Using lazy shortcuts like throwing the previous thousand years of Indian history into the ragbag of “feudalism” or the “Asiatic Mode of Production” is utterly self-defeating||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/too-many-historians-in-india-have-obsessed-about-who-is-properly-nationalist/article31713393.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Striking back at the Empire||Priyamvada Gopal’s Insurgent Empire is a bold and important work that seeks to take away the throne of conceits on which the ghost of the British Empire still sits, providing aid and comfort to 21st century inheritors of the White Man’s Burden. There are three conceits in particular that engage Gopal’s attention. One, that the Empire was essentially a force for good, bringing ideas of freedom and democracy to the rest of the world; two, that when the natives had been imparted these ideas sufficiently, the Empire virtually withdrew itself, with nary a care for the loss; and three, that it is anachronistic to talk about the Empire in negative terms today because back in the day, everybody went along with the Imperial project happily. Shapers of liberty It is compelling to observe the author, who teaches at Cambridge University, take apart each of these conceits with meticulous attention to details excavated from the written records of Empire in the 19th and 20th centuries. In fact, it would be appropriate to consider this 607-page tome as an example of the ‘reverse tutelage’ that Gopal conceptualises — the process by which in the 19th and 20th centuries, the colonised educated the colonisers on the true meanings of liberty, equality and fraternity. The difference, of course, is that Gopal is tutoring not yesterday’s colonialists, but today’s right wing historians of Empire (among whom Niall Ferguson figures prominently in the book), that the colonised were not passive recipients of the idea of liberty, but were active shapers of it, and not just in their own nations, but in the heart of the Empire itself. This is indeed the core proposition of Insurgent Empire : that the insurgents in the colonies, from India to Egypt to Kenya to Jamaica, moulded the opinions of British dissenters in the metropole. This “vital relationship between anti-colonial resistance in the periphery and the emergence of such dissent in the metropole,” Gopal believes, has been overlooked in the existing discourse on Empire, even after taking into account substantive post-colonial studies. By making this the centrepiece of her work, Gopal accomplishes two things at once. One, of course, it turns the colonised into active agents who shaped their own and the world’s destiny, and two it brings into focus those parts of colonial history that mainstream historians of Empire have tried hard to forget, if not hide — the parts where the slaves and the colonised rise in fierce opposition at every stage of the colonial process right from the beginning, and also the parts where dissidents within the metropole questioned the nature and actions of the Empire, deeply influenced and changed as they were by contact with the insurgents in the colonies. In other words, the ‘back -in-the-day’ argument can no longer hold, since it has been shown to rest on imperfect memories of Empire. The 1857 uprising After a theoretical Introduction that engages with existing academic literature on the subject, the first chapter of Insurgent Empire begins with the 1857 uprising in India and that is quickly followed by the Morant Ray rebellion of 1865 in Jamaica, both of which had profound effects on the Empire. This kind of juxtaposing is indeed the greatest strength of the book — it allows the reader to make connections that may not otherwise have been obvious, and also helps bring alive a period in all its complexity. In the case of the Indian and Jamaican uprisings, the book trains its focus not on the main actors as much as on the nature of the interactions between British dissenters and the insurgents and how this helped shift attitudes of the British dissenters from paternal benevolence to fellow feeing and reciprocal engagement — the first minor cracks in the Imperial edifice, so to say. Gopal quotes Frederic Harrison, British jurist, historian and Positivist: “The events of 1857 forced all of us to consider the whole question of the Empire... From that day, I became an anti-Imperialist.” From the margins The Insurgent Empire brings you face to face with a large number of fascinating characters whom mainstream history has marginalised, especially dissenters in the metropole like Ernest Jones, Nancy Cunard and Richard Congreve. It also brings back to focus Caribbean activists and leaders of resistance such as George Padmore, C.L.R. James and Marcus Garvey and, of course, Shapurji Saklatvala, the Indian-origin Parsi who was a Communist Party MP for Battersea in the British House of Commons. This is one of the strongest attacks on the on-going rightwing myth-making about the Empire that has practical implications for politics today in Britain. For Indians, the beauty of the book lies in the way it locates the struggle for Independence within the global colonial context — and also the detail it fills in on events such as the Meerut Conspiracy Case — which is a stark reminder of the way India’s politicians in power today continue to use the brutal and unjust methods and techniques devised by the British a century ago to put down the ‘insurgents’. The writer is the author ofEarly Indians: The Story of Our Ancestors and Where We Came From.  Insurgent Empire: Anticolonial Resistance and British Dissent Priyamvada Gopal Simon & Schuster  Rs. 699||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/striking-back-at-the-empire/article31713456.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||‘If you blink, you fail’||Unlike most of us, writer Tabish Khair has been using the lockdown productively. In the second week, in Denmark where he currently lives, Khair started re-reading Shakespeare’s sonnets for an academic anthology. Appreciating them anew, he also began re-writing some of them with a degree of humour, irony and satire that would have made Shakespeare proud. Quarantined Sonnets: Sex, Money and Shakespeare is now out as an e-book. It is a must-read, not just because it is a virtuoso performance but also because the profits from the sale are being donated to a charity for migrant workers. Excerpts from an e-mail interview: Reading the sonnet sequence, just when the reader thinks that these are the cries of an old codger yearning for the pleasures of yesteryear, the mood turns grim, with references to the pandemic. Did you have a structure in mind when you started? The rough structure was my knowledge that the original sonnets by Shakespeare get progressively darker. I wanted to start off with six-seven sonnets that captured the times, its foibles in particular, while playing with Shakespeare’s peccadilloes as well. I rewrite one of Shakespeare’s sonnets — “When I consider everything that grows” — twice (Number 7 and 8 in my collection); the only one I rewrite twice. In the first rewriting, Number 7, it is a rich person extolling the virtues of plastic surgery (which plays ironically with the themes of age and death in Shakespeare’s sonnets). The next version of the same sonnet (Number 8) has a Wall Street speculator talking of making money from the looming pandemic. That is the hinge; then the sonnets turn to the crisis. But I also wanted to say that the vampiric speculator did not come from nowhere: there was something rotten in the state of our ‘normal’ world. The sequence is ‘dramatic’, with the persona of the speaker changing in each sonnet. How satisfying was this role-playing? Coming from a novelist, was this par for the course? Now that you mention it, yes, maybe the novelist in me played a subterranean role! But when I was working on the sonnets I was thinking more of Shakespeare. You see, Shakespeare’s sonnets are probably autobiographical, but sometimes I feel that they are read too literally by us. Shakespeare was too intelligent a writer to simply vomit his heart out on to the page, and he lived in very dangerous, off-with-his-head times. I think that he plays with personas in his sonnets too. He does not lie, but he puts the truth across in ways that might not cost him his head. It also has to do with the complex relations between facts and truth. I definitely had that in mind. It was greatly satisfying, for I dislike the lockdown of the self in any case, this bourgeois obsession with oneself. It plagues much of poetry. How do you think Shakespeare would have reacted to the present pandemic? After all, he is said to have written plays during the plague. True, the literary rumour mill, which regularly produces Ph.Ds and professors, holds it that the quarantine play was King Lear , arguably the most devastating of his plays, containing what some say is the bleakest line in pentametre in the English language: “Never, never, never, never, never.” The plague was rampant in his lifetime in London. He definitely wrote something or the other during a ‘lockdown.’ I think he would have reacted to this one with the basic honesty that is essential to all great art, while also, because he was a pragmatic man, ensuring that his head did not get chopped off! The art to say what has to be said and still retain your head should not be underestimated. We are in a world where a demagogue may confidently shout: “They will accept as Gospel all my views,/ But you, O bitter Fact, will be Fake News!” Do you think it takes a poet to state the truth? All of us should face up to the uncomfortable truth, but a poet has no choice, or she fails in her vocation. Poetry is the act of staring relentlessly into the face of life and death. If you blink, you fail. Sometimes of course, you have no choice but to repeat with Faiz, “ Mataa-e-lauh-o-kalam chin gayee to kya gham hai, Ki khoon-e-dil mein dubo li hai ungliyaan maine ” (What if the tyrant has snatched away my paper and pen, I will write by dipping my fingers in the blood of my heart). But in most cases, as Shakespeare knew, one can use art to speak the truth in such a way that the tyrant cannot throttle you. That has been my endeavour in all my works, including this one, which is essentially a satirical conversation with our times using Shakespeare as the translator.  The vampiric speculator in Sonnet 8 did not come from nowhere: there was something rotten in the state of our ‘normal’ world||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/if-you-blink-you-fail/article31713441.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||You may say I’m a dreamer||Imagine the following story taking place in one of our larger States. Say the State is one that has traditionally prospered over the decades, having managed some things really well: advanced infrastructure; ease of doing business; absence of crazily rampant corruption among politicians and bureaucrats; an enviable work culture and ‘business sense’ produced by a good work ethos; frugality and groundedness that sees the State through the ups and downs of the national economy and keeps it in the wealthiest and ‘most advanced’ category. Now, imagine a certain kind of politics taking over this State in the 80s and 90s, the burgeoning of a majoritarian ideology that twins up with the aspirations and ‘me first’ ethos released by a newly liberalised economy. Imagine that around the start of this century, a certain kind of man is put in charge as Chief Minister by a party that rules both the Centre and the State. Role model Within months of him taking charge, the State is racked by grotesque mass violence and communal strife. As the violence becomes viral, the Chief Minister watches, silent and unmoving. The opinion of most observers is that the man is either complicit in creating the violence or indifferent to the plight of thousands and completely incompetent in handling such a crisis. Despite national and international outrage, the party at the Centre lets the Chief Minister continue. This Chief Minister rules the State for over a decade. A rival party comes to power at the Centre but, due to weaknesses of its own, its leaders can neither bring the man to account nor end his political career. In the period between 2004 and 2014 the national economy does reasonably well and the State — always ahead — is further buoyed by this growth. The official propaganda from the State speaks of a miracle, a ‘Model’ for the rest of the country to follow. For people inside the State though, things aren’t quite so rosy or lotus-like. The gap between the rich and the poor is growing; environmental safeguards are being systematically destroyed to favour industrialists; minorities are ghettoised and the condition of adivasis and marginalised castes isn’t much better; two major state responsibilities, education and health, are increasingly communalised and privatised, while glitzy government building projects start to appear in the media as examples of the miracle Model. There is a palpable atmosphere of fear; dissent against the government is fraught with dangers that should not be seen in any democracy. Imagine that the Chief Minister manages to move to Delhi to take over as the ‘First Servant’ of the country, on the promise of a sternly-captained, corruption-free rule. Within months, the whole State starts talking about the spectacular corruption of his chosen successor and close family. The successor is then replaced. Replacement Squared is famous in the State as ‘He who can’t even visit the toilet without an okay from Delhi’. It is Shri He-Who-Can’t-Even who’s in charge when the COVID-19 crisis hits the Model State. Hacked away All the efficient bureaucrats from the State have been whisked away to Delhi by the First Servant. The State’s once enviable public health system has been progressively eviscerated since 2001, large sections privatised, the old great public hospitals bequeathed by mill-owners now hollowed out. Instead of any early anticipation of the virus spreading, the State has hosted a mammoth spectacle with the First Servant and Agent Orange in the biggest stadium in the capital. Instead of acknowledging this disaster zone of mass infection, the only narrative the government can come up with is that those dratted minorities have spread the disease. Imagine this State, its social cohesion hacked away over three decades, its economy tanking with the rest of the country, now being mauled by one of the worst outbreaks of a deadly virus. Imagine patients being released prematurely, fraudulent ventilators being forced on hospitals, and statistics being fudged to hide the sharp spike of COVID-19 deaths. Imagine the map of the State’s capital completely covered with the icon signifying infections; imagine hungry and beleaguered workers turning to violence in one of its major cities. Then imagine the State administration simply giving up on containing the virus and doing what the First Servant does best — just put a spin on everything to contain the fallout of botched governance. In this imaginary tale of ours, when the Chief Minister becomes the Chief Servant of the nation, worshipful supporters from his State gloat: “The country will now get what we have received!” Try to avoid imagining what a catastrophe that would be.  Instead of any early anticipation of the virus spreading, the State has hosted a mammoth spectacle with the First Servant and Agent Orange in the biggest stadium||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/you-may-say-im-a-dreamer/article31713471.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Notes from Sweden||It’s an interesting time to be living in Sweden. While the whole world is in lockdown mode, trying to cope with the COVID-19 pandemic, Sweden has taken a different approach. It has decided to keep itself open, allow people to roam freely, and let businesses function. In the early days of the crisis, many of us in Sweden thought the lockdown was less an option and more a necessity. So we prepared like people all around the world did. We stocked up, we queued up in supermarkets, our pantries became full of milk cartons and eggs, and we stayed indoors. However, soon enough we were told that the country would remain open. The decision surprised us all. Quite a few of us were shocked and some of us also criticised the government. Meanwhile, across the border, Denmark entered a complete shutdown. The Öresund bridge — a 21-kilometre-long bridge that connects Sweden’s southern city of Malmö to the Danish capital, Copenhagen — was shut. Those who live in one country and travel to another for work couldn’t do so any more. Law-abiding Sweden’s contrasting decision derives from the high levels of trust its citizenry operates on, including trust in the government. If the health authorities recommend that those in risk groups shouldn’t step out, or that those with the slightest of symptoms should self-isolate, people are likely to do so. And so I did. I live in Malmö, Sweden’s third largest city. Like others, I work from home these days though it’s not mandatory to do so. However, I do step out to shop for groceries and go for walks. Being outside, sitting alongside the canal, picnicking in the park — all to catch whatever little bit of sun we can — is a beloved activity of all Swedes in the spring and summer months. As days become longer and warmer, the city is yearning to sit outside again. Outside, while the thick hubbub of traffic has eased, it’s difficult to find any other signs of inactivity that would indicate that this Swedish city is in the grip of any pandemic. Shops and restaurants are open, and as crowded as they have always been. The city’s joyous commotion has not really ebbed. Only very few people are seen wearing masks. The only visible signs of the pandemic are the notices in supermarkets and shopping malls politely reminding people to maintain distance in queues. Long walks Among my greatest joys of living in Sweden are my long walks. On an exceptionally sunny Saturday last weekend, I stepped out for one such, right across the city. I walked on a cobbled street that was brimming with people and punctuated with multiple coffee shops, many of which had laid out tables outside. I walked to the end of this pedestrian street, which merges into a canal that snakes across the city. Along the edge of this canal, recreational fishermen stood darting their fishing hooks in the shallow waters hoping for a catch. Their joy and camaraderie remained unhindered by the two-metre distance they maintained. Below, vibrantly coloured kayaks peppered the otherwise calm waters. Kayaking being a single-person sport seemed well-suited to the demands of social distancing. I walked along the edge of the canal, which gently fused into a pathway leading to Malmö Castle. The castle stood deserted and solitary, perched on its small hill. I avoided it and veered towards the city’s main park, called Slottsspark. The park throbbed with life; the trees drooped under the weight of leafy branches, while the bushes and plants stretched out to cover the narrow pathways. The café in the middle of the park with outdoor seating was teeming with people sipping iced coffee. I waved to the coffee drinkers and walked past them to a wide-open field that stands here flanked by a modern glass library building on the other end. The library appeared empty, even as the garden itself was full of picnickers. They sat in groups drinking wine from plastic cups and playing frisbee and Kubb (a Swedish game involving knocking over wooden blocks ( kubbs ) by throwing wooden batons at them). I sat down in one corner of the park. From where I sat, the world looked like it always had. The pandemic in Sweden seemed only like a little wrinkle in time, and normal life was well on its way back. The adrenaline rush-seeking travel writer lives in Malmö, Sweden.  The shops and restaurants are open, and as crowded as they have always been. The city’s joyous commotion has not really ebbed||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/notes-from-sweden/article31713483.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Being a braveheart||We live in a society fascinated by courage and celebrates bravery, with children raised on a diet of heroic stories. In Plato’s Laches , Socrates defines courage broadly, to encompass even everyday activities. On the other hand, Aristotle in Nicomachean Ethics confines courage to valour in the battlefield. What does it mean to be “brave”? How many meanings the word has, because there is more than one, and I wonder which of those descriptions should win. People use the word brave in contexts such as valour on the battlefield, surviving an illness or misfortune, doing something out of character, putting everything on the line, speaking out against injustice at a great personal risk, taking financial risks to pursue dreams, and performing superhuman feats on the sporting arena. All of these require some form of courage. What is the underlying behavioural pattern in these examples? Above all, why is this virtue important today? If you closely examine all of the above examples you will find three chief ingredients: the element of risk; feeling fear or apprehension; and aiming at an honourable outcome. The first criterion measures the enormity of the danger, the second describes the emotional state of the person and the third examines the intended outcome of the deed. The doer realises and appreciates the risks of failure; yet do it. Proficiency that is deployed to overcome the risks involved does not constitute bravery. It’s the subjective judgment that the doer makes about the characteristics and the severity of the risk that constitutes bravery. A person should necessarily experience fear or apprehension before the brave act. She should neither be motivated by feelings of anger nor by a quest for thrill. Not entirely altruistic The doer should hope to accomplish something honourable. An honourable outcome need not necessarily be entirely altruistic. But if the outcome does not benefit the self, the deed is higher on the “purity” scale. The more one stands to gain from the outcome, the more the endeavour is akin to gambling, and therefore does not constitute bravery. Dishonourable ends should never be described as brave even if it fulfils the first two criteria faultlessly. preetam@nerdom.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/being-a-braveheart/article31713419.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Read it right, know it well||Latin flowered into the Romance languages — Spanish, French, Italian, Portuguese, Romanian — and itself died away. But Arabic, another ancient language like Latin, is still alive, spoken by people from Morocco to Iraq. The reason is the Koran. Standardised only a few years after the death of Muhammad in 632 AD, classical Arabic has been transmitted down in the same form, linking all people who follow the Islamic faith. The Koran was meant for recitation (the word Koran means recitation), to be held in memory, the Arabic word for which is hafiza . When someone adds the word Hafiz to their name, it means they have memorised the entire book. In the time of the second Caliph, Umar, it was noticed that the memorisers from the time of the prophet were dying. Muhammad’s secretary, Zaid ibn Thabit, was given the responsibility of putting together what would become the book as we know it. Scattered portions were collected — these were on ribs of palm leaves, on stone fragments, as well as in the memorisers’ heads. The writing was in the Kufic script, a sort of ornate typeface used in decoration. Kufic was replaced by the script still in use today: Naskh. Who are the jinns? The codex thus prepared was kept at Medina and three copies were sent to the military camps in Damascus, Basra and Kufa. The arrangement is mechanical: the chapters are in order of length. After the opening (Surah Fateha), comes the longest chapter, Baqara, meaning ‘cow’, with 286 verses. After that is the second longest, Imran, with 200 verses, and so on till the 114th. The last chapter is An Nas (The People). It is just a few words. The whole chapter reads:  Say: ‘I seek refuge with the Lord of the People   The king of the people,   The god of the people   From the evil of the slinking whisperer   From whispers in the breasts of people   Both jinn and men.  The reference to jinns — spirits of lower rank than angels — made the more scientific-minded believers want to rationalise. According to one of them, Ghulam Ahmed Parwez, the reference was to tribals. The exegesis or critical explanation of the Koran is called tafsir . The most famous tafsir used in the subcontinent even today is the three volumes written by Abul Kalam Azad, who had been educated in Arabia and was truly learned. Another one, in seven volumes, is by the famous Abul A’la Maududi of Aurangabad, who founded the Jamaat-e-Islami in Lahore in 1941. His interpretations of the unity of god ( tawhid , from the word for ‘one’, wahid ) and of jihad were used by the Arab dissident Sayyid Qutb, whose works were the founding texts for al Qaeda. Sacred words The chapters of the Koran are divided into those that were received by Muhammad in Mecca in the original and formative period of Islam, and those that came to him in Medina. The former, about 90 in all, are shorter and more prophetic in feeling, fiery and passionate, according to writer Philip Hitti. The latter are long, verbose and full of legislative material. They refer to prayer, fasting, pilgrimage and are written in rhymed prose, which is pleasant to hear (and read). I have several versions of the Koran. The one I refer to most is in three volumes, called The Glorious Quran, compiled by Dr. Shehnaz Shaikh and Kausar Khatri. It is a word-for-word translation into English for those who can read Arabic but don’t fully understand what it means. Another one is The Qur’an: A Modern English Version by Majid Fakhry. Muslims believe that the words of the Koran are god’s and so the book itself is sacred. In the subcontinent, with our native sentiment towards the written word, this feeling is even more heightened. During the riots in Delhi in February this year it was touching to see Muslims, and perhaps some Hindus as well, gathering burnt pages of the Koran from the charred remains of mosques. It is possible, perhaps even likely, that those who torched the mosques have never read the book they burnt. It would benefit many of us if we would be curious enough to look into what the other’s religion teaches. In the case of the Koran, the non-believer would profit from knowing the contents of the book that is behind one of the world’s largest faiths.  Muhammad’s secretary, Zaid ibn Thabit, was given the responsibility of putting together what would become the book as we know it||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/read-it-right-know-it-well/article31713436.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Johannes in his burrow||If one helps an old lady cross the street, it may win blessings and little else. But if one were to push the same old lady into the traffic, there’s a good chance of the incident becoming the subject of a movie or a novel, or, at the very least, a news item. Virtue needs no explanation. It’s vice, especially lurid vice, that we wish to understand. Caging Skies is the story of an ordinary man who commits an unforgiveable act in the name of love. Naturally, there’s also a movie version. The novel is framed as a confession, a sort of aborted Bildungsroman set in Hitler’s Vienna. The Betzlers, a decent Austrian couple, give sanctuary to Elsa Kor, a Jewish teenager, during the Holocaust. The Betzlers have a son, Johannes, who’s indoctrinated into the Nazi cult at a young age. To his credit, Johannes, though an enthusiastic Hitler Youth in principle, doesn’t quite have what it takes to be one in practice, and cannot imagine what it would be like, even as a thought experiment, “to hit a baby’s head against the wall and not feel anything”. It’s tricky In post-WW II Vienna, Johannes is leaderless, jobless, war-mutilated, and without anything to look forward to. It is then that he discovers Elsa, hiding in a concealed space. He’s faced with a complex decision, but the novel disposes of it in two or three pages. Johannes takes over the task of protecting Elsa. He falls (or more accurately, slips) in love, and fearing that Elsa will leave him once the war is over, lies to her that the Germans have won and that she must continue to live in hiding. One lie leads to another. Were the novel to be reduced to an elevator pitch, it would be: Anne Frank meets The Room . It’s a fascinating premise. The bulk of the novel details how Johannes manages to hide the truth from Elsa. It’s tricky. Maintaining the lie in post-WW II Austria takes ingenuity, but it is the kind of desperate, ad hoc ingenuity liars can’t seem to muster in any other sphere of activity. Roger Ebert was exasperated with movies in which conflicts could be resolved only if the characters talked . I felt similarly exasperated when Johannes tries to confess and Elsa simply won’t let him. ‘“When will you let me finish what I’m trying to say?’ I implored. ‘Never!’ She pressed herself against me, held both sides of my face and peered up into my eyes.” How convenient for the plot. Too careful Given her subject matter, Leunens has to tread carefully. Unlike John Fowles’ The Collector , half of which is dedicated to one caged victim’s point of view, Leunens only has Johannes. Fortunately, Johannes isn’t really interested in sex. What he craves is for Elsa to need him emotionally. The few sexual encounters, clumsy and consensual, are off-stage for the most part. This book can’t offend anyone, unlike Nabokov’s Lolita , which many modern readers seem to mistake for the work of a real-life pervert masquerading as a great novelist. Perhaps Leunens has tread too carefully. Johannes’ wounded body exists only as an attribute, not fact. Leunens’ style is tailored to suit the stolid and not particularly self-aware mind of Johannes. This also makes it difficult to go very deep into situations. For example, Johannes’ mother, who gives refuge to Elsa, is an interesting character, but because Johannes has never really noticed her, neither can we. The one attempt at poetic writing is in the prologue where Johannes compares his lie to the planting of a great tree. It’s not an apt metaphor. A tree is the very emblem of nature’s nobility. What Johannes has constructed isn’t a tree of lies, but rather a Kafkaesque burrow, in which he doesn’t recognise that the enemy he strains to hear and barricade and protect Elsa against is himself. This inability to realise what he’s become is foreshadowed in an early scene when he can’t recognise his father who’s returned from a Gestapo interrogation: “At first I didn’t recognize him because he’d lost weight, his nose was broken, and his clothing was as ragged and disreputable as a vagrant’s.” Ultimately, this is a horror story, where the reader is required to be present and absent at the same time; can perceive but cannot interfere. A work succeeds when it turns the reader into a witness. Unfortunately, here I was left feeling as if I were witnessing an enactment. At the end of the novel, I was no closer to understanding any of the characters than I had been at the beginning. Perhaps there is no understanding to be had. If virtue needs no explanations, vice has none. There are crimes beyond the reach of reasons; that is, beyond the reach of fiction. Caging Skies succeeds to the extent any fiction can succeed in taking on such impossible tasks. It makes us desire a future in which such horrific crimes can only be filed under fiction. The writer’s novel,Half of What I Say, was shortlisted for the 2016 Hindu Prize.  Caging Skies Christine Leunens John Murray  Rs. 499    Critic Roger Ebert was exasperated with movies in which conflicts could be resolved only if the characterstalked. I felt similarly exasperated when Johannes tries to confess and Elsa simply won’t let him||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/johannes-in-his-burrow/article31713439.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The revolutionary is dead, long live the revolutionary||Ramchandra Babaji More is not a big name in India’s progressive circles. A Dalit organiser who was close to B.R. Ambedkar, he didn’t get his due in the history of Dalit politics. A pioneering mobiliser for the Communist Party in Maharashtra, he didn’t get his due in the history of the Indian Left either. Needless to say, he also doesn’t figure prominently in the savarna-dominated pantheon of India’s freedom fighters and social reformers. Plugging a gap This volume, which combines More’s unfinished autobiography with his son Satyendra’s biography of his father, is a much needed corrective. It plugs a gap in the histories of both Dalit politics and Indian communism. Translated from Marathi by Wandana Sonalkar, it has a scholarly introduction by historian Anupama Rao that contextualises More’s life and work against the backdrop of Dalit movements and trade unionism in early 20th century Maharashtra. More’s relative obscurity, in itself, is a potent signifier — of a revolutionary whose courage and dedication dwarfed that of the organisations he served. Born in a Mahar family in 1903 in Ladawali, a village in Maharashtra’s Raigad district, More’s political activism began early. At the age of 11, when denied admission to Mahad high school despite winning a scholarship, he pens a letter to a local newspaper, demanding that the school’s grant be stopped. His letter shames, and scares, the school into giving him admission, striking a blow against untouchability that reverberated throughout the Konkan. Subsequently, More, still a school boy, helps set up a tea stall in Mahad that becomes a meeting point for ‘Untouchables’ to gather and discuss social issues. Since he knew English, he also becomes a letter-writer for ‘Untouchables’ and poor savarnas. In Phule’s steps More’s political work in the Mahad region, building on the foundation laid by Jyotirao Phule and others, laid the groundwork for the historic Mahad Satyagraha in 1927. In 1930, just as the independent Dalit movement was gathering steam, More informs Ambedkar of his decision to officially join the Communist Party. Ambedkar’s response is priceless. This is how Satyendra describes the exchange: “Seeing More’s courage and honesty, he [Ambedkar] said, ‘I am overwhelmed by your sincerity and dedication.... I wonder whether the Communist Party in India, which belongs to Brahmins, will appreciate your dedication and honesty?’” As an organic intellectual, More sought to bridge the divide between class struggle and identity politics. In 1953, he prepared a note on ’Untouchability and the Caste Question’ and sent it to the party leadership. The note (included in this volume) is a clear-eyed analysis of the class-caste conundrum that resonates six decades after it was written. More states what should have been obvious to the Party — that caste consciousness is the biggest hindrance to class consciousness — and calls for prioritising the fight against caste. “The caste system is a hideous form of hypocrisy of which a revolutionary party like the Communist Party must take cognisance and its hideousness must be thoroughly and unhesitatingly exposed,” reads the note. The Left’s record in independent India suggests, however, that the Party leadership didn’t quite embrace ‘the More line’. How did More fare on the other side of the divide — in Dalit politics? While he did manage to attract a host of Dalit activists into the Communist fold, he wasn’t as successful in dissolving the distrust between Communists and the independent Dalit movement. Not only has this distrust persisted to the present day, it has developed into a festering fault line even amongst Dalit groups. More’s personal life was unbelievably hard. His family paid a terrible price for his utter dedication to party work. His sense of dignity prevented him from taking even the normal share of monetary help from the party. In the end, one is left wondering, as Ambedkar did: will the Left and the Dalit movements warm up to his life’s work? Perhaps the time has finally come.  Memoirs of a Dalit Communist: The Many Worlds of RB More Edited by Anupama Rao Translated by Wandana Sonalkar LeftWord Books  Rs. 450||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-revolutionary-is-dead-long-live-the-revolutionary/article31713453.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Two-way hand||Today’s deal, from a European team competition, offers interesting points in both play and defense. At both tables, declarer won the opening club lead with dummy’s queen and led a low diamond to their 10. At this table, West ducked! This was a good play, as West retained an entry in the event his clubs were ever set up, and it misled declarer about the location of the ace. Believing the ace to be with East and not wanting a club led through his ace-jack, South led the queen of spades. East won with his ace and led a club, ducked to West’s king, and West continued the suit. South went back to diamonds, but West won his ace and cashed his established club. The jack of spades and the queen of hearts were both poorly placed for declarer, and the contract went down one. At the other table, West won with his ace of diamonds at trick two and shifted to the nine of spades. This defence might have succeeded also, but the play went low from dummy, low from East, and low from declarer! Nothing else would have been better, but who can blame West for leading another spade? South now had three spade tricks, two heart tricks, three diamond tricks, and two club tricks. An overtrick! Nicely played.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/two-way-hand/article31713476.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On May 31, 1895, Dr. John Harvey _____ and his brother got their patent for ‘flaked cereal’, a soft breakfast food which was easy to chew and originally intended to be an aphrodisiac. They experimented and developed a mixture of wheat, oats, and corn which was baked at high temperatures for a long period of time, to break down starch molecules in the grain. What is this common breakfast item you usually have with milk? 2This dish was once voted No.4 on ‘Top 10 dishes to eat before you die’. Described as ‘The plate-covering, paper-thin pancake is made from rice and lentils, cooked to lacy perfection on a hot griddle. What creates the more-ish flavour is a spiced concoction of mashed cooked potatoes and fried onions, served with a liberal dose of garlicky chutney.’ What yummy dish is this? 3This simple but satisfying dish was first found in a Latin recipe book from the 5th century. It is just sliced bread soaked in an egg/milk mix and then fried. It has various names but is usually known by either one of two names in India. One refers to a European country that is known for its sweet cuisine and the other is an Indian city known more for its spicy vada pavs. What are the popular names of this dish? 4This popular traditional south Indian dish has several names, most of which come from the combination of the local word for salt and flour. It is a thick porridge made from dry roasted wheat middlings of durum wheat and various vegetables and spices. The skill in preparing the dish is getting the amount of water right to get a consistency you desire. What dish is this? 5This dish gets its name from the Malayalam word for ‘portioned’. It is made by steaming cylinders of ground rice with coconut shavings. Traditionally perforated coconut shells attached to bamboo stalks are also used. The dish is usually had with sugar and a banana. What dish is this that is also found in Indonesia and Malaysia with a slight variation of the same name? 6This dish has been referenced in Tamil Sangam literature from the 1st century AD and is a staple breakfast dish in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Sri Lanka. It is known by either of two names, both having the same second word which means ‘pancake’. The first part of the name comes from the Tamil word which means ‘to beat’. Which dish is this that is known as ‘string hoppers’ in English? 7This dish is essentially rice that has been parboiled, rolled, flattened and then dried into flakes and depending on how you cook can be either soft or crunchy. Due to the ability to absorb various flavours readily, it is a popular dish in various states. In the most popular version of this dish, it is infused with turmeric and then garnished with coconut, tomato, cilantro and boiled peanuts. What is this dish? 8This rice dish gets its Tamil and Kannada names from the act of ‘bubbling up’ which is characteristic of the preparation of this dish. There are both spicy and sweet versions of this dish with the latter playing a major part in a Tamil harvest festival (which shares its name with the dish). What filling dish is this that is notorious for inducing sleep after a good heavy breakfast? 9This dish which is popular in South India is unique as it has a sour taste, which is also the reason behind its name in most south Indian languages. Due to the fact that it doesn’t get spoilt easily, many families pack this for long distance travels or when going for a picnic. The sourness comes from the addition of either one of two ingredients. One is from the fruit of theGarcinia indicaplant from the mangosteen family or the pulp which surrounds the fruits of a tree from the Fabaceae family. What are these two ingredients? 10This quintessential dish is a stew that is a staple of any South Indian breakfast. It is made with various vegetables, lentils, chillies, many spices and tamarind broth. Legend has it that it is named after a Maratha ruler who tried to make dal curry when his chef wasn’t around. There are many variations of this dish with its own legion of fans and foes based on whether jaggery is added or not (which is how the QM prefers it). Which dish is this that has spurred many debates on social media? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/easy-like-sunday-morning/article31713473.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Education for all||What does it mean to say that education is a fundamental right in India for children aged six to 14 years; and how effectively can this right be enforced? In 2002, the Constitution was amended with the 86th Amendment, adding Article 21A. Justiciability of this right, or its enforceability, is its most important feature. In his study of the Right to Education in India, Florian Matthey-Prakash, now a judge in Germany, argues that rights advocates must focus on mechanisms for adjudication about Article 21A at locally accessible levels. Top-down programmes like the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan, started well before the 86th Amendment, have brought substantial improvements in the education system. Nevertheless, going further than these reforms, the introduction of the 86th Amendment envisages enforceability of the right on the ground: that children and their parents must be able to effectively claim their right to education. At a disadvantage However, children attending government schools are mostly children of the poor, with limited access to the higher judiciary or to legal aid to claim their fundamental right to education. Even the mode of Public Interest Litigations (PILs) has had mixed results in terms of protecting the socio-economic rights of the poor. Matthey-Prakash points out that alternative means of justiciability, such as the grievance redressal system within the administration created by the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act 2009, with appeals to State Child Rights Commissions, also have their limitations. It is an odd time, however, to be talking about the matter of children’s right to education – at a time when millions of children across the world are out of school due to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to UNESCO estimates, 1.3 billion children and young people — that is, 70% of the world’s student population are affected by COVID-related closures of educational institutions. What impact will school closures have on children’s education? Certainly there will be an increase in the disadvantage gap. With economic stress, some children may be forced to pull out of school altogether in order to earn for their families; girls who are vulnerable to underage marriage may also drop out of secondary education; some children will be pulled out of their urban schools when they return with their families to their rural homes. What can be done? Some States have started various types of digital or mobile teaching methods for children. However, with limited access to data and smartphones, children in underprivileged families are at a disadvantage. School closures are difficult. But sending children back into cramped classrooms could be disastrous. Even before the COVID-related school closures, more than 250 million children and youth across the world were out of school. Can this be a moment when we try to reach all children? This could be a great opportunity to focus on strengthening the school system in India. First, in terms of infrastructure, with repaired, electrified, better ventilated and freshly painted classrooms and toilets, focusing increased MGNREGA allocations on this area. This will also provide livelihood support for returning migrant workers, whose children will also be enrolled in the same schools. Second, this could also be a time to engage in hitherto neglected but critically important activities: curriculum reform, teacher development, and improving the working conditions of teachers. The writer is in the IAS.  The Right to Education in India: The Importance of Enforceability of a Fundamental Right Florian Matthey-Prakash Oxford University Press  Rs. 1,495||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/education-for-all/article31713458.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The name of a gem||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson named his newly born son after the two doctors who treated him in hospital for COVID-19. Like him, parents across the globe have a reason or inspiration in naming their children. But the more you race back to the olden times, the more amusing the affair would look. The name of an elderly milkman in our Punjabi village is Mehanga, meaning expensive in Hindi. “I was born several years after my parents’ marriage, and to prove that I was their precious gem, they gave me this name,” he says. Some parents had chosen the names of traditional sweets, especially ladoo. Some had used the names of months in the Punjabi calendar — Magar for the child born that month. Many had named children after animals and birds, such as Billa if the baby had cat-like eyes or Tota to symbolise the free spirit of a parrot. The names of long-living, strong trees such as Peepal and Kikar and sun and stars were also favourites. This reminds me of our neighbour Tara Singh and shopkeeper Kikar, who also named his shop after it. Surely, some families may be still carrying on the same naming convention, but a majority today have switched to contemporary names, such as Sky, Simple, Hope, Shine, Best and Globe, to mention a few. And they are much ahead than the English nicknames one gets on moving abroad, where Jaswinder becomes simply Jazz or Jazzy; Jagdeep, Jag; Mandeep, Mandy; Gurpreet, Garry; Paramjeet, Pam or Pammy, and so on. But I would ask what’s in a name? It is just another word. It is our actions and our behaviour that should define us. rameshinder.sandhu@gmail.com||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-name-of-a-gem/article31713415.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||I have one idea...||Dear Madam/ Sir,  Suddenly one thought came two-three days back without warning as if Prime Minister suddenly coming on TV wearing muffler. Already you are thinking, oho, old man is having thoughts. Everybody in The Hindu office assemble with two metres distance. Old man is getting one new idea. Semma comedy 100% guarantee. Come one, come all. Madam/ Sir, other people’s life tragedy is just comedy for you. And now you’re thinking why can’t Mathru tell story quickly, no need for Socrates philosophy and all. Ok fine. Listen. Two-three days back I was sitting in living room and arranging all DVDs properly. Madam/ Sir, different-different people are having different-different talent and speciality. Salman Rushdie is writing books that everybody is buying nobody is reading. In Dr. Shankaramenon’s house one copy of Midnight’s Children is there in bookshelf next to TV. It is sitting there since 30-40 years. What is Madhavan specialty? Acting and acting like anything but any talent? One giant zero. Even I can take photo without shirt. It is not talent. What is Suhasini speciality? Suhasini speciality is that everything is her speciality. Talent means that is talent. So, what is Mr. Mathrubootham speciality? So many specialities are there, Madam/ Sir. One whole newspaper only is needed. Just being frank. Don’t take it wrong. But one super specialty is arrangement of DVDs. Sometimes I will arrange by war: World War, Vietnam War, Korean War, Cold War, etc. Sometimes I will arrange by actor: Bruce Willis, Clint Eastwood, Michael Caine, Mohanlal, Suhasini Young, Suhasini Medium, Suhasini Old etc. But two-three days back I thought I will arrange by topic: Detective, Military, Didn’t Understand Anything, etc. So slowly I am taking out all DVDs and then arranging when I suddenly found DVD of superhit British TV show Poirot starring David Suchet. I looked at the cover and like thunder and lightning one idea came. “Kamalam, Kamalam, I have one idea,” I said. Immediately response came from dining room: “Absolutely no chance, I reject the idea.” “But Kamalam I have not even said what idea it is.” She said, “Last 40 years I am hearing your ideas. So far total number of good ideas is zero.” “What about my idea for growing cactus in balcony so that even if I am forgetting to pour water it will grow?” “Where is cactus now,” she asked. I said, “By mistake AC fell on top of cactus, is it my fault?” “Who tried to repair AC himself,” she asked. “Kamalam, let us agree to disagree. Do you want to listen to new idea?” She said, absolutely no. I said, “Okay, let me tell you. I thought I will grow moustache.” Immediately Mrs. M came running out of dining room. “If you grow moustache I will immediately on the spot divorce you,” she said. “Last so many years I have suffered many things quietly. Two years you wore bell bottoms. I said anything? No. Then you purchased one Yezdi motorcycle that is making more noise than Arnab Goswami. I said anything? No. Because no use. You lost hearing for two years because of motorcycle. In 1991 you purchased Bullworker exercise machine. Then what happened? You tried to do exercise and ended up unconscious. Mathrubootham, last and final warning. If you grow moustache means divorce divorce divorce.” Madam/ Sir, what I did? I said, “Ok fine Kamalam, no need for all this mono-acting and speech. Agreed. No moustache.” But I will tell you truth? I am secretly growing moustache. Let us see what will happen. Don’t tell anybody. Yours in secrecy, J. Mathrubootham||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/i-have-one-idea/article31713481.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Legend’s end||Indian hockey legend and three-time Olympic gold medallist Balbir Singh Sr died aged 96. Singh, who played a key role in India’s victories in 1948, 1952 and 1956, set a still-unbeaten record for the most goals in an Olympic men’s hockey final when he scored five in India’s 6-1 win over the Netherlands in 1952. In 1957, he became the first sports personality to be awarded the Padma Shri.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/legends-end/article31713395.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Derailed||As lakhs of migrants were transported home on the Shramik Special trains, many serious lacunae emerged. There were reports of long delays and untoward diversions — one train from Mumbai bound for Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh ended up in Odisha. Food and water ran short, and several deaths were reported aboard the trains. The Railways said that these were caused by pre-existing conditions.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/derailed/article31713397.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Border belligerence||Tensions escalated between Indian and Chinese troops at multiple locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, where there has been a build-up of People’s Liberation Army forces — believed to be a response to India’s efforts to bolster infrastructure in the area. Chinese soldiers crossed into Indian-held territory in several places, with incidents of physical violence reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/border-belligerence/article31713399.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Desert storm||Swarms of desert locusts invaded parts of Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, in the worst such attack in nearly three decades. Pictures showed the migratory pests cloaking trees in Panna tiger reserve in Madhya Pradesh, fields in Maharashtra, and a terrace in Jaipur. The swarms devastated over 40,000 ha of crops.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/desert-storm/article31713401.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Adviser?||U.K. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s chief adviser, Dominic Cummings, was embroiled in a scandal for having driven 260 miles from London to Durham in defiance of lockdown restrictions. Ignoring calls to resign from MPs of the ruling Conservative Party as well those of the Opposition, Cummings held an unapologetic press conference, while Johnson and the Cabinet lined up to defend him in the face of growing public anger.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/adviser/article31713403.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Virtual roar||A new smartphone app developed in Japan will let supporters applaud remotely as sports are played in empty stadiums in the country due to the pandemic restrictions. The Remote Cheerer system, launched by Yamaha, will relay virtual cheers, chants or boos to stadiums via several loudspeakers to recreate the atmosphere of a live audience. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe recently lifted the state of emergency in Japan, while calling for continued vigilance.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/virtual-roar/article31713405.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||No T20 in 2020||The ICC held a meeting to decide the fate of this year’s T20 World Cup, due to be held in Australia from October 18 to November 15. Contingency plans included moving the tournament to February-March 2021, October 2021 or October 2022. With India already scheduled to host the cup in October 2021, BCCI favoured the last option, while Cricket Australia wanted to host the 2021 cup and bump India to 2022.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/no-t20-in-2020/article31713407.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Appy hour||Food delivery apps Swiggy and Zomato began home delivery of alcohol in Odisha after Jharkhand, sparking fears among retailers worried about profit margins. Meanwhile, as liquor outlets reopened in Kerala, the BevQ app, designed to manage the size of queues , was finally launched to widespread jubilation, though glitches were reported.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/appy-hour/article31713409.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Hammer horror||Over-zealous members of Hindu right-wing groups in Kerala demolished the sets of a church that was erected in Kalady — Adi Shankaracharya’s birthplace — for a film shooting. Eyewitnesses saw men using sledgehammers and crowbars to destroy the Rs. 50 lakh set. Amid widespread condemnation, the police arrested five men.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/hammer-horror/article31713411.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Flight turbulence||The chaos on rails was replicated in the air, as domestic flights resumed. With guidelines changing frequently and many flights cancelled without notice, many passengers were left stranded, often after waiting in long queues at the airport. With limited numbers of flights permitted and no clear SOPs, airports and States scrambled to cope. Finally, 428 flights carrying 30,550 passengers operated on the first day.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/flight-turbulence/article31713413.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||A Good Marriage||Kimberly McCreight  HarperLuxe $29.99 Lizzie Kitsakis leads the proverbial good life with a devoted husband. But there are cracks. When one of her closest friends, Amanda, is found dead at the bottom of the stairs and Amanda’s husband is suspected of murder, Lizzie is left wondering what it means to have a good marriage.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/a-good-marriage/article31713443.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Shakespeare for Squirrels||Christopher Moore  William Morrow Rs. 1207.97 (Kindle price) This is Midsummer Night’s noir version, featuring a wannabe Fool, Pocket, who is asked by fairy king Oberon to find out who killed his ex-jester, Robin Goodfellow, better known as Puck. With too many suspects and too little time, Pocket must work magic to find the truth.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/shakespeare-for-squirrels/article31713445.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The Girl Beneath the Sea||Andrew Mayne  Thomas & Mercer Rs. 129 (Kindle price) Sloan McPherson comes from a family of drug smugglers. As an auxiliary officer for Lauderdale Shores PD now, she comes across a dead woman whose murky history collides with hers. Not only her colleagues but also the killer is watching every move she makes in the investigation.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-girl-beneath-the-sea/article31713447.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The Paris Hours||Alex George  Flatiron Books $13.99 (Kindle price) Told over the course of a single day in 1927, this novel is the story of four individuals in Paris. There is the mystery of Proust’s lost diary; an Armenian refugee performs disturbing puppet shows; an artist meets Gertrude Stein; a journalist tells stories to escape his own.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-paris-hours/article31713449.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The McMahon Line: A Century of Discord||J.J. Singh  Harper Collins Rs. 799 With India and China witnessing tension on the border, this book, by a former Army chief, offers an account of one of the most complex disputes of the modern world. He examines the evolution of the boundary and its impact on ties.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-mcmahon-line-a-century-of-discord/article31713451.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Unleashing the Vajra: Nepal’s Journey between India and China||Sujeev Shakya  Penguin Random House India Rs. 599 Located between India and China, Nepal has historically been at her most prosperous when it has leveraged this geographical position. A writer outlines the economic, social and political factors that will determine Nepal’s future.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/unleashing-the-vajra-nepals-journey-between-india-and-china/article31713460.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Watershed 1967: India’s Forgotten Victory over China||Probal Dasgupta  Juggernaut Rs. 595 This is an account of two short-but-fierce encounters between the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) across two 15,000-ft mountain passes in Sikkim in 1967. Dasgupta brings into focus the turning point in India-China relations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/watershed-1967-indias-forgotten-victory-over-china/article31713462.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Fateful Triangle||Tanvi Madan  Penguin/Viking Rs. 799 A specialist on Indian foreign policy argues that China’s influence on the U.S.-India relationship is not a recent phenomenon. Madan says U.S. and Indian perceptions of and policy towards China significantly shaped U.S.-India relations in three crucial decades, from 1949 to 1979.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/fateful-triangle/article31713464.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3102||Across  1 Swansea, rather stormy sandy area (7,6) 8 PM, less bold, in retreat (4) 9 Opt out with pain, suffering to some extent (2,2,1,5) 10 Playwright grovelled, we’re told (6) 11 With backing of UN, volunteer soldiers in jet (8) 12 Church figure with shady past: he’s seen in brothel (2,7) 14 Yes, in Germany, Wenders — on the fringes — creates film (4) 15 Appreciates accommodation (4) 16 Basically not fine to manipulate fiancé? Not half (2,7) 20 Weak ale? I wobble and worry (3,5) 21 A learner with weapons leads to panics (6) 23 Longed to peel off pinched kind of trousers (10) 24 Primarily: systematise / order / rank / type (4) 25 Coastal, rather stormy: character of the South (8,5)  Down  1 Crossword setters are mostly unfashionable and need replacing (4,3) 2 Some fairy stories about far-off land (5) 3 Country dancing, caroused with seconds to spare (7) 4 Most of notifications: ‘New Kind of Menu, Italian!’ This won’t last long (3,2,1,3,4,2) 5 Upwardly mobile head of Uber takes taxi in South Africa? You can count on it (6) 6 U-boat questionably brave to reverse direction (5-4) 7 Australian gets loose with relatives (7) 13 Aeneas’ age? It’s uncertain, but the location is somewhere around Greece (6,3) 15 Everyman wearing platforms and flowers (7) 17 Nothing special and, at heart, a bit of a git (2-3-2) 18 A mountainous place, Cuba, a mountainous place (7) 19 Is it a tree? Yes. A shrub? Also yes. Hardy? ...not quite (6) 22 Lost part of Great Seal (2,3)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sundaymagazine/the-sunday-crossword-no-3102/article31713479.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Can coronavirus spread through airborne transmission of aerosols?||Direct contact with an infected person, droplet transmission and contact with contaminated surfaces are some of the most common routes of transmission suggested for novel coronavirus. But a Perspective piece published in Science by a team led by Kimberly A. Prather seems to suggests that a “large proportion of the spread of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) appears to be occurring through airborne transmission of aerosols produced by asymptomatic individuals during breathing and speaking”. Dr. Prather is from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California San Diego, La Jolla, California. In the case of 2002 SARS, airborne transmission was reported by several studies. It was retrospectively explained as the route of spread in the case of Hong Kong’s Prince of Wales Hospital, and health care facilities in Toronto. In the case of SARS-CoV-2, it is said that “aerosols can accumulate, remain infectious in indoor air for hours, and be easily inhaled deep into the lungs”. Yet, there has not been any study to confirm this. Viability in aerosols A Correspondence published in the New England Journal of Medicine suggested that SARS-CoV-2 remained viable in aerosols for as long as three hours, though with time there was a reduction in the amount of infectious virus.. But the equipment used to generate aerosol may not mimic natural conditions of cough. “This is a high-powered machine that does not reflect normal human cough conditions. Further, the finding of COVID-19 virus in aerosol particles up to 3 hours does not reflect a clinical setting in which aerosol-generating procedures are performed—that is, this was an experimentally induced aerosol-generating procedure,” WHO cautioned. But a team led by Daniel Bonn from the Institute of Physics, University of Amsterdam, the Netherlands, has in a paper published in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine studied droplet production when a person coughs and speaks and also measured the droplet size distribution, travel distance and velocity, and the airborne time in relation to the level of air ventilation. Droplet sizes They used a laser to determine the droplet sizes in a single cough and during speech. When a healthy volunteer coughed, they found both large droplets (100-1,000 microns) and small droplets (1-10 microns) being produced. But smaller droplets were more prevalent than the larger ones. During speech, the smaller droplets were the only ones produced. They then used another laser system to track droplets for speed and trajectory when a person coughed. Larger droplets (500 microns) did not travel long and fell to the ground in about one second. Based on this information, they estimate that smaller droplets (5 microns) will remain in the air for nine minutes before settling on the ground. Next, they used specially designed spray nozzle to disperse small droplets into the air, reproducing the effect of coughing. The droplets produced were on average 5 micron in diameter. In the case of a room with no ventilation, the droplets took five minutes to reduce by half. While in a well-ventilated room it reduced by half in just 30 seconds, and 1.4 minutes in a poorly ventilated room. Borne by air The team led by Dr. Prather note that while larger droplets settle faster than they evaporate, the smaller ones (aerosols), which are less than five microns, evaporate faster than they settle. As a result, they are buoyant and can get carried away by air to longer distances. A study published in Nature found higher concentration of the viral RNA in aerosols in the toilet areas used by patients in two Wuhan hospitals but low concentration in isolation wards and ventilated rooms. Though the researchers did not establish infectivity of the virus, they did find that small droplets expelled during normal breathing and talking can remain in the air and can infect others when inhaled. They proposed that novel coronavirus “may have the potential to be transmitted through aerosols”. But WHO has cautioned that “detection of RNA in environmental samples based on PCR-based assays is not indicative of viable virus that could be transmissible. Further studies are needed to determine whether it is possible to detect COVID-19 virus in air samples from patient rooms where no procedures or support treatments that generate aerosols are ongoing”.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/can-coronavirus-spread-through-airborne-transmission-of-aerosols/article31713573.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||A few infected people account for larger virus spread||Three separate studies using very different methods and patient cohorts have found that a small percentage of people who have been infected with novel coronavirus account for a large proportion of novel coronavirus spread, much above the expected average. These are called “superspreading events” (SSEs). For SARS-CoV-2, with a basic reproductive number (the number of people an infected person can infect) of around three, more than eight or 10 secondary cases have been suggested to constitute a superspreading event. For MERS, superspreading events have reportedly involved up to 82 secondary cases. There has been much discussion about the number of people an infected person can spread the virus to, which is called the reproduction number or R0. But additionally, the dispersion factor (k) is also important. “In real life, some people infect many others and others don’t spread the disease at all,” Jamie Lloyd-Smith from the University of California, Los Angeles told Science. Dr. Lloyd-Smith says: “The consistent pattern is that the most common number is zero. Most people do not transmit.” The lower the dispersion factor is, the more transmission comes from a small number of people, Science says. Superspreading events Some well-known superspreading events include a choir practice in a church in Mount Vernon, Washington, in which 61 people participated. One person who had apparently had non-specific symptoms ended up infecting 53 choir members after singing together for 150 minutes, the CDC found. The other well-known superspreading events include the church outbreak in South Korea and Singapore, outbreak in a dormitory for migrant workers in Singapore leading to 800 cases, and Zumba classes in South Korea causing 65 cases. Similar cases have been reported from cruise ships, prisons, old-age homes, meatpacking plants and ski resorts. Back home, a tourist from Italy was found to have infected over a dozen people in Jaipur, while a family that returned to Kerala from Italy infected many. Other examples of superspreading events include the religious congregation by Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi and Koyambedu market in Chennai. Many studies utilising global datasets have estimated even greater potential for SARS-CoV-2 superspreading and suggest that as little as 10% of cases could account for 80% of all transmission, according to a paper published in Wellcome Open Research . The authors conclude, “most infected individuals do not contribute to the expansion of an epidemic”. As a result, it will be possible to contain the spread if interventions are targeted at high-risk groups responsible for the majority of transmission. Hong Kong spread In Hong Kong, two-four superspreading events where the source was known were observed, where the threshold was six-eight secondary cases. “Based on these estimates we inferred that approximately 20% of SARS-CoV-2 infections are responsible for 80% of all transmission events in Hong Kong,” a preprint posted in Research Square on May 21 says. The Hong Kong team led by Peng Wu from the University of Hong Kong concludes,“ [the] number of individual secondary cases was significantly higher within social settings such as bars and restaurants compared to family or work exposures. This is certainly due to the greater numbers of contacts expected in such settings”. Israel study Another preprint posted in medRxiv server on May 22 found that 1-10% of infected individuals in Israel had caused 80% of secondary infections. A team of researchers led by Adi Stern from Tel Aviv University sequenced 212 SARS-CoV-2 isolates and traced the origins and spread of the virus. They inferred multiple independent introductions into Israel, followed by local transmission. Over 70% of virus introductions into Israel were from the U.S. while the remaining were mainly from Europe. Yet, only about 27% of infected people were returning to Israel from the U.S. “Vast majority of introductions are from the U.S. (70%), exceeding their relative proportion in incoming infected travellers (27%),” Dr. Stern tweeted. In short, travellers from the U.S. contributed more to the virus spread in Israel than would be “proportionally expected”. The authors conclude that SARS-CoV-2 transmission dynamics were driven by an “extremely high level of viral superspreading”. Assuming that contact reporting was complete, the “phylodynamic analysis indicates that between 5-9% of infections are responsible for 80% of secondary infections”. And if contact reporting is assumed to be low, then even lower percentage of 1-5% of infections would be “responsible for this 80% of secondary infections”. “Our results suggest that superspreading events are a main feature of SARS-CoV-2 spread, suggesting that focused measures to reduce contacts of select individuals/social events could dramatically mitigate viral spread,” the preprint says.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/a-few-infected-people-account-for-larger-virus-spread/article31713571.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||The search for an animal model to study COVID-19||At the time of writing this the number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 worldwide has touched 57,04,736 which includes 3,57,736 deaths, according to the World Health Organization’s update of May 29. Naturally, researchers are racing to find an animal model that would be suitable to study this disease. Animal models will be useful in testing out therapeutics such as vaccines and antivirals before they are tested on humans. A study published in Nature and two in Science have looked at a range of animals from this perspective. It emerges that only some of these, namely, hamsters, cats, ferrets and non-human primates, are suitable to study various aspects of the infection. Susceptible animals A group from China (Jiangzhong Shi and coworkers, in Science ) studied the susceptibility of ferrets, dogs, pigs, chicken, ducks and cats to infection by SARS-CoV-2 – the virus that causes the disease COVID-19. According to their study, while the virus replicates poorly in dogs, pigs, chicken and ducks, it actually replicated well in the upper respiratory tracts of ferrets and cats. They also found that cats transmitted the infection among themselves. In the experiment with ferrets, the animals were divided into two groups one of which was inoculated with a strain of virus isolated from an environmental sample collected from Huanan Seafood Market in Wuhan and the other group was inoculated with a strain isolated from a sample taken from a human patient. Nasal and rectal swabs were examined on alternate days. One ferret in each group developed fever and loss of appetite on days 10 and 12 after inoculation. They were sacrificed on day 13, and sample tissues from various organs were collected and tested in order to find out whether the virus had infected the lower respiratory tract and other organs. They did not find viral RNA in these organs. “The study is useful because it indicates that from a diverse set of animals only a couple get infected in a reliable manner – ferrets and cats. It is interesting that cats can transmit the infection among themselves,” says Satyajit Rath, biologist from IISER Pune, who was not involved in these studies. He also draws attention to the fact that since none of the animals developed serious illness, it may not be immediately close to the condition of humans. “Even in humans, only a small percentage are seriously sick,” he adds, emphasising that the animal studies involved a small number only. B. Rockx and coworkers studied cynomolugus macaques (monkeys). This study published in Science finds that when the monkeys were infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, they shed the virus in the upper and lower respiratory tracts. They did not show severe symptoms. A paper published in Nature by researchers from Hong Kong studies golden Syrian hamsters. The group finds that SARS-CoV-2 infection in golden Syrian hamsters was like a mild infection experienced by humans. Right question Which then are the animals that can be used as suitable models to study COVID-19? A ‘Perspective’ article in Science discusses this: It really depends on the question being asked – Cats and ferrets may be useful in studying how the disease is transmitted and in testing antivirals to stop disease progression. Hamsters could be used for studying efficacy of vaccines. Non-human primates could be used to assess vaccine and antiviral effectiveness. “Animal models are approximate mirrors of the human conditions. While we can get some insights, we have to go to the human system, see whether the insights are useful and come back and test again,” says Prof. Rath.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/the-search-for-an-animal-model-to-study-covid-19/article31713572.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Plight of doctoral students during the pandemic||In the establishment of advanced research, the ones most affected due to the COVID-19 crisis are fresh PhD scholars and those who are on the verge of completing their doctoral research. This cream of our scientific establishment, after years of dedicated and consistent hard work, find that their opportunities have disappeared suddenly. In the unfolding saga of human crisis threatening the existence of millions, it is important to bring up the issue of these young scholars, lest their plight never gets heard. Research fellowships It takes five years to finish a PhD degree in one of the top Indian institutions, and student fellowships are available generally during this period. Students enter the PhD programme after clearing competitive examinations such as GATE or CSIR/UGC NET or with INSPIRE and PMRF fellowships, the latter being awarded generally to top rankers. Doctoral fellows in national institutions get a fellowship of Rs.31,000 per month for the first two years and Rs.35,000 per month for the remaining three years or till they submit their theses, whichever is earlier. There are other schemes with different fellowship amounts, too. Research fellows after completing the PhD programme often go for post-doctoral fellowships (PDF) for higher studies and independent research, which make them eligible for faculty/staff scientist position in academia or industry. Typically, three years of PDF experience is expected for a faculty job. It is common to go abroad for such assignments although domestic opportunities are increasing. No support from parent labs During the COVID-19 crisis, those who have completed their degrees, even if they have postdoctoral offers, are stuck. Universities abroad have been closed as well. They have no support from parent laboratories, as advisors have no additional money and institutional resources are limited. There are other battles to fight for the institutions within their meagre resources. These unique challenges faced by the young PhDs have left them in the lurch. Those who are finishing their degrees might still be receiving their fellowships, although they may not be in the institutions due to the ongoing lockdown. However, their work suffers and it will certainly take more time to finish the degrees and that too without any fellowship. Even more worrisome is the situation of existing postdocs and those who are caught in-between postdoctoral assignments. Many have come back from China and other such places and are unable to go back. They do not have new assignments, and even if they do, there is no way to proceed with them. They too remain unpaid. There are four students after PhD in my lab, with valid postdoctoral offers but unable to take them up. There are four more finishing their PhD theses and who have exceeded the fellowship period. They are exploring postdoctoral opportunities, but COVID-19 has crushed research funding in many places. With funds drying up, they are likely to stay back for several more months. Fortunately, these students are being supported, but many advisors do not have that an option to support their students. The COVID-19 crisis will take away at least six months from the productive life of PhD students irrespective of the stage they are in their degree. The most severely affected will be those who have just finished or are finishing their degrees and those currently in their postdoctoral period with uncertain funding. About 20% of all PhD students belong to this category. This number is estimated to be about 3,000 in the premier institutions. The total must be at least twice that, if you consider the students in the top State universities and other laboratories put together. Measures needed What then can be done to support them? The government must come to their rescue in this period of crisis. The government may do well by extending the fellowship for six more months for all eligible scholars and those who have just completed their tenures. Those who have completed their PhD within the past year, and without jobs or adequate support may be provided with urgent funding for the same period. Postdoctoral fellows, graduated from institutions of national importance and currently jobless, may be provided with quick assistance for six months, if they can work with eligible institutions. It is estimated that a package of Rs.200 crores (0.001% of GDP) be allocated to help the young scientific talent pool of the country. Immediate financial support at such a crucial time would provide them immense relief. Surely, we will live with COVID-19 for some more time. What can our young scientists do to ensure that they can self-support afterwards? This crisis must be used to skill themselves beyond their areas of research — scientific editing, online tutoring, business incubation, development of computational skillsets, taking up online courses and conferences for revisiting fundamentals as well as to gain advanced knowledge. Our industry leaders should also provide new opportunities for this talent pool.  (T. Pradeep is an institute professor at IIT Madras.)||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/plight-of-doctoral-students-during-the-pandemic/article31713570.ece
31 May 2020||May 31 2020 00:00 IST,||Monoclonal antibody to block coronavirus infection identified||When the news of the pandemic reached a team of researchers in the Netherlands, their first reaction was to go back and look at frozen antibodies that recognised the 2002 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS-CoV), which they had stored in the early 2000s during the outbreak. And surprisingly one of the antibodies was found to recognise the infection due to the novel coronavirus, SARS- CoV-2. Further study showed that it can help block infection in cultured human cells. Berend-Jan Bosch from Utrecht University explained in a release that the antibody binds to a domain that is conserved in both SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2, explaining its ability to neutralise both viruses. He is one of the lead authors of the paper published in Nature Communications.  Tests and assays The paper adds that this antibody can help develop antigen detection tests and serological assays. “This antibody — either alone or in combination — offers the potential to prevent and/or treat COVID-19, and possibly also other future emerging diseases in humans caused by viruses from the Sarbecovirus subgenus,” the team writes. Frank Grosveld, co-lead author of the study from Erasmus Medical Center explained to The Hindu in an email what a human monoclonal antibody is and the group’s previous work on it. “We set out to make antibodies against SARS, MERS and HCoV-OC43 [another coronavirus] with the aim to get antibodies that would recognise all three coronaviruses. Parts of the proteins of these viruses are highly conserved (which means they are very similar) and we hoped to get antibodies that recognised these conserved parts. And indeed we found such antibodies [details of which] which were published some time ago.” He adds that the newly identified antibody was found among previously identified ones that did not recognise all three viruses and were put in the freezer. “With new infections it is a race between the body making new antibodies versus the virus replicating, destroying cells and doing its damage. The antibodies that are made in humans or in the mice can be isolated by several tricks. The classic one is to fuse the B-cells with leukemic cells to make them immortal,” explains Dr. Grosveld. “The fused B-cells called hybridomas are grown individually and tested whether they make an antibody that would recognise the target. Because they come from single B-cells hybridomas, they make only one specific antibody which is called a monoclonal antibody. When a monoclonal-like [antibody that] we have generated is given to patients it does its work immediately, that is, much faster that the body could make its own antibodies,” he adds. Dr. Grosveld said that the team is currently testing the antibody in animal models and also collaborating with a pharmaceutical company to develop the antibody further. “On the more academic side we are studying how the antibody acts on the protein that the virus uses to infect cells.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-features/tp-sci-tech-and-agri/monoclonal-antibody-to-block-coronavirus-infection-identified/article31713569.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Cannot wait and depend on govt. any more’||Nearly a month since the government started ferrying back workers to their home States, several groups of migrant workers, who were unable to take those trains, on Friday said that they had borrowed money and bought tickets for the special trains as they could not “wait and depend” on the government any longer for their travel back home. With destinations being States like Bihar, West Bengal, Chattisgarh and Assam, the workers, waiting at the New Delhi railway station said that money lent by neighbours and family members back home were what they accumulated to buy tickets which cost them up to Rs. 4,000 each. Uncertain situation Asidul, a daily wager, hailing from West Bengal’s Cooch Behar district said, “It has been more than two months that we have been out of work and stranded in this city. How much longer can we wait? Currently, the situation is so uncertain and we do not know when normalcy will be restored. It was a difficult task to arrange for money as we are a group of six travelling, but we did not really have any other option.” Asidul and his family, had been living in Greater Noida’s Kasna village where they were construction workers. “We hired a tempo and reached the station. Considering that we have already waited for so long, how can we depend on the government any further? In the end, the poor are always left on their own with nobody to care for them,” he said. Basic meals Sairabanu, 17, who used to work in Model Town area, said, “Our tickets cost Rs. 3,700 each. We do not have a single penny left. In such a situation, it is best to somehow reach home to our families. For our journey, we have packed whatever basic meal we could, especially for the children.” For some like Savitri, lack of clarity over the cancellation procedure meant that she could not take the Shramik train back home to Patna. “We had registered our names for the trains which the government arranged but did not got any response. So we took some help from others and bought tickets online. But two days later we got a message for the government train. But we were not sure if we will get our money back for these tickets which we bought. It is a lot of money and how can we waste it?” said Ms. Savitri. Express anguish With reports of trains losing way, not reaching their destinations and deaths taking place, some even expressed anguish over the arrangements made by the government. Komal Prasad, 26, hailing from Chattisgarh’s Bilaspur district said, “My brother and I used to work as daily wagers in Bahadurgarh and had come to the city only four months ago. Unfortunately, the lockdown started soon after and we got stuck. Initially, we had registered ourselves for the trains in which labourers could travel free of cost. But since the time people started saying those trains were getting ‘lost’, our parents got worried and sent us money to buy tickets.” Mohammad Mikhail, another worker headed to Bihar’s Katihar district said, “Our only hope is that these trains, for which we have bought tickets are not travelling for free and will reach the correct destination on time. After having lost so much in the last two months, this is our last hope and we have to take a chance so that we can reach our families.” While most had packed meals for themselves, especially for children, some said they were depending on water and basic items being sold onboard. Mohammad Rahman, who was waiting at the station with five others said, “We used to work in Jammu and took a train to reach Delhi a day ago. Now, we have one more train to take and the total journey is costing us around Rs. 5,000 each. We are extremely low on resources. They are selling water and bananas on the trains. I guess that is what we will survive on.”||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/cannot-wait-and-depend-on-govt-any-more/article31713756.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||Tree transplantation policy may get Cabinet nod soon||The Delhi government has prepared a Tree Transplantation Policy 2020, under which for any project, 80% of trees affected by the developmental activities at a particular site has to be transplanted. “This is the first time the Delhi government is coming up with a transplantation policy and the Cabinet is expected to give nod to the draft policy next week,” a government source told The Hindu . There is no mandatory condition for the number of trees to be transplanted as per current rules in Delhi. The existing policy of planting 10 saplings for each tree being felled will continue, and also 10 saplings will have to be planted for each tree being transplanted too, according to the new policy.  Also, the government will come out with a list of empanelled technical agencies, which will be doing the transplantation. Exception to the 80% transplantation rule will be given in projects where less than 10 trees are felled and also in “exceptional cases” where a government committee gives permission.  A dedicated ‘Tree Transplantation Cell’ will also be established. For projects in which 100 or more trees have been transplanted, a social audit at the end of one year of completion of transplantation will be done to establish survival rate. Experts not happy But experts are critical about the policy. “What we need is a tree preservation policy and not tree transplantation policy. Tree transplantation is expensive and survival rate is problematic,” said Kanchi Kohli, senior researcher at the Centre for Policy Research. “Projects should be redesigned keeping the tree colony in mind and to protect them,” she said. Under the new policy, a ‘Site Tree Report’ has to be prepared at the time of project feasibility assessment, which will have preliminary assessment of the number of trees to be transplanted. The technical agency will help the applicant in preparing a ‘Tree Preservation Plan’ with priority for on-site preservation. If retaining the trees at their original locations is not feasible, then priority will be to transplant the affected trees within the project site. If this is also not possible, then transplanting to another location will be considered.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/tree-transplantation-policy-may-get-cabinet-nod-soon/article31713762.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two minor PUBG addicts held||Two minors have been apprehended for allegedly stealing mobile phone, the police said on Saturday, adding that the two were addicted to the online game PUBG for which they needed the phones. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said that that police received information regarding a theft in a shop by breaking its shutter in Raju Park. Complainant Vikas Singh told the police that on the intervening night of Thursday and Friday, some unknown persons broke open the shutter of his shop and stole Rs. 2,000, a few mobile phones, ludos and some other items. “During investigation, the police analysed the CCTV footage of the area. On Saturday, the police got a tip-off, following which a trap was laid and one juvenile was apprehended from near Shiv Mandir, Shiv Park. On his instance, his accomplice was also apprehended from Khanpur,” Mr. Thakur said. The police said that 19 mobiles, two tablets, one ludo, chess board and four batteries were recovered from their possession. During probe, it was revealed that one of the juveniles is addicted to PUBG and in order to increase the participation of his friends in the game, he needed several mobile phones, therefore, he hatched a plan with his friend and burgled the shop, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/two-minor-pubg-addicts-held/article31713757.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Inter-State contract killer held in Dabri||A 26-year-old inter-State contract killer who wanted to become a noted criminal in the Capital was arrested for allegedly killing a person and injuring another in Dwarka’s Dabri area, the police said on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Anto Alphonse said that the accused has been identified as Gulfam, a resident of Narela area, who allegedly killed Gaurav and injured Vicky by opening fire in broad daylight on May 20. The police said that on May 20, they received an information regarding a firing incident in Dabri area. Gunshot injuries On enquiry, it was revealed that two persons received gunshot injuries on the road and were rushed to hospital. One of them, Gaurav, was declared brought dead, while Vicky was undergoing treatment. Vicky told the police that one Nitish Tiwari, along with two others, fired at them. “During investigation, the police arrested Gulfam on Friday near Dada Dev Hospital, Dabri. He was previously arrested in Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi in cases of kidnapping, murder, attempt to murder and others,” Mr. Alphonse said. Eliminate rivals During interrogation, the police said, it was revealed that Gulfam met Tiwari a few years ago in jail and Tiwari told him that if they can eliminate rivals Vicky and Gaurav, they could have unquestioned clout for extortion and other activities in Dwarka area. Tiwari assured him Rs. 1 lakh for killing Vicky to which he agreed because he wanted to earn a name in the crime circuit of Delhi, the police said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/inter-state-contract-killer-held-in-dabri/article31713753.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT seeks action-taken report on restaurants causing pollution||Following a plea seeking action against restaurants and commercial establishments in Satya Niketan causing noise, air and water pollution, the National Green Tribunal directed the New Delhi Municipal Council and the Delhi Pollution Control Committee to furnish an action-taken report. Taking note of a February 11 report filed by authorities, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that it was found to be unsatisfactory following which another report was sought. In a report dated March 20, authorities informed the panel that, “Of the 76 units inspected, 23 eating joints have been issued directions for closure, including disconnection of electricity and water supply...as these joints were operating without valid consent and also found non-compliant with respect to environmental norms during inspection.” The report also stated that 22 small eating joints with a seating capacity of less than 10 were asked to obtain consent to operate before resuming operations.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngt-seeks-action-taken-report-on-restaurants-causing-pollution/article31713758.ece
31 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Body of minor boy found in garbage dump||The body of an 11-year-old boy was found in a garbage dump in north-east Delhi’s Gokulpuri area on Saturday morning. The police said that a case has been registered and investigation is under way. DCP (North-East) Ved Prakash Surya said that a call was received at 8.46 a.m., wherein the caller informed about the body of a child in a municipal corporation garbage dumping area. The boy was identified as a resident of Ashok Vihar in Loni. He was identified by his brother Nanhe. The body was sent for post mortem. “Nanhe stated that his brother was addicted to drugs and roamed around with boys who did the same in Gokulpuri. He used to stay out of house for many days and the family had last seen him seven days ago, the brother said,” Mr. Surya said.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/body-of-minor-boy-found-in-garbage-dump/article31713754.ece
31 May 2020||New Delhi,||NGO decries govt. apathy towards saving waterbodies||Centre for Youth Culture Law and Environment (CYCLE), an NGO, and RWA of Jhuljhuli village, after reviewing waterbodies in the city said that 40 of them couldn’t be located, 180 were encroached upon and 106 were used as drains. The NGO said that ground realities point out towards government “apathy”. They also said that the government is “ignoring” the importance of counter-measures for water conservation such as preservation of rainwater and the treatment of polluted waterbodies. “On one hand, the Delhi government is promising artificial lakes, but on the other hand, the repeated requests of the population of the urban and rural villages to protect and revive the johads [ponds] of the villages has been ignored by the government,” it said. “The government doesn’t want to protect these waterbodies,” said Paras Tyagi, co-founder of CYCLE.||https://www.thehindu.com/todays-paper/tp-miscellaneous/tp-others/ngo-decries-govt-apathy-towards-saving-waterbodies/article31713763.ece
