20-04-2021||Pune||Two arrested for forging RT-PCR reports in Wakad||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested two men and are on the lookout for two others for forging at least 28 RT-PCR test reports of people who were travelling from the bus stop along the Mumbai-Bengaluru highway in Wakad. The two men were identified as Pattaram Kesaramji Devasi (33), a resident of Bhagwanagar in Wakad; Rakeshkumar Bastiram Vaishnav (25), a resident of Dhankawadi in Pune. These two are travel agents who provide bus tickets near the Shani temple along the highway. “They charged ₹600 per test. We sent a decoy and they asked him to provide his Aadhaar after which he got an RT-PCR report within 15 minutes on his WhatsApp. While most of the reports were from Lifenity Wellness labs, there were some reports found on the phone of Vaishnav from GenePeth,” said assistant police inspector Sagar Kate of Pimpri-Chinchwad police. While the two have been remanded to two days in police custody, the police are on the lookout for two others who are suspected to have conducted the forgery part and sent soft copies of forged reports through WhatsApp. The tests were never conducted, and the logo of the laboratories was misused, according to the police and the labs. This is the second such case that has been brought to light in the past three days in Pune. The police are now investigating how long these men had been indulging in the forgery. On Sunday, the Pune city police had also arrested two technicians who were found to have forged reports of GenePath labs located on JM Road. “Our each and every report is secured by two different encrypted QR code algorithms, by scanning this QR code patient name and our lab name appears. Also, we received a call from Hinjewadi police station for the same. We found those reports were fake without QR code and were not provided by our lab and the same has been informed to police authorities,” said Mahesh Nade, operation manager of Lifenity lab in Pune. A case under Sections 336, 419, 420, 465, 468, 471, 269, 270, and 34 of the Indian Penal Code along with Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and Section 11 of the Maharashtra Covid-19 Prevention Regulations, 2020 was registered at Hinjewadi police station. Police sub inspector Yashwant Salunkhe will be investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-forging-rt-pcr-reports-in-wakad-101618934857899.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Pune’s third-coolest April since 1996: IMD||April this year, so far, has been the third coolest for Pune since 1996, as per IMD. This year, the highest temperature recorded in Pune in April was 39.6 degrees Celsius, on April 5. In 1996, the highest temperature was reported at 39.2 degrees Celsius. The highest temperature in April was recorded in 1897, with the mercury indicating 43.3 degrees Celsius, as per IMD records. This year, the city witnessed rainfall with thunderstorms and lightning, which reduced the heat. However, as per the weather department, a marginal rise in day temperature is expected in the coming days. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), there is no forecast for a heat wave-like situation in the city until the end of April.Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department of IMD Pune said that a heat wave is a common phenomenon in April. “However, this time, due to various weather systems over Maharashtra and Pune, we are witnessing isolated rainfall at places, and this has reduced the heat factor during the day. Currently, one after the other, we have western disturbances (WD), and also the wind patterns. There is wind discontinuity over Maharashtra and Pune which has resulted in dragging moisture from the Arabian Sea and partially, from the Bay of Bengal, resulting in cloudy days towards the afternoon,” said Kashyapi. He further added that this cloudy weather has ensured that the day temperature does not shoot up, thus giving respite from the heat. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature reported in Pune city was 37.3 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature was 20.8 degrees Celsius. “The maximum temperature is likely to increase in the next few days, but not so much for it to be a heat-wave like situation,” said Kashyapi. As per the IMD, cloudy afternoons in the city may continue until April 26. “The max temperature is likely to be as high as 38 degrees Celsius in Pune and the minimum temperature will be 20 degrees Celsius until April 26,” said IMD officials. Across Maharashtra, the weather will remain dry in Central Maharashtra, Marathwada and Konkan and Goa until April 23. “Light rainfall with thunder and lightning is forecast at Vidarbha until April 23,” said IMD officials. On Tuesday, the highest maximum temperature reported in the state was 42.8 degrees Celsius in Chandrapur; and the lowest minimum temperature reported in Maharashtra was 18.1 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar. Yesterday, the highest maximum temperature reported in the country was 43 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri in Vidarbha. Box Year-- maximum temperature in April (in degrees Celsius)1996: 39.2 degrees Celsius 1997 and 2006: 39.3 degrees Celsius 2021: 39.6 degrees Celsius 1897 (All-time record): 43.3 degrees Celsius Source: IMD, Pune||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-third-coolest-april-since-1996-imd-101618934737870.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Residents from 23 villages demand water quota before merger||Villagers from the newly proposed 23 villages in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits demanded to provide basic infrastructure and a reserved drinking water quota before taking a final decision on the merger. They also highlighted the lack of infrastructure in the 11 merged villages under the PMC limit. As per the state government directives, Pune divisional officials conducted a hearing on the proposed 23 villages merger into the PMC limits on April 19 and 20. Amidst the increasing Covid-19 cases in the city, Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao had been instructed to conduct an online hearing of the proposed 23 villages’ merger into the PMC. Earlier, it was decided to conduct an in-person hearing on April 19th and 20th. Of the 23 villages, only 11 villages filed suggestions and objections. The maximum number of 389 suggestions and objections were received from Pisoli villages. Pune Zilla Parishad deputy chief executive officer Sandeep Kohinkar, additional Municipal commissioner of PMC Rubal Agrawal, joint commissioner of town planning department Jagdish Patil, deputy commissioner, municipal administration, Pune division Pradeep Thengal were present in the hearing. Sanjivkumar Patil, chairman Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA) said, “The hearing started almost one hour late at 12.30pm. We stated that Wagholi is one of the biggest and richest gram panchayats among the 23 villages that are proposed to be merged due to huge urbanisation. We paid taxes to the Pune Metropolitan Regional Authority (PMRDA). So, post-merger, the PMC should take a share of Wagholi village’s tax from PMRDA and utilise it to build infrastructure in Wagholi. We also demanded to give drinking water from Bhama-Askhed dam to Wagholi and hand over PMRDA water scheme to PMC.” Pradeep Thengal, deputy commissioner, municipal administration, Pune division, said, “Most of the villagers demanded to provide basic infrastructure, and not put reservation on farmlands, provide drinking water and gradually increase property tax. No one took objection on the merger.” “Pisoli villager’s number was 389 but, only 15 villagers attended the online hearing. All villagers demanded to not put reservations on the farmland since it is their bread and butter. It will directly affect their employment,” Thengal informed. Pune divisional office had received a total of 491 suggestions and objections from the upcoming 23 areas that will be merged under the PMC limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/residents-from-23-villages-demand-water-quota-before-merger-101618934557909.html
20-04-2021||Pune||PMC fire department finds minor flaws in audit at two Covid centres||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) fire department conducted fire audits of Covid-19 Care Centres (CCC) run by the civic body in which minor problems were found at two Covid centres, Yerwada and Dalvi hospital. On the background of increasing temperature and Covid-19 cases in the city, the fire department conducted a fire audit of PMC-run hospitals and Covid-19 centres as a precautionary measure. The audit was conducted at jumbo Covid Centres at Shivajinagar, Baner and eight other centres along with private hospitals. Prashant Ranpise, PMC chief fire officer said, “Covid-19 cases are increasing in the city and people are taking treatment in the PMC centres. To avoid fire incidents at centres, we conducted an audit and submitted a report to the health department and the construction department.” “In this audit, we suggested maintenance of fire systems at Dalvi hospital (Shivajinagar) and Rajiv Gandhi hospital (Yerawada). At other hospitals and centres, we did not find any flaws so far,” Ranpise said. “Besides that, the fire department provided training to hospital staff on how to control fire. In the last one week, the PMC gave training to more than 200 medical staff. The purpose is to control minor fire incidents at a preliminary stage and avoid a major tragedy,” he added. Dr Sajiv Wavare, PMC assistant medical officer said, “There is no major recommendation in the fire audit. The fire department suggested repairs and maintenance of the fire extinguisher and system. All systems are in the operation stage and they need some minor repairs.” The PMC construction department takes of repairs and maintenance of all PMC buildings, offices, hospitals. Shivaji Lanke, superintendent engineer of Bhavan (construction) department said, “We received a report and there is a minor repair in the fire system as mentioned in fire audit. It is not for all Covid centres, only a few ones.” During the summer season, there is a rise in fire incidents in the city areas. Due to high temperature, the fire department received calls of 547 fire incidents in the last three months. As per experience, there were more incidents in the month of April and May as compared to March. Normally, the fire department receives 35-40 fire calls per week whereas during summer it goes above 70 per week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-fire-department-finds-minor-flaws-in-audit-at-two-covid-centres-101618934497833.html
20-04-2021||Pune||SPPU amends rules to give old students opportunity to complete unfinished degree||An ammendment was made by the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) academic council on Tuesday to allow students who left their degree education incomplete an opportunity to complete their unfinished degree.Several students pursuing their graduation or post-graduation courses left their education in between due to various problems like family issues, financially problem, physical problem or any other issues. After a few years, some of them want to complete their course and get the degree, but till then a new syllabus takes over and things are completely changed. Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of the board of examination and evaluation said, “The SPPU academic council has decided to give a similar opportunity to students before academic year 2016-17 to appear for the examination if they want. Now, they can take new subjects and appear for the exams and complete their pending graduate or post graduate degree courses.”In order to enforce this decision, new changes have been made by SPPU’s senior officials. Students who left college before the academic year 2016-17 can take subjects of the current syllabus for their remaining degree course, appear for the examination and get the degree completed. Earlier, there was no option for such students to appear for the exams with a previous syllabus. A decision was taken by the SPPU’s academic council that students with old syllabus can now appear for the exams with new subjects. It will benefit thousands of students who can again join back their education and complete their degree. Welcoming this decision of SPPU, Kedar Mane who had left his engineering degree course way back in 2010 said, “I left my mechanical engineering degree course in the last year due to some personal family issues. I had to work to earn money for my family and it was not possible for me to continue education and job at one time. Now I am happy that I can take new subjects and complete my engineering degree.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-amends-rules-to-give-old-students-opportunity-to-complete-unfinished-degree-101618934437967.html
20-04-2021||Pune||150 students caught cheating during SPPU online exams||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) examination department has caught a total of 150 students cheating while appearing for the online first-semester exams. As a follow-up action, these students have now been told to appear before the SPPU’s grievances addressal committee. It’s a message SPPU wants to send that the university is vigilant against cheating despite the exams attempted remotely via the internet. The first semester examination is being held online for students from first to last year of all courses and started from April 10. The exam is conducted of 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ) method in online mode. SPPU’s own Edutech foundation company is conducting this exam. Students from Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar district daily appear for the exams for over 3,700 subjects to be held throughout this examination period. From the last four days, the daily number of students appearing for the exams is over 1 lakh. SPPU is using an online ‘proctored test’ method to conduct the examinations for its courses. Through this method, students are able to give the exams from anywhere by using smartphones, tablet, laptop or desktop computers and even from the internet cyber cafes. SPPU is the first government university in the state to use this method for exams. Due to Covid-19 pandemic as students would not be able to come physically to university campus to give the entrance exams, a decision was taken to conduct exams through this method which is prominently used by IITs in the country “In this method when a student logs in to give the exam through smartphone, laptop or tablet, all the minute movements of the students are captured and monitored by the system. If a student is doing cheating or found doing any suspicious thing he/she is given warning three times. If the student continues their act then the student is disqualified from the exam.” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of the board of examination and evaluation. “Until now we have caught 150 students cheating through this method and they are going to appear before SPPU’s grievances addressal committee. Though our exams are conducted online, but students are not at all allowed to do cheating in the exams.” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/150-students-caught-cheating-during-sppu-online-exams-101618934257960.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Class 12 student killed, several injured after tussle between two groups||A Class 12 student was killed while several others were injured after two groups living in OTA scheme area of Nigdi got into a tussle over a member of one group entering the locality of the other, according to the police. The deceased was identified as Bharat Dilip Londhe (20), a resident of PCMC colony of OTA scheme area in Nigdi. “He was injured and had recorded a complaint too. However, he succumbed to the injuries and the case was updated. His friends then went and beat up the members of the group that had assaulted the now deceased man. So, we have registered another attempted murder case,” said senior police inspector Ganesh Javadwad of Nigdi police station. The people booked for his murder were identified as Sohel Santosh Jadhav (18), Hemand Khandagale (18), Ganesh Dhotre (18), Yash alias Gondya Khandagale (19), Vabhav Vavare (21), Shravan Kurhade (18), all residents of two localities of OTA scheme area. A case of attempted murder was initially registered against the six. However, later, a case under Sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 4(25)(27) of Arms Act; Section 7 of Criminal Law Amendment Act; Sections 37(1)(3)with135 of Maharashtra Police Act was registered at the Nigdi police station shortly after midnight on Monday. Londhe’s friends gathered in the morning hours of Tuesday and assaulted some of the six people booked in the murder case. The youngsters used sharp weapons which led to the death of one and has left at least one with serious injuries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/class-12-student-killed-several-injured-after-tussle-between-two-groups-101618934197842.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Khadki railway station gears up for oxygen cylinders’ unloading||In a bid to unload huge oxygen containers and cylinders arriving from outside Maharashtra through the rail route, the Khadki railway station is gearing up for a possible large-scale unloading in the near future. The oxygen required for Pune, Pimpri-Chinchwad and surrounding areas will be unloaded at the Khadki railway station. The Maharashtra government is desperately attempting to transport oxygen from another state to Maharashtra, as the demand for the critical gas has gone up due to the rising Covid-19 cases. The Pune railway division has geared up their preparations at the Khadki railway station which lies on the old Pune-Mumbai highway. As per the requirement and schedule done by the state government, oxygen containers will be unloaded at this station. “On the military side of the Khadki station, the military tanks and heavy materials are loaded and unloaded from this station. The surface of this station’s platform is well built and wide, also the entry and exit gates are good to manage the movement of oxygen tankers. As all required things are in place at this station, it has been selected for the oxygen containers’ unloading and further movement. The ramp at the station can carry weight up to 40 tonnes which is required for these huge containers carrying oxygen,” said Renu Sharma, divisional railway manager (DRM) of Pune railway division. “As of now we are only doing the preparations as been told to us by the railway board and state government. We do not know when exactly the movement of which oxygen container carrying trains will be done from this station. Apart from that another small station - Gur Market railway station between Kolhapur and Miraj is also being prepared for possible oxygen containers movement.” added Sharma. Daily thousands of patients requiring oxygen supply are admitted to several hospitals in Pune district. While shortage of oxygen supply has become a major issue for patients and hospitals, the state is hoping that these oxygen containers brought in from out of state will fulfil the requirement for Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/khadki-railway-station-gears-up-for-oxygen-cylinders-unloading-101618934137944.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Sumitra Bhave: A multi-talented creative being who had power to bring about change||It’s very difficult for me today to take my character out of the joint identity Sumitra Bhave and I shared. She is not with us anymore, but she is with me in spirit. I think it is my responsibility to take her legacy forward through my life and film-making. As a person, I remember her as through multiple personalities - an artiste on one hand and a social scientist on the other. She was also an entrepreneur, leader, manager, and a humble activist immersed in social movements. She was also a free spirit going beyond any restrictions. One could find all the contradictions within her; a strong feminist who forever stood for women’s rights. At the same time, she was a simple human being and a compassionate woman caring for everyone. She would throw away all the ‘isms’ when it came to empathy and human values. She was an interesting, multi-faceted, multi-talented personality with layers of possibilities. I always feel that she could have been many persons at the same time. Had she pursued her career as a newsreader in All India Radio (AIR) in Delhi, she would have become director general and possibly changed the face of television. But then, she also wanted to become a painter and go to Paris. Possibly, she would have been a new age Amrita Shergil for us. She was a poet too and writers like Bhalchandra Nemade, Kavi Grace, loved her poetry in her college days. Perhaps we could have got a philosophical poet in her like Arun Kolhatkar. When social activist Medha Patkar worked with Sumitra in the Mumbai slums and on the children’s family programme during her work at a non-profit, the later was a boss. Had she continued, Sumitra probably would have been another Medha Patkar. She studied kathak dance under Rohini Bhate’s guidance. She could possibly have been a dancer or established a Kalagram like Protima Bedi, teaching various styles of dance to students. She chose to become a filmmaker and brought all these elements in her work. She was a social reformer and idolised persons like Gopal Ganesh Agarkar and Mahatma Phule and learnt how they fought to change the society and the mindset of people. The social reformer in her and all her ideas, converted into her filmmaking which was complex, where she wrote her own scripts. We directed films together to bring these ideas on screen. Today, I look at myself as her humble disciple, a person who was fortunate to be with her right since the age of 17, till her last breadth, and possibly even after that. I have learnt about conviction in filmmaking and her compassionate and humane attitude towards people and society helped me be what I am today. I will not just cherish my memories with her, but would try and find her in my own self and take it forward; take her crusade forward. Honestly, I would want to emulate her.---Filmmaker Sunil Sukthankar, along with Sumitra Bhave, together made various landmark films, some of national award winners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sumitra-bhave-a-multi-talented-creative-being-who-had-power-to-bring-about-change-101618918838207.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Pune Zilla Parishad workers contribute one day's salary, raise 1.27 crore to improve health services||The Pune Zilla Parishad employees have contributed their one day's salary to raise ₹1.97 crore to help improve the health services in rural areas of the district amid the Covid-19 pandemic, an official said.The money would be given as an incentive to doctors serving the Covid-19 patients, in addition to their salaries, Pune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad told PTI on Monday."The Zilla Parishad employees here in Maharashtra, all of whom are frontline workers, have contributed one day's salary to raise ₹1.97 crore," he said.The official said they have published advertisements in newspapers of various states to hire 130 doctors."We aim to have the best doctors with us in the fight against Covid-19 and save the lives of people living in rural areas of Pune," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-zilla-parishad-workers-contribute-one-day-s-salary-for-health-services-101618896904062.html
20-04-2021||Pune||5,900 vials of Remdesivir distributed among 500 hospitals in Pune||A total of 5,900 vials of Remdesivir injection were received and distributed among more than 500 hospitals in the Pune district on Monday, FDA officials said.In view of the shortage of the anti-viral drug, which is in great demand for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, a control room has been set up for its distribution in the Pune district."A total of 18 flying squads for rural as well as urban areas have been formed to prevent black marketing of the drug. Today, we received 5,900 vials of the drug and distributed them among 511 hospitals through stockists," a senior Food and Drug Administration (FDA) official said.The hospitals have been directed by the state health department to use Remdesivir only for the needy patients, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/5900-vials-of-remdesivir-distributed-among-500-hospitals-in-pune-101618890068073.html
20-04-2021||Pune||Pune records 9,582 new Covid-19 cases, death toll mounts to 11,535||Pune district of Maharashtra reported 9,582 new coronavirus cases on Monday, taking its Covid-19 count to 7,32,058, a health department official said.He said the death toll rose to 11,535 with 107 more patients succumbing to the infection in the western Maharashtra district."Of the 9,582 cases, 4,587 were reported from Pune municipal corporation areas, where the count has increased to 3,71,824," the official said.Also, 6,473 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, he said.With 2,279 new cases, the Covid-19 tally in Pimpri-Chinchwad rose to 1,86,025, he said.The number of positive cases in rural and Pune cantonment board areas stood at 1,74,209, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-records-9-582-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-mounts-to-11535-101618882745344.html
