21-04-2021||Pune||Pune dist reports 10,852 new Covid-19 cases, 35 deaths||Pune: Pune district reported 10,852 new Covid-19 cases and 35 deaths due to the infection in the last 24 hours, as reported by the state health department. The district’s progressive count went up to 0.756 million cases, of which 0.626 million patients have recovered; 8,945 have been declared dead; and 121,284 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation. Pune rural reported 2,998 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the final count to 177,915 and with nine more deaths, the toll went up to 2,353. Pune city reported 5,538 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the count to 392,719. With 21 deaths reported on Wednesday, the toll went up to 5,083. PCMC reported 2,316 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the count to 186,042. With five more deaths the toll went up to 1,454. Pune also saw 58,900 vaccinations on Wednesday, of which Pune rural saw 30,300, Pune city saw 20,431, while PCMC saw 8,173 vaccinations. Of these 58,904 vaccinations, 54,196 beneficiaries received Covisheild and the remaining got Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-reports-10-852-new-covid-19-cases-35-deaths-101619027683796.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Doctor assaulted, hospital vandalised by relatives of deceased man||A group of 15-20 unidentified relatives of a 65-year-old deceased man have been booked for assaulting a doctor and vandalising a security cabin at a private hospital in Pune. The incident happened on Wednesday at Prime Hospital in Fakri Hills, Kondhwa. The patient had not undergone a Covid-19 test, but was suspected to be infected and arrived at the hospital in a cardiac ambulance. “The patient was in a cardiac ambulance. The family members believed that the death happened due to a delay in providing oxygen, but the doctors said that the patient had passed away before he could be admitted,” said police inspector (crime) Shabbir Sayyed of the Kondhwa police station, who is investigating the case. The 25-year-old resident doctor, identified as Dr Siddhant Totla, was allegedly attacked with a metal pipe, while the group rained down kicks and blows on him, according to his complaint to the police. The doctor has not sustained any serious injuries, the police said. A case under Sections 324, 323, 504, 427, 188, 269, and 270 of the Indian Penal Code, along with Section 4 of the Maharashtra Protection of Medical Practitioners Act, Section 11 of Maharashtra Covid19 Prevention Regulation, Sections of Epidemic Diseases Act, and Section 37(1), with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act has been registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/doctor-assaulted-hospital-vandalised-by-relatives-of-deceased-man-101619020663408.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Couple duped of ₹65 lakh under false investment promise||A husband and wife have been booked for duping another wife and husband of ₹65 lakh under the false promise of investing the money in the share market, according to police. The accused, identified as Santosh Kachru Bhangre and Chaya Santosh Bhangre, residents of Old Sangvi, told the couple that the man was a civil engineer and invested in the share market as well. The complainant has been identified as Surekha Deepak Jagtap and her husband, Deepak Jagtap. The accused couple told the Jagtaps that they needed investors and provided attractive returns. With a written deal on stamp paper, the Jagtaps invested a sum of ₹65,66,520 in the accused couple’s company in 2017. However, the accused couple failed to return the money, according to the complaint. A case under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code has been registered at Sangvi police station. Assistant police inspector Satish Kamble of Sangvi police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/couple-duped-of-rs-65-lakh-under-false-investment-promise-101619020543350.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Sanjay Kakade arrested over suspected affiliation with gangster Marne||Former Parliamentarian Sanjay Kakade was arrested by the Pune police on Wednesday, over suspicion of his involvement with Gajanan Marne, a local gangster. The arrest was made by a team of the anti-narcotic cell of the Pune police. Kakade is a former member of the Rajya Sabha. The police submission in a local court while seeking custody of Kakade stated that they have information about direct and indirect links between the ex-MP and the gangster. “For the rally that was arranged after Marne’s release from Taloja, a case was registered at Bund Garden police station. Sanjay Kakade has been arrested in that case. While the narcotics cell has nothing to do with the case, the arrest was done by an inspector of the anti-narcotics cell,” said Surendranath Deshmukh, assistant commissioner of police, Crime-1. “This is being done to tarnish his political image in the light of upcoming municipal elections. There is no connection between Gajanan Marne and Kakade, who had no part in that rally and did not spread any clips or photos online either,” said advocate Vijaysinh Thombre, representing Kakade. Thombre had also represented Marne in court when he was arrested after the rally. A series of cases have been registered against Gajanan Marne and his accomplices, after a massive rally was held to celebrate his release after his acquittal. A case was registered under Sections 290 (punishment for public nuisance in cases not otherwise provided for); 506 (criminal intimidation); and 120(b) (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code, along with Section 7 of the Criminal Law Amendment Act; and Section 37(1)(3) with 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act. This case was registered against Marne and his accomplice for social media posts. These posts were published in a planned manner then spread through various platforms like YouTube, Instagram, and Facebook by Marne’s followers, according to a police statement on February 23. The police submission in court, on Wednesday, states that Kakade’s police custody is required to investigate others who allegedly helped him spread fear through the social media posts related to Marne’s rally. Marne was acquitted in a murder case in February and was later arrested by Pune rural police in another case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sanjay-kakade-arrested-over-suspected-affiliation-with-gangster-marne-101619020423495.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Six booked for cheating investors via pyramid schemes||The office-bearers of a company named Dreamvision4u, in Moshi, have been booked for cheating investors via multiple pyramid schemes. The alleged schemes of the company offered attractive returns, including trips to Thailand, upon an investment of ₹7,500, and bringing in more investors to the company. The accused have been identified as Dinesh Kurkute, Deepika Kurkute, Vinayak Shirole, Navnath Magar, Amitkumar Ponde, and Nitin Kurkute, according to the police. However, none of them have been arrested in the case. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Prachand Dadsaheb Bhusare (42), a resident of Dongaon in Kej taluka of Beed. The company had offered four different types of investment schemes, of which the complainant had invested in a scheme that promised him 5% of the company profit, a tour to Thailand, and 24 months of returns. The complainant invested a total of ₹8,55,000 since June 2018, and got ₹92,275 in return since then, according to his complaint. A case under Sections 420 (cheating); 406 (criminal breach of trust); and 34 (common intention), of the Indian Penal Code along with Sections 3 and 4 of the Maharashtra Protection of Depositors Interest Act, 1999, has been registered at Bhosari MIDC police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/six-booked-for-cheating-investors-via-pyramid-schemes-101619020243358.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Civil society members want detailed clarification on riverfront project||Civil society organisations and citizens have written to Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar expressing serious concerns and demanding a public presentation of the riverfront rejuvenation and improvement project. Many organisations have also requested a rethink of the entire project. They have raised concerns on the lines of flooding, destruction of the river ecosystem, biodiversity, and have demanded a public presentation of the project. “The project does not address the core issues of water quality and need for scientific ecological restoration of the degraded river ecosystem, and it proposes to narrow the river channels with a view to commercialising adjoining land which is currently within the flood lines, putting lives at risk and destroying biodiversity for commercial interests,” said Shaileja Deshpande of Jeevit Nadi. Deshpande also pointed out that a hydro-geological study has not been done. “As a group of concerned citizens and civil society organisations, we want to understand the proposed River Rejuvenation and Improvement Project in detail,” said the letter addressed to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) commissioner Vikram Kumar. The PMC, PCMC, Cantonment boards are to jointly take up this project for which a special purpose vehicle will be set up but what the members fear that the project is ill-conceived and will add to issues of river flooding, and destruction of the river ecosystem and biodiversity. The members have raised questions about how the project will benefit the residents of Pune. “The key issues related to the river systems in Pune include pollution, primarily due to untreated sewage in flows, encroachment, degradation, and destruction of the right of way of the river, banks, riverbed, channel and other physical attributes of the river due to the construction of roads, metro pillars, dumping of debris have reduced the carrying capacity of the river,” stated the letter. “Given the situation of climate change and the impacts Pune is already facing, the priority of river-related projects should be to improve the city’s resilience to extreme rainfall, flash floods, and restoring the degraded river ecosystem. These urgent needs are not considered. The city should focus on projects to improve resilience, and not land development and beautification,” said Sanskriti Menon, Centre for Environmental Education (CEE)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civil-society-members-want-detailed-clarification-on-riverfront-project-101619020123444.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Sangvi residents irate over frequent power cuts, MSEDCL blames PCMC||The residents of Sangvi are frustrated due to frequent power cuts which officials of the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL) say is because of the civic body’s road digging work. The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is carrying out road development work in Sangvi due to which MSEDCL has registered 405 underground high tension and low-tension cable damages in the past one year. In Pimpri division, Sangvi is a subdivision which includes Wakad, Tathavade, old and new Sangvi, Pimple Saudagar, Pimple Gurav, Pimple Nilakh, Vishal nagar and Thergaon area. The MSEDCL supplies power to around two lakh residents. Sandesh Pawar, resident of Mamtanagar, Sangvi said, “Our whole family tested positive. We have had a home quarantine for the last eight days. We are suffering a frequent power failure in our areas. We cannot go outside, and have to sit at home despite power failure. One one side, patients are struggling to get oxygen bed, ambulance, Remdesivir injection, vaccination and on the other, we have to struggle to get uninterrupted power. We are facing a very difficult situation.” Rohit Suryawanshi, resident of Sangvi, “I am working in an IT firm and doing work from home but, frequent power failure creates huge problems at work from home. In a day, we face power failure almost twice in a day, the situation is very unbearable one.” Shivaji Waifalka, executive engineer of Pimpri division of MSEDCL said, “In Sangvi area, the PCMC has undertaken road development work in which daily two-three underground cables of MSEDCL are damaged and residents have to face power failure problems during summer season. We have written several letters to PCMC officials to take care of underground cables and coordinate with MSEDCL officials during their work. However, the PCMC officials, especially contractors, are not co-operating with MSEDCL officials. Due to which, people have to face frequent power failure problems. In the last month, MSEDCL conducted a load shedding in Sangvi as 132 kilowatt high tension underground cables were damaged.” Vijay Bhojane, additional city engineer of PCMC said, “The PCMC is carrying out development work of road, water and drainage department as well as smart city work. We have given instruction to the contractor to contact the MSEDCL person before doing any digging work. However, MSEDCL is not able to provide a person who can guide contractors and workers about underground electrical cables.” MSEDCL cautions PCMC MSEDCL officials have informed PCMC about the interruption of power supply to Covid hospitals in Sangvi. MSEDCL mentioned in a press release that if PCMC fails to take precaution during development work there are chances of power failure in Covid-19 hospitals as well as other hospitals located in Sangvi area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sangvi-residents-irate-over-frequent-power-cuts-msedcl-blames-pcmc-101619019943408.html
21-04-2021||Pune||PMC asks citizens to vacate dilapidated wadas||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) issued notices to citizens who are staying in dilapidated wadas and buildings in the city and asked them to vacate it due to safety reasons.Every year, the PMC issues a public notice before monsoon to avoid any accident. City engineer Prashant Waghmare said, “The PMC conducted a survey of dilapidated wadas and issued notices to citizens who are living in them.” A PMC officer on anonymity said, “It is an annual routine process to issue the notice, but citizens do not vacate their homes and continue to stay in dangerous buildings. As there is a tenant and owner issue, tenants are worried that if they vacate the home, they will not retain any claim on property.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-asks-citizens-to-vacate-dilapidated-wadas-101619019883463.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Parents anxious over FYJC admission after board exam cancellation||Due to the increasing number of Covid cases in the state and a fear of infection to students, the state government cancelled Class 10 board examinations, however, parents, teachers now fear a complex admission process for first-year junior college (FYJC). “The decision taken by the state government to cancel Class 10 board exams is appreciated, looking at the safety of students but at the same time assessment of their marks and further admission process also needs to be checked. It is necessary to make a proper system for FYJC admissions for this batch, or else there would be lot of issues in their career,” said Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of Pune district principals’ association. “In the last one year, no internal assessment of students was done in any of the schools due to the Covid-19 pandemic and so we cannot give proper marks for Class 10 students. While cancelling the board exams, what was the policy decided and its impact on future Class 11 admissions was taken into consideration or not? All this needs to be scrutinised and then further important decision of Class 11 admissions should be taken,” said Avinash Takwale, principal of Poona Night school. Umesh Chavan whose daughter is in Class 10 said, “We are happy that the state government considered safety of students first and took a decision to cancel the board examination. However, if my daughter gets less marks in the internal assessment from school which will impact her college admissions, then who will be responsible for it? There are lot of unanswered questions and confusion amongst students and parents.” Bandopant Bhuyar, state president of coaching classes teachers federation said, “The decision taken by the state government to cancel the board exams of Class 10 is completely wrong and it is going to have a long-lasting impact on students’ career. Not only for further Class 11 admissions, but at every step of their career when they will be marked Covid passed on their passing certificates. If the board exams for Class 12 can be conducted, then Class 10 can also be held.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-anxious-over-fyjc-admission-after-board-exam-cancellation-101619019763365.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Nashik oxygen tank leak: Directives given to check oxygen tanks and pipelines in Pune||PUNE: After the Nashik oxygen tank leak incident, instructions have been given to check and safety audit oxygen tanks at all the Covid hospitals in the city.After the Nashik accident, Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar gave instructions to officials carry out safety audit of oxygen tanks in the city and district to avoid any such incident.PMC oxygen supply co-ordinator Srinivas Kandul said, “We have directed all the civic body-run and private hospitals to inspect oxygen tanks and pipelines.”Heavy load leaves electric crematoriums non-functionalWith the Covid tally rising, crematoriums are overburdened having received more bodies than usual during the last few days. Many electric crematoriums that are running round the clock have become dysfunctional. An official, on condition of anonymity, said that many electric crematoriums need repairs and maintenance because of the overload and some have become non-functional. The official said that maintenance of electric crematorium takes the whole day. Meanwhile, PMC had given permission to perform final rites using wood as per tradition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nashik-oxygen-tank-leak-directives-given-to-check-oxygen-tanks-and-pipelines-in-pune-101619018923338.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Higher number of post-Covid patients in Pune report Mucormycosis, a rare fungal infection||Pune: More hospitals in the city are reporting an increased number of people diagnosed with Mucormycosis. Most of these reported cases are from those who have recovered from Covid-19. Mucormycosis is rare and serious fungal infection coupled with a high mortality rate. Earlier only a nominal number of cases were being reported throughout the year. Now almost every hospital is reporting about 10 more cases every month. Dr Sudhir Halikar, head of department, ENT, at Noble Hospital, said, “Mucormycosis is a serious fungal infection of sinonasal cavities which is usually seen in patients with uncontrolled diabetes with very high blood sugar levels and ketoacidosis. However, recently we have witnessed this serious fungal infection in patients treated for and recovering from Covid infection. Use of high doses of steroids, other medications leading to high blood sugar levels with compromised immunity probably is a reason for this dreaded infection.” A 60-year-old man was recovering from Covid, but he developed some cellulitis and redness on his cheek area which spread to the eye and was diagnosed with Mucormycosis. Dr Abhishek Ghosh, a microvascular reconstructive surgeon who treated the patient, said, “He was seen by the local ophthalmologist near Daund. Then they got an MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) done and they came to our hospital. We started with advanced antifungals and put him up for surgery the next day. We did orbital exenteration and endoscopic sinus clearance. He is doing well and doesn’t need ICU and is on antifungal treatment which will last for three to four weeks.” “Last month, we treated six patients in the age group between 36 years and 70 years in our hospital alone. Two of them were non-diabetic, but developed high sugar levels during the course of treatment for Covid. Early diagnosis and treatment are critical in saving vision and life in such patients. We have saved two patients with intact vision and eyeballs, but in four cases the disease has already spread to orbit with the dead eye (and complete loss of vision),” Dr Ghosh added. Symptoms of Mucormycosis post-Covid may include redness or induration near the cheek or the eye or may have some sinusitis infection, bouts of headache, heaviness, blackish discharge from the nose, vision will suddenly deteriorate. Sudden onset of headache on one part of the brain along with redness or induration near the cheek or eye should be considered a warning signal in these post-Covidpatients. Once the vision is lost, the eyeball has to be completely removed along with sinus clearance through a surgery called orbital and sinonasal exenteration. Dr Halikar said, “There is a high mortality rate while treating Mucormycosis, but surgery is the only option. If that is not performed then the infection is likely to spread to the brain.” Dr Ameet Dravid, infectious disease control specialist from Poona Hospital, said, “India being the diabetes capital of the world, more number of cases of Mucormycosis post-Covid-19 are seen in India. Previously, we used to see two to three cases of Mucormycosis in a year. Now, we have started seeing 8 to 10 cases a month. This is an alarming rise. Poorly controlled diabetes and random prescription of steroids are leading to patients coming up with Mucormycosis at tertiary care centres. There is a high possibility that many cases are underreported, and people are losing their lives. This is happening because the symptoms are very subtle and timely investigations is not done.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/higher-number-of-post-covid-patients-in-pune-report-mucormycosis-a-rare-fungal-infection-101619016283235.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: Killa-é-Hissar... The forgotten stronghold of medieval Pune||If you look at the extent of present Pune city, Sinhagad fort lays almost on its boundary and may soon be part of the city limits. Fort Sinhagad is quintessentially identified as a fort of Pune and during some part of the Maratha rule it served as an administrative centre, too. But, do you know of a fort which is hidden in plain sight right in the heart of Pune? And no, it is not Shaniwarwada, with its fortified walls.To know more, we have to go back in time to medieval Pune of the 15th century. The change of rule in Deccan after Khilji and Tughlaq dynasties had finally led to rise of the Bahamani kingdom, the first independent Muslim power of the Deccan. Junnar Paragana was under the Bahamani kingdom then. The Vazir (prime minister), who also had the title Maliku’t-Tujar (Prince of Merchants), was appointed to look after this important Junnar Pargana, which included Pune. He is credited with building a formidable land fort in Chakan called “Sangramdurg”. Shortly after his death in a battle in the Konkan, Kasam Beig Shafaat Khan an Arab sardar was appointed in his place as Maliku’t-Tujar. Being a senior Sardar from Arabastan, he was popularly known as “Bada Arab”.“Purandare Daftar”, an important archival document recording the important political events of medieval Deccan and Pune, informs us that Bada Arab ruled from Chakan and over Pune till the year 1480. It was around 1460, that he commissioned the fort at Pune on the “gaon-pandhar” (archaeological mound of the then settlement). This reference to “pandhar/pandhari” is interesting, as such mounds are formed due to extended period of occupation by humans. The burning of dung, biomass and soil due to cooking turns into ash and this ash accumulates over centuries to form mounds of whitish soil known as “pandhari” in Marathi. “Pandhari” is relatively white grey in colour as compared to the blackish or brownish soil of the Deccan. Thus, the “pandhari” of Pune which was an elevated mound denotes that the settlement of Pune existed some centuries before the fort was built on the previous ruins.This pandhari of Pune is located on about an acre around present Surya hospital, opposite Shaniwarwada. This is the exact area or epicentre of Pune where signs of previous settlements have been unearthed. The records tell us that name of the fort was “Killa- é –Hissar” (Hissar, too, means fort in Persian). Popularly, it was known as “Pandharicha Kot”. A small garrison was stationed at the fort. However, history is unaware of any significant battles fought where these defences were put to use.The fort was roughly rectangular in size. The details of the fort walls were recorded in the Pune Gazetteer of 1885. They extended from the Mutha river banks near Dhakta Sheikh Salla Dargah, west, upto 118 metres; 268 metres to the south and 186 metres to the east. These walls had openings to fire at the enemy called “janga”. An intact part of the wall can be still seen as one walks on the footpath from Surya Hospital to Kasba Ganpati.The fort had three entrances or gateways. The one near the present day Shaniwarwada is called “Konkan darwaja”. It was customary to name the gateways facing west, where the Konkan lies, to be named as such. Even though the gateway is lost today, the stairs coming down from the fort walls are still seen. Recently, a group working to generate awareness about Pune’s heritage, Varasa Prasarak Mandali, cleaned the stairs, lit lamps and displayed historical information, to generate awareness about this forgotten heritage. The other gateway known as “Nagar darwaja” (city gate) was located to east of the fort, at the present Pawale chowk. Recent road works have erased any signs of the plinth of this gateway. However, one can still witness patches of stone wall with large dressed stones near Mote Mangal Karyalay and around Tambat Ali.The third gateway was to the north, according to historian Pandhurang Balkawade, and opened to the river Mutha. A Bahamani period structure following Dakkhani Indo-Islamic architecture is still buried near the boundaries of the fort wall. The shed near Deshpande Church has a building with wide arches in stone. It was once open on all the sides. The conjectural drawing indicates that it might have been used as a “Sarai” or “Dharmashala” to host travellers, traders and pilgrims. Today, only the top portion of the arch with a keystone can be seen above ground. Massive damage to “Killa-é-Hissar” was caused during Nizam Shahi Sardar, Murar Jogdeo’s campaign and destruction of Pune in the early 17th century. We also know Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj was not particularly in favour of raising land forts which would invite enemy attention. So, the Bahamani fort suffered further neglect during his occupation of Pune. Subsequently, the expanse of Pune, under the Marathas and Peshwas, the building of Shaniwarwada, and rearranging of the entire Kasba area, reduced the fort to few patches of walls. Today, buildings have come up even over the fortified plinths at certain places. And yet history is not easily erased. The fort vestiges peep out from centuries of neglect, to tell you that Pune once hosted a fortified stronghold in its heart.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-killa-hissar-the-forgotten-stronghold-of-medieval-pune-101619003025775.html
21-04-2021||Pune||As Covid-19 cases surge, Pune ambulance service gets over 9,000 calls a day||With the number of fresh Covid-19 cases surging on a daily basis, the Maharashtra emergency medical services in Pune has been receiving over 9,000 calls per day for ambulances.Control room manager Dr Pravin Sadhale told ANI, "We take 9,000-10,000 calls per day, including Covid emergencies and others. Panic has increased now."The manager added that around 937 ambulances are placed across Maharashtra. The ambulances have all the safety gears including PPE kits for shifting the patients.The earlier call flow was for accident and pregnancy cases now the more cases are for Covid-19 related symptoms. "We do have other calls also but they are relatively less," Sadhale said.Several executives are working in the control room to answer the calls around the clock.Meanwhile, 58,924 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Maharashtra in the last 24 hours, according to the state health ministry on Tuesday. As many as 52,412 people recovered in the said period and 351 died. The total case tally reached 38,98,262 while the death toll reached 60,824.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/as-covid-19-cases-surge-pune-ambulance-service-gets-over-9-000-calls-a-day-101618977930922.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Pune records 10,393 new Covid-19 cases, death toll mounts to 11,647||Pune district reported 10,393 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 7,42,451, a health official said on Tuesday evening. Pune city and the district in Maharashtra are among the worst- affected by the pandemic in the country.The death toll of the district reached 11,647 with 112 Covid-19 patients succumbing to the infection during this period.Of the 10,393 new cases, 5,138 were from the Pune Municipal Corporation limits, which has recorded 3,76,962 cases so far.As many as 6,802 patients were discharged from city hospitals during the day.As many as 2,563 cases were reported in the neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad area.Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 62,097 fresh coronavirus disease cases, taking the Covid-19 infection tally to 39,60,359, while 519 more patients succumbed to the infection, said a health department official. The new fatalities pushed the statewide toll to 61,343, he said. Out of the 519 fatalities, 307 occurred in the last 48 hours and 114 last week, while 98 deaths took place in the period before the last week, but were added to the toll now, the official said.With this, Maharashtra's active cases increased to 6,83,856, the official said.Mumbai recorded 7,192 new cases and 34 fatalities, taking the tally to 5,94,059 and the toll to 12,446. Currently, 38,76,998 people are in home quarantine, while 27,690 people are in institutional quarantine in the state, the health department said. Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate stood at 81.14 per cent, while the fatality rate was 1.55 per cent, the department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-records-10-393-new-covid-19-cases-death-toll-mounts-to-11647-101618968826315.html
21-04-2021||Pune||35K Covishield doses arrive in Pune, but shortages affect vaccination drive||PUNE The city has been facing an irregular supply of vaccines, even as it continues to remain one of the worst- affected areas in the country. On Tuesday the vaccination drive in Pune took a hit as the city did not have any Covishield doses. Only Covaxin doses, reserved for second doses, and those Covishield doses already with hospitals, were administered on Tuesday. A fresh stock of 35,000 doses of Covishield arrived on Tuesday evening. As of Monday night, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) had no Covishield stock and fresh stock arrived only late on Tuesday and has been distributed to centres for Wednesday’s vaccination drive. At its Narayan peth vaccine store the PMC had only 9,000 doses of Covaxin on Monday, all reserved for second doses. On Tuesday noon, Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer at PMC’s health department said, “We had no stock of Covishield available as of Tuesday afternoon, but there are about 8,000-9,000 doses of Covishield in the pipeline, which is already distributed at various centres. All will be used for first and second doses on Wednesday. Also, there are about 9,000-10,000 doses of Covaxin, all of which are currently reserved for second doses.”On an average, 49,642 people have got the vaccine in Pune in the past six days. Dr Devkar Suryakant, PMC’s officer in charge of the vaccination, said, “We got 35,000 doses of Covishield which will be enough for two days for both government and private hospitals. On Saturday and Sunday, we opened only 50% of the centres to give a day’s leave to the staff who have been working without a single day’s leave. We were expecting the stock to come last night (Monday) itself, but got it on Tuesday and it has already been distributed to the centres. Vaccination will carry on smoothly on Wednesday.” On Tuesday, many centres saw beneficiaries returning due to the restricted number of vaccines available. Aditya Gaikwad, a resident of Dhankawadi, said, “Many citizens were eager to get the vaccine, but due to restricted numbers, they had to return without getting the jab. Today, 125 people are to get the second dose of Covaxin at the Dhankawadi centre, of which 25 people came through registration and the others have tokens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/35k-covishield-doses-arrive-in-city-but-shortages-affect-vaccination-drive-101618933537845.html
21-04-2021||Pune||PMC order confirms shops selling essential commodities to run from 7am to 11am||PUNE After the Maharashtra cabinet, on Tuesday, urged chief minister Uddhav Thackeray to impose a complete lockdown in the state for the next 15 days, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reduced the timings of essential commodity shops from 7am to 11 am. However, the PMC has allowed home delivery services of essential items till 6pm. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar issued the circular and allowed grocery, vegetable, fruits, dairy, bakery and chicken vendors to operate between 7am and 11 AM from Wednesday, April 21. Earlier, the shops were open till 6 pm on weekdays and till 11am on weekends. The decision from the PMC came as citizens were found roaming the streets, purchasing essential items. The Maharashtra government has also enforced strict restrictions allowing essential services from 7am to 11am only.Kumar, in his order, said, “The shops would remain open from 7am to 11am, but they can do home delivery till 6pm. On Saturday and Sunday there is a strict lockdown and only allowed dairy and medical shops are allowed till 11am.”The PMC, as per an earlier order of April 14, allowed industrial units and construction sites with the facility of in- house labour camps to operate in the city. In a separate order, PMC also banned all religious gatherings for Wednesday’s Ram Navami; Mahavir Jayanti on April 25; and Hanuman Jayanti on April 27. The order issued by Vikram Kumar said there will be no processions, and instead, all programes can be online. As per the order, services like maids, drivers, e-commerce, medical assistants for senior citizens and messes would remain operational as per previous directions. Open till 11am Restrictions till May 1 - Grocery, vegetables, fruit, dairy, bakery, mutton, chicken and egg vendors-Agricultural related shops selling seeds, fertilizers- Pet shops- Shops providing materials for pre-monsoon works||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-order-confirms-shops-selling-essential-commodities-to-run-from-7am-to-11am-101618932997820.html
21-04-2021||Pune||Pune heros: Covid warriors back in the saddle ensuring service to those most in need||Many Covid warriors lost their lives during the first wave in 2020. Now, a harsher second wave has stuck in 2021, and Covid warriors are once again standing up bravely, and in numbers, to help the needy. People in Khadki still recall the work of Munir Ramdurg, a vice-president of the Ammunition Factory workers’ union, who died of Covid-19 in September 2020. He actively helped Covid patients find beds in hospitals and also helped cremate those who passed away. Same was the case with a 42-year-old traffic policeman from the Samarth Police Station, Rasta peth, who was known for his jolly nature and died in hospital in May 2020. He was on duty, before he tested positive for Covid. His name is being withheld to protect his family.Now, HT has come across people from different fields who, once again, are sparing the time, energy, effort and money, to ensure society survives the second Covid-19 wave.Food for thought When Aakanksha Sadekar saw a tweet of a person not getting food for dinner, as online food delivery is only allowed till 8pm. Sadekar decided to provide a free tiffin service for those in need.The initiative, which began on April 7 has seen Sadekar deliver 1,000 tiffins in Pune. Her tweet on April 5 reads: “If you are in and around Pune and a healthcare worker, doctor or a medical student living alone, happy to cook extra food and drop it off so that you can go about saving lives and not have to survive on crass thing like Maggie”. “My whole aim behind the initiative was to help people and one does not need to be a celebrity to do a good work. Any common person can do it and I hope more people come serve the society,” said Sadekar, a resident of Deccan Gymkhana. “I am connecting more people so If I am not able to reach the concerned person then other people can deliver the food,” said Sadekar. Free rickshaw ride for Covid patients If you are a resident of Kothrud, Bavdhan, Warje, or Karvenagar and don’t have transport to go to a hospital, call Jahangir Pathan on 888883298/8888343766.He will drop you at the hospital in his autorickshaw without charging a fare.The resident of Shastri nagar, Kothrud, has taken 41 Covid patients to hospital in this second wave. However, after he took a senior lady to Hinjewadi from Uttam nagar, doctors advised him home quarantine for eight days. “My reports came negative and the doctor told me to get home isolated because I came in direct contact with the lady. The lady is also doing good right now,” said Pathan, who is now getting support from corporators Shraddha Prabhune and Alpana Warpe, who provided him with PPE kits. “I have seen people running from such patients. Even their relatives do not come forward. I am doing it to serve the humanity as many people are struggling to get transport. My society people are very co-operative, as they don’t have any problem with my work,” added Pathan. Delivery of oxygen concentrators Sabir Shaikh is providing a free service delivering oxygen concentrators to people who are not getting beds in hospitals. The oxygen concentrator runs on electricity and is used to increase oxygen levels. he level of oxygen should not be below 85. “If the oxygen level is below 85 then the person needs hospitalisation. The machine is coming handy as many people are not getting beds. We provide machines for three days, so it gives support to the patient before s/he gets a bed in the hospital,” said Shaikh, who has brought 10 such machines and provided service to 50 people. “With people not getting beds, 135 more people are waiting for the machine,” said Shaikh. Free cab service for vaccination Senior citizens in Pune and Mumbai don’t have to bother about their transportation as Mahindra Logistics has started a free cab service to vaccination centres. Any citizen from Katraj, Kothrud, Bhosari, Pimple Saudgar or Kharadi needs to book the cab three hours in advance. Once the cab is booked the rest is taken care of by the company. “Last year we gave free rides to non-Covid patients who wanted to go for dialysis and pregnant women. We want people to remain stress-free during the crisis situation and we are trying to help all who are calling us,” said Dnyaneshwar Shirsht, control tower executive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-warriors-back-in-the-saddle-ensuring-service-to-those-most-in-need-101618928977778.html
