22-04-2021||Pune||Pune district reports 9,907 Covid positive cases, 8 deaths in 24 hrs||Pune: Pune district reported a spike with 9,907 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours. Eight deaths were reported in the district on Thursday, with four deaths in Pune rural, three in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and one in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours.As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 397,376 Covid cases and 5,086 deaths till Thursday; PCMC has reported 188,561 cases so far and a total of 1,455 deaths due to the virus.Pune rural has reported 180,646 total cases so far and 2,357 deaths due to Covid. In Pune district, there are a total of 766,583 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 640,293 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,953 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 117,337 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 62,298 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 3,330,747 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 81.34%.Across Maharashtra, 67,013 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 568 Covid deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.53%.The state health department stated that of 24,895,986 laboratory samples, 4,094,840 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 16.45% patients till Thursday. Currently 3,971,917 people are in home quarantine and 29,014 people are in institutional quarantine. Vaccination on ThursdayOn Thursday, 50,030 beneficiaries were inoculated at 470 centres in Pune district. In PMC, 19,126 beneficiaries were inoculated at 178 centres; in PCMC, 9,256 beneficiaries were inoculated at 86 centres. At around 206 centres in Pune rural, 21,648 beneficiaries were inoculated on Thursday. Of the 470 centres, 416 were that of Covishield and 54 were administering Covaxin on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-reports-9-907-covid-positive-cases-8-deaths-in-24-hrs-101619113730839.html
22-04-2021||Pune||After Nashik tragedy, hospitals begin audit of oxygen tanks in Pune||PUNE: A day after 24 Covid patients died as oxygen supply was disrupted due to leakage, the Pune Municipal Corporation started audit of medical oxygen supply systems installed at various hospitals in the city. HT in its Thursday edition has reported PMC instructing civic-run and private hospitals to inspect oxygen tanks and supply network and fix if there are any leakages. Additional Municipal Commissioner, PMC, Rubal Agrawal also issued the written circular on Thursday to all hospitals. The circular mentioned, “All the private hospitals need to carry out safety audits of the storage tanks and pipelines with the help of third parties. After doing the audit, the hospital authorities need to submit the written reply to the Municipal Corporation.” Following the order, Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol, Standing Committee chairman Hemant Rasne and Municipal Commissioner Vikram Kumar held a review meeting for oxygen supply and the safety of storage tanks. A team of PMC health department officials also visited Dr Naidu hospital to conduct audit of oxygen storage tank and supply system. Twenty-four Covid patients died of oxygen deprivation in Nashik as a fault in the tank’s valves caused the prescribed oxygen pressure to reduce, leading to oxygen deprivation. The hospital, a civic-run entity, was treating 157 Covid patients, of which 131 were on oxygen support and 15 were on ventilators. With sudden increase in the demand of oxygen, many hospitals in Pune have installed jumbo oxygen storage tanks and pipelines to connect it to ICU and from there to oxygen beds in the hospital. The city’s oxygen demand, according to PMC authorities, has went up to 300 metric tonnes per day. The Pune Municipal Corporation run hospitals require 42 metric tonne oxygen per day and rest is to other private hospitals. Pune city has around 190 small and big hospitals treating Covid patients with allocated bed capacity of 10,991. The entire district has 475 Covid hospitals with 27,542 allocated beds. After the Covid-19 surge, the local bodies like PMC and district administration have started erecting new Covid hospitals and the oxygen facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/after-nashik-tragedy-hospitals-begin-audit-of-oxygen-tanks-in-pune-101619108930371.html
22-04-2021||Pune||O2 production restriction, migrant workers returning homes impact small industries in Pune||Pune: The restrictions on industrial use of oxygen and lockdown norms seeing a rise in migrant workers returning home have badly hit the industries in Pune district. Though fewer migrants are leaving the district as compared to last year, small industries admit that their businesses have suffered after the implementation of fresh restrictions. “There are 5,000-6,000 small and big industries in the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation area employing over two lakh migrant workers. Around 25-30% labourers have returned to their hometowns anticipating a full-lockdown like last year. Small scale industries are facing shortage of skilled labour. Operators and staff in many industries have been infected by Covid-19. So, production units are facing losses,” said Abhay Bhor, president, Forum of Small Scale Industries Association, Maharashtra. The government’s directive to reserve 100% oxygen production for medical use because of the deteriorating Covid situation has impacted the ancillary units in auto sector that depend on industrial oxygen. According to Dilip Batwal, secretary of Federation of Chakan industry, in the automobile sector, maximum parts are made through welding where oxygen is necessary. “So, there is an impact on these industries in the absence of oxygen supply,” said Batwal. On migrants returning to hometowns, Batwal said that 20-25% workers have returned and even workload has reduced. “There is no acute scarcity of labour, but it may arise in future. We are trying to convince them to stay,” said Batwal. The labour commissionerate, however, countered the claim saying that reverse migration of workers during this time of the year is a routine process. He said that the daily work of automobile industry is affected by lack of oxygen supply. “Since the past six days, we have started a ‘Help Centre’ at Pune railway station and review workers who are returning to homes. We have observed that in some cases the return journey was pre-planned due to personal works such as family functions. It is a routine development that the workers from UP and Bihar go back in this season and resume work after Dussehra,” an official said. While the state government has imposed restrictions in Maharashtra, industrial units have been exempted from these curbs. Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) director-general Prashant Girbane said on the possible economic impact, “There could be a reduction up to 1.5% in Maharashtra GSDP (FY 21-22) as against what was presented in Budget 2021. While the aggregate numbers help a great deal, they also conceal - for example the disproportionate impact on informal workforce and those in contact based services.” Not only industrialists but those in related services are concerned about the reverse migration of workers. “In the current situation, there is extreme fear of unemployment and health risk among the workers. They have started migrating to their towns and it’s impacting the production process. If the scenario remains the same, it will lead to a massive shortage of manpower in industry,” said Shankar Salunkhe, founder-president, Vibrant HR Professionals Association, Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/o2-production-restriction-migrant-workers-returning-homes-impact-small-industries-in-pune-101619104970146.html
22-04-2021||Pune||Nashik tragedy: Oxygen supply at hospital restored, FIR against unidentified person||Pune: A day after 24 Covid-19 patients died of oxygen deprivation in Nashik in north Maharashtra, the city police chief on Thursday appointed assistant commissioner of police-level officer to probe the incident while registering a first information report (FIR). The FIR was registered at Bhadrakali police station under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code over allegations of gross negligence following oxygen supply disruption that led to the deaths at the civic-run Zakir Hussain hospital, said police commissioner Deepak Pandey. “We have lodged an FIR for negligence against unidentified persons and probe is on,” said Pandey. The leak in Nashik incident was on account of a fault in the tank’s valves that caused the prescribed oxygen pressure to reduce, leading to oxygen deprivation. The hospital was treating 157 Covid patients, of which 131 were on oxygen support and 15 on ventilators. “We have been able to restore the oxygen supply at the hospital,” said Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare. He met a delegation of private doctors and members affiliated to Indian Medical Association, Nashik, to discuss the acute shortage of supply of oxygen to private hospitals. Earlier on Wednesday evening, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope after visiting the hospital in Nashik, said, a seven-member high-powered committee will probe the incident. “Nashik divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game will chair the committee which will have deputy director from state health department Dr PN Gandal, city-based intensivist Pramod Gunjal, professor Dyandev Nathe, Nashik municipal corporation additional engineer Sandeep Nalawade, FDA joint director Madhuri Pawar and Harshal Patil, an expert involved in installing oxygen plants,” said Tope. The tank from which liquid oxygen leaked became operational just 21 days before the incident, an official said. “The oxygen tank, having a storage capacity of 13 KL, was started on March 31,” said a senior police official. He said the police also got to know that the oxygen tank belonged to (Vadodara-based) Inoxcva company and was taken on rent for 10 years from Taiyo Nippon Sanso Corporation (a Japanese company which supplies industrial gases like oxygen and nitrogen to industries).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nashik-tragedy-oxygen-supply-at-hospital-restored-fir-against-unidentified-person-101619101490018.html
22-04-2021||Pune||Pune recoveries go up but vaccination issues, post-Covid complications remain||Pune, which is one of the worst covid-affected regions in the country, recorded more than 10,000 cases on Wednesday. The city currently has more than 120,000 active cases and the death toll went up to 8,945 with 35 fresh fatalities. Pune city reported 5,538 new Covid-19 cases while Pune rural reported 2,998 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday.Most deaths in Pune were reported among the 61-70 years age group and only 6% of this age group have received both doses of the Covid-19 vaccine. Pune has a population of more than 1 million people in this age group and only 64,000 have received both doses of the vaccine while at least 640,000 have received the first dose, as per the data from the district information office. Pune vaccinated 58,900 people on Wednesday, out of which most beneficiaries belonged to Pune rural. Pune recorded more than 620,000 recoveries with more than 11,000 recoveries.The hospital infrastructure in Pune remained stressed as small hospitals stopped taking new patients and advised relatives of patients to look for admission in multi-speciality hospitals as they struggled to accommodate Covid-19 patients.Smaller hospitals were vital in the fight against Covid-19 in the district but due to lack of oxygen, they are forced to refer patients to large multispeciality hospitals. “In initial days, smaller hospitals managed to provide support to bigger hospitals with oxygen, but now it is not possible. In multi-speciality hospitals they have two options - either they have their own oxygen plant or have cylinders. This is not the case with small hospitals,” Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman, Pune Hospital Board of India told HT.Several recovered patients in Pune reported getting infected by Mucormycosis which is a rare and serious fungal infection coupled with a high mortality rate. Every hospital in Pune is reporting 10 cases every month, according to a report by HT. “There is a high mortality rate while treating Mucormycosis, but surgery is the only option. If surgery is not performed then the infection is likely to spread to the brain,” Dr Sudhir Halikar, head of department, ENT, at Noble Hospital told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-recoveries-go-up-but-vaccination-issues-post-covid-complications-remain-101619061305668.html
22-04-2021||Pune||The challenge of managing a pet in a Covid-positive family||Families with pets who test positive for Covid-19 have no option but to drop their pet off at a home boarders’, a kennel or at pet hostels. Vandanaa Patwardhan Goswaamii, owner of Crazy Paws pet resort in Bavdhan, has been boarding pets of families that tested positive for Covid-19 since March 2020. “Since March last year, we have been boarding pets of families that tested positive and are in quarantine. Pet dogs do not spread the virus; however, families are unable to walk their pets while in quarantine, so we go and pick up the pet, following all protocols, and board their pets,” Goswaamii said. Savita Gadre and her husband tested positive and have a 1.5-year-old Pitbull. “We have a Pitbull named Lily, and we were really worried when we got our results. Luckily, when we had mild symptoms, I had spoken to a good friend who has a boarding facility. On informing her she was ready to extend her help and took Lily in. Our dog has always been very happy and comfortable with Crazy Paws,” Gadre said. Radhika Ghadge, another pet owner said that as soon as you have doubt about your health start keeping a distance from the rest of the family and pets. “When we had our family member test positive, it was impossible to give Smokey our dog any exercise as we were quarantined. Our usual pet sitter from Crazy Paws came like an angel to our rescue. She arranged a pickup for our dog in a very efficient and contactless way. For 15 days Smokey stayed with her, it was a blissful vacation for him, Ghadge says, adding, “She sent us regular updates, videos and photos of him so that we would not worry.” For most families with more than one Covid positive member, it is impossible to take care of their pet’s daily routine and in most societies even if one person is positive the whole family is put under quarantine. Riya Sayaji from Pets Hangover boarding and dog park has a dedicated driver or pet taxis for pick-up and drops. “We follow some precautionary steps when the pets check-in at a place, for example bathing them and cleaning their leash and collars. Though pets don’t spread Covid-19, the equipment could be contaminated,” said Sayaji, who operates in Koregaon Park Annexe with kennels in Ghorpadi and Undri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/the-challenge-of-managing-a-pet-in-a-covid-positive-family-101619020063388.html
22-04-2021||Pune||61-70 age group sees highest Covid deaths in Pune district, only 6% completed vax regimen||While the age group of 61-70 years has seen the maximum number of deaths due to Covid-19 among all the beneficiaries, only 6% of this age group in the district has been completely covered under vaccination. Of the 10 lakh estimated population above the age group of 60 years, only 64,000 have got both the doses while 6.4 lakh have got the first dose of the vaccine. As per the data from the district information office updated till Tuesday, Pune district has completely vaccinated, that is both the doses administered, only 6% of its elderly population. Of the over a million estimated population of those above 60 years of age, only 64,822 have got both the doses. This includes 17,491 from Pune rural, 35,042 from PMC and 12,289 from PCMC. Also 67% or 674,021 have got the first dose of the estimated population which includes 314,295 from Pune rural, 254,572 from PMC and 105,154 from PCMC. Only 1% of the population aged between 45-59 years has been completely vaccinated. Despite the maximum number of deaths from this age group, only 6% of the population has been completely vaccinated. Of the 11,646 deaths due to Covid reported until Tuesday, 7,843 were males and 3,803 females. The highest deaths were in the age group of 61-70 years as 3,303 deaths were reported followed by 2,640 deaths from the age group of 51 to 60 years. The nationwide vaccination programme for those aged above 60 years of age began from March 1 and since then has received a huge response from senior citizens in Pune. However, the irregular supply of vaccines and repeated cancellation of the pre-booked appointments for vaccination has interrupted the smooth vaccination campaign in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/6170-age-group-sees-highest-covid-deaths-in-pune-district-only-6-completed-vax-regimen-101619017123211.html
22-04-2021||Pune||Lockdown restrictions leave marketplaces overcrowded in Pune||Pune: On Wednesday, the first day of time restrictions for stores selling essential commodities in Pune – 7am to 11am - huge crowds were seen across the city trying to beat the deadline. This resulted in a massive rush at markets, grocery shops and at vegetable vendors. At the Mandai market, one of the major vegetable markets in Pune, people started crowding at 6am. At 9 am, there was such a huge crowd inside the market area that no proper social distancing was possible. “I had gone to buy some vegetables at Mandai market in the morning, when I saw the crowd, I returned. The decision of limiting the timing is leading to more rush,” said Kiran Pisal, a local resident. A similar situation was seen on the other main roads. In Hadapsar, at Gadital chowk citizens crowded to purchase groceries. Outside kirana shops, long queues were seen by 8am. Atul Namekar, secretary of the Sinhgad road-Warje residents association, said, “On Sinhagad road, from Rajaram bridge chowk till Bramha hotel chowk, the entire footpath is crowded with roadside vendors. People rushed to buy vegetables, groceries and other food items as if it was the last day before lockdown. By doing this they are risking their own and lives of others too, as there might be by many Covid positive patients or carriers amongst them.” “There was heavy rush on the Jambhulwadi road to buy household items and vegetables. The road had a traffic jam before 11am. Our demand is that this limitation should be removed immediately,” said Vaibhav Dhekane, executive president of Dattanagar Jambhulwadi road traders’ association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lockdown-restrictions-leave-marketplaces-crowded-in-pune-101619015203230.html
22-04-2021||Pune||Oxygen stock running out of breath in Pune||Pune: As the demand for oxygen increases in Pune, providing it to each hospital has become really challenging for the civic and district administration. The demand in Pune city and district is for 350 metric tonnes of oxygen per day and the current supply is at 315- 320 metric tonnes per day. Every day officials panic as least three to four phone calls are coming in, stating that oxygen supply has not reached. On Wednesday, oxygen at one of the hospitals in Chakan ran out and the authorities needed to shift patients to another hospital. Two days earlier, the same scenario unfolded at a Jumbo hospital in Shivajinagar. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) additional commissioner SB Patil is in charge for co-ordinating oxygen supply in the Pune city and district. He was unavailable for comment on the shortage.PMC officer Srinivas Kandul is coordinating oxygen supply to PMC hospitals and Covid centres. Kandul said, “Oxygen supply is really very tight. Every day there are crises at some hospital. PMC’s total demand for civic-body-run Covid centres is 42 metric tonnes and we are not getting oxygen as per demand. There is short of six metric tonnes, but we are managing.”Another officer, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said, “Due to social media, there is more panic. If oxygen levels came down in a specific hospital immediately the news is on social media, even if the demand is addressed. Then, the administration needs to address various calls to deal with the panic.”A doctor working at a government hospital, also speaking anonymously, said, “As the surge is very high and many patients are critical, oxygen demand increases all of a sudden. Now doctors need to keep in mind things like oxygen supply. This creates a greater burden on the medical fraternity as they need to handle the situation in the wards.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/oxygen-stock-running-out-of-breath-in-pune-101619014843147.html
