23-04-2021||Pune||9,863 fresh Covid cases, 30 deaths reported in Pune||Pune district reported 9,863 fresh Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths on Friday, as reported by the state health department. The total count of the infection went up to 0.776 million in Pune district, of which 0.650 million have recovered.The death toll in Pune has now gone up to 8,983 and currently 1,16,602 cases are active, undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.Pune city reported 4,536 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 0.401 million. With 14 deaths, the toll is now at 5,100.Pune rural reported 2,930 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 0.183 million. With 13 more deaths the toll is now at 2,370. PCMC reported 2,397 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 0.190 million cases. With three more deaths the toll went up to 1,458.Also 56,815 people got the vaccine on Friday, of which 31,149 were from Pune rural; 16,144 from Pune city and 9,522 from PCMC. Of the 56,815 vaccinations, 4,522 were of Covaxin and 52,293 of Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/9863-fresh-covid-cases-30-deaths-reported-101619195696317.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Covid outbreak at old age home: 47 infected, two dead||In the remote taluka of Velha, a retirement home run by the Janseva Foundation reported a Covid-19 outbreak on April 9, which saw 47 senior citizens infected. Of the 180, 47 tested positive and 30 needed a doctor’s attention.While most have recovered, two deaths were reported, despite the age factor and reported comorbidities.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here All the senior citizens had got their first shot of the vaccine.Vishal Shinde, block development officer of Velha, said, “We had reported 47 positive cases from this home and two deaths. Since most of them had got on vaccine shot they did not report any severe symptoms. They also tested positive on April 9 and now most of them have already recovered.”Dr Vinod Shah, himself a septuagenarian and one of the first recipients of Covishield under the healthcare workers category, runs the home. He said, “I have received both the shots of the vaccine and had tested positive for the infection just two weeks ago. However, despite my diabetic condition for which I have been taking insulin for the past 45 years, I only had body ache and weakness. I did not even require oxygen treatment and now my 14-day quarantine will be over soon. The vaccine has proven quite effective among senior citizens. The deaths also happened when the patient was being transported from our hospital to the Velha primary health care centre and then was being brought to Poona hospital. In the other case, the patient had an oxygen saturation of 95 in the night and in the morning died, possibly because of cardiac arrest or another reason.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-outbreak-at-old-age-home-47-infected-two-dead-101619193956341.html
23-04-2021||Pune||PMC staffer, 3 of his family succumb to Covid infection||The second wave of Covid-19 claimed four members of a family within a span of 10 days. Shyamsundar Kuchekar, 45, working at the Pune Municipal Corporation Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward succumbed to the virus on Thursday afternoon. His brother Vijaykumar Kuchekar passed away due to the infection in the evening.Shyamsundar had lost his mother, father and brother because of the complications developed after contracting Covid infection in the last 10 days.“Shyamsundar was a permanent employee of PMC. He was hospitalised at a private hospital on April 4,” said Somnath Bankar, assistant municipal commissioner and Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward officer.The Kuchekar family resides at Swami Vivekanand Society in Hadapsar.Shyamsundar is survived by two daughters and a son.“He was a soft-spoken and helpful person. The virus wiping out a family within two weeks is devastating. He was admitted to Noble hospital. This second wave has taken many families. People recovered from the virus when it was at its peak last year, but the present form of virus is more deadly and claiming more lives. The present wave is out of bounds for anyone. People need to realise the severity of the situation and strictly follow the Covid norms,” said Rajendra Tidke, PMC engineer, Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward office.Shyamsundar’s mother Suman Kuchekar (70) was hospitalised on April 1 in Jehangir hospital. His father Laxman Kuchekar (75) was admitted to Jumbo Covid centre at College of Engineering, Pune (COEP) on April 7 and brother Vijaykumar was admitted to the same centre on April 9. Shyamsundar’s parents died a week ago.“Shyamsundar was directly admitted to ICU at our hospital on April 4 as his condition was critical and he put on ventilator. He was in ICU for 19 days and his condition did not improve. He died on April 22 noon,” said Dr HK Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital.The relatives of Kuchekar family are in a state of shock. “We thought that they were being treated at a good hospital and will recover, but the virus claimed them,” said Ganesh Bhise, brother-in-law of Shyamsundar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-staffer-3-of-his-family-succumb-to-covid-infection-101619193236175.html
23-04-2021||Pune||The fight for Remdesivir continues||A total of only 250 doses of Remedesivir were supplied to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run hospitals, whereas as per the civic body’s health department, there are 1,328 critical patients in the city. The shortage of Remdesivir injection has left families of critical Covid positive patients in distress. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, the wife of a 38-year-old Covid patient who is admitted at a PMC-run hospital said that the first dose of Remdesivir was administered to the patient on Tuesday. “The second dose was given on Thursday, and there is no supply as of now of the injection. In the open market, the drug is not available, and the hospital doesn’t have the injection either. As there were plenty of cases found wherein paracetamol was supplied in the bottles of Remdesivir, we cannot even try to find the medicine in the open market. My husband is critical. I don’t know what to do,” she said. Dr Madhuri Gare, in charge at Dalvi Hospital in Shivajinagar said that the injection is administered to a critical patient based on various factors. “The injection is supplied to the hospital by the PMC and until 2 pm, there was no supply. By evening, 40 doses of Remedesivir were allocated to the hospital. There are around 162 patients on oxygen supply and around 10 patients in ICU as on Friday,” said Dr Gare. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief at the health department of the PMC said that there is a shortage of the medicine. “We have over 1,300 critical patients in PMC and the supply we received on Friday was just 250 injections. As we are getting less doses, we are sending less doses to the hospital as well,” said Dr Wavare. Due to the acute shortage of the injection that has continued from last few weeks, the district administration has made it mandatory for hospitals to provide the injection to the patient so that the families of the patient do not hunt for the medicine. As per the district administration, the drug is supplied to the PMC, which in turn allocates the drug to hospitals. On Thursday, 6,400 injections were allocated to hospitals in PMC and Pune rural with a total bed capacity of 10,874. This allocation does not include PMC-run hospitals. Ahead of the shortage, many cases of selling fake Remdesivir injection also came to the forefront.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/the-fight-for-remdesivir-continues-101619190656199.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Experts suggest vaccinating children below the age of 18 to control cases in that age group||In the deadly second wave of Covid-19 that has hit India, a large number of children below the age of 18 are getting infected, with some even having severe symptoms. In an attempt to control this trend, doctors and experts have suggested that vaccination among children will help keep the numbers low. Of the total cases, around 3.03 per cent positive patients are below the age of 10 years whereas 6.73 per cent of the total positive cases are between the ages of 11 years to 20 years. Dr Pradeep Suryavanshi, head of neonatology and paediatric, Sahyadri Hospitals said that the infectivity rate in children is more, fever presentation is more and is resulting in the infection spreading to families including grandparents. “Therefore, vaccination in children especially in the age group of 10-18 years will help. This is because this is the most active age group where children play and mix with their friends and families. While most of the trials worldwide have happened in the adult age group, the knowledge should be extracted and seen whether it can be applied in paediatrics,” Dr Suryavanshi said. Dr Ganesh Badge, consultant paediatrician at city-based Columbia Asia Hospital said that vaccinating children is under trial in the U.S. “The results of this trial by Pfizer-BioNTech are very encouraging as the phase three trials of adolescents between 12 and 15 years with or without prior evidence of Covid infections, demonstrated 100 per cent efficacy and robust antibody responses. Moderna has also begun a phase 2/3 study of children aged between six months and 11 years. However, it is important that a separate clinical trial is held in India before approving any such vaccine. Improving the vaccine coverage of the adult population in India will also help protect children,” said Dr Badge. Dr Aarti Kinikar, head of the paediatric ward at Sassoon General Hospital said that during the second wave many children are testing positive. “Some children are also critical with severe symptoms of Covid-19. Isolating a child from Covid positive patients is important to ensure the safety of the child,” said Dr Kinikar. Dr Suchit Tamboli, a paediatrician said that vaccination for children below the age of 18 years is expected to start in July or August. “India should start a trial of vaccines for children below the age of 18 years. We need to take care of the children by using masks, hand wash, sanitizer, and social distance till the vaccine arrives. Parents should report to paediatricians if the child has fever, cold, cough, loose motions and is not responding to usual treatment and also if has a history of contact with Covid positive patients,” said Dr Tamboli. Dr Suryavanshi added that isolation of children below the age group of 14 is particularly difficult as they always want to be with their parents. “In such a case the one with better immunity should get involved and take care of the child during the isolation period. It is also important to ensure the child wears a mask during isolation at home,” said Dr Suryavanshi. Box April 23, 2021 Positive cases under the age of 10 years in Maharashtra—1,22,522 Positive cases between 11 to 20 years in Maharashtra—2,72,410 Total positive cases in Maharashtra: 4,041,010 *March 4, 2021 Positive cases under the age of 10 years in Maharashtra—91,054 Positive cases between 11 to 20 years in Maharashtra 1,93,253 total cases in MH: 2,917,285 *December 17, 2020 Positive cases under the age of 10 years in Maharashtra—65,850 Positive cases between 11 to 20 years in Maharashtra 1,26,584 Total positive cases in Maharashtra: 1,889,366 Source: Medical Education and Drugs Department, Public Health department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/experts-suggest-vaccinating-children-below-the-age-of-18-to-control-cases-in-that-age-group-101619190536064.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Cops irked by commuters’ false reasons to venture out||According to police posted at various check posts across Pune, commuters are giving false reasons in order to venture out during the strict lockdown imposed by the state government to control the surge in Covid-19 cases. “I am going out to feed pigeons”- is one reason which people tell the cops. “Since morning, there have been four people who have given the exact same reason we allowed two of them go as it was 8 in the morning, however, we had to turn back the other two since it was 11am,” said Sunil Kumar, traffic police constable who was on duty at the University Road police check post. From April 22, the government has only allowed essential service vehicles to ply on the streets of the city. “The order is strict for all; we need to confirm the commuter’s genuine reason or an essential service ID card. Many people are still needlessly coming out. We are imposing a fine on them,” said Kumar. Traffic police at Aundh check post caught 10 people who came out without any essential reason until 12 noon. “Only home delivery is allowed but still people are coming out to get food parcel. We consider some of them by giving a warning but next day again people make the same mistake,” added Vishal Those, traffic constable. Aditya Kadgale who paid a fine of ₹500 said, “I did not come out without a purpose. I stay where the map does not show the proper location to the delivery apps, hence I had to get my food parcel.” Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) said, “Many people are still not taking the orders seriously. In the coming days more check posts will be installed across the city. The situation is grim that’s why there are so many restrictions in place. People should stop coming out unnecessarily.” “If people continue to flout the rules, the administration will be left with no option but to impose restrictions like last year,” added Shrirame.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cops-irked-by-commuters-false-reasons-to-venture-out-101619190416119.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Seven days into infection, nasopharyngeal sample may lead to false RT-PCR negatives: NIV director Dr Abraham||During a public seminar on genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-19 which was attended by the national laboratory heads from across the country including the National Institute of Virology (NIV) director Dr Priya Abraham, it was revealed that despite severe Covid-19 symptoms, a person may test negative for the infection through RT-PCR. Dr Abraham said that there have been multiple reports in the media about RT-PCR negative individuals unable to get admission into hospital even though they are gasping for breath and are unable to get access to the oxygen because of the negative report. “There are multiple factors which could lead to this. Due to the extreme stress due to the situation in a clinical setting, the sampling could be inappropriate; individuals may be appearing late for sampling and typically if they come after seven days into the infection the sampling from the Nasopharyngeal area may reduce sensitivity of the nucleic acid leading to a false negative of the RT-PCR. The other factors could be efficiency of the acid kits being compromised as they were not stored or transported properly and so the reverse transcription enzyme or the polymerase enzyme may lose the integrity. Also the added pressure on the laboratory staff due to the current situation as they are also being infected differs from the ideal situation,” Dr Abraham said. The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG) members also said that in Maharashtra they sequenced around 4 per cent or 71 sequenced samples that detected with Variants of Concern (VOC) of the 1,779 samples sequenced. Of these 1,723 were community samples and 56 were from travellers.The INSACOG is a 10-member group which was formed by the Government of India for large scale sequencing of genome sequencing. Dr Abraham said, “To identify the variants we have to first sequence them, then detect them, which is done through amplification process most commonly known as RT-PCR tests. Since the pandemic RT-PCR has been the gold standard for diagnosis and detection of the infection since the beginning of the pandemic. Over 99 per cent of the times, we are able to identify the virus and are able to allow us to then go on to sequence and identify the variants which are being discussed.” She further added that normally an RT-PCR picks up variants of every kind and today the acids are approved and validated by the government are fully capable of picking up the UK variant, the double mutation variant, the Brazilian variant and also the South African variant. The webinar was arranged by the department of biotechnology, ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India on Friday on genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-19 to highlight the importance of sequencing genome of SARS-CoV-19, and the work done by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) in ascertaining the current status of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2, establishing a sentinel surveillance for early detection, and determining the genomic variants in the unusual events/trends. Research laboratories across the country had started sequencing of the SARS-CoV-2 genome from April 2020, however these were mostly samples collected randomly across the country. The first report of a UK variant of concern was published in December 2020 and the government immediately established INSACOG which is a national multi-agency consortium for large-scale sequencing of viral genome collected in a systematic manner with complete metadata. Ten laboratories of the department of biotechnology, CSIR, ICMR and Ministry of health and family welfare, were brought together. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), MoHFW was given the responsibility to correlate the clinical aspects and coordinate collection of samples from the states. So far about 20,000 samples have been sequenced and about 1,500 variants have been identified across the country. These are mainly the UK and South Africa variant and a small number of Brazil variants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/seven-days-into-infection-nasopharyngeal-sample-may-lead-to-false-rt-pcr-negatives-niv-director-dr-abraham-101619190356112.html
23-04-2021||Pune||PMC understaffed for Covid check on passengers coming in at Pune railway station||PUNE To stop the spread of Covid-19 the district administration has made it mandatory to check the “Covid negative” report of all passengers in to Pune by train from outside.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) with the help of the Pune railway division, have started thermal scanning passengers, and if required, rapid antigen tests of passengers are done at the Pune railway station. However, over the past last two weeks, passenger traffic at the Pune railway station has increased dramatically. For better movement of passengers, entry to the station premises is from the front end of the railway station. Staff deployed by the civic body is not enough for the large number of passengers coming in. A maximum of five PMC staffers are on duty to check hundreds of passengers. Harsha Shah, president, Railway Pravasi Group, said, “Passengers coming in from outside the state is huge and practically, it is not possible to check each and every one. PMC health department needs to increase staff deployed for checking exit at the station premises.”The exit gate for all the incoming passengers is from the Raja Bahadur Mill road gate, using the newly built foot overbridge (FOB). Passengers are checked on this FOB by staff from the PMC health department. “We are checking passengers coming in from other states to Pune. We are checking the RTPCR test reports of passengers. Those passengers who do not have the reports have to undergo a rapid antigen test at the station. Each and every passenger’s contact details are with us,” said Chandrakant Walemad, a PMC health department official. Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson said, “Pune railway division is always prepared to help the civic administration. All needed help and support is provided to them, whether for thermal checking or Covid test reports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-understaffed-for-covid-check-on-passengers-coming-in-at-pune-railway-station-101619180456185.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Slam dunk: Staying fit through peaks and valleys of NBA season all about “periodisation’||Diving into the preparation of a player for the gruelling competitive NBA season gives a behind-the-scenes look into what it takes to prepare for the rigors of the highest level of competitive basketball. With the NBA playoffs (and the new play-in format) fast approaching, the past few weeks have seen a number of NBA stars beset with serious injuries, which could have major implications on their team’s hopes of winning the NBA championship. Particularly notable were the injuries to Jamal Murray, Donovan Mitchell, Trae Young and Kevin Durant. In some cases, particularly for teams in smaller media markets, the injuries can have major implications beyond just the current season, being that it takes a huge amount of patience to build and develop players through the NBA draft, compared to luring free-agent superstars to join a team. With such huge consequences on the line, this brings us to the next part of our series. How is it possible to navigate and adapt a player’s training and preparation throughout the course of an NBA season to keep them at their peak physical levels during the playoffs?Coming off a preseason and training camp, players have to be ready to handle playing approximately three games each week from October until the middle of April. In fact, other than a week for the NBA All-Star break, NBA players get no time away from late September until the middle of April. The best players usually need to then be at their peak performance and physical levels from April until June, when the NBA Finals are played. In planning a player’s training, it is therefore, important for a player to understand how much they will be playing throughout the season. Players that are not playing in games will undoubtedly have to do more practice and physical conditioning in order to keep themselves ready to handle the intensity and competition of an NBA game. Breaking up the season into periods of high and low-game and travel density allows a player to understand whether to focus on recovery or building themselves up at a particular point in the season. For players who are playing a large number of minutes, it may be necessary to train with heavier weights less, than players who are playing once every five or six games. Players playing a large number of minutes may be better served focusing on recovery in order to be primed and ready to play the next game. Dividing the season in this manner allows trainers and players to focus on a specific goal in a small window of time, and after this goal has been accomplished, they can then review the results and set the goals for the next time period of the season, deciding whether to increase or decrease the intensity of their workouts according to what is being required of a player during the game. This planning strategy is usually referred to as “periodization”. Countless times throughout NBA history, the health of players during the NBA playoffs has been a deciding factor and resulted in a “what-if” scenario. Most recently, one can recall the importance of Chris Paul missing Game 7 for the Houston Rockets due to a hamstring injury, as their bid to topple the Golden State Warriors dynasty was unsuccessful. By following a periodisation plan through the competitive NBA season, training staffs can ensure that players stay healthy for the entire duration of the year and are performing at their highest possible physical condition during the NBA playoffs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/slam-dunk-staying-fit-through-peaks-and-valleys-of-nba-season-all-about-periodisation-101619176496221.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Covid test results see five-day delay; labs work overtime in Pune||Pune: Though Pune city is carrying out more than 24,000 tests every day, there has been delay in getting the results. As many residents are reporting at the medical centres for tests, results are taking over four to five days. On Thursday, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) collected 22,277 samples for testing for Covid-19. Speaking about the delay, Nishi Parkhe, a resident of Kothrud, said that she had to visit several hospitals and laboratories to get the test done. She had to wait for five days before getting her reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test results. “I visited several hospitals last Thursday and Friday to get the test done. My husband has tested positive. But on weekends, no lab was taking the sample. At last I found a lab who took swab sample on Friday evening. But the sample was registered on Monday. And the test came negative late on Wednesday night. My husband was in home isolation. And I wanted to get the test done to ensure that I was negative,” said Parkhe. Dr Awanti Golwilkar-Mehendale, chief of laboratory at AG Diagnostics, said that laboratories are overloaded with samples due to rising positive patients of Covid. “When we started last year, we were testing around 80 to 100 tests a day. We had increased testing to around 1,000 tests a day during the last wave. And in the last few weeks, we have ramped up to more than 2,000 tests a day. There is a huge inflow of patients coming for testing. We have redirected our staff to address this process,” said Dr Mehendale. She said that labs across the city are working overtime to provide results as soon as possible to patients. “Test reports that show markers of a critical patient, we alert the patient. Many labs in the city have ramped up their services and are trying to conduct more tests,” said Dr Mehendale. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief, PMC health department, said that as the three government labs were full, there was delay in getting results, but the condition has improved. “The lab kits at many private labs were over. Now, the condition has improved and reports are being issued without delay,” said Dr Wavare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-test-results-see-4-5-day-delay-labs-work-overtime-in-pune-101619108630387.html
23-04-2021||Pune||New curbs on pvt bus transport put brakes on operators’ business in Pune||Pune: The state government’s stringent new rules on inter-district travel as part of its efforts to break the Covid-19 pandemic has left private bus operators looking at a bleak future. They have termed the new rules and SOPs (standard operating procedures) non-viable and many have opted to stop plying buses on certain routes till the new restrictions are in place. According to the new curbs issued on Wednesday, private buses can ply with 50% seating capacity. Bus operators claimed that it is not affordable to ferry buses with 50% passenger as diesel rates have soared and ticket fare cannot be increased. “Nobody will travel in today’s condition by paying double fare to cover the empty seats. We have stopped plying buses on all routes from Thursday. The new rules will hit our business. Bus operators should decide if it is feasible to operate in this condition,” said Prasanna Patwardhan, chairman and managing director, Prasanna Purple, and president, Bus & Car Operators Confederation of India (Boci). According to the new rules for private bus operators declared on Wednesday by the state, bus service must restrict stoppages to maximum two in a city and at the stoppages alighting passengers must be stamped on the hand for 14-day home quarantine. “We are discussing the plan of operations. We have stopped the Gujarat route for Friday till the plan is finalised. We have closed the Nagpur route till May 1 from Wednesday. Till last week 3-4 buses plied on the Nagpur route daily. But the number had reduced to one now. Currently there are very few bookings on the Mumbai route as well. People are not even willing to travel as it will involve home quarantine. Many people have cancelled bookings after the mandatory RT-PCR test by Gujarat and Maharashtra governments,” said Akshay Nagras, business development manager, Neeta Tours & Travels. According to bus operators, March-June is a prime business season but, like last year, they are facing a lean period. “We closed our Nagpur route and only Marathwada has been operational since last year. With the new regulations, I don’t think it will be possible to function. Last year, when we got the permission to operate with full capacity diesel prices soared and our profit margin reduced. Now, when the situation was stabilising, business has been hit again,” said Pavan Patil, operator, Khurana Travels. As the administration slowly started to impose the curbs, anticipating lockdown many have already returned to their hometown. Now that the private bus services have been halted, passengers are contemplating other options. “My hometown is Akola and I have to travel home for an unavoidable reason. I was planning to travel in the next 2-3 days, but I heard that bus services could be disrupted. Now train is the only option available. I will try and book a ticket. I hope I will get it, as not many people are willing to travel now,” said a resident of Sangvi area on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-curbs-on-pvt-bus-transport-put-brakes-on-operators-business-in-pune-101619108030396.html
23-04-2021||Pune||O2 manufacture industry in Pune in overdrive to fill demand-supply gap||Pune: Like the healthcare and frontline workers, employees working at oxygen manufacturing plants are working round the clock to meet the increasing demand of oxygen supply for Covid patients. The management of such firms have termed the handling of oxygen supply as a “war-like situation”. Sadashiv Survase, additional director, commissionerate of industries that monitors oxygen producing industries in Pune district, said, “It’s really a war- like situation and all plants are working in full capacity. They are facing issues related to extra load and production, but steps are taken to overcome it. This industry requires highly skilled manpower and the biggest challenge they face is to avoid and protect the staff from being infected by the coronavirus.” Surwase said, “We, as part of the government, ensure that the industry does not face any power failure and provide police protection to the plants besides addressing other needs.” A top official of an oxygen producing industry said, “As per the company policy, we cannot speak to the media. We are working hard on the work floor. At this stage, our priority is that the plant runs at full capacity and employees working at the ground should not get Covid-19 positive.” Another officer, on condition of anonymity, said, “There is a panic situation. We are getting calls from VIPs with request to divert oxygen to specific hospitals because of shortage. It’s becoming a challenge to monitor the supply chain.” Another officer on anonymity said that people are directly approaching plants with requests to refill cylinders. A district administration officer said, “Our priority is that all the four major plants in the district that produces oxygen should run full capacity and does not affect the oxygen supply and create a crisis.” Major medical oxygen producers Inox Air products (Chakan) Air Liquide India Holding Pvt Ltd (Chakan) Taiya Nippon Sanso India (Chakan) Linde India Ltd (Chakan) Oxygen cylinder refill units in the district Raigad Gas India (Chakan) Sudesh Gas India (Chakan) GVS Air Service (Baramati) United Gas Company (Shindewadi-Bhor) Kay Chandra Iron Engineering Works Pvt Ltd (Jejuri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/o2-manufacture-industry-in-pune-into-overdrive-to-fill-demand-supply-gap-101619103109993.html
