24-04-2021||Pune||With 23 new deaths, Covid toll crosses 9,000 mark in Pune district||PUNE The district, on Saturday, reported 10,025 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, as per the state health department.Also, with 23 new deaths due to the infection, the toll went past the 9,000 mark as the toll went up to 9,006 deaths in the district.The progressive count stands at 7.86 lakh out of which 6.69 lakh have recovered and 108,231 are active cases undergoing treatment in hospitals or are in home isolation.Out of the total reported new Covid-19 cases, Pune rural reported 3,476 new cases which took the progressive count to 18,7052 and with 11 more deaths the toll stands at 2,381.Pune city reported 4,118 new cases which took the final to 406,030 and with 11 more deaths the toll went up to 5,111.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 2,431 more new cases which took the toll to 193,389 and with one more death the toll went up to 1,459.Pune also saw a drastic drop in vaccination as only 24,157 beneficiaries got the vaccine out of which 10,270 were from Pune rural, 5,517 from Pune city and 8,370 from PCMC.Out of the total beneficiaries, 16,252 got Covishield and 7,905 for Covaxin. Vaccination was conducted at 383 session sites on Saturday.The Pune Zilla Parishad has decided to offer monetary rewards and certificates to the staffers of gram panchayats, including Asha workers and Anganwadi staffers, if they contain the spread of Covid in their villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/with-23-new-deaths-covid-toll-crosses-9-000-mark-in-pune-district-101619283780910.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Labour shortage hits Pune Metro again, won’t meet deadline||The Pune Metro will not meet its deadline for a trial run in the month of May after more than 2,000 labourers have returned home due to the fear of stricter restrictions and lack of work. A senior consultant who was part of the Pune Metro project lost his life due to Covid-19 in his hometown in Karnataka, causing a sense of fear among workers. As compared to last year, the spread and infection rate of Covid-19 is high, however, the Maharashtra Metro Railway Corporation Limited (Maha-Metro) has taken care of workers in terms of food, stay and vaccinations. Despite better arrangements for food and stay, workers are returning back to their hometowns. Till date, more than 2,000 workers have gone back to their hometowns and the trend is on an upward rise. Last year, of 6,500 workers, only 800 were on duty after the government made arrangements for trains in the month of June 2020. This year, there are no restrictions on traveling and trains are also available to workers to return to their hometowns. Pune Metro had decided to take a trial run on the Vanaz-Ramwadi corridor using coaches belonging to the Nagpur Metro. They brought three coaches from Nagpur in the first week of March 2021 for a trial run. The Metro had decided to start a trial run on the Vanaz-Ramwadi corridor on one kilometre stretch from Vanaz depot to Anand Nagar by the month of May. According to officials, the trial run was scheduled in the period from March to May but, now it is not possible due to the shortage of manpower. The work has been disturbed, and a similar situation is reported from the PCMC –Swargate corridor. After conducting a six kilometre trial run between PCMC to Phugewadi in the first week of January, Maha-Metro had decided to start commercial operation on this stretch in the period of May or June before civic polls. Now, it looks difficult to complete the work as per the set deadline. Hemant Sonwane, general manager of Maha-Metro said, “Till date more than 2,000 workers have returned to their hometowns. We have more than 6,000 workers. At present, there are 35- 40 workers undergoing treatment. We are providing medical facilities, food and medical advance. “ He further added, “The metro project work will get affected in this situation and we will have to revise our work schedule. Last year, labours went in June and they returned in the Diwali festival season. We had made arrangements for private buses. Now, we are hoping, the second wave will not last long and labourers will come back after the situation normalises in the city.” Consultant dies due to Covid-19 A 54-year-old senior level officer died to Covid-19 infection in his hometown in Karnataka while taking treatment at a private hospital. He was a consultant in the Pune Metro project. As many as 121 workers have tested positive for Covid-19, however, some of them recovered. Sonawane said,” The consultant was not paid for the Pune metro project. Metro has outsourced different works, he was one of them. We didn’t know whether he was infected at work or not. He had taken leave and gone to his hometown.” “There are no casualties recorded in the first and second wave so far. All workers above 45 years of age have been vaccinated. From May 1, as the new norms come into effect, we will start vaccinating all above 18 years of age,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/labour-shortage-hits-pune-metro-again-won-t-meet-deadline-101619279400753.html
24-04-2021||Pune||31 hospitals in Pune district fail to procure allotted Remdesivir vials||PUNE Amid a shortage of Remdesivir, the Pune district Food and District Administration (FDA) has issued a letter to 31 hospitals in the district for not collecting their quota of the anti-viral drug (315 injections) as decided by the administration.These 31 hospitals include two from Junnar and other smaller hospitals from the municipal corporations and distant rural areas.In a letter issued by FDA and signed by assistant commissioner SV Pratappawar, all these hospitals are told to provide a written reply as to why they have not collected the allocated stock of Remdesivir.The letter also states that if these hospitals do not collect their stock then they should be redistributed to the nearest hospital as per requirement.Since April 16, the district collector has issued an order stating that henceforth all hospitals would directly get allocated stock of Remdesivir and no over the counter sale would be allowed. The stock would be allocated as per the functional beds in the hospitals.Officials of Sable Hospital located in Bhosari said they did not receive any such message about collecting the drug.Sandeep Pisal, administrator at the hospital, said, “We have a system through which we get daily messages regarding oxygen availability, Remdesivir and bed availability. We got one stock on April 19 and then another one is coming on Sunday.” The hospital had 16 injections allocated on April 20.Ayush Prasad, Zilla Parishad chief executive officer (CEO), has asked all the concerned officers to seek a written reply from all these hospitals. He said, “I have passed the list of such hospitals to the officers and asked them to look into the issue. These hospitals have not procured their Remdesivir vials to date.”“I have asked them to check whether these hospitals are functioning or not. If those are working then they should be directed to collect the stock from the concerned distributor/stockist,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/31-hospitals-in-pune-district-fail-to-procure-allotted-remdesivir-vials-101619278860643.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Pune police introduce e-passes for inter-district travel, commuters caught unaware||On Friday, the Pune police reintroduced the e-pass system, which was in existence last year during lockdown for travel outside the district limits. Despite the mechanism available for digital passes for inter-district travel in Maharashtra, many commuters were caught unaware of the fresh norms on the first-day. The police stopped a large number of commuters without passes on Friday. The Pune police set up the ‘digital pass cell’ at the police commissioner’s office for smooth and genuine travel outside Pune district. Commuters who wish to travel out of district can apply for a digital pass on Maharashtra police’s website: covid19.mhpolice.in “I didn’t know that Pune police have started an e-pass system. I only knew there are restrictions and those wanting to travel for emergency purpose are allowed. When I started travel, I was stopped by police on Ahmednagar Road and they explained to me the new rule,” said Bhavesh Jain, a resident of Kharadi, who was planning to visit Aurangabad by road. There was another passenger Ravindra Tidke planning to visit Kolhapur by road when he was stopped by police at Katraj exit point and asked about e-pass. “We have deployed one police inspector, two assistant police inspectors and 20 police constables at the cell. Today until 6 pm, a total of 2,077 people have applied for the passes of which 286 citizens have been issued digital passes. 375 citizens have been denied due to lack of required documents,” informed Amitabh Gupta, commissioner of police. Things to remember: 1) Citizens involved in essential services, facilities and goods do not need a digital pass. They can travel by showing their official identity card at the checkpoints. 2) People can get digital pass if they are going to attend funeral or serious illness of a close person (mother / father / brother / sister / cousin / cousin / mother-in-law / sister-in-law), marriage, hospitalisation. It is mandatory to submit the required documents online. 3) Officers and employees working in essential services should carry their official identity card with them. 4) E-pass or digital passes will be given to the bride and groom, their parents, brothers, sisters, uncles, aunts for the wedding ceremony. But for this, it is necessary to attach the wedding card. 5) Permission will not be granted for business reasons. 6) Digital passes will be issued to citizens traveling by air.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-introduce-e-passes-for-inter-district-travel-commuters-caught-unaware-101619278440590.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Cop suspended after drinking with accused||A police sub-inspector was suspended from Pune police after senior officials received a complaint of him drinking with a person accused of black marketing of Remdesivir. “We received a complaint in this regard and upon primary investigation we found that he did drink with the person who was in custody for black marketing of Remdesivir,” said Srinivas Ghadage, deputy commissioner of police, crime, Pune. The officer was placed under suspension on Friday as the complaint against him was received by senior officers of the crime branch. The PSI was identified as Deepak Mane of Unit 4. While trying to reach PSI Mane for a comment, his phone was found to have been switched off. Pune police crime branch’s Unit 4 had arrested two siblings identified as Pradeep (25) and Sandeep Devdutt Late (23), residents of Balewadi and natives of Beed. They were found selling the injection for ₹25,000. A case under various laws was registered at Chaturshringi police station on April 16. They were remanded to police custody and later released on bail by court. The drinking session happened after the accused was let out of police custody, according to DCP Ghadage. There are further allegations of drunken misconduct by the PSI. However, when asked about it, DCP Ghadage said, “The inquiry has been given to ACP Khadki. After the inquiry is over, further action will be taken.” Further action against the PSI may include a criminal case, if found involved in the accusations against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cop-suspended-after-drinking-with-accused-101619278260594.html
24-04-2021||Pune||65-year-old woman among six arrested for cannabis smuggling||A 65-year-old woman was among six people arrested for smuggling cannabis to Pune on Saturday morning. The six were identified as Rurubai Ratan Pawar (65), Deepak Bhimrao Hivale (23), Aditya Dattatray Dhande (19), Akash Sunil Bhalerao (27), Hirabai Santosh Jadhav (40), Parvati Suresh Mane (57) all residents of Jalna. The officials of anti-narcotic cell two were patrolling in Hadapsar on Saturday around 4 am when they intercepted a magma grey coloured Ertiga car registered in Jalna. The car was parked in front of the public road at Shrinath washing centre in Hadapsar, according to a statement of the police. “When asked about the reason for coming to that place at that hour, they started giving misleading answers which led us to check their car to find two nylon sacks under the middle seats and two more under the back seats of the car,” read the statement in Marathi. Without opening the sacks, the smell emanating from the sacks led the police to question them further when they revealed that the narcotic substance was brought to Pune for sale. The worth of the drug in the market was found to be ₹13,60,000, according to the police. A case under Sections 8(c), 20(b)(ii)(c), and 29 of Narcotics Drugs and Psychedelic Substance Act was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/65yearold-woman-among-six-arrested-for-cannabis-smuggling-101619278200544.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Restaurant booked for serving hokaah, food to customers||The manager and waiting staff of a restaurant in Pune were found serving hookah and food to customers on Friday even with the restrictions in light of Covid-19 in place. The restaurant was identified as Deccan Galaxy, according to the police. In the jurisdiction of Deccan police station, Deccan Galaxy was found to have been serving hookah along with food on Friday, according to a statement by Murlidhar Karpe, senior police inspector of Deccan Gymkhana police station. “As the possibility of tobacco present in the hookah found at the restaurant cannot be denied, four samples were sent for chemical analysis. Two hookah pots were seized in presence of panch,” read the statement in Marathi. The restaurant was found flouting norms set by Maharashtra government as well as the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). A case under Sections 188, 269, 270, 34 of Indian Penal Code, Section 51(b) of National Disaster Management Act, and Section 4A, 21A of the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act was registered at the Deccan Gymkhana police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/restaurant-booked-for-serving-hokaah-food-to-customers-101619278140609.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Your Space: Vax for all above age of 18||The Prime Minister Narendra Modi government has decided to bring all above the age of 18 under the vaccination drive, from May 1. What steps should the administration take in such short span of time to put in place adequate manpower and machinery to cover the record population? It is a welcome step The Centre’s move to make Covid-19 vaccination available for all above the age of 18 is a commendable step. It drive will benefit the young generation and middle-aged. The central government should decentralise the campaign so that everyone get the jab. The spaces that are currently empty, such as schools, colleges and corporate offices can be utilised for setting up vaccination booths. Decentralisation will ease the pressure on hospitals, dispensaries, labs and government spaces. The authorities can utilise the data of students and ask them to visit their college with ID to get vaccinated. Since schools are closed, the middle-aged can visit a nearby school with their ID for inoculation. Those who have returned to their hometown can register for vaccination at the nearest available centre. Public awareness campaigns will also encourage beneficiaries to get registered for vaccination. Owners of schools/colleges/corporate offices can be motivated to make their spaces available for vaccination. The government can develop an app/website for registration and allotting preferred/nearby centres for beneficiaries.Rajas Pathak Use workplaces as vax centresI think the government should have taken the decision earlier. The steps that the administration can now take for speedy vaccination are instead of asking people to come to the vaccination centre, the authorities can launch a doorstep inoculation campaign at workplace to avoid crowd and maintain discipline. Teachers will get vaccine at their school, engineers at their work floor and company campus. Secondly, hold awareness campaigns using social media, digital influencers or rickshaws (with speakers) to instil public confidence in vaccination. Design strong and user-friendly web portal for booking slots, for any queries regarding vaccine, and regular communication regarding second dose by SMS or email.Abhijeet EkadEnsure adequate supply of vaccineI feel that the vaccination drive is going quite well, but the only problem that needs to be solved is communication gap. Most of the time, the vaccines are not coming and authorities don’t know when it will arrive (that’s what they claim). They aren’t sure whether the vaccines will be delivered the day after or not. It should be clear so that they can plan accordingly and reduce problems that people face. And talking about the public’s response, I feel college students like me should take a back seat and let the older population in their 30s and 40s take the vaccine first. As they have families to care, many being the breadwinner, and the age factor. Moreover, not all senior citizens have yet taken the vaccines or their second dose and inconsistent supply of vaccines is adding to the problem.Nisarg PawadeEfficient administration, portal mustWe are facing a shortage of healthcare staff skilled for vaccination. So, to utilise them with minimum stress, we need an efficient administration and proper use of Co-WIN portal. A person needing a vaccine will apply on the portal and he/she will get an appointment. At the vaccination centre, after confirming the identity, the person should get vaccine promptly to avoid delay and possible crowd. Later, the beneficiary should get timely information about the post-vaccination precautions. The vaccination centre should function in a way that the Covid precaution measures are strictly followed, including keeping entry and exit different. Dhruv Dhakane Clear misconceptions about vaccinesMany misconceptions are making rounds regarding the vaccination even now, especially in rural areas. The central and state governments need to address the misinformation and can rope in social groups and NGOs. Door-to-door vaccination drive can be carried out in rural parts as less manpower is needed because of the thin population in villages. Maruti Gaikwad State machinery adept to vax allI think most state governments have the machinery to implement vaccination programme. For example, Maharashtra is already supplying four lakh doses a day, which means the Centre must at this stage ensure adequate vaccine doses are provided to states and the formula of such allotment of doses to states must be in a transparent manner. The central government must also allow state governments to conduct door-to-door vaccination drive to meet the ambitious target. And, the authorities must also provide logistical and administrative support for such doorstep campaigns.Bhargav Bhamidipati||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-vax-for-all-above-age-of-18-101619275500484.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Oxygen express reaches Nashik; IAF ferries empty containers to Jamnagar||The first Oxygen Express carrying seven tankers filled with liquid medical oxygen from Visakhapatnam returned to Nashik on Saturday, five days after it started its journey. At the same time Indian Air Force in its run to fight against Covid-19, airlifted empty oxygen containers from Hindan air base for Pune airbase to filling stations.In a bid to meet the high demand of the critical gas meant for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, the Indian Railways has started “Oxygen Express” trains to ferry oxygen tankers from one region to another.“After unloading three tankers in Nagpur on Friday, the Oxygen Express tankers carrying four liquid medical oxygen was unloaded at Nashik on Saturday morning, to meet the increased requirement of oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients,” said a release issued by Press Information Bureau (PIB).The four tankers arrived at Nashik carried 15 metric tonnes of liquid oxygen each in what is called as the “Ro-Ro Express” that brought the oxygen from Visakhapatnam.State government authorities said while two tankers will be sent to Ahmednagar, two will be distributed in Nashik district itself.At the same time, one C-17 of Indian Air Force was airborne from Hindan air base in Pune air base at 8am on Saturday. The aircraft loaded with empty container trucks for liquid medical oxygen and departed Pune to offload these containers at Jamnagar air base by afternoon.According to Defence release, “The same C-17 aircraft is currently on its second shuttle from Pune to Jamnagar, with a load of two more empty containers.”“We were previously getting 240 metric tonnes of oxygen from Jamnagar. With other states such as Delhi, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh also badly affected by Covid, the Centre has decided to bring down Maharashtra’s quota to 125 metric tonnes,” said deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar in Pune after reviewing the situation.The containers will return to Maharashtra by road or train once they are loaded with medical oxygen which is in high demand due to the surge in Covid-19 cases.According to Indian Air Force authorities, the IAF has also deployed its C-17 which was airborne from the Hindan air base for Changi International Airport, Singapore at 2 am.“The aircraft arrived at Singapore at 7:45 am. After loading four containers of cryogenic oxygen tanks, it will depart Singapore and land at Panagarh air base in West Bengal and offload these containers by this evening,” stated PIB press release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/oxygen-express-reaches-nashik-iaf-ferries-empty-containers-from-pune-to-jamnagar-for-refill-101619272680292.html
24-04-2021||Pune||PPCR arranges 250 ventilators, 4,000 oxygen concentrators from Singapore||As the demand for oxygen and ventilators have skyrocketed in Pune and the rest of the country amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Pune Platform for Covid-19 Response (PPCR), anchored at Mahratta Chamber of Commerce Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) has arranged for procurement and donation of 250 ventilators and 4,000 oxygen concentrators for worst affected areas and hotspots of the country.The equipment has been arranged from Singapore to India under ‘Mission Vayu’.In a press release, PPCR said, “We have placed the order for 250 ventilators and 4,000 oxygen concentrator units, and the first consignment is expected to arrive in India from Singapore tomorrow (April 25).”In the past three days, PPCR has raised ₹12 crore to set up 12 oxygen generator plants, that are now being set up at multiple government and private hospitals. “With a combined capacity of generating 12 tonnes of oxygen a day, these oxygen plants will help save hundreds of lives in coming days,” said MCCIA office bearers.PPCR comprises more than 250 private and government hospitals, over ten government offices and around 150 private and non-profit sector members.“These oxygen concentrators and ventilators will be donated to hospitals and institutions for charitable purposes and cannot be resold for commercial purposes,” said PPCR.On Saturday, after the Centre waived customs duty on import of the various items related to oxygen and oxygen related equipment, MCCIA president Sudhir Mehta tweeted: “Thanks to @narendramodi ji and @PiyushGoyal ji for agreeing to our request to waive customs duty on oxygen and oxygen related items. This will help to further support our COVID Mission Vayu @ppcr_pune” (sic)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ppcr-arranges-250-ventilators-4-000-oxygen-concentrators-from-singapore-101619264699873.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Business snippets from around Pune||Druva Secures $147 million investment Druva Inc. announced a $147 million investment as the company rapidly scales in response to accelerated demand for its platform. The fundraise was led by Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec (CDPQ), a global investment group, with a significant investment by Neuberger Berman, each of which manage more than $300 billion in net assets. The round, which raises the company’s valuation above $2 billion, also included participation from existing investors Viking Global Investors and Atreides Management. Jaspreet Singh, founder and CEO, Druva said, “The unprecedented events of 2020 have ushered in a generational cloud transformation for businesses, and data‘s increasing value is at the very heart of it. This investment and our continued, rapid growth is further validation of our vision for a simple, open, and unified data protection and management platform.”Druva supports GameStop, Marriott, NASA, National Cancer Institute, Pfizer, and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals.Baja Saeindia 2021 commences 14th editionSaeindia , a professional Society of Automotive Engineers commenced its 14th edition of the much-awaited Baja Saeindia 2021 series. It will be held on a digital platform for the first time ever involving static as well as dynamic events.Baja Saeindia tasks students to conceptualise design, build, test and validate a single-seater four-wheeled All-Terrain Vehicle (ATV) to take part in a series of events spread across a course of four days. Two hundred entries across engineering colleges in India were received, of which 150 teams are registered for conventional event adnd 50 teams are registered for e-Baja event.Baja Saeindia 2021’s theme is about “Embracing Challenges”. Rashmi Urdhwareshe, president, Saeindia said, “The competition enables them to grapple with a real-life application and improve their skills related to design, validation, marketing, project management, teamwork, etc., which boosts their self-confidence and teaches them leadership skills.”Startups invited for Bhau Joint Technology Incubation programme COEP’s Bhau Institute in association with Cookson India is inviting innovative startup idea applications from entrepreneurs of India for the “Element Solutions - Bhau Joint Technology Incubation Programme”.Startups working on technologies like Power Electronics, Medical Electronics, Sustainability, Water Technology, Advanced Materials and Recycling can apply. The last date for applying is May 7, 2021. Startups will be invited for interview and presentation. A committee will review the applicants and further short list startups. Selected startups will be offered business plan guidance, business and technical mentoring, pitch deck preparation, 12-month incubation, access to COEP labs, guidance to apply for government funding schemes, prototype development and incubation funding. Symbiosis CEI Women Entrepreneurship Development Symbiosis Centre for Entrepreneurship and Innovation (SCEI) – the Symbiosis Technology Business incubator, supported by the Department of Science and Technology, is launching its third batch of the Women Entrepreneurship Development Programme, commencing on May 1, 2021.The programme includes free mentorship support for business ideas and also an opportunity to get incubated at the SCEI besides live sessions and panel discussions. It is a three-week online programme for women with business ideas. The criteria for enrolment is that the applicant should be between 20 and 45 years of age, and have diploma or bachelor’s degree in any field.HCL Jigsaw competitionHCL Jigsaw, a critical reasoning platform, has organised a problem solving competition for students of Classes 6-9. Registration for this competition is now open. Interested students or schools can register themselves at www.hcljigsaw.com, by May 31, 2021. This pan-India competition will take place virtually in two rounds - qualifier (June 24t– 27, 2021) and Finale (July 17 and 18, 2021). Participating students will get an opportunity to win prizes and gadgets worth ₹16 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/business-snippets-from-around-pune-101619261402527.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: Preventive care for the brain, AI-driven||Rajesh Kumar Purushottam and Dr Latha Poonamallee, the founders of InMed Prognostics, developed NeuroShield, an artificial intelligence (AI) software which can diagnose as well as predict the onset of neurological disorders. The cloud- based clinical decision support tool helps neuro-radiologists, neuro-physicians, psychiatrists and general physicians better understand the brain effects of different conditions by utilising 3D MRI images to their fullest, extracting data and providing volumetric analysis for the brain and its various structures.Rajesh Kumar Purushottam hails from Goa and has done his BE in Industrial Engineering and an MBA. He started his career as a shop-floor engineer after he joined Thermax in Pune as a trainee in 1993. Thereafter he has worked in several multinational companies like KPIT Infosystems, Motorola, GE Capital International Services, Motorola India, John Deere India and Vedanta group. Latha Poonamallee did her BA and MA from University of Madras and MBA from Pondicherry University. She did her PhD from Case Wetern Reserve University in Ohio. She joined the university as a senior lecturer and is presently working at the New School in New York as an associate professor. Dinner table conversation has a startup idea as its entreePurushottam founded a health informatics company Statim Healthcare in 2013, which provided teleradiology services to hospitals. Although Purushottam is in the process of exiting the startup, that exposure led him to the particular area of artificial intelligence in radiology. Says Purushottam: “I met Latha and her husband, Dr Al Curran, in 2017 in the US. A dinner table conversation was converted into an idea for a startup.”Recalling the early days, Poonamallee says, “We have been friends for over 20 years. A few years back, Rajesh helped me arrange some meetings in Bengaluru for my university students. While we were chatting then, I told Rajesh that the services business is value capturing. Why don’t do you do something in value creation like a product business? After that, when Rajesh was visiting me in the US with his family, he came up with this idea and proposed to start InMed Prognostics.”Why neurological disorders?Says Poonamallee, “When you are looking at the product market and product creation in radiology, the brain is the final frontier. One of our goals is to bring the brain into the preventative space. We undergo tests for heart ailments, blood pressure or diabetes, but there is nothing to do for brain. Also, there are no existing comparable tools to that we have outside of the white people’s population. We wanted to bring state-of-the-art tools that are affordable, accessible and reliable, and evidence-based to other populations also. We call it design justice. There is stigma associated with and also a lack of awareness about these disorders being preventative. We have done research and presented in Europe about our tools and predictive models predicting early dementia even in the 30s.”Early adoptersSays Purushottam, “A few years back there was misunderstanding that AI can replace radiologists, but we don’t frame it like that at all. We only support clinical decision making. We don’t provide diagnosis. We only provide additional and accurate information that saves times for the physician, radiologist, neurologists and neurosurgeon, to be more effective.”“Our earliest adopters and supporters were neurologist Dr Rahul Kulkarni from the Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital and paediatric neurologist Dr Deepa Divekar from Sahyadri Hospital. They helped me understand the local market and what they are really struggling with. We are also working with Dr Deepak Agarwal and the All-India Institute Medical sciences (AIIMS). He is on our scientific advisory board. Dr Ram Mohan Vadapalli from Vijaya Diagnostics in Hyderabad, one of renowned radiologists in the country, is also associated with us. Hospitals are buying our product. Our adoption rate is increasing partly because we have worked a lot with these physicians,” Purushottam claims.Data securityExplaining the data security measures, Poonamallee said, “Our tool extracts the data, images from the client-side server to our cloud but completely strips all identifiable information. With 3D MRI it is easy to reconstruct the persons face and hence, we remove the identifiable information in a way that the face cannot be reconstructed. Along with the report we also provide a lot of data visualisation to the physician if they want to look at segmented portions.”MVP and approvalsInMed Prognostics has got Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) approval which is very important for using software as a medical device. Says Poonamallee, “We have the minimum viable product (MVP) ready registered on the Government E-marketplace (GeM). We are in discussion with a government hospital in Goa which will be our first government sector client.”Accuracy and challenges in adoptionSays Purushottam, “AI in healthcare is not very common and that is the biggest challenge we have in adoption. We have done about 1,200 healthy controls and we got a DST funding for that from Birac, basically to create what we call as an Indian brain template. We are at a 90 per cent accuracy level. We use the convolutional neural network which is a very advanced way of deep learning so that as your healthy control data improves the predictive accuracy keeps increasing.”“With the help of AI, we can co-relate a lot of researches already based on it. To aid that kind of a decision support framework, the decision tree actually mimics the decision making of a clinician. For that we have to capture the inter-operator variability. Evidence creates transparency and accountability, so we also map the clinical setting and then look at the contextual evidence so that it can lead to a certain outcome. We have a customer success team which is always monitoring the product performance,” Purushottam explains.Tie-ups and adoption strategyInMed Prognostics has a pan-India presence with tie-ups with almost all major hospitals in the states like Delhi, Goa, Kerala, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh. Elaborating on their strategy, Purushottam says, “We go to the oldest diagnostic centre in the state capital which becomes a reference point and they refer us to the neurophysician or neurologist – the point of prescription and further a point of sale. We developed and trademarked Neuroshield as a brand which made it easy for doctors to recall it. It is in written in the prescription so that specific sequence or setting is taken at the time when the patient shows the requisition at the diagnostics centre and the charges are also collected. This way we also justify an additional payout for the customer in the range of ₹2,500 to Rs3000 at the diagnostic centre.”Funding Says Poonamallee, “Birac gave us a ₹50 lakh grant and offered a ₹1 crore investment that didn’t come to pass for multiple reasons. From friends and family, we have raised ₹3.5 crores so far. Currently we are in process of doing another ₹3.5 crore seed round with institutional investors.”Role of GE healthcare accelerator and venture centre incubatorInMed Prognostics was incubated at the Venture Centre at the NCL Innovation Park in Pune. “Venture Centre has been extremely instrumental in providing us a great ecosystem. They helped us get the Birac grant in terms of providing us legitimacy, good feedback on the market locally and understanding the system. Dr V Premnath has been very instrumental in helping us to strategically think through the technical challenges, how we make sure we get right sample, standardisation of data etc. GE Edison Healthcare platform is extraordinary gift and source of strength and technical expertise for us. We had amazing technical and business mentoring and integration with GE platforms and console. Our product is fairly OEM agnostic. They are going to be our sales channel partner in South Asia,” the founders explain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-preventive-care-for-the-brain-aidriven-101619260982640.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Arun Nigavekar, former UGC chairman, no more||Arun Nigavekar, former chairman of the University Grants Commission (UGC) and former vice-chancellor of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), passed away in Pune on Friday afternoon. He was 79-year-old and passed away due to a prolonged illness. Nigavekar was an eminent physicist. From 1998 to 2000 he worked as vice-chancellor at SPPU, then Pune University. After that he went to become vice-chairman, and then chairman, of UGC between 2000 and 2005. His significant contributions have been on the use of technology to improve higher education and the internationalisation of higher education. His path-breaking contribution was the initiation of the concept of quality in higher education, for which he was aptly called the father of the quality movement in higher education in India, by former President of India, the late Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. He was awarded numerous fellowships for his outstanding performance in academics. Talking about his demise, SPPU vice-chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “He was initially professor of Physics and then he became HOD of the department in Pune university. He worked as vice-chancellor for around 2.5 years and then went to Delhi to become chiarman of UGC. Indian Science Congress was formed during his tenure and leadership. He was a good teacher, administrator and a soft-spoken person. He always helped me during my work as vice-chancellor and his demise is a big loss to the academic sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/arun-nigavekar-former-ugc-chairman-no-more-101619193056171.html
24-04-2021||Pune||300 oxygen beds lying vacant, due to lack of O2||The term “oxygen bed” has come to represent a misnomer in the city, as the supply of oxygen has continued to remain choked. “Oxygen beds” were meant to imply bed spaces that had oxygen lines as part of its immediate set-up for the occupant. With no oxygen, it is a bed, of which there is another worry that space may be running out. Three hundred such beds are ready in the city, but, no access to oxygen. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), along with several organisations over the past one month, has ensured that the number of beds has increased. However, oxygen supply to these beds is now another matter. With most Covid-19 patients home isolating, those that do need a hospital or Covid care centre bed, are generally in need of oxygen as well. The city’s Ganesh Kala auditorium was converted into a Covid care centre and claimed to have “100 oxygen beds”.Congress leader Aba Bagul said, “The hospital at Ganesh Kala Krida Manch is ready. Even doctors and other staff are ready, but we are not able to start operations because of a lack of oxygen supply.” Bagul added, “This facility is for poor people. We are trying to source oxygen from private suppliers.” PMC’s opposition leaders, Deepali Dhumal and Shiv Sena’s Prithviraj Sutar, on Friday, met divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and demanded oxygen for the new infrastructure. Rao made no promises on oxygen supply for new facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/300-oxygen-beds-lying-vacant-due-to-lack-of-o2-101619190898068.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Two special trains to Bihar to help ease rush of passengers headed north||The rush of passengers going towards north India has increased from the Pune railway station. Hence, the Central Railways has begun special trains to Bihar. Since strict restrictions are declared in the state, a large number of labourers are going back to their home states from Pune.Two additional special trains to Bhagalpur and Danapur in Bihar have now been started. These special trains are fully reserved and advance reservation is necessary to travel. People having confirmed tickets can only travel and they are requested to follow all the Covid norms and safety precautions. Both the trains, Pune–Bhagalpur (01469) will depart from Pune on April 28 and Pune-Danapur (01471) will depart from Pune on April 27. “As there is heavy rush of passengers going towards north India, these new special trains have been given by the railways. In last couple of weeks, there has been a considerable amount of increase in the number of daily passengers travelling on various trains starting from Pune, going towards north India,” said Manoj Jhawar, spokesperson, Pune railway division.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-special-trains-to-bihar-to-help-ease-rush-of-passengers-headed-north-101619189996068.html
24-04-2021||Pune||Pune varsity students can now register complaints related to marks within 72 hours||Students appearing for online exams of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU), must register any complaint about marks given, within 72 hours of receiving the result. Complaints about technical errors regarding raising issues with marks given caused the SPPU’s board of examination and evaluation to take this decision. Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of the board of examination and evaluation said, “Some technical errors had come into the login system, which is now resolved by our team. Students can now register their complaint regarding marks within 72 hours.”“When we appear for the exams online and then get our marks, sometimes they are not given properly. When we login to register the complaint, it shows a technical error,” said Kedar Mande, a second-year law student. The first semester examination of SPPU started from April 10 in online mode for all courses. Each paper is of 50 marks, with multiple-choice questions (MCQ). The university’s Edutech Foundation is conducting the exam.Once a student appears for the exams, he/she gets access to their marks via their personal login. “As the system was slow and had technial errors it was not possible for students to register a complaint within 48 hours. This resulted in panic and so it was demanded that the time to register a complaint online be increased,” said Kamlakar Shete, an SPPU student.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-students-can-now-register-complaints-related-to-marks-within-72-hours-101619187535935.html
