25-04-2021||Pune||First-year student among two held for illegal sale of Remdesivir||A first-year student was among two people remanded to four days in police custody on Sunday for selling Remdesivir injections on the black market on Saturday. The two were also found in possession of 22 duplicate currency notes as well, according to the police. The two in police custody were identified as Shubham Navnath Arawade (22), a resident of Krushna nagar in Chinchwad and Vaibhav Ankush Malekar (20), a resident of Ramdasnagar in Chikhali, according to information provided by assistant public prosecutor Bhanupriya Petkar. “One of them is a first-year student and one is a graduate. We cannot reveal much information right now as we are investigating further links,” said police sub-inspector Vijay Zanjaad of anti-extortion cell-2 who is investigating the case. The two were pretending to be pharmacists and trying to sell the drug without due procedure or permit. The police are investigating the source and if there’s any previous reach of their sale. The police also found 22 duplicate bank notes from the possession of the two men, according to the police submissions to court. The two were found near the gate of Kirloskar company in Khadki at around 5pm on Saturday and were arrested around midnight. The two vials of Remdesivir found in their possession were inspected by Jayashree Savadati (43), an official of Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in Pune who later became the complainant in the case against the two. A case under Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with relevant sections of Drug Price Control Order, 2013, Essential Commodities Act, 1955, Drugs and Cosmetics Act was registered against the two at Khadki police station. Two remanded to police custody after three Remdesivir vials found Two men were remanded to police custody on Sunday, a day after three vials of Remdesivir were seized from them while they were trying to sell it on the black market for ₹70,000 each, according to a statement issued by officials of Unit 1 of Pune police who carried out a raid to arrest them.The two in police custody were identified as Rahul Sunil Khade (22) a resident of Pathare Vasti in Lohegaon, Pune and Vijayraj Dinkar Patil (31) a resident of Kharadkarnagar in Vadgaon Sheri area, according to the police.The arrested men were found in possession of three vials of the drug which were seized from them.A case under relevant Sections of Indian Penal Code, DPCO 2013, Essential Commodities Act 1955, And Food and Cosmetics Act 1940 was registered at Deccan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/firstyear-student-among-two-held-for-illegal-sale-of-remdesivir-101619365686534.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Woman, three others booked for allegedly forging MBA degree certificates||A 38-year-old woman and three other people were booked by Pimpri-Chinchwad police on Saturday for forging degree certificates based on a complaint lodged by her husband. The allegedly forged certificates were that of an MBA from an institution in Assam called Assam Downtown University. “We have not been able to get in touch with the complainant or the accused yet. We received this complaint online and the case was registered at Kothrud police station and then transferred to us few days ago. We will soon begin questioning the people involved,” said senior police inspector Balkrushna Sawant of Hinjewadi police station. According to the complaint lodged by a man identified as Pramod Balaji Jana (44), a businessman living in Gujrat colony area of Kothrud. After he separated from his wife, he got the mobile phone he had allegedly given to her, back from her, according to the police. In his complaint, he mentioned that in November 2019, he came across the WhatsApp messages that were stored in the mobile phone. “He has claimed in his complaint that he found certified copies of some degree certificates and learned that they were forged. However, we are yet to conduct our enquiry in this,” said senior PI Sawant. A case under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468, 471with 120 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hinjewadi against the four people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-three-others-booked-for-allegedly-forging-mba-degree-certificates-101619365506621.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Man on the run after wife dies by suicide||The Pune police are on the lookout for a man from Kondhwa for driving his wife to suicide by spending their livelihood earnings on alcohol. The 25-year-old woman was undergoing treatment at Sassoon General Hospital for burns caused during her suicide attempt on April 12 at around 7:30pm. However, the woman succumbed to her burns in the small hours of Saturday and was declared dead by the doctors. The two had been married in 2017 and were living in a rented room in Sadguru Krupanagar area of Undri. A complaint in the matter was lodged by her father, a 52-year-old resident of the same area. In his complaint, he has stated that the money that his daughter had saved up for paying the rent and electricity bill of their house was wrongfully taken and spent by the accused in purchasing alcohol. The man also claims that the accused man suspected her of being involved with other men and beat her up over it. Assistant police inspector Sandeep Madhale of Kondhwa police station is investigating the case. A case under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 498(a) (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-on-the-run-after-wife-dies-by-suicide-101619365386517.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Summer camps move online in pandemic-hit year||After examinations were called off this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, school-going children have begun attending their summer camps, online. The children have been primarily restricted at home with engaging online activities such as drama, storytelling, speech competitions, and arts. Many organisations are now solely dependent on the online structure due to the strict restrictions enforced by the Maharashtra government. The Rangbhasha organisation in the city has been instrumental in training children in drama and theatre. As offline sessions are not possible in the current situation, special online courses have been designed. “We have batches for the age groups of seven to 10 and 11-14 and there is a good response for the online sessions. We used to conduct in-person batches in the pre-Covid period, but it is not possible now. We are getting good responses from the Marathi families who are abroad. Now that the sessions are online, children from overseas are also able to join the batches,” said Amut Samak, founder, Rangbhasha. The in-person touch and the field surely remain missing from the online sessions; however, the organisers are thoroughly planning the sessions to make them more interactive and productive. “Just two days ago we conducted a session on the art of paper cutting. We were a little doubtful if children will be able to understand the instructions online, but it turned out very well. Children were enthusiastic to make items from paper. We have a series of sessions planned for them,” Harshada Pendharkar head, Bhintibaherchi Shala (School beyond walls) “Some online sessions are fun. I loved the paper cutting session with my sister. Whatever I learned I taught it to other children in my building,” said Aditi Pande, a student who attended the online session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/summer-camps-move-online-in-pandemic-hit-year-101619365266551.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Parents demand state board to return Class 10 exam fee||Parents of Class 10 students have demanded that the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Certificate (MSBSHSE) return the examination fees of ₹500, since there will be no exam this year. Pragati Kulkarni, mother of a student in 10th standard said that the board has not refunded the fee as of yet. “We paid the exam fee when the exams were declared. As the exams are cancelled, the fee should be refunded to us. Even though it is a small amount for many, for some families it is a huge amount. Also, if the exams are not conducted offline, then the fees should be refunded,” said Kulkarni. Every class 10 student had to pay ₹500 each ahead of the final board exam as exam fees. As per MSBSHSE, this year, 16, 00,249 students were registered with the board to appear for Class 10 examination. The total funds for this year amount to around ₹80 crore. However, the state board has gone ahead with the preparations to take offline exams and many sources suggest that some part of the fee may be utilised. Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Apte Prashala said that the board has already started with the preparations for offline exams and most part of the funds must be already utilised. “The board charges the exam fees as they have to set papers and invite teachers of various subjects to set papers. Also, the basic stationary like answer sheets are also provided to the schools by the state board. Also, the questions are printed which also requires funds. As the board was all set to take the offline exams. They would have already spent at least one-fourth of the sum,” said Sinnarkar. She further added that question papers are also transported to various centres across Maharashtra. “All these arrangements are required to be done by the board. So, some of the funds may have been utilised,” said Sinnarkar. Harishchandra Gaikwad, president of the Pune district principals’ association said that the board has already set the papers. “Some question papers were already printed by the board. Also, the paper setters are given some remuneration which is part of the expenditure. As the board had planned offline exams, the planning and action was already done by the board,” said Gaikwad. He further added that as the decision of how the students of Class 10 will be evaluated, is not taken yet, the board may take time to refund the fee. “As discussions are still ongoing about how Class 10 students will be evaluated this year, the board is taking time to refund the fee. This is the first time in the history that Class 10 exams were cancelled and hence there is a delay in the decision,” said Gaikwad. There was no response from officials of the MSBSHSE, despite several attempts to reach them over call and messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-demand-state-board-to-return-class-10-exam-fee-101619365146537.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Light rain with cloudy skies in Pune for the next few days: IMD forecast||The India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune has forecasted light rains in the next few days for the city and surrounding areas. As per the weather department, the sky in the city will remain cloudy for the next few days with chances of light rain. Anupam Kashyapi, head of the weather forecasting department, IMD Pune said in the next few days, the day temperature will be less than 40 degrees Celsius due to cloudy conditions. “There is a possibility of light rain on April 26 and April 27 along with thunderstorm and lightning. Cloudy conditions will continue in Pune city until April 28. The day temperature will be 38 to 39 degrees Celsius, and the night temperature forecast is for 19 to 20 degrees Celsius,” said Kashyapi. On Sunday, the day temperature was reported at 38.9 degrees Celsius at Shivajinagar whereas Lohgaon reported 39.6 degrees Celsius on Sunday as per India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune. The day temperature in Shivajinagar was 0.7 degrees warmer than normal and for Lohegaon, the day temperature was 1.6 degrees warmer than normal on Sunday. The night temperature reported in Shivajinagar was 19.6 degrees Celsius which was 0.7 degrees cooler than normal whereas, the night temperature at Lohegaon was 22.2 degrees Celsius, 1.2 degrees warmer than normal. As of Sunday, the highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at 43.3 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri and the lowest minimum temperature in the state was reported at 19.6 degrees Celsius in Pune city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/light-rain-with-cloudy-skies-in-pune-for-the-next-few-days-imd-forecast-101619365086512.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Satara rural police barricade district border, all vehicles scanned for e-passes||The Satara rural police have put a check post near Shirwal on the Pune-Bengaluru national highway where every single vehicle is stopped and checked for an e-pass. The Satara rural police are accompanied by local district officials, home guards and Sarola village gram panchayat workers. In some cases, the vehicle is allowed to proceed without an e-pass after verifying the reason to travel, such vehicles are charged ₹500 by the local gram panchayat workers.“Each and every vehicle is strictly checked by our policemen, and those having valid police e-pass to travel are being allowed to go ahead. As this system has been newly started from the last two days, passengers without e-pass are fined ₹500 and then sent after verifying their emergency reasons. There are many passengers who are in a rush for medical emergencies but don’t have an e-pass, so we fine them and allow to proceed. All others are sent back to Pune district from this check post,” said police sub-inspector Vrushali Shinde attached to the Shirwal police station. All non-essential travel has been suspended by the Maharashtra government, and the district borders have been sealed after the e-pass enforcement to travel outside Pune came into effect. No strict checking is being done at the Khed Shivapur Toll Naka by the Pune rural police.The Pune district border ends near the Sarola Bridge over Neera river just before Shirwal city on the highway. The barricading has been placed from the middle of bridge, where goods carrying vehicles and private vehicles are separated in two lanes for checking. A staff of around 10 to 15 policemen, including traffic police is deployed in two shifts round the clock at this check post. All the emergency services vehicles allowed by the state government and people with valid e-pass are only allowed to pass. Even the buses of companies and other private works are not allowed. Kiran Sakhare, a passenger travelling from the check post said, “My brother is serious in Sangli and I had come to Pune to get some medicines for him. I did not know about the new e-pass system, but it is emergency situation for our family. I paid the fine and now headed to Sangli.” Similarly, at the Khed Shivapur toll naka, Pune rural police have deployed their policemen at the check post but there is no strict checking going on here, as vehicles are randomly checked as it falls under the Pune district jurisdiction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/satara-rural-police-barricade-district-border-all-vehicles-scanned-for-epasses-101619365026508.html
25-04-2021||Pune||‘Bamboo Park’ in the works on SPPU campus||A bamboo park garden is in the works on the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) campus as a result of an MoU that was recently signed by the university with Garett Motion Technologies. The company is going to spend ₹68.85 lakh funds from its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) on this project. The company is going to work on this project with the help of United for Nation, a social organisation. This park will be developed on the backside of the Chattrapati Shivaji Maharaj statute inside the SPPU campus on a total land of 5 acres where 2,000 bamboo trees will be planted. This garden and project will benefit SPPU’s own Bamboo centre, as currently the number of bamboo trees have fallen. On completion, the park will produce a large number of bamboos which will help raise funds. SPPU vice chancellor Prof Nitin Karmalkar said, “It is the first time when such a bamboo park garden is going to be developed in any university in the state. Along with studies of environmental science about bamboo, it will also help generate funds for the university.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/bamboo-park-in-the-works-on-sppu-campus-101619364966503.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Volunteer groups introduce ‘Plasma premiere league’ to attract more donors||There is a desperate need for plasma and as people are appealing for plasma donors in an individual capacity, the Vande Mantaram Sanghtna and Yuva Phoenix Society have started a group programme called the “plasma premier league”, where they are reaching out to mandals, dhol-tasha pathaks (drum groups) and a larger group of volunteers who can help reach out to recently recovered Covid patients and appeal for donations. They are also appealing to youth to donate blood before the vaccination drive for those above the age of 18 kicks off in the city. “According to government guidelines, after vaccination, a person cannot donate blood for 28 days. What we need is to appeal to youth to donate blood before they are vaccinated,” said Dr Chinmay Umarji, who held a blood donation drive on Sunday. Vaibhav Wagh, heading the Vande Mataram Sanghatana, said, “Everyday, we get as many as 100 phone calls asking for help with injections, beds and plasma donations to save the lives of friends and families. Since we can’t do much in terms of getting injections, we decided to look at plasma donation as a segment, where if we worked together as a group we could help get donations faster.” He conceived the idea of the Plasma Premier League which kickstarted on April 14. “The idea is to appeal to thousands of people to come forward and donate plasma, by offering prizes of ₹50,000, ₹30,000 and ₹20,000. We have 10 teams in Maharashtra participating and we have tied up with the PMC to help us connect with recovered patients,” said Wagh. It is not easy to convince recovered patients to donate. Rohit Dhayarkar of Swaroop Vardini is one of the participants in the PlasmaPremier League. He said, “Each team is given a target of getting 100 donors to agree and donate. We have a list of people to call, but it is taking time to convince people to come forward and donate blood or plasma. Most often the patients are afraid of weakness or of contracting corona again. We are not giving up and will keep trying until we can encourage many of the recovered to donate.” Another group, the Shiv Surya Dhol Tasha Pathak, has managed to get 25 people to donate. “We have played for around 150 mandals and are calling out to everyone for help. It is taking time to reach out and convince recovered patients, but once the gravity of the situation is explained, some are ready. They have to undergo an antibody test before they can donate,” said Ravindra Bodake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/volunteer-groups-introduce-plasma-premiere-league-to-attract-more-donors-101619355606114.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Maharashtra govt to float tendre to procure Covid vaccine, Remdesivir from international market: Ajit Pawar||Maharashtra has formed a five-member committee which has been tasked to draft a tender to purchase vaccines from global vaccine makers, a week after the Centre announced that all adults will be eligible for a coronavirus vaccine and doses can be sold via the market from May 1.The committee, which will be headed by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte, will facilitate the process of purchasing vaccines as well as drugs like remedesivir, an anti-viral drug that is part of the Covid-19 treatment protocol, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said on Saturday.“The state cabinet has empowered a committee to take all the decisions about purchase of both remdesivir drug and the Covid vaccine,” Pawar said following a review of Covid situation in Pune on Saturday.Additional chief secretary of finance department Manoj Saunik, principal secretary of public health Dr Pradeep Vyas, secretary of medical education department Saurabh Vijay and principal secretary of industries department Baldev Singh will be part of the committee.The state government is expected to float the global bid by early next week by taking state cabinet’s nod for the expenditure. “The base rate, quantity of vaccines and the Remdesivir desired, expected turn around period will be finalised soon. The bidding will be for all vaccines currently available in international market as well as two available in India. The imported stock of the vaccines is however unlikely to be available before the launch on May 1,” said an official from the public health department. On April 20, following a state cabinet meeting it was decided that Maharashtra will use its development funds to procure vaccines, including those that need to be imported as “ready to use”.“We currently have two vaccines, Covishield and Covaxin, but if the need arises, we have also decided to import stock of other vaccines such as Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, and Sputnik from other countries. There will be no dearth of the money for the vaccine, as we have decided to use the development funds to procure vaccine stock,” state health minister Rajesh Tope had said after the meeting.On Wednesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had held an online meeting with Serum Institute of India’s Adar Poonawalla on Wednesday, where he was told that the company’s production of Covishield has been booked till May 24, Tope said.In light of that, the state will start negotiations with manufacturers of imported vaccines as it will not be able to purchase stock from Serum Institute of India, which makes Covidshield, till third week of May, and Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, as it has not released its prices, Tope added.“A plan is being worked out… since foreign import is now allowed and there is Bharat Biotech, we will get in touch with them. The vaccination drive for [age] 18 to 44 will start on May 1, but the stock is expected to be limited. In that age group, there are roughly 55 or 57.5 million people. So, we will require about 120 million doses, including the wastage, over a span of four to five months, depending on how soon we get the stock,” Kunte had said last week.According to a statement issued by the Press Information Bureau on April 19, adults under the age of 45 would be able to receive vaccines once private sales begin or if state governments procure stocks for distribution to these age groups.In the third phase of the vaccination strategy, the government will make pricing, procurement, eligibility, and administration open and flexible. Vaccine makers will be able to sell half of what they produce at a price of their choosing to the open market and to state governments. The remainder will need to be supplied to Centre for the state-sponsored component of the vaccination programme, which remains limited to the 45-and-over age group only.If the vaccines have been imported as ready-to-use, the government will allow all of the stocks to be sold on the open market or to the states. The pricing for any doses sold in the open market will need to be “transparent”, although the government’s release did not indicate a cap.On April 21, SII announced the price of its Covishield vaccine in the open market. While one dose of this two-dose vaccine will cost ₹600 for private facilities, it will cost ₹400 for the state governments. It also provided a price comparison with other vaccines available in the open market, where the “Russian vaccine” and “Chinese vaccine” costs ₹750, and the “American vaccine” costs ₹1500. The Union health ministry on Saturday issued a clarification saying that the Centre will procure both the vaccines at ₹150 only. And those doses will be provided free to the states.US pharma major Pfizer is in talks with the Centre to deploy its jab for India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme and said that it had offered a not-for-profit price for its vaccine to the government.Pawar said on Saturday that Maharashtra wanted to begin vaccination for all adults from May 1 which is also Maharashtra Day and Labour Day. “In addition to Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine, the other approved vaccines including US made Pfizer or Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and other vaccines will be included in the tender. Also for remdesivir which is currently under acute shortage will also be procured through a global tender,” Pawar said. Sputnik V made by Russia’s Gamaleya Institute, was approved formally on April 13 and its initial doses are expected to be imported. On Monday, pharma giant Johnson & Johnson applied to India’s drug regulator seeking permission to conduct Phase-3 clinical trial of its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine in India as well as for an import license.Highlighting the increasing demand of liquid oxygen Pawar said that Maharashtra’s quota from Jamnagar plant has been reduced to 125 Metric Tonnes (MT) from 250 (MT) by the Centre. “On Saturday I got to know that this quota has been reduced. I request not to reduce our quota from that plant. Empty oxygen tankers are being airlifted to fast track the oxygen supply. They can come back by road or on train,” Pawar said.“Some plants which were shut down in the past are being reactivated. Sugar factories have been asked if liquid oxygen can be generated from there. For Pune, 30 oxygen plants are proposed and will be installed,” Pawar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-govt-to-float-tendre-to-procure-covid-vaccine-remdesivir-from-international-market-ajit-pawar-101619347566235.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: Theatre of the future, and reality||I was recently asked about “Theatre of the future” in an interview. The pandemic has changed many definitions about what was earlier considered “normal” and watching live online performances is a part of it. In the past year, theatre lovers must have attended at least one such show. I suppose this is what the interviewer was expecting when she posed the query. But I do believe that with the technology currently available, online performances are a compromise. More of a placeholder for the real thing. I feel that in the next few years, after this pandemic is over, we will see an increase in plays in the genre of immersive theatre. Immersive theatre blurs the lines between the audience and the performers. They are usually performed at unconventional venues unlike traditional auditoriums, such as hotels, run-down mills, warehouses, and the like. The concept of “fourth wall” (the imaginary wall between the audience and performers, which is an integral part of most plays) is destroyed completely. In fact, in most of these plays, the audience becomes an active part of the performance! A friend of mine had watched a performance of “Macbeth”, retitled “Sleep No More”, at a hotel in the UK. What he narrated seemed fascinating! The opening of the play was presented at the entrance. After that they could choose the floor they wanted to visit. Each floor had a different part of the play being performed. The audience could choose to leave that scene midway and go and watch another scene. Or they could stay and follow the journey of a character. They could walk with the character and witness her or him meeting other characters and perform different scenes. In the end, all characters converged on a floor where the climax was played out. I too had watched a play when I visited the UK around three years back. It was a spin-off of “Murder on the Orient Express” by Agatha Christie. I was extremely excited to watch it! The set was built in a run-down warehouse in London. While the production design was wonderful and the audience was made to feel like passengers on the train, complete with real dinner and wine, and was also made to participate in the investigation, the performances were strictly ok. So was the overall approach towards the script. While it was a new theatre watching experience for me, the impact was less than impressive. But I cannot judge the entire genre based on a lone performance of a play. Some plays do not even follow this traditional approach of introduction, conflict, resolution of storytelling. They rely more on the experience of the performance at that moment. And that choice is made by the audience! So, there is a possibility that a part of the audience might not watch the climax of the play, they might decide to follow a character who might be inconsequential to the story of the play but is someone they relate to more. The outcome of the play is different for every audience member and it depends solely on the choices that they have made! The linearity of story is not very important in such performances. We have seen variations of this genre in other mediums as well. Video and computer games have followed this interactive genre since a long time. The outcome of many such games depends on how the player plays and the options he chooses. There isn’t a specific “end” to the story that we as an audience have been conditioned to. Even the eerily predictive show “Black Mirror” experimented with this format in the latest episode of theirs titled “Bandersnatch”. The audience had to choose the decisions the protagonist made and the outcome of the show depended on that. There were nearly nine outcomes that I experienced. I am sure there might be more. Films are also gradually experimenting with virtually reality. I had attended a demonstration for the same and it is very similar to immersive theatre, wherein the audience could choose where to look at during a scene and decide to follow a particular character. These experiments are being conducted in India as well, but not in a large number. But after the pandemic is over, my guess is that the number of venues for such experiments will increase as most people will be working from home. People will also be open to watching more abstract content as the reality we are currently living in is nothing less than bizarre!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-theatre-of-the-future-and-reality-101619347266702.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Through Sara’s eyes: Musings of a 10-year-old schoolgirl||PUNE My parents are wicked. They named my Didi, “Laxmi”, and me…guess what? Saraswati! And do you even know what our surname is? Mochemadkar. I mean, does that make any sense to you? That’s why I have decided that I’m not going to call my mom “ma” and my dad “papa”. I have thought of some secret names for them.” (sic) The musings of a 10-year-old schoolgirl Saraswati, who strongly prefers being called Sara, make for the subject matter of actor Vibhawari Deshpande’s soon-to-be-launched “Sara Chi Diary”. The volume, most of which is in Marathi, is a compilation of 45-odd diary entries of Sara, who has a take on almost everything. Though actor and playwright Deshpande is seasoned as a creator of plays, “Sara Chi Diary” will mark her debut as an author. “The book is a collection of selected pieces, part of my column for one of the city’s weeklies. Through this column, Sara came to life. And she started penning reflections of the world as she saw it,” said Vibhawari, adding that the column’s popularity gave her the courage and encouragement to create “Sara Chi Diary”. “Of course, the book is more nuanced, has more characters and greater flow,” she said. Almost a year-and-a-half back, Deshpande discussed the book’s concept with Devayani Abhyankar, director of a local publication house Continental Prakashan. And “Sara Chi Diary”, almost spontaneously, found its way forward. Sara, as Deshpande imagines her to be, hails from an urban, upwardly mobile, liberal family that allows her to realise her individuality and express opinions. Nonetheless, in her most natural element, Sara feels more like an “underdog,” especially in the presence of her prodigious and pretty-looking elder sister. Her emotional conflicts, complaints, curiosities, states of funk, and moments of joy: the diary is filled with her thoughts aplenty. To add an element of cheer and colour to the diary, Deshpande joined forces with city-based visual storyteller Sayali Bhagali-Damle. “Every diary entry has an illustration, and children, as well as adults, find them engaging,” she said. The diary notes are honest and unfiltered. According to Sara, her mother is absolutely sweet, and so she has named her “Marmalade”, while her father is a photographer at heart (trapped in a mundane corporate job), which is why she addresses him as “Paparazzi”. The anecdotes in the diary do not just surround Sara’s immediate family, they also involve her comments on what she sees around, news, and people she meets, and so on. One of the pages in the diary speaks about how she gives away an expensive, imported drawing kit to an underprivileged girl, daughter of a construction worker, who lives near her house. They become friends and later Sara discovers how gifted the girl is at art. “Such incidents are common with children. They are far more sentient than we usually imagine them to be, and we sometimes tend to oversimplify their emotional insights. Their interpretation of information around them that they process daily may be naive, but it is worth acknowledging,” said Deshpande. The Covid pandemic delayed the publication of the book. “Once the lockdown is called off, and life gets back to normal, the book launch will be planned,” said Vibhawari, adding that in the present times, everyone needs a dose of positivity and everyday humour, which she believes the book offers generously.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/through-sara-s-eyes-musings-of-a-10-year-old-schoolgirl-101619346905599.html
25-04-2021||Pune||Pune: 8 Remdesivir black marketeers nabbed over two days||In three different actions by the police in Pune district in the past two days, nine people have been arrested and 14 doses of the experimental Covid-19 treatment drug have been recovered collectively by Pune city and Pune rural police.In one case, a nurse from a Covid centre in Hadapsar was found helping a pharmacist who was arrested on Thursday by Pune city police.The nurse was identified as Ribika Vairagar (35), a resident of Pisoli and working at a Covid hospital in Hadapsar while the pharmacist, arrested earlier, was identified as Ankit Vinod Solanki (26) who works in a pharmacy attached to a hospital in Kondhwa.“It started with them selling the doses that were left over from the patients who had succumbed to the infection but as the demand increased, the cost also increased and the nurse started stealing the injections, from our primary investigation. As per their statement, they have sold 70-80 injections in the past month or so at fluctuating rates,” said Namrata Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-5 of Pune police.While three injections were found from Solanki during his arrest, the woman was found in possession of four more.The police found a link to the woman while investigating Solanki’s source of Remdesivir. The nurse allegedly stole the injections which were procured either by the relatives and the hospital that employed her for patients.In the second case, four people were arrested for selling Remdesivir injection on the black market in Pune on Friday. The accused were selling the experimental drug used for treatment of Covid-19 for ₹37,000 per injection. One vial was recovered from them.The four were identified as Nikita Gopal Tale (25), a resident of Mahatma Phule nagar in Bhosari MIDC; Rahul Balasaheb Valunj (27) and his younger brother Rohan (20) both residents of Chaphekar Chowk in Chinchwad; and Pratik Gajanan Bhore (26), a resident of Anusaya Park in Pune. The four are in police custody until Monday.“Rahul is an engineer who works in the robotics field. He had gained access to the injection. We are investigating how he got it. Bhore and Tale are in the marketing field and work for a business card printing company,” said senior police inspector Mahendra Jagtap of Unit 2 of Pune police.In dual action by the Pune rural police, three people were arrested for selling Remdesivir on the black market and recovered 6 vials of the drug from two separate cases on Saturday. While one action was in Daund, the other was in Narayangaon area of Junnar.The ones arrested in Daund were identified as Akshay Rajesh Sonawane ((24) a resident of Gandhi chowk area of Daund and Suraj Sajay Sable (23) a resident of Shalimar Chowk area of Daund. The two were selling one dose for ₹32,000 and were found in possession three vials, according to a statement issued by the Local crime branch of Pune rural police.In the second case, in Junnar, one man was found selling one vial of the drug for ₹45,000 each. The man was identified as Rohan Shekhar Ganeshkar (29) a resident of Alephata area of Junnar, was found in possession of three vials of the drug.In all the cases, various laws including Indian Penal Code, DPCO 2013, Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940, and Essential Commodities Act was registered at three different police stations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/eight-remdesivir-black-marketeers-nabbed-over-two-days-101619285101046.html
