26-04-2021||Pune||State asks districts to restart plants, modify nitrogen plants to generate O2||Pune: To augment the needs of the rising demand for oxygen to treat Covid-19 positives, the state government has asked district collectors to identify the Oxygen Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants which are shut and could be restarted. The state has also asked the districts to identify Nitrogen PSAs which could be modified and used for generating oxygen. Earlier, deputy CM Ajit Pawar has said that the state is identifying the defunct O2 plants which could be restarted. Following the central government’s orders, the state has requested district collectors to check PSA plants for oxygen which could be reactivated with slight modification. The state has also asked to find if any of the PSA plant for nitrogen could be modified to generate oxygen in less than a week. Packaging and food processing industry needs nitrogen and there are many PSA plants for nitrogen generation in the districts. The state in its letter by principal secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas, health department stated, “We are struggling to augment the supplies of oxygen, while we are trying to increase the availability of oxygen by moving quantities from outside the state. We should also explore setting up new PSA oxygen generation plants and re-purposing PSA plants for nitrogen.” The letter mentions the state is also setting up new O2 PSA plants in various locations through SDRF funds. It says, “It seems that there are several PSA plants for oxygen installed in various parts of our state over the years and are lying unutilised. Recently, one such plant at Satara is now being activated which would generate sufficient oxygen to fill 2400 Jumbo cylinders every day.” Pawar said, “We are trying to restart oxygen plants which were shut as power supply was cut or because the companies had gone bankrupt. Minister Nitin Gadkari has said he would ensure smooth supply in the Vidarbha region.” “Some of the PSA plants for nitrogen probably can be re-purposed to generate oxygen with slight modification in very short time. It seems that while a new oxygen generation plant will take 3 to 4 weeks to install, retro fitting existing PSA plants for nitrogen probably can be achieved in less than a week,” stated the letter. Pune is planning to set up 30 new oxygen generation plants in the district and has also received 75 oxygen concentrator plants through CSR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-asks-districts-to-restart-plants-modify-nitrogen-plants-to-generate-o2-101619455097747.html
26-04-2021||Pune||For the first time since April 9, Pune’s active cases count goes below 0.1 million mark||Pune: For the first time since April 9 when Pune crossed the 0.1 million active cases of Covid-19, on Monday, Pune reported less than the grim figure of people undergoing treatment for Covid or are in home isolation because of the infection. The active cases count as per the state health department in Pune district went down to 99,977. With a drastic fall in the number of new Covid cases, as 6,162 new cases were reported on the day, the total number went up to 820,000 cases of which 693,000 lakh have recovered, 9,089 have been declared dead and remaining are active cases. Pune rural reported 2,211 new Covid-19 cases taking the total to 192,539 and with 11 more deaths the toll went up to 2,407. Pune city has reported 2,666 new Covid cases taking the final to 413,349 and with two more deaths the toll went up to 5,160. PCMC reported 1,285 new cases which took the total to 196,919 and with one more death the toll went to 1,467. After replenishment of vaccine stocks arrived on Sunday, Pune also saw boost in the number of vaccinations as 78,668 people got the vaccine with 43,096 from Pune rural, 24,702 from Pune city and 10,870 in PCMC. Of the total vaccinations, 75,153 were of Covishield and the remaining Covaxin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/for-the-first-time-since-april-9-pune-s-active-cases-count-goes-below-one-lakh-101619454677663.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Congress demands urgent updation of Covid-19 dashboard||Lashing out at the civic body, the Congress party has demanded that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) should take urgent steps for making real-time data available on the Covid dashboard. Currently, the data updated on dashboard lags real-time. Congress spokesperson Gopal Tiwari said that accurate data must be available for reducing the plight and stress of the patients. “A well-equipped dashboard is the need of the hours. Relatives of the patients are running from pillar to post for getting the accurate information about bed availability. Getting the ventilators has become a major concern among the relatives of critical patients. A reliable source for information is absent, it is very disheartening to see,” said Tiwari while speaking at a press conference on Monday. He said that Pune is known for its IT infrastructure and expertise but the civic administration as well as ruling BJP in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has failed to utilise this strength for hospital bed management. The PMC commissioner’s office should personally monitor the dashboard and bed availability||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/congress-demands-urgent-updation-of-covid-19-dashboard-101619454078310.html
26-04-2021||Pune||MTDC to offer free yoga sessions, immunity-booster meals||With the city showing signs of improvement in the recovery of Covid positive patients, the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC), is also gearing up with yet another plan, after their work-from-nature offering. MTDC has stressed upon wellness and medical tourism by offering people who have recovered from corona immunity-booster meals and free yoga sessions. “We are tying up with Ayurvedic and yoga practitioners locally where our resorts are situated. The emphasis will be on providing facilities for Ayurvedic treatment and yoga therapy to tourists who have recovered from corona. We will start yoga sessions and set up meditation centres,” said Deepak Harane, regional manager, Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation. “This second wave has proved to be severe and has affected tourism everywhere. The Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation is implementing long-term measures for tourists in the post-epidemic period. This lockdown has seen people frustrated with the constant work from home and living under stress. iIt is very natural to look for a getaway,” added Harane. He added that despite the curfew, cleaning, repair and sanitation work at tourist accommodations there was a good response of 100 per cent occupancy in December 2020 and January 2021. Suhas Parkhi, manager MTDC, Mahableshwar said, “We are tying up with yoga teachers and charges will be included in room tariff. We also are setting up an immunity booster menu - Spanish soup and tomato-ginger soups, which are known to be good immunity boosters, will on the menu. We will also give tourist vitamin C and vitamin D tablets.” Yoga and meditation facilities will start in the first phase at Koynanagar, Matheran, and Mahabaleshwar. In the next phase these facilities will be available in resorts at Tarkarli, Ganpatipule, Malshejghat, and Panshet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mtdcto-offer-free-yoga-sessions-immunity-booster-meals-101619453717545.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Fight over loud music escalates to brutal attack||A school child’s father was attacked with a sharp weapon, along with three others from his family, allegedly as a result of a fight that started over loud music during online school hours. The fight, that happened six months ago in Shantinagar Vasahat area of Dhankwadi, led to an attack on four people of a family. The injured man was identified as Mahadev Adsul (36), while the police are on a lookout for four men from his neighbourhood for the attack. The ones injured include Adsul’s wife, his maternal aunt and maternal cousin, according to his complaint. Adsul’s son attends online school lessons in the light of the norms necessitated by the Covid-19 pandemic. The accused routinely played loud music and television in the locality and disturbed Adsul’s son’s classes. A fight had erupted between the neighbours in November 2020. Since then, the tension between the two families kept increasing, according to the complaint lodged by Adsul. A case under Sections 307, 326, 504, 506, and 34 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Sahakarnagar police station against four people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fight-over-loud-music-escalates-to-brutal-attack-101619452637599.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Suspended PSI booked under POCSO for sexual harassment of minor||A police sub inspector was booked under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) act for sexual harassment of a minor girl and her elder sister after he got drunk with two men booked for black marketing of Remdesivir. The incident happened a week ago and the case was registered after an internal inquiry was concluded against him. The officer is currently under suspension and is facing a case for outraging a woman’s modesty and molesting a minor girl, a student of Class 11 living in Pune. “The inquiry was concluded after investigating the contents of the complaint that was received. The case has been registered at Chaturshringi police station and is being investigated by the police station officials,” said Ramesh Galande, assistant police commissioner (ACP), Khadki division of Pune who conducted the internal inquiry. The PSI was identified as Deepak Mane, attached with Unit 4 of Pune police crime branch, who conducted a raid and arrested two siblings for trying to sell the Remdesivir injection, an experimental drug used for treatment of Covid-19 patients. Pune police crime branch’s Unit 4 had arrested two siblings identified as Pradeep (25) and Sandeep Devdutt Late (23), residents of Balewadi and natives of Beed. They were found selling the injection for ₹25,000. A case under various laws was registered at Chaturshringi police station on April 16. They were remanded to police custody and later released on bail by the court. During the period of the investigation, PSI Mane got acquainted with the accused and had allegedly gone to their house to drink. In the state of being under the influence of alcohol, PSI Mane had inappropriately touched a 16-year-old girl in the locality of the accused man’s house and her elder sister as well, according to the girls’ complaint. A case under Sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act was registered at Chaturshringi police station. Assistant police inspector Chavan will be investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/suspended-psi-booked-under-pocso-for-sexual-harassment-of-minor-101619452577515.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Elderly couple robbed of valuables worth ₹15.8 lakh in Aundh||A senior citizen couple was robbed by three unidentified people who forcefully entered their house and locked them inside their bathroom on Sunday evening, according to their complaint to Pune police. The three were carrying a knife and allegedly beat up the cook working for the elderly couple, according to their complaint. The men opened the wooden cupboard in the couple’s bedroom and ransacked it to find and flee with ₹70,000 cash, diamond and gold jewellery, and U.S dollars, collectively worth ₹15, 80,000, according to the police. The three spoke in Hindi and threatened to kill the couple if they informed the police, according to their complaint. A complaint in the matter was lodged by 73-year-old woman who was with her husband and their cook in their house in Sadhu Vaswani Nagar area of Aundh at 8:30pm on Sunday when the theft took place. Police sub inspector Mohandas Jadhav of Chaturshringi police station who is investigating the case. A case under Sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 392 (robbery), 506(2) (criminal intimidation), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chaturshringi police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/elderly-couple-robbed-of-valuables-worth-rs-15-8-lakh-in-aundh-101619452518205.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Two in custody for breaking into seven flats in Mhalunge||Two men were remanded to police custody on Monday while one is on the run from the Pimpri-Chinchwad police for breaking in and stealing valuables from seven flats located in a single locality in Mhalunge. The two were identified as Omkar Kale, Vignesh Bhosale, both in their 20s, according to assistant police inspector (API) UR Khade of Hinjewadi police station who is investigating the case. “The CCTV coverage in the area showed three people involved in the act. These two were arrested and produced in court today (Monday) and remanded to two days in police custody,” said API Khade. While six of the flats are located in Swastik Muhurtam society in Mhalunge, Mulshi, one flat is located in neighbouring Galaxy Irila society. A complaint in the matter was lodged by Meet Milind Navle (25) who lives in one of the six flats in Swastik Muhurtam and is a native of Ahmednagar. Navle lost a laptop worth ₹25,000, a wristwatch, and a hair trimmer machine, collectively worth ₹27,200, according to the police. The residents of the other flats have not yet returned from their native places and therefore, the extent of the theft is yet to be known. “The complainant came back and found his lock broken so he checked with other houses and found five other houses in his building and one other house in the neighbouring building broken into. So, he lodged a complaint on all their behalf. They are all natives of various states and have gone home for lockdown,” said API Khade. A case under Sections 454, 457, 380, 34, and 511 of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hinjewadi police station against the three.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-in-custody-for-breaking-into-seven-flats-in-mhalunge-101619452398552.html
26-04-2021||Pune||City receives light drizzle, more rain forecast||The city on Monday experienced thunderstorm and lightning along with drizzle reported at some places during the evening hours, as forecasted by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Sunday. As per the IMD, cloudy weather may continue until April 28 in Pune. “On April 27, the city may experience partly cloudy conditions along with thunderous activity and lightning. The day temperature will be around 38 degrees Celsius and night temperature will be around 22 degrees Celsius,” said IMD officials. Along with Pune, Central Maharashtra, Marathwada, Vidarbha, Konkan and Goa will also have partly cloudy conditions. “Chances of light rain along with thunderstorms and lightning are likely till the end of this month in four divisions of Maharashtra,” said IMD Officials. Shivajinagar also reported 39.2 degrees Celsius during the day which was 1.1 degrees warmer than normal whereas Lohegaon reported 39.6 degrees Celsius on Monday which was 1.6 degrees warmer than normal, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The night temperature at Shivajinagar was 22.2 degrees Celsius and Lohegaon was at 23.8 degrees Celsius. The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at Akola at 43.1 degree Celsius. And the lowest minimum temperature was reported at 19.2 degree Celsius at Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/city-receives-light-drizzle-more-rain-forecast-101619451557354.html
26-04-2021||Pune||SPPU plans to conduct exam for final year students in June||The Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is planning to conduct the final year examination in the month of June and declare the result immediate by the month of august, according to SPPU vice chancellor Nitin Karmalkar. “All the graduate and post graduate final year students plan to pursue higher studies. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, we have already delayed examinations for this academic year, so we are trying to at least complete the exams for final year students as early as possible. Along with the exams, the result will also be declared immediately, may by in the months from June to August this process will be done. Once the exam for final year students is completed, we can focus on other semester students as well,” said Prof Nitin Karmalkar, SPPU vice chancellor. Once the ongoing first-semester exams are over, it is expected that the registration process for final year examination will begin by May 10, 2021. Students will be able to fill up the online forms until May-end and by June 15 the actual examination will start, by July-end exams will get over and by August 15 all subjects’ results will be declared. “Once we open up the online registration forms for final year students’ exams, students need to fill it up fast so that it will be easier for us to conduct the exams. There are around 6 lakh students for final year, and we will be trying to take the exams by June only,” said Mahesh Kakade, SPPU examination and evaluation department head. Vasudha Mujumdar, a final year science student said, “Our entire career is dependent on the final year exams and the marks we get. If the exams are held in time, then it would be good for us, we can choose our further career options and take admissions accordingly.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sppu-plans-to-conduct-exam-for-final-year-students-in-june-101619451437473.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Remdesivir black marketeer tests positive for Covid-19||A man arrested for selling Remdesivir on the black market on Sunday, has tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. The arrested man was identified as Krushna Bhaskar Havne (25), a resident of Birasaheb Rupnar Hospital in Indrayaninagar, Bhosari. A native of Wadwani, Beed district, Havne works as a receptionist at Rupnar hospital and lives in the hospital too, according to police. “He was selling one vial for around ₹35,000. He has not yet revealed the source of the vials. Based on preliminary investigation, he seems to have sold around 10 vials before he was caught. We are investigating the case further,” said Prashant Amrutkar, assistant police commissioner, crime branch, Pimpri-Chinchwad police. “We are looking for a bed for him. I’m not aware of the symptoms, but we have to find a government hospital bed for him as he is under arrest,” said senior police inspector Shivaji Gaware of Bhosari MIDC police station. When asked about the police custody of the arrested man, sub-inspector (PSI) NB Chapale of Bhosari MIDc police station, who is investigating the case, said, “We could not take custody yet, as he has tested positive for Covid-19 and we have brought him to a hospital.” The police have seized three vials of the drug from Havne. Whether he sourced the injections from the same hospital or somewhere else is yet to be known, according to PSI Chapale. A case under relevant Sections of the Indian Penal Code; Drug Price Control Order, 2013; Essential Commodities Act, 1955; and Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940, was registered at Bhosari MIDC police station. Gym trainer turns black marketeer Two men, including a gym trainer, were remanded to police custody on Sunday, a day after three vials of Remdesivir were seized from them while they were trying to sell it for ₹70,000 each, according to a statement issued by officials of Unit 1 of Pune police, who carried out a raid to arrest them. The two in police custody were identified as Rahul Sunil Khade (22), a resident of Pathare Vasti in Lohegaon, and Vijayraj Dinkar Patil (31) a resident of Kharadkarnagar in Wadgaonsheri, according to the police. “Patil is a gym trainer and Khade works in a hospital and sourced the three vials found in their possession. They are in police custody till Tuesday. They have sold the injection to people before this. We are investigating it,” said sub-inspector Sanjay Gaikwad of Unit 1. A case under relevant Sections of Indian Penal Code, DPCO 2013, Essential Commodities Act 1955, And Food and Cosmetics Act 1940 was registered at Deccan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/remdesivir-black-marketeer-tests-positive-for-covid19-101619451257358.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Pune railway division cracks whip on mask violators||The Pune railway division has decided to fine passengers without a mask in a massive crackdown on violators of Covid-19 norms. The state government has strictly curtailed non-essential travel among a series of restrictions to help curb the spread of Covid-19, but some passengers travelling back home or those arriving in Pune have been found wanting in following Covid norms. Since an order was released by the railways on April 17, a total of 63 passengers have been caught and a fine of ₹12,700 has been collected from them until Monday. “As we all know that Covid cases are on the rise and everyone should strictly follow the safety rules for their own safety, however, it was noticed that some of the passengers traveling from the Pune railway station are reluctant to wear face mask or follow other Covid safety measures. So, a fine of ₹500 was ordered to charge from such violators and accordingly we have fined 63 passengers with fine collection of ₹12,700 till now,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. Currently, there has been a heavy rush of passengers at Pune railway station due to the strict lockdown in the state. Mostly labour and workers from Pune and around are going back to their home states and villages. Welcoming this move of railways, Harsha Shah, president of Railway Pravasi Group said, “The railway station is a place where crowding will be there, but our own safety is in our hands. Covid has infected most of us and still if passengers do not wear a mask while traveling then they should be fined.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-railway-division-cracks-whip-on-mask-violators-101619451137355.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Pune receives 50 of 165 ventilators announced by Javadekar||Pune: On April 10, Union minister Prakash Javadekar had announced that Maharashtra will receive 1,121 ventilators from the Centre and Pune district’s share will be 165. Pune has received 50 of these ventilators operational at medical centres. The remaining units are expected in 3-4 days, according to a district official. According to the Pune division dashboard for bed availability on Monday, there are 1,420 ventilator beds in Pune district, including 751 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. Though the number of ventilator and oxygen beds has increased, shortage is reported at hospitals treating critical patients. “The 50 units are used by hospitals and Covid care centres,” said Saurabh Rao, Pune divisional commissioner. Of the 1,121 ventilators promised to Maharashtra from the Centre, Gujarat will provide 700 and 421 will be received from Andhra Pradesh. Deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar said that the units will arrive at Mumbai and distributed in the state. Though more recoveries than positive cases have been recorded in Pune city since the last few days, the count of patients on oxygen support and critical cases have increased. In the last six days (April 19-April 25), the number of patients on oxygen support and the number of critical patients has increased by 693 and 102 respectively. The Pune guardian minister said that the hospitalisation numbers are higher in Pune because many patients from other districts have been admitted in hospitals. “Oxygen demand has been increasing in Pune. Outstation patients have also been admitted in hospitals. New Covid Centres should be opened only after the permission of the health department to ensure adequate oxygen supply,” said Pawar at a Covid review meeting in Pune. Med infra for Covid cases The hospital bed availability data updated by Pune division dashboard at 6 pm on April 26 For Pune district Total allocated beds for Covid-19: 28,758 Vacant 4,505 Allocated isolation beds with oxygen:13,032 Vacant 710 Allocated beds for ICU without ventilator: 1,800 Vacant: 56 Allocated of ICU beds with ventilator: 1,421 Vacant 5 For PMC Total allocated beds for Covid-19: 11,761 Vacant 1,357 Allocated isolation beds with oxygen: 6,896 Vacant isolation beds with oxygen: 259 Allocated beds for ICU without ventilator: 620 Vacant beds for ICU without ventilator: 0 Allocated of ICU beds with ventilator: 751 Vacant ICU beds with ventilator: 2 For PCMC Total allocated beds for Covid-19: 9,145 Total vacant beds for Covid-19: 1,701 Allocated isolation beds with oxygen: 3283 Vacant isolation beds with oxygen: 266 Allocated beds for ICU without ventilator: 711 Vacant beds for ICU without ventilator: 50 Allocated of ICU beds with ventilator: 386 Vacant ICU beds with ventilator: 3||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-receives-50-of-165-ventilators-announced-by-javadekar-101619449517173.html
26-04-2021||Pune||19 engineers to oversee maintenance of furnaces in Pune city||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has appointed 19 engineers at various crematoriums in the city to oversee repair and maintenance of electric/gas furnaces, in order to keep them functioning uninterrupted for cremation of Covid fatalities. The civic body has also ordered them to maintain a record of the daily number of Covid fatalities brought to the crematoriums, the number of ambulances with bodies waiting for cremation and the time when furnaces are not occupied. The order has been issued to facilitate the cremation of Covid bodies and reduce the waiting period. “These engineers have been appointed at 19 out of 21 crematoriums in the city. Because of the second wave of Covid, the burden on crematoriums has increased. There should be a contact person for the administration to oversee the operations at crematoriums. We should know what are the problems occurring, how many bodies have been cremated, and which crematoriums are overburdened,” said Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner. The appointed engineers have also been instructed to make sure furnaces are functional. In order to keep furnaces functional without interruptions, a gap of 30-50 minutes between two cremations has been advised. Periodically, after 15 days, furnaces are closed and chimneys cleaned. Heating coils in electric furnaces and gas burners in gas furnaces will be checked. As HT has reported earlier, the number of Covid-19 fatalities cremated in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad for the past two weeks, has far outnumbered the official death toll being reported by the state health department. Officials from PMC involved in monitoring the crematoria claimed that 170 bodies have been cremated each day in the past one week. Of these 170 bodies, 120, on average, are Covid victims. PMC has taken various steps to reduce the waiting period for cremation of Covid victims. It has allowed cremations of Covid bodies at all crematoriums in the city. Also, the system of online cremations has been started. Many volunteers have been helping the civic officials at the crematoria to reduce the load. “The recent measures have reduced the load and decreased the waiting period,” Khemnar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/19-engineers-to-oversee-maintenance-of-furnaces-in-pune-city-101619448197065.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Vaccination drive picks up pace in Pune district||Pune: After a slack reported in the past few days, the vaccination drive picked up pace in Pune district on Monday. According to authorities, 71,386 beneficiaries were vaccinated across Pune district on Monday as compared to 10,397 on Sunday. The number of beneficiaries on Saturday was 24,157. So far, as per the Co-WIN dashboard, record inoculation in the district was reported on April 5 when the drive covered 79,480 beneficiaries. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health, Pune circle, said that the current stock will suffice till April 28. “On Monday morning, our vaccine stock was over 110,000 doses. More doses are expected by Tuesday evening or Wednesday morning,” said Dr Deshmukh, adding the vaccine dose count that Pune district will receive is unclear. “The state government distributes vaccines based on positive cases and coverage of vaccination drive. We are expecting record doses because of our extensive vaccination coverage,” said Dr Deshmukh. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer (CEO), zilla parishad, said that the weekend saw less number of vaccinations due to shortage of vaccine supply. “On Monday, we covered over 64,000 beneficiaries by 5 pm,” said Prasad. On Saturday, only 383 vaccination centres were functional with 305 with Covishield and 78 giving Covaxin vaccine. The Sunday figure of centres across the district was 107 with 86 administering Covishield and 21 Covaxin. On the vaccine stock, Dr Dilip Patil, the state’s immunisation incharge, Maharashtra has received around 10 lakh doses of vaccines as on April 25. “Of these 9 lakh doses are of Covishield and one lakh of Covaxin. Covaxin has been given for the second dose only. So far, Maharashtra has received 1.5 crore doses of vaccines,” Patil said. In Pune rural, stock of 20,582 vaccines remain as of Monday evening.The jab count The inoculation numbers have seen a rise in Pune district April 26 Vaccination in Pune-- 24,702Vaccination in PCMC-- 10,870Vaccination in Pune rural-- 43,096Vaccination in Pune district-- 78,668Total centres-- 581April 25 Vaccination in Pune—1,706 Vaccination in PCMC—7,327 Vaccination in Pune rural—1,364 Vaccination in Pune district—10,397 Total centres--107 April 24 Vaccination in Pune—5,517 Vaccination in PCMC—8,370 Vaccination in Pune rural—10,270 Vaccination in Pune district—24,157 Total centres--383 Source: District administration||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccination-drive-picks-up-pace-in-pune-district-101619447597022.html
26-04-2021||Pune||PCMC to reimburse caretakers for Covid victim cremation||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will provide for free wood and cow dung cakes for cremation of residents who died of Covid. The spike in virus-related deaths has left caretaker at crematoriums unable to manage funeral requirements. The PCMC administration has decided to reimburse the cost incurred in performing final rites at crematoriums. The order states that funeral expenses like wood and cow dung cakes will be reimbursed every month. PCMC had given permission on April 15 to cremate Covid victims as per the traditional rites. The cost of cremation is ₹6,000 which includes wood and cow dung cakes, to be borne by the bereaved families. “The decision was taken unanimously with the five firms that manage the crematoriums without any discussion. The civic administration has told us to manage everything. Around 10-12 bodies are cremated every day and each funeral costs ₹6,000. Hence, PCMC should release some advance amount instead of reimbursement,” said one of the caretakers on request of anonymity. Nigdi and Bhosari crematoriums are managed by Shubham Udyog, while Chinchwad and Nehrunagar is run by Jai Bhavani Enterprises and Sangvi crematorium comes under Mahalaxmi Swayam Rojgar Seva Sanstha. With rise in Covid deaths, PCMC on Sunday decided to add four new crematoriums for Covid victims at Morwadi, Kalewadi, Pimple Gurav and Pimprinagar respectively. “PCMC could have looked at the option of arranging one truckload of wood for each crematorium every day to lessen our burden,” said a caretaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-to-reimburse-caretakers-for-covid-victim-cremation-101619443456573.html
26-04-2021||Pune||PCMC issues order to convert society clubhouse into Covid isolation centres||Pune: To avoid contact of Covid positive patients with other family members, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) issued an order directing housing societies to convert clubhouses into isolation centres. “As the number of patients is increasing, many residents do not have space for home isolation. So, housing societies with clubhouses should turn it as isolation centres for virus-affected residents,” said Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner. PCMC medical officers will visit these clubhouses twice a day, according to civic officials. According to PCMC, high-risk persons with comorbidities, below 10-year age group, senior citizens and pregnant women should not be allowed in clubhouse isolation centres. “The isolation centre clubhouses are more successful in societies having 1BHK flats as those with more rooms will prefer to be confined in their home. Many societies had converted clubhouse into isolation centres last year. Residents feel that PCMC should make more arrangements for Covid positive patients,” said Tejaswini Sawai, chairperson, Pimpri-Chinchwad Cooperative Housing Societies Federation (PCCHSF).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-issues-order-to-convert-society-clubhouse-into-covid-isolation-centres-101619441656495.html
26-04-2021||Pune||God’s “incognito son” who made “every jam a masterclass” bids farewell to earthly stage||PUNE The music fraternity across India set social media abuzz on Sunday as they paid rich tributes to India’s finest guitar player, Derek Julien, who died of post-Covid pneumonia at Jehangir Hospital in Pune on Sunday morning. Derek was 70 and is survived by his wife Maria and daughter Danielle.Julien was diagnosed with Covid-19 in early April and had been in the ICCU at Jehangir Hospital. The music fraternity across India rallied to support Julien and after a stoic battle, he overcame Covid and was moved to the regular ICU on April 17. His condition took a turn for the worse on April 19 and subsequent tests showed significant lung damage. Julien battled till the end, conveying his gratitude to everyone for the overwhelming support. He passed away at 1 am on April 25.Born in Mumbai on August 19, 1950, Derek Julien was instrumental in elevating jazz and blues-rock guitar playing an ethereal form of the art, holding audiences mesmerised every time he took stage. In a career spanning more than 50 years, Julien was associated with bands such as Mystiks, the legendary Waterfront, Azure Hades, Airwave, and the Dragonette Project, among others.Julien’s long-time friend, collaborator and brother-in-law, bass maestro Roger Dragonette is devastated. “The grief is so much I can’t think straight. Derek was one of God’s incognito sons. It’s been like 50 years of playing together as musicians, friends, brothers, right from Waterfront days - it’s heartbreaking. Something in me has died. I am totally lost now,” Dragonette said.Music composer, producer and guitar player Koco of Agnee, expressed dismay over Derek’s passing. “It’s truly, truly sad that we had to lose him to Covid. I have worked with him, jammed with him at events. Derek was a musician and guitar player that everyone across generations respected. We were always in awe of his playing, his skillset, personality - everything. If you look at the social media tributes, he’s earned bigger riches than anyone else,” said Koco.Pune guitar genius and composer, Sanjay Joseph, currently based in Goa, was distraught at the news. “It’s a sad day bro. You think guys like Derek will live forever. Giants like Derek have done the work for all who came after. I have never heard Derek repeat himself as a musician. Every guitar player has a bag of licks they fall back on when uninspired. I have heard Derek play many, many times, and he never repeated himself. Muscle memory didn’t come into play with him - he was always in the moment. That is huge,” said Joseph.Pune-based guitarist singer and composer, Christopher Fonseca, who was in close touch with the family through Julien’s illness, told us, “I’m heartbroken and dumbfounded and still cannot accept that our dear Derek has gone. I recall his gentleness, humility and constant encouragement to us younger musicians. He never failed to compliment, advise, and even ask about your musical wellbeing… just by his presence he would make you stand up to the occasion for the fact that he enjoyed playing with you ...just makes him a bigger legend to me - every jam, rehearsal or gig with him was a masterclass.”Mukherjee is a writer, blogger and former journalist, covered the music scene in Pune, and India, extensively from 1996 till 2007.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/gods-incognito-son-who-made-every-jam-a-masterclass-101619375527140.html
26-04-2021||Pune||Second dose beneficiaries struggle to get appointment for vaccine in Pune||PUNE Residents across Pune city have complained that they are unable to book a slot of their second shot of Covishield on the Co-WIN app. Senior citizens and those aged 45+, who are waiting for their second dose of Covishield are having appointments cancelled the day before.The PMC has failed to regularly provide real-time information on the availability of the second dose at the respective centres. The Co-WIN app does not show any centres in Pune city.While earlier the second dose was recommended to be given after four weeks, it has now been extended to six-eight weeks in the case of Covishield. For maximum efficacy against the virus, experts have recommended that citizens must receive both shots of the vaccine. Siddharth Shirole, MLA from Shivajinagar, earlier asked the PMC to publish a daily report of the vaccination centres with the type of vaccine available. However, the civic body does not publish a daily list. Shirole said, “I am aware that sr.citizens (&45+) who are awaiting their 2nd dose of COVISHIELD are having their appointments get cancelled the day before. Also that there is no real-time information on availability of second dose of either vaccine. I have once again urged PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar to regularly and accurately publish info of vaccination centres at-least a day in advance, so that citizens can plan, avoid the risk of visiting multiple centres and prevent creating hot-spots at walk-in centres itself.”However the inconvenience to citizens continues, One Bharati Parashar said, “Vaccination centres in Pune municipal limits are not appearing on CoWin application. The PMC should regularly update the list. I am not able to take an appointment for the second dose due to non-availability of the vaccination centre’s on the list.” Another Suyash Kulkarni said, “No Covishield slots available for next three weeks on any of the pincodes in Pune. I checked this for the second dose for my senior citizen parents. Whom do we contact?” Manish Chauhan said, “Vaccines are not properly available in Pune since yesterday. The situation seems to be slightly better in PCMC. People due for a second dose are facing problems in Pune city.”Dr Vaishali Jadhav, assistant health officer said, “The irregular supply of the vaccine is also an issue. Although we do create session sites in advance for people to book due to shortage of vaccines, they are booked out. Also there are technical issues with the app. Sometimes there are appointments which show that the person has been vaccinated, but in fact they have not. In such a case we ask them to manually register themselves it at our centres.” A senior PMC officer, requesting anonymity, also said, “On Sunday morning we had only 5,000 doses in the pipeline, as in those already with the hospitals ready to be administered. We got a fresh stock of 35,000 vaccines on Sunday afternoon which we again started distributing. This new stock will last for another two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/seniors-struggle-to-get-second-dose-of-vaccine-as-appointments-cancelled-101619361666418.html
26-04-2021||Pune||PMC, PCMC cremation count continues to belie administration’s death toll||The number of Covid-19 fatalities being cremated in Pune and neighbouring Pimpri-Chinchwad for the past two weeks, has far outnumbered the official death toll being reported by the state health department. Officials from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) involved in monitoring the crematoria claimed that 170 bodies have been cremated each day in the past one week. Of these 170 bodies, 120, on average, are Covid victims, the official said. This is in sharp contrast to the 11 deaths that the state health department reported on Saturday in Pune city, or the 23 deaths in Pune district. The PMC on the other hand reported 55 Covid deaths in the city. On Sunday, the state health department reported 47 fatalities in Pune, while PMC reported 55 deaths.The Indian Council for Medical Research, Central Health Ministry and WHO consider the state health department’s data, which differs from numbers provided by the PMC or the district health office. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar denied there is mismatch in the PMC death count and cremation figures. “In the PMC report, we always show the PMC-plus-outside figures also. Cremations are happening of people who died in Pune city. “In the report we are showing the deaths of PMC residents. In our report we clarify that every day. We will check both the numbers,” said Kumar. On April 20, HT had reported that over a few days a total 150 cremations have happened in the city, of which, 100 were Covid cases. “There is an immense load on the crematoria due to Covid deaths. Daily cremations of Covid bodies have gone up to 110-120 per day. This number includes all deaths from all faiths. Bodies received from Sassoon hospital alone account for an average of 45-50 cremations per day,” said Shrinivas Kandul, head of PMCs electric department and man incharge of crematoria.Kandul is also tasked with coordination for last rites of Covid-19 bodies. In pre-Covid period, there used to be 80-90 cremations in a day, said KandulIn the past week there has been a waiting period of at least five-six hours for cremation in Pune. To ease the burden, civic body has already roped in all the 21 crematoria in city.To facilitate the process further, PMC has started an online process to issue a cremation pass to relatives of the deceased. “We are hoping this will ease the process. Earlier, all the people used to call two numbers and PMC had to note down all the details in order to issue the pass. “Now it can be filled online and a pass code is sent to a relative’s phone. They can take the body to the nearest crematorium and last rites can be performed. This has reduced the waiting period,” said Shrinivas Kandul.Numbers do not add up in PCMC The situation is no different in Pimpri-Chinchwad where out of 40 crematoria five have been allotted for cremations of Covid bodies. According to data available from PCMC administration, between April 1-24, a total of 622 patients have died due to the Covid-19 infection. Numbers coming in from crematoria paint a different picture. From April 1-24, as many as 1,820 bodies have been cremated at PCMC crematoria designated for Covid. According to registered numbers at the four dedicated Covid crematoria in PCMC – 743 bodies have been cremated at Nehru Nagar, 601 in Bhosari, 358 in Nigdi, and 118 in Sangvi; all in April.“A person who has died due to Covid is denoted by the letter ‘K’. The death is registered in the PCMC record next day, so the number of deaths registered in the crematorium register and the PCMC record varies,” said a doctor from PCMC health department, on condition of anonymity. Firms managing crematoria in PCMC limits have been feeling the load.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-pcmc-cremation-count-continues-to-belie-administration-s-death-toll-101619360826394.html
