27-04-2021||Pune||Jewellery shop employee flees with gold worth ₹36 lakh||A man working at a local jewellery shop was booked on Monday for fleeing with gold worth around ₹36 lakh from the shop. The accused man worked at a jewellery shop in Budhwar peth area of Pune. Four customers of the shop had left their jewellery for polishing and the valuables were handed over to the worker, according to the complaint lodged by the owner of the shop. However, the owner found that the man had left the shop with the jewellery and had failed to return. The total worth of the jewellery was estimated to be ₹35,80,000, according to the police. A case under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust) of Indian Penal Code was registered against one person at Faraskhana police station. Assistant police inspector Abhijeet Patil of Faraskhana police station is investigating the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/jewellery-shop-employee-flees-with-gold-worth-rs-36-lakh-101619539409725.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Drunk driver involved in collision: three killed, two injured||Three people were killed and two, including the accused, were injured in a collision caused by a drunk driver who sped past a red signal on Monday evening. The incident happened around 3:15pm at Talegaon chowk area of Chakan. The accused, who escaped with minor injuries, was identified as Suresh Maruti Kadam (46), a farmer living in Punawale area of Mulshi. “He was driving a Scorpio whose airbags were immediately deployed and he survived. He has minor injuries but otherwise, he escaped almost unscathed. We have arrested him. He is in police custody until April 29,” said assistant police inspector Prakash Rathod of Chakan police station who is investigating the case. The injured man, who was in the Scorpio with Kadam was identified as Tukaram Govind Partape (58) also a resident of a Punawale. The three deceased were identified as Akshay Maruti Sonawane (24), a resident of Waki Khurd in Khed; Avinash Rohidas Argade (27), a resident of Kadus in Khed; and Praful Sampat Sonawane (26), also a resident of Waki in Khed. While Akshay owned a restaurant in Chakan, his paternal cousin Praful owned a shop in Chakan, and their friend Argade worked in a Hyundai showroom in Chakan, according to the police. “The three were driving in a Maruti Suzuki Celerio and were crossing the signal at Talegaon chowk and were on the left side of a container when the Scorpio driver broke the signal and sped towards them from their right. The people in the Celerio could not see the Scorpio due to the container. They had already driven along the length of the container truck and were heading ahead (as their signal was green) when the Scorpio rammed into the middle of their car and it turned turtle and was pushed almost 35-40 meter before it stopped,” said API Rathod. A case under Sections 304(2), 279, 337, 338, 427 of Indian Penal Code, Sections 184, 185, 119/177 of Motor Vehicle Act, and Section 65(e) of Maharashtra Prohibition Act was registered at Chakan police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/drunk-driver-involved-in-collision-three-killed-two-injured-101619539349676.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Illegal alcohol worth ₹3 lakh seized||Four people were booked by Pune police and illegal domestic made alcohol worth ₹3, 00,000 was seized from their possession on Monday, according to the officials of social security cell. The four booked in the case were identified as Sushila Dilip Kumbhar (60), Aruna Rajkumar Kachravat (50), Anil Sham Binavat, and Rahul Anil Binavat, all residents of Shraddha Nagar in Atkare Chawl area of Kondhwa Budrukh. While the women stayed back, the two men fled the spot when they realised that the police were raiding the place. The police have seized 2,920 bags of hooch, 46 cans, 313 bottles of 180ml of various brands of whiskey, 312 bottles of various brands of beer from their possession. The police also found cash worth ₹1, 16,330. The total seizure was estimated to be worth ₹4, 31,780, according to the police. A case under Section 66(e) of Maharashtra Prohibition Act was registered at Kondhwa police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/illegal-alcohol-worth-rs-3-lakh-seized-101619539229702.html
27-04-2021||Pune||IMD forecast: Temperature to rise marginally in May||As April ends on a cooler note, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the temperature in May will rise marginally for Pune city. However, there will be more frequent weather phenomenon of thunderstorms and lightning in the city as temperature sees a rise. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, IMD Pune said that the day temperature may see a marginal rise. “The temperature in May is set to rise a little. In the first 15 days, there are chances of day temperature hovering between 40 to 41 but as soon as it rises, there will be local instability in weather systems,” said Kashyapi. He added that this local instability over the weather system may incur moisture from Arabian Sea and result in rainfall spells lowering the temperature. “There are chances of light rainfall along with thunderstorms and lightning after a temperature rise in the month of May but the rise in mercury will be marginal,” said Kashyapi. He further added that this type of weather pattern is normal. “As Pune city does not have a harsh weather pattern, there are always fewer chances of heat waves here. Due to its proximity to the Arabian Sea, there are chances that when temperature rises, the local instability will incur moisture from the sea and cause rainfall. This will keep the temperature low, and the weather will be pleasant,” said Kashyapi. For the month of April, the season’s highest day temperature for the city of Pune has been around 43.3 degrees Celsius in 1897 as per IMD. In the last one decade, the mercury has touched 41.5 degrees Celsius in April 2010. Similarly for the month of May, the warmest day temperature so far has been reported to be in 1889 at 43.3 degrees Celsius. In the last decade as well, the warmest day temperature has been reported at 41.9 degrees Celsius in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/imd-forecast-temperature-to-rise-marginally-in-may-101619539169794.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Hail, thunderstorm, rain reported in parts of city||On Tuesday, the Baner, Aundh, Akurdi, Pashan, Sus Road, New Sangvi areas of Pune city reported hail, thunderstorm, lightning, strong winds and intense rainfall, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Shivajinagar reported 2.3 millimetre rainfall, Pashan reported 5 millimetre rainfall and Lohegaon reported traces of rainfall. On Tuesday, Shivajinagar reported 38.4 degrees Celsius and Lohegaon reported 39.4 degrees Celsius during the day. The night temperature was 23.1 degrees Celsius in Shivajinagar and 23.8 degrees Celsius in Lohegaon. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, IMD Pune said that the early forecast for Pune city was updated to gusty winds with speed of 30-40 kilometres per hour. “The forecast for Pune city was updated on Tuesday as there were towering clouds over Lohegaon which resulted in gusty winds. In some isolated areas of the city, small hail was also reported,” said Kashyapi. He added that similar forecast has been extended for April 28. “Similar weather conditions may prevail in the city on Wednesday. However, the chances of hail are less on Wednesday. An accurate forecast will be given during the daytime on April 28,” said Kashyapi. Explaining the reason for the thunderstorm and lightning followed by intense rainfall spell on Tuesday, Kashyapi said that it is the result of local instability. “Due to rise in temperature, local weather instability drew moisture from the Arabian sea resulting in rainfall. Partly cloudy skies with day temperature around 38 degrees Celsius may prevail in the coming days,” said Kashyapi. The night temperature as per the weather department will be around 22 degrees Celsius. As the day temperature is likely to remain below normal, April shall end at a cooler note. “Thunderstorm and lightning are also forecasted for four divisions of Maharashtra. Isolated rainfall at some places in the state is also predicted in the next few days,” said Kashyapi. On Tuesday, Satara reported 6mm rainfall and Mahabaleshwar reported 4mm rainfall. The highest maximum temperature in Maharashtra was reported at 43.7 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri and the lowest minimum temperature was reported at 19.9 degrees Celsius at Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hail-thunderstorm-rain-reported-in-parts-of-city-101619539109743.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Woman charged with MCOCA found dead at Sassoon hospital||A woman who was booked under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime (MCOCA) was found dead at Sassoon General Hospital on Tuesday evening while being under the arrest of Pune police. The woman was under arrest in the case of abetment to suicide of Milind alias Balwant Marathe (60), a resident of Bhandarkar road area of Pune. The case was registered at Vishrambaug police station under Sections 306, 452, 386, 504, 506, 507, and 34 of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 39 and 45 of Maharashtra Money Lending Act. On Tuesday, the Pune police invoked Sections 3(1)(i) and 3(4) off Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime (MCOCA) against the woman and her co-accused Nilesh Umesh Shelar. “She was arrested under MCOCA yesterday (Monday) but also tested positive for Covid-19 yesterday (Monday). So, she was placed under judicial custody and admitted to Sassoon General Hospital. She said she was going for a bath and to wash clothes and once inside, she refused to open the door for a long time. When our people forcefully entered the bathroom, they found the glass tiles on the ventilation window to have been removed,” said Rahul Patil, deputy commissioner of police, Zone-2, Pune. The police rushed to the spot that is located between the morgue and the 11-storey building dedicated to Covid-19 treatment. “There is a metal frame and glass to that window, and it is big enough for a person to pass through. The glasses had been removed and she was found lying under the window. The logical conclusion is that she jumped from there,” said Chandrakant Sangale, assistant commissioner of police, Lashkar Division of Pune police. “We have no idea what happened. We are looking at her body lying near the new building of Sassoon hospital. We were just told that it happened around an hour ago,” said one of her colleagues who was standing near the main gate of the 11-floor Covid wing. The stringent MCOCA was invoked against the woman after an application was made to additional commissioner of police Sanjay Shinde stating that the duo, led by Kale, had committed various crimes including attempted murder, abetment to suicide, extortion, uploading and spreading false videos among other things. “We request with folded hands to all to report that she was murdered, she cannot commit suicide. Her husband has already made a complaint regarding the same when she was arrested. She herself had complained to honourable JMFC about atrocities committed upon her by the police,” said advocate Tosif Sayyed who worked with Kale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/woman-charged-with-mcoca-found-dead-at-sassoon-hospital-101619538929735.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Three traders fined for selling mango claiming false origin||Three traders in Market Yard, Pune were fined ₹5,000 each for selling Karnataka Hapus mango in the name of Devgad and Ratnagiri. In the last three weeks, the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC), Market yard collected a fine of ₹17, 700 from traders in similar cases of mango fraud. “We are continuing our raids every day and after seizing, the mangoes are confiscated by APMC and auctioned at gate No 1. The traders were selling 10-kilogram boxes for ₹11,800 when the actual price of Karnataka Hapus is ₹8,100,” said Madhukant Garad, administrator and secretary APMC Gultekdi Market Yard Pune. The APMC have warned traders of facing legal punishment if the same type of trading continues. “The mangoes are packed in a box which has a label in Marathi which reads as ‘Ratnagiri Hapus Mango’ which confuses the buyers who believe the mangoes are from Ratnagiri. Traders claim that the farmers in Karnataka are at fault who are packing their mangoes with a label of Ratnagiri. We will continue our inquiry in the coming days as well,” said Garad. The APMC is also investigating whether traders are arranging boxes from Ratnagiri to pack the mangoes. “Every year some traders which are not regular in the Market Yard try to fool buyers and it is a wrong practice. Old traditional sellers do not fall into this type of business,” said Vilas Bhujbal, president, Market Yard Commission Agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/three-traders-fined-for-selling-mango-claiming-false-origin-101619538809709.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Social group in Pune ensures dignified farewell to Covid-19 victims||A social welfare group is working round-the-clock with the Pune civic body to give a dignified farewell to COVID-19 victims, irrespective of their religion, and claimed to have performed the last rites of over 1,200 victims since the pandemic began last year.The organisation comprises about 40 members, including some auto-rickshaw drivers and mobile technicians, in the age group of 22 to 64 years.A senior group member said their workload has increased during the current second wave of COVID-19."We have been helping conduct the last rites of COVID-19 victims, irrespective of their religion, for the last 14 to 15 months. So far, we have buried or cremated over 1,200 victims in Pune city and adjoining villages in the Maharashtra district," Ummat Foundation member Javed Khan told PTI."Many a times, family members or relatives are unable to come, but we ensure that the last rites are conducted with all respect and as per their tradition," Khan said.He said the number of deaths due to COVID-19 has increased in the second wave of the viral infection, and their group members are now working 24X7.Two days ago, they got a call about the death of an elderly member of a Brahmin family, which was in isolation after contracting the viral infection, he said."Our volunteers in PPE kits reached there with a body bag, brought the mortal remains to a crematorium and conducted the last rites as per their rituals," he said.Sharfuddin Shaikh (64), the oldest member of the group, said their work was all about "humanity" and the objective was to give the dead person a decent farewell in the absence of relatives and loved ones."On many occasions, when family members of the deceased cannot make it to the crematorium or burial ground as they are in quarantine, we arrange video calls for them while performing the last rites," he said.Shaikh said that late Sunday evening, they received a call from Talegaon town, located about 35 km from here, about a COVID-19 victim's death."Since the family members were unable to perform the burial, they requested us to help them. We rushed to the hospital, collected the body, performed the burial in Talegaon and returned to Pune city around 3 am on Monday," he said.Asked how they are managing while fasting during the holy month of Ramadan, Shaikh said the Almighty was providing them strength to continue the humanitarian work.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/social-group-in-pune-ensures-dignified-farewell-to-covid-19-victims-101619528083300.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Civic Sanskriti: Mango magic... the treasure troves that sustain us all||While the brilliant Amaltas flowers are a visual delight, it is the Mango that is perhaps the most loved and delicious component of the golden Indian summer.Street carts and bazaar shelves across Pune are filled with thousands of petis of mangoes. How many varieties of mango can you name? Alphonso, Banganapalli, Chausa, Dussheri, Kesari, Payari …Some years ago, my colleague Satish Awate involved students from school-ecoclubs in the Sahyadris, or the northern Western Ghats, to look for as many mango varieties as they could find. Students explored farms, village commons, and nearby areas, mapped the trees and interviewed elders. Awate delights in narrating the unusual varieties and stories the children found. One mango variety tastes like curd, another like shepu (dill leaves). One smells like lemon, another like kerosene and yet another like bed bugs! Some varieties resemble other fruits and confusingly are named for the other fruit – so a mango that tastes like an apple is called safarchand. There are even mango varieties that taste like bananas and pumpkins. Some trees and varieties have historical significance. Babasaheb Ambedkar is believed to have camped below a particular mango tree named Madhgoti in Uravade village not far from Pune and enjoyed its fruits. There is often a distinct mango variety for each preparation – chutney, sabjis and curries, mango rice, pickle, fruit, aam ras, amrakhand, aam papad, and murabba. Some varieties, like the Alphonso, are carefully cultivated and are a major source of income from local sales and exports. Other varieties are highly local and grow in wild or semi-wild conditions. Students of the participating schools recorded over 200 varieties of mangoes from about 60 locations in the Western Ghats. A study of these varieties has been done by CEE with IISER, Pune, to understand how distinct these popular varieties are at the genetic level. Having large varietal diversity in a crop makes it possible to choose or develop varieties that can withstand climate change impacts. Different varieties are able to tolerate drought, high rainfall or extreme heat conditions, or pest attacks. The Western Ghats harbour not only varieties of our favourite mango, but many other types of fruits, vegetables, fodder, medicinal plants, trees yielding timber, grasses or shrubs yielding fibre. These mountainous ecosystems are also the origins of the rivers that drain the Deccan and southern Indian region. This mosaic of wilderness, forests and grassy patches, rivers and streams, village common lands, and farmlands in the Western Ghats is invaluable as a sustaining inter-dependent life force. When we remove a few components, hack some forests here and there, we start to unravel a complex web of life that has taken millennia to evolve. The Western Ghats are one of 36 “hotspots” of biodiversity in the world. A hotspot is both a positive and a negative qualification. As a biodiversity hotspot, the Western Ghats are unique with at least 1,500 species of plants that are not found elsewhere in the world. Unfortunately, the “hotspot” label also indicates that this natural vegetation is highly threatened. This means that the Western Ghats harbour irreplaceable life forms, and they are being lost. For example, scientists and civic groups have questioned the need for projects such as the doubling of the railway line in Mollem National Park on the Western Ghats in Goa to increase commercial cargo handling. With this project and the existing highway and power line projects, a large tract of forest with 60,000 trees would be erased in the Mollem National Park.Covid and lockdowns have hit us hard, but projects with short term gains to a few, and increased risks to both humans and other species seem like Sheikh Chilli cutting off the branch on which he sat! Instead, we need innovative approaches that help to restore the economy and livelihoods while strengthening the natural resource base including biodiversity. It is a call to those who develop and support innovations, help incubate solutions and especially micro enterprises. In the meantime, do try out different varieties of mangoes. Try to plant some mango saplings of different varieties in your neighbourhood. In a lovely connection of Satish’s Western Ghats school eco-clubs project to Pune, students from Baburaoji Gholap School in Sangvi, Pune, raised saplings of 75 mango varieties in their school nursery. These saplings were then planted in institutional campuses in Pune, and at the Botanical Garden at Shivaji University. Kolhapur. Grafts and more saplings could one day be prepared at the Botanical Garden, continuing to conserve these riches from nature. We Punekars are lucky to live close to the treasures of the Sahyadris. Those interested in joining and evolving restoration efforts are welcome to get in touch.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/civic-sanskriti-mango-magic-the-treasure-troves-that-sustain-us-all-101619519307162.html
27-04-2021||Pune||5,097 e-pass applications rejected by police: Covid negative report mandatory to travel||The Pune police have rejected a total of 5,097 applications for an e-pass after a Covid-19 negative certificate was made mandatory for all applicants applying to travel out of district. If the certificate is not attached to the application, then the permission for an e-pass is denied outright. A digital pass cell has been commissioned at the Pune city police commissionerate where a total of 11,238 E-passes were requested until Sunday evening. Of which 3,302 passes were sanctioned, while 338 applications had expired, and 2,500 passes were pending. So far, a total of 5,097 applications have been rejected, police informed The E-pass facility has been introduced in all districts of Maharashtra since April 23. In exceptional circumstances, permission is given only when a close family member has died, and the person wants to attend the funeral. In such a case, people are given an E-pass even if they do not have a Covid-19 negative certificate. DCP (Crime) Shrinavas Ghadge said, “It is mandatory to submit the Covid-19 negative certificate for all to receive a digital E-pass. Without this, the application will not be accepted, this must be noted.” According to the guidelines, people who belong to essential services do not need a digital pass for traveling inside the city. However, they need to carry their identity card with them and show them when asked at checkpoints. Digital passes are being issued for people traveling to another district for attending a funeral of a close relative, serious illness, marriage, or for a medical reason. However, the necessary documents need to be submitted online. For the marriage ceremony, the pass will be given to the bride, groom, their parents, siblings, uncle and aunt but a wedding card needs to be attached to the application mandatorily. No permission for travel will be given for commercial purposes. Passengers traveling by a plane will be given a digital pass. Meanwhile, citizens have welcomed the process and said that at least there is a legal path to getting an E-pass which will will resolve many teething issues. Total application for E-Pass: 11,237 Application granted – 3,302 Expired applications – 336 Pending applications – 2,500 Rejected applications – 5049||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/5097-e-pass-applications-rejected-by-police-covid-negative-report-mandatory-to-travel-101619452337575.html
27-04-2021||Pune||Drive from May 1: Second-dose beneficiaries to get priority over pvt hospitals, says PMC||Pune: Despite the Centre’s decision, those above the age of 18 years are likely to face hurdles in immediately getting the Covid vaccine dose in Pune from May 1, as the municipal corporation, according to mayor Murlidhar Mohol, may not provide vaccines to private hospitals. Hospitals have now been empowered to purchase the doses directly from manufacturers. Mohol, speaking to media on Monday after reviewing preparations for the universal vaccination programme starting from Saturday, said health officials have informed PMC that the Centre is likely to issue guidelines that the civic body need not provide vaccines to private hospitals, because the hospitals have been empowered to purchase the vaccines directly from manufacturers. “They (health department authorities) have also informed me that maybe a parallel vaccine distribution system could be put in place for which the guidelines could be made. Currently, Pune city has over 73 private hospitals and so if they get the vaccine directly from manufacturers, or the parallel system, then we could have that stock for better distribution at our centres,” said Mohol. According to the mayor, preference will be given to those slotted for their second dose. “Even though all above 18 years of age would now be eligible to get the vaccine starting from May 1, we still have a large number of people above the age of 45 years, who are currently eligible and who have not yet got their second dose, including 0.2 million senior citizens. We will prioritise the beneficiaries who are due to get their second dose.” The city had been leading in vaccinating all above the age group of 45 years who were eligible, until recently, though an irregular supply of vaccines led to a roadblock and the district could not achieve its set target of 0.1 million vaccinations lakh daily. Both leading Covid vaccine manufacturers – Bharat Biotech and Serum Institute of India - revealed prices for private hospitals and state governments, with Serum making it clear it may not be able to fulfil requirement of for every state on an immediate basis. PMC is awaiting guidelines on the universal vaccination drive. PMC commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “We are still awaiting government directions from the Centres on those above 18 years of age vaccination, regarding what quota would be allowed to us and about crowd management too. The guidelines say that only those registered beforehand will be allowed to get the vaccine.” Dr Sanjay Patil, chairman of the hospital board, IMA Pune chapter, said, “IMA can volunteer and purchase vaccines and then redistribute it to smaller hospitals and its members to decentralise the process. We can also volunteer to vaccinate marginalised groups like mentally or physically challenged people, or even the labour class, if the government can subsidise the cost of those vaccines. However, currently, the biggest challenge is vaccine supply. Today there is no regular supply of the vaccines for the eligible age group.” Pune city has 217 vaccinations centres. Of these, 15 government centres provide Covaxin, 104 give Covishield. Twenty-five private hospitals give Covaxin and 73 give Covishield. Pune city has vaccinated about 770,333 as of Sunday and still many more await their second dose. It has been three months since the Centre began vaccinating frontline workers (FLWs) across the country. It started from February 2. However, even as 62,257 FLWs got their first dose, only 21.8% have taken their second dose as per the PMC. Only 17,106 FLWs have taken their second dose while over 57,000 senior citizens have got their second dose. About 74% of the health care workers have got their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/second-dose-for-beneficiaries-to-be-prioritised-from-may-1-awaiting-guidelines-from-centre-pmc-101619450297192.html
