28-04-2021||Pune||PMC to audit beds in each hospital||The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to conduct an audit of beds in each hospital to evaluate whether the patients occupying the beds need it, or not. Against the background of a shortage of beds in hospitals in Pune, at both private and government hospitals, PMC will first audit hospitals under its own ambit. As per the PMC health statistics, call centres receive 1,000 phone calls per day from patients seeking admission. Doctors then verify the condition of the patient by asking questions about oxygen level, body temperature and duration of symptoms, among others. Based on that, a doctor will recommend a patient be admitted to hospital. At present, there is demand for oxygen beds in the city. PMC has a total 8,555 beds, including 5,540 oxygen beds, 1,843 beds without oxygen, 610 beds with ventilators and 562 ICU beds. Rubal Agrawal, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We are conducting an audit with the help of the zonal medical office and its team, to checking if patient need the beds they are in.” Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal Ccmmissioner said, “We will provide beds to needy patients and avoid unnecessary occupancy of beds in PMC hospitals. The audit will help make beds available. It is a continuous process and doctors will mention it in their clinical report.” PMC is supplying 37 tonnes of oxygen per day PMC is supplying 37 tonnes of oxygen per day to its own civic-run hospitals. PMC requires at least 40 tonnes of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-audit-beds-in-each-hospital-101619625998321.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Some arriving passengers not tested for Covid-19 at Pune station||The Pune district administration made it clear in its guidelines, that each and every passenger coming from outside the state who does not have a Covid-negative report should undergo rapid antigen test at the Pune railway station. This test and the checking is carried by the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department, but currently it doesn’t seem to be happening. “We check passengers coming from other states to Pune railway station for the RTPCR test report. While passengers with Covid symptoms do get the rapid antigen test, not all are tested. Also, each and every passenger’s contact details is with us,” said Chandrakant Walemad, PMC health department official. Passenger movement at the Pune railway station has increased ever since tighter curbs, and in effect, talk of the current lockdown began a month ago. At least 10,000 passengers arrive at the Pune station, daily. The Railways, along with PMC officials, are conducting thermal checks, but not all passengers who do not have a Covid-negative report are being given the rapid antigen test. HT had reported how the staff deployed by the civic body is not enough to cover the large number of passengers coming in. At any given time, a maximum of five PMC staffers are on duty at the railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/some-arriving-passengers-not-tested-for-covid-19-at-pune-station-101619625878342.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Action against 571 lockdown violators in the last 23 days||The Pune police have taken action against 571 persons in the last 23 days, for violating lockdown rules. A case has been registered against the violators under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “This year people are following the Covid guidelines as compared to the previous year, Therefore, the police choose not to take strict action. Action is being taken against those who are not following the rules,” said a police official, requesting anonymity. Last year, at least 27,000 violators faced action and some were even beaten-up by the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/action-against-571-lockdown-violators-in-the-last-23-days-101619625578283.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Citizens with disabilities want independent vaccination centre||Citizens with disabilities in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad believe that a separate vaccination centre will ease the process in terms of easy access, convenience and a quicker process. With long queues at most vaccination centres every day, disabled are finding it difficult to navigate through the entire procedure. “People do help us in finding a chair or offer us spaces, but these days many hesitate because of Covid-19. People do allow us to get ahead in the queue and doctors also help us, however, the procedure takes a long time. If there is a different centre then we might not have to deal with long queues and nobody has to bother about us,” said Savita Darkunde, who works at Bank of India, Swargate. Darkunde, who is blind, took her vaccination a few days back and was accompanied by her four friends to the centre. “I was even helped by the hospital staff, but real problems arise for those who are illiterate, as they don’t understand things easily and their disability makes things more difficult for them,” added Darkunde. Pravin Parkhe, who is partially blind and works as an assistant general manager, grade 3, at the Food Corporation of India said, “If there are 10 vaccination centres for citizens, one should be devoted for the specially-abled. Everyone doesn’t offer help, some have reservations, and it creates unnecessary arguments especially when things are so tense at centres due to vaccine shortages.” The National Federation of Blind has written a letter to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) asking them to make 500 doses of vaccination available and the staff to undergo vaccinations after May 1. “For the specially-abled, going at centres is becoming difficult with no public transport and most of them cannot drive on their own due to the disability. I hope the administration provides us the vaccines so we will provide them a suitable place where they can come and vaccinate all of us or we are also ready for door-to-door vaccination,” said Sushil Patil, treasurer, National Federation of Blind. PCMC starts separate centre for specially-abled From Wednesday, the PCMC administration in coordination with Rotary Club of Pimpri has started a vaccination centre for the specially-abled. The first day did not have a big response as many of them were still unaware about the centre. “We have forwarded messages on their groups and also planned a one common pick-up point in the allocated areas where our bus will go pick them up and drop as well. From tomorrow (Thursday) rush will increase,” said Mehul Parmar, president, Rotary Club of Pimpri. The PCMC administration did not release the number of people vaccinated on the first day at the centre. In the twin cities, there are a total of 2,145 people above 45 who are eligible for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/citizens-with-disabilities-want-independent-vaccination-centre-101619625458424.html
28-04-2021||Pune||State board extends deadline to fill HSC exam forms||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE), on Wednesday, declared that students of the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC), Class 12, can now submit their examination forms one day before the examinations, with a late fee of ₹250. This decision was taken due to the rising number of Covid cases followed by strict lockdown in the state. Those students who have not yet filled up their examination form can register online and fill up the form with a late fee of ₹250. “Earlier, the last day to submit the examination form for HSC students was April 4, with transfer of credit and students with limited subjects were allowed to fill the form by April 22. Due to the rising number of Covid cases in Maharashtra the state government postponed the HSC exams,” said MSBSHSE secretary Ashok Bhosale. “So, it is now decided that students who have not yet filed up the examination form until April 23, can now register online and fill up the form up even one day before the examinations begin. Students have to pay a late fee of ₹250 while filling up the examination form and attach all the necessary documents. We have instructed all the zonal divisions to carry out this process strictly and no student should be left behind,” Bhosale said. Atharv Kamble, an HSC student said, “There was a Covid emergency in our home and so I couldn’t fill-up the form, but now I will immediately register and fill up the examination form for the HSC exam.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/state-board-extends-deadline-to-fill-hsc-exam-forms-101619625338362.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Increase in passenger numbers travelling from Pune station||From the beginning of this month, there has been a considerable increase in the number of passengers travelling from the Pune railway station to the rest of the country. Due to the strict restrictions imposed in the state, thousands of labourers have been returning back to their home states. Four trains running at capacity, 1,400 passengers each, are weekly special trainsto different cities like Gorakhpur and Lucknow. According to information given by the Pune railway division, prior to the current lockdown, in February, daily, 25,000 passengers would travel from Pune railway station, on an average of 25 to 30 trains. This number has now doubled and daily, 50,000 passengers travel from Pune railway station, with over 49 train operations. “The train operations and passengers travelling from Pune railway station have increased drastically in the last one month which has almost doubled compared to February and March. Some of the trains originating from Pune are running over occupancy and have a daily waiting list of passengers. Without confirmed tickets and thermal checking, passengers are not allowed to travel from the Pune railway station,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson. Meanwhile, there are also some trains which are cancelled due to poor occupancy . These trains include the Pune-Nagpur weekly special train, Pune-Ajni weekly special train, Pune-Amravati weekly special and Kolhapur-Nagpur bi-weekly special. All these trains are originating from Pune railway; due to occupancy of less than 15 per cent, these trains have been cancelled by the railways. “As there is a heavy rush of passengers going towards the north and Northeast India, there are several new special trains operating from Pune,” Jhawar added. BOX Daily trains operating in the month of February, 2021 - 25 to 30 Daily trains operating in the month of April, 2021 - 45 to 50 Daily number of passengers daily travelling from Pune railway station in February - 25,000 Daily number of passengers daily travelling from Pune railway station in April - above 50,000||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/increase-in-passenger-numbers-travelling-from-pune-station-101619625278443.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Parents fear delay in RTE admissions will affect children||The school admissions under the Right To Education (RTE) have been affected with the extension of lockdown likely till May 15. The lottery for RTE was declared on April 7. However, the admission process is yet to begin due to the current lockdown. Parents now fear that this delay, similar to last year, will affect their children academically. The RTE admissions under RTE for academic year 2020-2021 were finalised in January 2021.Speaking about the delay in the admission process, Soni Rathod from Undri said that her 6-year-old son has been selected under RTE for admission in Class 1. “I have not received any message as of yet to start with the admission process. I have seen my number on the online lottery of admission under the RTE. The online lottery was on April 7,” said Rathod. “Due to lockdown, there has been a delay. We went to the RTE office as well for enquiry. We were informed that the process will start soon and the details will be uploaded on the website. We want the online school to start so that the child is busy. The process should not be delayed as the child will suffer academically,” said Rathod. Under RTE, 25 per cent seats of the unaided private schools are reserved for students from economically backward sections at entry level of preschool and Class 1. For the academic year 2021-2022, there are 982 RTE registered schools in Pune. Of the 55,813 applications, 14,567 students were selected in Pune during the online lottery. Mukund Kirdat, city-based education activist and member of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), said that even though lockdown is in effect, the education department should start with the admission process. Across Maharashtra, there are 82,129 students selected under RTE during the online lottery. “The schools have already started their admissions. In such cases, there is a huge list of parents waiting under the RTE. If the regular admission under RTE is not done, then the waiting list parents will also suffer. Because some parents are hoping to secure admission through RTE, they have not applied through normal admission for their ward,” said Kirdat. He further added that the education department does not seem prepared even during the second wave. “Document verification for parents under the RTE can start as there are not a lot of parents at a particular school. Such special provisions should be made so that the process is finished soon, and students start their academic year,” said Kirdat. Education department officials said that parents can look for more information regarding the online admission process on the official website of RTE.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/parents-fear-delay-in-rte-admissions-will-affect-children-101619625218388.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Housing societies take independent calls on Covid tests for domestic helpers||With no uniform orders by the government on antigen tests or RT-PCR tests for domestic helpers – housing societies in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), are taking independent calls on conducting tests. In Pune, there are 10,000 registered housing societies and some of them are making these tests compulsory.“We are following what the government has said. If societies who want to conduct tests, they can arrange it for themselves, but no compulsion has been made from our side,” said Suhas Patwardhan, chairman, Pune district cooperative housing federation limited. “In my society we have not made it compulsory. I feel domestic workers are more aware about the current scenario and they are keeping their health in check. My maid said that she has to take care of two families – one her own and second, ours, so she gives top priority to her health,” said Rajendra Chuttar, president, Baner-Pashan Link Road welfare trust. In Wagholi, people have taken extra precautions and only allowed maids at homes where the residents need medical attention. “Since the last 15 days, we have put restrictions on the entry of domestic helpers in the society and are only permitting them at homes where there are health issues. We are conducting RT-PCR tests at regular intervals,” said Sanjeev Patil, director, Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA). In PCMC, since April 20, rapid antigen tests are being conducted at various societies. The initiative is undertaken jointly by PCMC and Deepak Foundation, which have conducted tests in 18 housing societies as of April 28. “Every day we are conducting tests at two societies. Along with domestic helpers, we also conducting tests of families whose maids tested positive, as a precautionary measure,” said Tejaswini Sawai, chairperson, Pimpri-Chinchwad Cooperative Housing Societies Federation. On Wednesday, tests were conducted at Nandan Inspera society in Wakad where 90 domestic helpers, which include maids, security guards, car washers and gardeners, were tested. “Society members agreed for the test as it is beneficial for all. Domestic workers were also willing to do a test, so the drive was conducted smoothly,” said Sachin Londhe, chairman of the society.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/housing-societies-take-independent-calls-on-covid-tests-for-domestic-helpers-101619625158271.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Dose shortage hits Covid vaccination drive in Pune||PUNE At least 39 lakh people from Pune district under the age of 45 years will have to wait for their turn to get vaccinated as the state public health minister Rajesh Tope announced that full-fledged rollout of the inoculation drive from May 1 is not possible for the want of vaccines.While the wait for younger ones has extended further, those above the age of 45 years are also facing problem as the drive had to be stopped on Wednesday as the administration did not have a stock of Covishield doses.At many places, senior citizens had to return without jab as centres did not get vaccine supply.Pune last received its stock on Sunday which was 35,000 for the city and 55,000 for the rural areas. However, on Wednesday the entire stock along with the ones in the pipeline, the ones already distributed to the hospitals and the centres, came to a complete grinding halt.Asif Shaikh, a beneficiary, said, “Today (on Wednesday) I went to three vaccination centres in Pune, but they didn’t have and when I asked them about availability they said they don’t know. Now, where is management and why we can’t get the vaccine?”Another beneficiary Harish Pandey said, “My parents (70 and 65-years-old) have received the first dose of vaccine and now they are waiting for the second dose. I am worried they will receive it on time due to shortage.”Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Siddharth Shirole tweeted on Wednesday that, “Unfortunately Pune has run out of stock Covshield vaccine for today (28/4). I am going to be talking to the city & state administration today to understand the exact reasons behind the supply vs. demand mismatch, and hopeful resolve the same by tomorrow.” (sic)A senior Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official who is responsible to procure and distribute vaccine in the city said, “We have not got the stock as of yet and when we asked the state about when the next stock would arrive we have not got any answer on the same. We get to know only an hour before the stock arrives and state officials who inform us get to know only half an hour before the stock arrives. The Covaxin doses are reserved to be used only as a second dose and even that is now over.”Currently, all aged above 45 are eligible to get the vaccine until May 1 when all aged above 18-44 will get the vaccine unless the state government decides to postpone it due to lack of vaccine.As of the latest data from the state health department as of Tuesday Pune district has vaccinated 44.11% of the estimated population aged above 45 years with the first dose. Out of the 1.17 crores estimated population of the district, 35 lakh are estimated to be those aged above 45 years. Out of the 35 lakh, 15.54 lakh have got the first dose.Registration woesOn Wednesday, the Co-WIN app was to open up for vaccination of those aged between 18-44, however many complained that they could not get themselves registered. While those who got themselves registered could not get a schedule since the app showed only distant locations available for vaccination like Indapur, Alephata and Baramati and some said that those aged below 45 were unable to get the slot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dose-shortage-hits-covid-vaccination-drive-in-pune-101619622818178.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: A “Gao-Kus” organises Pune to form a medieval “Kasba”||Till date, we have been discussing Pune’s time-line through scattered remains. Today, we shall geo-tagging the names found through various archives and public memory to physical locations, to make the first map of Pune in medieval times. In the last column, we witnessed the Bara Arab building a formidable fortress - Kille Hissar - on the banks of the Mutha during Bahamani rule. Some residential arrangements would have been made for soldiers, officers, commanders, helpers and Muslim residents. But, what was this fortress protecting? Bara Arab built the Killa-e-Hissar on the elevated portion formed between the then Ambil odha and the Madhala odha (stream passing through Pawale chowk), on the remains of previous settlement. He moved the settlement outside fort walls. Thus, instead of a complex settlement with temples, houses and public places, Pune was divided into a distinct military base and a civilian settlement separated by fort walls. The civilian population was shifted west of the fort and occupied the area form Madhal odha to the Nagjhari stream, on the border of present day Somwar peth. After the disintegration of the Bahamani dynasty, Nizamshahi rule descended on Pune. It was time of frequent conflicts and constant battles. Many medieval towns and villages of Maharashtra had a “Gao-Kus” -fortification wall along the boundaries built for protection against enemy attacks. In order to protect the settlement of Pune, it was appropriate that an additional fortification wall - Gao-Kus - be built around the civilian settlement. There was significant population of potters along the river Mutha, as water and river soil is their main raw material. The area occupied by potters was known as Kumbharli, then. Thus, it was only logical for the gateway to the northeast to be named as :Kumbhar Ves”. It survived till few decades back when it was demolished during road expansions. The Kumbhar Ves Maruti shrine exists even today. There are references to a small, dam wall and bridge, Dagadi Pul, built near Kumbhar Ves during the Nizamshahi period, which served as singular path to cross the river. The fertile grounds along the Nagjhari river to the fort were cultivated for flowers and vegetables, predominantly by the Mali caste or “gardeners”. The entire fertile track was known as “Mali” and the term has been frequently referred to in archival records to denote irrigated and cultivable lands. The gateway opening towards the Nagjhari stream to enter Mangalwar peth was known as Mali Ves, which is lost today. The area has several families belonging to the Mali caste residing in the neighbourhood at present.The area, which is uncultivable and used for non- agriculture purpose is called Mujeri, and lies next to Mali. It is mainly allotted for building settlements or people who practice livelihoods other than farming. The fortification wall near the Nagjhari houses a Maruti shrine named Gao-Kus Maruti, even today. It finds mentions in various medieval records. One can still observe the fortification wall’s heavy rectangular blocks marking the end of Pune’s settlement. If we venture along the Nagjhari stream one finds remains of the ghats, bastions and steps leading to the stream. The southern gateway marking the boundary of the settlement was “Kedar Ves”, named after the Kedareshwar temple, next to the present day Kasba Ganpati. The older settlement of Kasars (specifically referred to as Bangadi Kasar) or bangle makers, are from this area. They are distinct from the Tvastha Kasar or the Tambat (coppersmiths) who settled in same area in a later period. The entire area around the Pawale chowk to Kedareshwar is hence, known as Kasarli - the settlement of Bangle makers - in medieval archives. The western region of Pune is where the Mawal region lies and hence, the gateway was named as “Mawal Ves”. Thus, the medieval settlement of Pune was effectively protected on all four sides by the town wall and the military garrison near the river in the north. Purandare Daftar informs us that Pune was reorganised by combining Kasarli, Kumbharli and Pune villages. NV Joshi, a 19th century Marathi writer erroneously reported in the book Pune Sharache Varnan, that Kasarli, Kumbharli and Punawadi were the three villages brought together. Unfortunately, there is no evidence to suggest that any particular part of Pune was known as Punawadi. But, the name has stuck and many books on Pune still carry this wrong information.Dr Jaymala Diddee rightly observes that Kasarli and Kumbharli, which are closely located along with Pune’s main settlement, are not separate villages, but different areas of the same town. On the ground, the medieval settlement of Pune consisted of Kasarli, Kumbharli, an older settlement, and parts of Mali and Mujeri. It is pertinent to note here that during this period, the rural character of Pune’s original settlement has undergone significant change. The previous “Balutedars” of the rural Pune, were recognised as the artisans or Kasab-dars. The artisan settlement in Persian is commonly known as “Kasbah”. Here in Pune, communities practising various professions such potters, bangle makers, gardeners, and farmers, were settled within the town wall to form the Kasba - a medieval, semi-urban settlement. It also included the traders, Brahmins, and Maratha village officials. This resettlement formed an epicentre which served as the foundation for expansion of urban Pune later.The “Kasba Pune” is an excellent example to study the town planning of medieval India. Bharat Itihas Samshodhak Mandal’s register, “Pune Nagar Samshodhan Vruta 1-4”, and Dr Avisnash Sowani’s thesis on urban development, bring to us many important archival records to help us identify places in medieval Pune. In next column we shall study the quintessential “Kasba of Pune” and its movers and shakers in greater detail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-a-gao-kus-organises-pune-to-form-a-medieval-kasba-101619600618333.html
28-04-2021||Pune||PMC to source vaccines directly from Serum for universal vax drive: mayor Mohol; centres run out of stock on Tuesday||On Tuesday, Pune’s vaccination drive saw a dip in the number of eligible beneficiaries who got the jab, as many centres ran out of vaccine stock. Pune got its last supply of doses, 35,000, on Sunday, and has been awaiting fresh supply since. Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol tweeted saying that the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), would try to get direct supply from the Serum Institute of India (SII), to ensure that the universal vaccination programme to start from May 1 for all aged above 18 years, could go on smoothly.Mohol tweeted on Tuesday: “The corona vaccine will be available in the open market from May 1. Against the backdrop of this decision of the Central Government, we are trying to procure the vaccine directly on behalf of the Pune Municipal Corporation. The CEO of Serum Adar Poonawalla will be contacted and clarification will come soon. If the vaccine becomes available from Serum, it will help the people of Pune to get vaccinated faster.”On Tuesday, during a video conference, state officials informed all the district administrations that starting from May 1, private hospitals would not be able to procure vaccines from the state. A senior official who attended the conference said, “The state has said that the entire stock which will be available with the state will be only supplied to government hospitals and not private hospitals. All aged above 18 years to 44 years, would have to approach private hospitals. That age group will not be able to register appointments with government hospital in Pune. The private hospitals will decide the price while the government hospitals would be reserved for those aged above 45 years.” On Tuesday, state health minister Rajesh Tope also announced that SII has promised to provide the required stock to Maharashtra only after May 20. Since May 1 the central government has allowed the states to vaccinate all above the age of 18 years, however, the state government has expressed that this would mean 120 million more people are added to the eligibility criteria and that the state would need 240 million doses, at least, for these many people. However, SII, located in Pune, has a manufacturing capacity of six million every month and all the states and other countries and multiple multinational organisations are in the queue to procure vaccines from SII, which is mass producing Covishield. As of Tuesday, Pune is still vaccinating using the doses it got on Sunday. On Tuesday, 24,720 beneficiaries got the jab ,including health care workers (853), frontline workers (1,693), senior citizens (13,109) and those above 45 (9,065). However, many centres had to be shut as no vaccines were available. A senior PMC immunisation official said, “We are still using the doses we received on Sunday and we have not got any message regarding when we will get the next stock. We get the doses only an hour before, which also creates problems when we want to create sessions in advance.” On Monday a total of 185 vaccination centres were operational. However, on Tuesday, only 134 were operational.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-source-vaccines-directly-from-serum-for-universal-vax-drive-mayor-mohol-centres-run-out-of-stock-on-tuesday-101619537489475.html
28-04-2021||Pune||Camp in good hands: PCB ensures steady oxygen supply; old Command hospital now Covid care centre||PUNE Lt Gen JS Nain, GoC-in-C Southern Command, on Tuesday, visited the old Command Hospital complex to review a dedicated medical facility established for treatment of Covid cases. Gen Nain said, “We are fully geared up to extend medical aid to the state government and people of Pune at this facility. A dedicated team of doctors and nursing assistants have been placed in the hospital to take care of Covid patients”. A statement issued by a senior officer, part of the core group coordinating medical assistance at the Command Hospital, read: “Southern Command has been historically linked with various humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations in its area of responsibility, spread over 11 states and four Union territories. Clear directions have been given by the Army Commander, Southern Command, to be prepared to provide appropriate Covid medical facilities to assist citizens in need, while remaining fit to meet various contingencies.” Also, the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has been able to generate a stock of oxygen and is now taking the assistance of social organisations to ensure a back- up of oxygen cylinders. PCB chief executive officer, Amit Kumar, said, “The board has been playing a key role in providing critical services like ventilator, oxygen and ICU facilities to covid patients and has successfully saved lives of many of them since the second wave hit the city,” he said. Credai offers assistance Credai-Pune Metro has donated 10 ventilators and 10 high oxygen flow devices to PMC and PCMC hospitals. The association has donated the devices and ventilators to Baner Thergaon, PCMC. A 30-bed Covid ward for Pune police at the DY Patil hospital in Pimpri was inaugurated recently.“Credai-Pune Metro is also committed to contributing five additional ventilators here,” said Anil Pharande, president, Credai-Pune Metro.“Credai Pune is planning to vaccinate 0.15 million labourers, free of cost, after May 1,” said Ranjit Naiknavare, vice-president, Credai Pune-Metro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/camp-in-good-hands-pcb-ensures-steady-oxygen-supply-old-command-hospital-now-covid-care-centre-101619534669093.html
28-04-2021||Pune||PMC deputes two firemen at every Covid care centre in city... 24x7||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has taken cognisance of fire incidents at the Kamala Nehru hospital and has decided to depute firemen, 24x7, at 16 Covid-19 care centres in the city. Additional municipal commissioner Rubal Agrawal issued the order on Tuesday.The corporation fire department has carried out a fire audit of all PMC-run hospitals, including Kamala Nehru hospital.The fire department has also provided training to staff on how to control and avoid incidents of fire.A minor fire took place in the hospital parking area on Monday. It was put out in time.The fire department is also carrying out audits of all private hospitals.Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner said, “We have already conducted a fire audit of PMC hospitals and there were hose pipe, water tank and electrical pump repairs suggested by the fire department.”PMC nodal officer to monitor oxygen supplyThe PMC will now have a nodal officer to keep a check on the medical oxygen supply system at PMC hospitals.The PMC has deputed Yuvraj Deshmukh, a superintendent engineer of the building permission and development department, to monitor the medical oxygen supply system at PMC hospitals. He will also be in charge of new installations of oxygen systems at PMC hospitals.There are leakages due to the poor condition of the pipes, valves and generators. Khemnar said, “We have taken measures to control leakages at COEP and Baner Covid hospital.”Khemnar said, “At present, we have sufficient oxygen in PMC hospitals. We have issued an order to install oxygen plants in a week at Dalvi hospital, Naidu hospital and a new hospital in Baner.” ₹20 lakh for oxygen filling stationPMC has sanctioned ₹20 lakh for the building of an oxygen filling station at Naidu hospital, which will provide Jumbo oxygen cylinders. On Tuesday, the standing committee approved the proposal. The standing committee also approved a proposal of temporary appointments of data operators at vaccination centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-deputes-two-firemen-at-every-covid-care-centre-in-city-24x7-101619532688837.html
