29-04-2021||Pune||Pune faces severe shortage of ventilator beds||PUNE The district faced a severe shortage of ventilator beds on Wednesday as it had only three vacant ventilator beds and the city zero, as per the Covid dashboard.These three beds were available one in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and two in rural areas, however, when contacted both the numbers were switched off.A 30-year-old woman had to travel along with her family from Uruli Kanchan, which is about 30 kilometres from the city, to get admitted to Sassoon general hospital.A relative from the city who helped the woman get a bed said, “We got her through an ambulance after they could not get a bed in their area. The patient was made to sit on a chair and get oxygen supply through the night (on Tuesday).”“On Tuesday night when she arrived at the hospital, there were already 40 people waiting for an oxygen bed so they made her sit on a chair and supplied her oxygen. Finally, on Wednesday morning she got an oxygen bed,” she said.Another patient from a rural area is trying to get a ventilator bed since April 26, but could not get it anywhere in the rural areas, even in the interiors of Bhor. Relative requesting anonymity said, “Since the past two days we were searching for a ventilator for a 57-year-old male who was admitted in a small hospital that did not have a ventilator.”“The patient was on a ventilator with oxygen saturation levels between 80-85 with oxygen 10 litres a minute. The High-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) score was about 22 to 25. Finally, after much waiting we got one at Navale hospital,” he said.The situation in Pune seems to have spiralled out of control of the officials too who constantly get calls to either find a bed or get drugs. Even if one is lucky enough to find a bed, getting Tocilizumab has become another problem.A senior Pune Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) official said, “We have heard that the state has been allocated around 800 injections of Tocilizumab. However, we are yet to get any. We are hoping to get at least 300 injections for Pune considering the high demand and because the district has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-faces-severe-shortage-of-ventilator-beds-101619707483547.html
29-04-2021||Pune||“Chill Baba! Do we have to do all these assignments?”||The post-Covid world is different. But, that’s not why I cook. I cook because I love cooking. Because I like listening to the ingredients talking to each other, watching the chemical reactions, anticipating the transformation of energy, predicting the tastes that will emerge from the combination of ingredients … and the uncertainty of the outcome. Our children love the spectacle, sometimes joining in to help with the washing, sorting and cutting of ingredients, sometimes stirring the pot, or taking one component of the meal right through by themselves. Now this does not happen all the time, because they are children: they love cooking, but not necessarily enough to stop playing Minecraft or abandoning Troll Hunters in the middle of an episode.The last 12 months has forced educators to innovate and one exciting new discovery is that food is a good way to keep children occupied. One can indeed teach a lot of physics, chemistry, design, and art through cooking. But, should one? Apparently yes, and so I find schools incorporating cooking into curriculum. I think someone should ask children what they think of new activities before they introduce them. Our children don’t wait to be asked, they are quite good with dishing out opinions. After the third food assignment in a month, mine decided to have a conversation with me. “Baba, do we have to do all these assignments?”“Why don’t you want to do it?”“It’s stupid stuff. Cutting food photos. Colouring exercises. It’s for babies,” said the youngest who’s in Grade 1 and cooks fish curry from scratch. “Writing a recipe for Szchewan stir-fry noodles is a waste of my time. If they want to know if I can cook, they should ask me to make it,” piped our fourth grader.“I am supposed to create a ‘healthy’ menu and they have told us what is healthy and what isn’t. You cannot construct a menu with stereotypes,” said our eldest who’s in Grade 8.“I thought you guys liked cooking.”“We enjoy cooking because we cook with you guys. We learn how to use a knife, how to cut quarters and cubes, to stir, to watch for how food changes during cooking, how to wash ingredients properly, the feel … it’s exciting. Writing random recipes for a task, or giving my opinion on a food topic, or using food items for science experiments - that doesn’t teach me anything, except wasting food and how to keep my mouth shut and getting it done to get a grade,” the eldest stated his case.Makes perfect sense to me. Learning is an intuitive, individual, internal journey. Forcing an external context is what takes the learning out of the learning experience. And what kind of example would I set as a parent by asking them to do things for the sake of doing it? Yep, the post-Covid world is a different world, but the rules of engagement with children are still the same. It starts exactly where it always has: talking with and listening to them. Now all this wisdom didn’t just come to me. I had to work for it. And since all my work wasn’t amounting to much, my kids told me: “You have to listen to us, don’t just pretend to pay attention and nod your head, and then tell us we have to do the assignments anyway!”I think often times I tend to forget that they are children. And yes children are resilient, but do I have to test that resilience every hour, every day? To be honest, I had initially thought it was great that the school was introducing some food … till I saw the assignments. I get it. It’s difficult for everyone. But, children are children and it’s much more difficult for them. The last thing they need is for us to pass on our difficulties, or lack of ideas on to them and make it impossible for them to be children. In the end, it was what our fourth grader said to me: “I am a kid. I am going to play. Why do you want me to work hard at everything like you do? Chill a little Baba.”I am going to print that. Bold, 100-point font size.Mukherjee, a former journalist, is a blogger and author, and dad to three children||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chill-baba-do-we-have-to-do-all-these-assignments-101619692962440.html
29-04-2021||Pune||Punekars, traders unhappy as lockdown likely to be extended||As the Maharashtra government has decided to extend the full lockdown, likely to another 15 days (till May 15) Punekars and traders have expressed disappointment.A decision to extend the lockdown was taken in the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday, but the duration is yet to be decided. The state government is expected to issue an order to this effect in the next two days.“I am at home for over a month now and getting half of the salary from the company. We are already suffering financially due to the pandemic. Keeping offices, shops and others closed is not the solution. Lockdown affects lives of common people,” said Parag Kenjale, an accountant working in a private tax consultant firm.Archana Soni, a housewife, said, “We lost our father-in-law due to Covid last year, my husband is working in a manufacturing company which is closed due to lockdown. Extending restrictions till May 15 will make our situation worse, we have already borrowed around ₹1 lakh from our friends and relatives till now.”“Day to day management of finances has become an issue for middle-class people like us. The government should our situation as well,” she said.Fatechand Ranka, president of the Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP), said, “We strongly oppose this extension of lockdown and it seems to be a wrong decision taken by the state government.”“When partial restrictions are been imposed its purpose doesn’t seem to be fulfilled and now when the cases are dropping some restrictions needs to be relaxed. Shop owners and traders should be allowed to open their business in some given time slot,” he said.Umesh Chavan, a stationery shop owner from Karvenagar area, said, “From last one month I have closed my shop due to lockdown, but I daily get calls from our regular customers for taking a photocopy of hospital, government documents and for other necessary material. But I cannot help them as the restrictions are there and cannot open the shop, this lockdown extension is not right.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punekars-traders-unhappy-as-lockdown-likely-to-be-extended-101619626238422.html
29-04-2021||Pune||Covid tests in Pune drops from 46k to 33k||PUNE The number of Covid tests in Pune district has dropped from 46,000 on April 8 to 33,000 on April 27. The positivity rate in the district has remained the same, around 26%, in this time period of 19 days. However, the case fatality rate (CFR) has gone north, more than double, during the same period. The number of deaths increased from 70 as of April 8, to 151, as of April 27. Although Pune has been witnessing a fall in the number of new Covid-19 cases being reported, the positivity rate is still at 26%. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) conducted 16,650 tests on Wednesday, April 28, and reported 3,871 new cases. This puts the day’s positivity rate at 23.24%. On April 8, PMC conducted 23,595 tests and reported 7,010 new cases which put the positivity rate at 29.7%. Dr Sanjiv Wavare, assistant health officer, PMC, said, “We are following the ICMR protocols which states that 20 high-risk and low-risk contacts must be traced for every index case. However, due to the lockdown most people are staying at home and so there are only four-five contacts who come in close connection with the patient, mostly family members. Last year, after the first wave we were asked to do eight thousand tests, but we are doing minimum 16,000 now.” The central government in its letter to all state chief secretaries dated April 28, stated that large containment zones could be framed in areas where the testing rate is above 10%. The letter issued by home secretary Ajay Bhalla dated April 26, to all chief secretaries stated: “The decision on where and when to go for large containment zones (CZ) has to be evidence-based and done at the State/UT level after proper analysis of the situation, such as; population affected, geographical spread, hospital infrastructure, manpower, ease of enforcing boundaries, etc. However, in order to facilitate objective, transparent, and epidemiologically sound decision making, the following broad-based framework is provided to aid States UTs in selection of districts/areas which includes test positivity of 10% or more in the last one week OR bed occupancy of more than 60% on either oxygen supported or ICU beds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-tests-in-pune-drop-to-33000-101619622458126.html
29-04-2021||Pune||One-fourth of Pune police staff infected by Covid since last year||The Pune Police are one of the most affected by Covid along with medical staff and frontline workers in the city.According to Amitabh Gupta, Pune police commissioner, at least 2,144 police personnel out of a total of 8,494 have been infected by Covid since last year.He stressed that police are the most vulnerable and 16 personnel have succumbed to the infection.“At least 2,144 police personnel out of 8,494 workforces in the city have been infected by Covid since last year. This is almost one-fourth of the staff and underlines that police are most vulnerable,” said Gupta.Also, 1,812 personnel has recovered while 316 are still infected and are undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.“We have instructed senior officials from the department to take necessary precautions and also appointed a wellness officer at every police station to guide officials to take necessary precautions to curb the infection,” he said.According to Gupta, most of the police personnel have been vaccinated so far. “In the vaccination drive that we started for police officials and their family members, 95 per cent of vaccination is complete. While 85 per cent of officials had received their first dose, around 10 per cent officials have got the second dose.”Krishna Prakash, Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner, said, at least four personnel succumbed to the Covid infection during the first wave.“We have 3,248 police personnel out of which 791 are infected, while 720 have recovered. We have 12 personnel admitted to hospitals while the rest are home quarantined. We have also completed 85 per cent of the first dose of vaccines and 42 per cent for the second dose,” he said.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has also set up a corona cell dedicated to enquire, check and provide help to the infected police personnel and their families.“Through the welfare fund, we also bought 40 life-saving injections, immunity boosters and medicines to help the police post corona to regain strength,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Nandkishor Pinjan, corona cell, PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/onefourth-of-pune-police-staff-infected-by-covid-since-last-year-101619613217707.html
