30-04-2021||Pune||Collector orders inquiry into misappropriation of funds allocated to sex workers||A day after Hindustan Times reported misappropriation of funds, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has now ordered an inquiry while constituting a committee to probe the matter. The collector accepted that money meant for commercial sex workers during the pandemic was credited into other accounts. The collector In its report, HT highlighted that part of an amount of ₹7.94 crore, released by the Maharashtra government as financial aid to be paid to commercial sex workers (CSW) in Pune in view of Covid-19 pandemic, was deposited into the bank accounts of maids and waste pickers living in Annabhau Sathe Nagar, Tarawade vasti, Mohammadwadi. “Yes, we received the complaints, I have ordered enquiry. I am busy right throughout for oxygen supply meeting. I have asked the RDC (Resident District Collector),” said Deshmukh through text messages while expressing to share more details given his presence in series of meeting in meetings related to Covid situation. On April 29, Nitin Pawar, president, Hamal Panchayat Samiti and Nitin Waghmare, founder Akhil Bharatiya Bahujan Sena, along with the NGO Saheli and the National Network of Sex Workers presented a statement to the district collector informing him of the misuse of the funds. //While the district collector is still in the process of finalizing the details of the enquiry, the women who had received ₹15,000 for three months are facing a dilemma. The state released ₹7.94 crore and transferred it to 5,296 bank accounts belonging to commercial sex workers in Pune based on a Supreme Court order, dated September 21, 2020, that victims of the flesh trade be compensated by the administration with assistance like provision of food grains and cash. The court ruled that no documentary proof must be taken from victims while delivering the welfare measures and sops. The women from Tarawade vasti signed a consent form by members of an “unknown NGO” gave copies of their Aadhar cards and bank passbooks and paid an additional ₹200 for the service. “We want to return the money, but there is a small problem. We do not have the entire amount with us as the people who filled the forms asked us to pay them ₹7,000 in cash, which some of us have paid already,” said Manjusha Edke, one of the beneficiaries who wants to return the money. HT tried to trace the number shared by the women, but it was switched off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/collector-orders-inquiry-into-misappropriation-of-funds-allocated-to-sex-workers-101619797848339.html
30-04-2021||Pune||8K minutes of veteran film-artiste interviews available on NFAI website||On the occasion of the 151st birth anniversary of Indian cinema pioneer Dadasaheb Phalke, the National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has published a treasure of audio recordings in the public domain. About 8,000 minutes of interviews of veteran film artistes from the Indian film industry are now made available on the NFAI website. Starting from the silent era of Indian cinema, these are the fascinating tales of journeys of actors, technicians, producers, directors and studio owners. Conducted mostly in the 1980s, these interviews were recorded as part of the oral history project of NFAI’s research programme and features long interviews of pioneering film personalities, narrating the experiences about their life, stories and anecdotes from the world of cinema. “We are delighted to make available this vast treasure of audio recordings which constitutes a rich reference material for anyone who is interested in studying Indian cinema. One of the main objectives of NFAI is to disseminate knowledge about Indian cinema and I am glad that these voices from the past can now be heard across the world,” said Prakash Magdum, director NFAI. There are 53 interviews with the audio recording of about 8,000 minutes duration of film artists conducted in five languages- Marathi, Tamil, Telugu, English and Bengali. The artists include who’s who of the Indian film industry including JBH Wadia, Akkineni Nageshwar Rao, Vijay Bhatt, P Bhanumathi, SD Subbulakshmi, MK Radha, P Leela, C Honnappa Bhagvathar, Zunzarrao Pawar, Dada Salvi, Chandrakant Gokhale, RM Krishnaswamy, SV Venkatraman, R Ramamurthy, KS Prakash, V Gopalakrishnan, R B Lakshmidevi, Shahu Modak, E Mohammed, V V Bapat, Vivek, Vishnupant Jog, Nanasaheb Sathe, Ganpatrao Bondre, Nilu Phule, Sharad Talwalkar, Shobha Sen, Surykant Mandhare, Chittaranjan Kolhatkar and Soumitra Chatterjee among others. The longest interview in the series is of veteran Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee taken by Anasua Roy Chaudhary with a duration of 584 minutes. These long interviews not only throw light on the personal journey of these artists but also give an in-depth account of the changes in the Indian film industry over a long period of time. One of the major highlights of the oral history project of NFAI is the interviews of several old associates of DG Phalke who closely worked with the father of Indian cinema. These artists, coming from diverse backgrounds, entered the film industry at its nascent stage and went on to act in roles in Phalke’s Hindustan Cinema Film Company. India’s first child artist and Dadasaheb Phalke‘s daughter Mandakini Phalke Athavale is extensively interviewed where she speaks about working as a child Krishna in Kaliya Mardan (1919). Several of these silent era artists including Ganpatrao Tambat, Sahdevrao Tapkire, Baburao Patil, Narayan Tambat, Haribhau Lonare, and Vasant Shinde worked in Phalke’s studio in various capacities. They share their intimate experiences of working with Phalke in the process throwing light on the humane side of Phalke as well as his craft of film making. The oral history project of NFAI started back in 1983, where the interviews were recorded on audio cassettes only. Later, with the shift in technology, this project were converted into the Audio-Visual History project in 2008, where a film/video was recorded interspersed with clippings from related films and other visual material like photos, posters to illustrate the interview. These interviews were conducted by scholars as a part of this project in the 80s and 90s at the artist’s house. Bapu Watve, one of the artists from Prabhat Film Company and a film historian who conducted most of these interviews, historian and writer Randor Guy conducted many in-depth interviews in Tamil, Telugu and English. There are 26 interviews in Marathi, 10 in Tamil, 12 in English, three in Telugu and two in the Bengali language. The interview recordings are available on https://nfai.gov.in/audio_interview.php While the audio plays, the English translations of the interviews are made available on the side. Wherever possible, the relevant photographs of the artists and posters of the film they worked in are also added. “As most of the interviews are four decades old, we decided to digitize them. We also took the help of the sound department of FTII to enhance the voice quality of the interviews,” said Prakash Magdum. He added, “Since most of these interviews are in various Indian languages, they were translated into English so that film lovers across the world who are interested in Indian cinema can take benefit of it. We believe that when the 150th birth anniversary celebrations of Dadasaheb Phalke are coming to an end today, making this rich database available to film lovers would surely be a befitting tribute to the father of Indian cinema.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/8k-minutes-of-veteran-film-artiste-interviews-available-on-nfai-website-101619794261797.html
30-04-2021||Pune||Ganesh mandals strive to keep children in the books||In order to preserve reading habits among children, a group of Ganesh mandals in the city have come together and decided to deliver 5,000 books on a door-to-door basis. The books have been divided into age group categories and a parent just needs to give a call to respective volunteers and the books will be delivered at home free of cost. Under the Jai Ganesh platform, volunteers from 16 mandals have started providing this service from Friday. “Due to the lockdown, most of the children are spending time on smart phones and parents are also stuck since books stores are closed. So we decided to provide this service which will help children to stay connected with story books, general knowledge books and informative books about the nation’s history and current affairs,” said Piyush Shah, one of the volunteers. According to age group, books have been divided into story books and drawing books for ages three to six, history books of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj for ages seven to 11, India’s freedom stories including autobiographies of some of the great leaders for ages 11 to 14. “A parent only needs to send the age of their ward and accordingly we will deliver a set of books at their place. Our aim is to divert children from the screen time. Staying glued to smartphones and television will kill their productivity at the young age,” said Shah. A Ganesh mandal will have three or four localities under their belt where volunteers will deliver books.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ganesh-mandals-strive-to-keep-children-in-the-books-101619794188089.html
30-04-2021||Pune||PMC to turn ten school buses into hearses||Due to the shortage of hearses, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will be converting ten school buses into hearse vans amid a spike in Covid cases and deaths.The required changes will be made to the bus for its functioning as hearses, said, officials.Recently, PMC requested the regional transport office, and it has been decided that the buses which are non-functional for over a year due to the closure of schools, will be used for the purpose.As hearse vans are not available, in some cases, people are forced to carry dead bodies to crematoriums in their private vehicles. With ambulance charging more than regular rates, the civic body has decided to use private old school buses and Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) school buses.“With the surge in death rate, many people are not able to get hearse vans on time or have to wait for a long time. If they hire an ambulance service, they have to shell out more money. It is important for PMC to have other options,” said an officer from the health department on the request of anonymity.“The buses will be used either as ambulances or hearses, as per requirement. The drivers union have also supported the cause. Last year many were not willing to come voluntarily, but this time all have agreed,” said Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer.PMC will pay service charges to drivers and provide PPE kits.PMPML has already provided six “Pushpak Shavahinis” (hearses), which are taking bodies to crematoriums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-turn-ten-school-buses-into-hearses-101619786208331.html
30-04-2021||Pune||Pune mayor claims 25 ventilators received by Sassoon under PM-Cares fund lying unused||Mayor Muralidhar Mohol has alleged 25 ventilators given to Sassoon general hospital under PM-Cares fund eight months back are lying unused.Mohol said, a team from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) repaired the minor faults in the ventilators, and 21 out of 25 were made operational within eight days.“During the Covid review meeting, the dean of Sassoon hospital claimed that 25 ventilators which they received through the PM-Cares fund, are not operational. At least eight months back, Sassoon had received 25 ventilators, and PMC had received 35 ventilators. The 34 ventilators are operational in PMC hospitals. Why can’t Sassoon use them? Mohol said.“I went to Sassoon and brought them under PMC’s custody. Our team has repaired them. Eight of them have already been dispatched to ASI hospital run by PMC in Bibwewadi,” he said.The ventilators from Sassoon are kept in a facility on the premises of Naidu Hospital.Officials of Sassoon hospital, however, have refuted claims about ventilators lying unused. Dr Muralidhar Tambe, dean of Sassoon Hospital, said, “We welcome the efforts taken by the mayor in getting the ventilators repaired. We have also repaired them multiple times. Because of the heavy load of patients, there were repeated breakdowns with those ventilators, so we have to repair them multiple times.”According to Dr Tambe, initially, service engineers were afraid to come to Sassoon because of the fear of contracting Covid. “The spare parts were not easily available. We had extra ventilators which we put to use. Due to the corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives, we had an adequate number of new high-end ventilators in the past year. Hence, there was never a shortage of ventilators in Sassoon hospital,” he said.Currently, there are 684 beds allocated in Sassoon hospital only for Covid patients. Out of which 521 are oxygenated beds, 22 are ICU beds without a ventilator, and 102 are ICU beds with ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-mayor-claims-25-ventilators-received-by-sassoon-under-pm-cares-fund-lying-unused-101619786028304.html
30-04-2021||Pune||Group Captain DP Apte (retd) , dies due to Covid in Pune||PUNE Group Captain (Retd) DP Apte, advisor and former pro-vice-chancellor of MIT World Peace University died due to Covid-related infection on Thursday.He was 67 and is survived by his wife, son, daughter and grandchildren.Apte, according to his colleagues, had distinguished service of 25 years as engineer-manager-leader in India Air Force (IAF). He retired from IAF in the year 2002 when he was commanding officer of the ‘Central servicing development organisation’ of IAF, one of the premier technology unit. Since 2003 he worked as a professor at various institutes of MIT Group.He served as the registrar of the university before being appointed as the pro-vice-chancellor until his retirement recently. Post-retirement he served as the advisor to MIT World Peace University. He authored about 15 books on various topics.Prof Dr Vishwanath D Karad, president, MIT World Peace University, founder and chief patron, MAEER’s MIT, Pune and Rahul V Karad, managing trustee and executive president, MAEER’s MIT and executive president, MIT World Peace University paid their tribute to Apte.Vishwanath Karad said, “He was my student. He had tremendous potential, knowledge and skill which he showcased at every stage of his life. He dedicatedly served his country and later played an important role in build the institution. His passing away has affected us deeply and we pay our truest tribute to him.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/group-captain-dp-apte-retd-dies-due-to-covid-in-pune-101619782428288.html
30-04-2021||Pune||Meant for CSWs in Pune, Rs7.94 crore released by govt lands in different hands||PUNE Part of an amount of ₹7.94 crore, released by the Maharashtra government as financial aid to be paid to commercial sex workers (CSW) in Pune, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, has been misappropriated. At least some of the funds have gone to the bank accounts of women who are not CSWs living in Annabhau Sathe Nagar, Tarawade vasti, Mohammadwadi. Meanwhile, some CSWs in Pune have been waiting for the funds now for almost one year. What appears to be a major goof-up, or a scam, only came to light after women from the vasti who received the money came forward to return it, as they are not, not have ever been, CSWs. On April 29, Nitin Pawar, president, Hamal Panchayat Samiti and Akhil Bharatiya Bahujan Sena, along with the NGO Saheli and the National Network of Sex Workers presented a statement to the district collector informing him of the misuse of the funds. According to Pawar, the women from Tarawade vasti were made to sign a consent form by members of an “unknown NGO”. “Since most of the women are illiterate, and working as waste pickers and maids, they simply signed the consent forms, gave copies of their Aadhar cards and bank passbooks, and paid an additional ₹200 for the service,” said Pawar. “Nine women received ₹15,000 for three months. The women are angry and want to return the money to the government as they are not sex workers. We have helped them lodge a police complaint,” said Tejasvi Sevekari, director, Saheli. As per the state government, an amount of ₹7.94 crore has been transferred to 5,296 bank accounts allegedly belonging to commercial sex workers in Pune. “On April 28, 2021, the government deposited an amount of ₹7.94 crore in 5,296 bank accounts of commercial sex workers who have been rescued from the flesh trade and who lost their livelihood, and have families and children, amidst the Covid-19 crisi,” confirmed Ashwini Kamble, Women and Child welfare officer, Pune district. The state released the money based on a Supreme Court order, dated September 21, 2020, that victims of the flesh trade be compensated by the administration with assistance like provision of foodgrains and cash. The court ruled that no documentary proof must be taken from victims while delivering the welfare measures and sops. VM, a sex worker and community leader in Pune, said, “We have been waiting for this money for almost a year and this money was meant for us. This is fraud. There is no transparency in the way things are done by the government.” Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh had constituted a committee to provide financial assistance to CSWs, with a welfare officer designated as its secretary. The committee visited the red-light areas, interacted with bonafide NGOs working there and deposited Rs5,000 per month in the accounts of rescued victims, and an additional ₹2,500 in the accounts of those who had children and families.  ₹11.26 crore was made available from the CM’s relief fund from October to December 2020. Deshmukh said that he had issued immediate orders for the financial assistance which took place in two phases. Manisha Edke is one of the 20 women who returned the money to the government. “I work as a maid and I would rather have my hard-earned money than government giveaways. They were meant for those working in the sex trade. My husband read the news on his mobile phone and we realised that the Rs15000 that we got were wrongly given to us. I would rather live with dignity and earn my money than take free funds from the government.” The group of women met Upper District Magistrate Jayashree Katare and handed her a statement about the incident. “It does not seem to be appropriate for hardworking women who empathise with their sisters without prejudice. It is also a step towards our self-esteem to be named in the list of women doing this business. So we are returning this money. It should be accepted and the names of these women in the scheme should be reduced from the beneficiary scheme. This grant, which is being given without any verification, should be thoroughly investigated,” said Nitin Waghmare. He demanded strict punishment for the culprits as they also lodged a complaint at Wanowrie Police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/meant-for-csws-in-pune-rs7-94-crore-released-by-govt-lands-in-different-hands-101619780880456.html
30-04-2021||Pune||Slam dunk: Sport psychologists the MVPs in current Covid climate||India is in the midst of a sports crisis with the Indian Premier League (IPL) being severely criticised for being played as the second Covid wave devastates the country. 2020 and 2021 have been some of the most challenging years in modern human society. With the entire world still in the throes of a pandemic, sports were often asked to take a backburner to the more important and basic functional elements of each country’s society. Even more unique was the fact that the pandemic first started in a year where the Summer Olympics were planned as the marquee event of the sporting community. In fact, there have only been three times in history where the Olympics have been cancelled or postponed, and none of these have occurred since World War II. The uncertainty of the current global sporting climate has led us to understand and appreciate sports and the unity that sports can bring even among various boundaries more than ever. Highly competitive athletes are always able to train with an end-goal and performance in mind, depending on their sport. For example, a sprinter may be training with an eye on the Summer Olympics or World Championships, a football player may train for the UEFA Champions League or the World Cup, a basketball player preparing for the NBA season, NBA Finals or the Olympics. Due to the pandemic, however, this was the first time for many modern athletes that their preparations were interrupted due to uncertainty over whether their sports would even continue. Due to this uncertainty, the role of sport psychologists has been magnified more than at any point ever before. The major part of a sport psychologist’s role has involved teaching athletes to adapt to the “new normal” in a society that is overrun by the pandemic. Changing athletes’ perspective and teaching them strategies to be more resilient and adaptable is a critical part of the psychologist job description throughout the last 18 months. Since athlete performance is heavily influenced by mindset, a psychologist may seek to have the athlete view uncertain circumstances as an opportunity for growth to learn to be more resilient. In sports performance, the mental approach, lifestyle and stability of an individual is crucial to their success. Harnessing all these factors to work together, even in a pandemic, requires a great support network. For an individual athlete playing a sport, the range of emotional trauma experienced from having their entire livelihood taken away from them is not too dissimilar to the emotions experienced by the vast majority of society. In this time, we can appreciate the stability and unity that sports contribute towards providing our modern society. As every individual’s life has been heavily impacted, it is crucial to recognise the parallels between those playing sport and contributing to the entertainment and this sense of stability and unity in our society. There can be an argument made that many athletes have had their careers cut short and taken away from them overnight, due to the very finite lifespan an athlete faces. It is important to recognise a universal truth regardless of one’s profession, we are all susceptible and vulnerable to the full spectrum of human emotion and that nobody can truly encounter the challenges of life without a well-built support system around them. Work pressure and non-disclosure agreements have cut short my contribution to this space. This is my final piece... for now. However, basketball fans and players, keep your eyes on the NBA, it is one of the sporting lights in our dark Covid world of today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/slam-dunk-sport-psychologists-the-mvps-in-current-covid-climate-101619709042696.html
