01-06-2020||First Edit||Coronavirus: Unlock 1 welcome, but with precautions||It was expected that the focus of the fifth phase of the national lockdown starting on Monday would be more on reopening the economy and so it has appropriately been named Unlock 1. The severe restrictions imposed on life and business have badly hurt, and there is a case for a gradual return, though normalcy is still far away. All segments of the economy have been affected, and the weakest sections were the worst hit. The nine-weeks-long lockdown may have achieved some of its aims like slowing down the spread of the virus and giving the authorities time to put in place the facilities needed to deal with its spread and likely surge. So, continuation of the lockdown may not have been of much use, and the effort now should be to revive the lives of the people and the economy, within the framework of the fight against the virus. Restrictions on movement of people during the day have mostly been removed. According to the new guidelines issued by the government, rigorous lockdown restrictions will continue only in containment zones. However, states can identify buffer zones outside containment zones and restrictions which are considered necessary by the district authorities may be imposed there. Religious places, hotels, restaurants, malls, etc., may open soon, though this can vary from state to state. Inter-state movement of people and goods has been allowed without requiring permission from authorities, but states have been given the freedom to impose restrictions if they find that necessary. The reopening of schools and colleges may have to wait for some more time. In fact, the reopening of all places where large congregations can take place will have to be done with some caution. Since most infections have been found in a few states and cities, the strategy is to concentrate on those areas and allow the rest of the country to take a respite. States have been given more leeway to decide on reductions and concessions, depending on their situation, and this is sensible. But the nationwide vigil should not be lowered because the peaking of infections is yet to take place. The disease should be prevented from spreading to more geographical areas, especially the villages. The protocols for prevention of Covid-19, like social distancing and wearing of masks, should be strictly followed and governments should make efforts to implement them. At the same time governments should ensure that those who have been most affected by the lockdown are extended financial and other support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coronavirus-unlock-1-welcome-but-with-precautions-844469.html
01-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Coronavirus: Invest Karnataka to be postponed amidst COVID-19 outbreak||"Organising Global Investors’ Meet (GIM) requires a lot of preparations including holding roadshows, meeting major industrialists and convincing them about the benefits of investing in the state. Such activities were delayed due to the COVID-19 situation. This process is going to begin now, and the GIM will be postponed for two-three months," said Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar.  During the 'Invest Karnataka-Hubballi' conference held on February 24, 51 companies had expressed interest to invest Rs 71,000 crore in the North Karnataka region over the years. However, that process has also experienced a setback due to COVID-19 situation and lockdown. Now, follow-up procedures have begun to make those MoUs get materialised. Rajesh Exports Private Ltd (REPL) had promised an investment of Rs 50,000 crore and the creation of 10,000 jobs by setting up electrical vehicles and lithium batteries manufacturing units. Shettar noted that he has spoken to REPL chief Rajesh Mehta, and he has given a positive response. "Our officials have started a correspondence with industrialists who have promised investment in the region, and their requirements including tax concession and land requirement will be verified. Though there was some hesitation earlier, the situation is changing now, and it is expected that the process of actual investment in the region would begin soon," Shettar said. Nearly 80% of industries in the state have resumed operations, though production is not yet full-fledged, due to lack of raw material. Reverse migration of workers is a temporary phenomenon. Migrant workers would come back in a few months, and till then, industrialists will train local workers in emergency skills required and use them for necessary works, he added. Citizens' responsibility In the wake of relaxations being made with regard to testing and quarantine in the fight against COVID-19 pandemic, Shettar said, the citizens also have more responsibility for their protection, by wearing a mask, using sanitisers and maintaining social distancing, though the government has taken all possible measures to protect people's health and to allow their day-to-day activities to take place. Shettar also termed Congress leader Rahul Gandhi as 'immature leader' for his criticism about lockdown measures announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "They just criticise, but they do not have any solution," he said. 'Meeting not correct' Opining that some BJP MLAs holding the separate meeting was not correct, Shettar stated that they could have spoken to the chief minister, state BJP president or national leaders, or in the legislative party meeting. "They have not spoken to me and I am not aware of any lobbying to make me the chief minister," he said, adding that B S Yediyurappa-led government is strong.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/coronavirus-invest-karnataka-to-be-postponed-amidst-covid-19-outbreak-844254.html
01-06-2020||In Perspective||Police did their job, despite being unprepared for sudden coronavirus lockdown||Police forces across India have been handling their functions of maintenance of public order and other duties as best as their resources, training and the prevailing political dispensation would permit. Enforcing a lockdown has been a whole new ball game for which the police were neither equipped nor trained, much less prepared. However, in the absence of any other agency to perform this job, the responsibility fell in the lap of the police.  The initial days of lockdown witnessed instances of police highhandedness which cannot be justified even in the context of their anxiety to ensure strict compliance. This led to loud criticism from aggrieved citizens. In contrast, after the bad press, during the tapering phase of the lockdown, police have come in for much praise from the media, government and civil society for the numerous acts of service and empathy rendered to different cross-sections of society. The picture of the brave Head Constable of Punjab Police stopping lockdown violators at the risk of his arm being severed will be etched in our memory for a long time. That more than 1,000 policemen across the country have tested Covid-19 positive is proof that as ‘first respondents’, they have played a major role in our fight against Covid-19. Indian policemen have endangered their personal safety and those of their families in the call of duty, often working round the clock without relief or a break. The lockdown has also particularly demonstrated the ‘love-hate’ relationship of the Indian police with the citizens! When one compared notes with friends from developed countries with much higher numbers of Covid-19 cases and mortality than India, one was told that the role of the police in enforcing the lockdown in those countries was minimal and that the government’s orders and protocols were complied with by citizens, in varying degrees, on their own. Migrants   The travails of ordinary citizens during the lockdown, and particularly the miserable plight of migrant labourers across the country, show that the dramatic announcement to impose a countrywide lockdown with just a four-hour notice did more harm than good, both to the migrant labourers and to our fight to arrest Covid-19. At least, a 48-hour notice would have enabled the police and administration to make plans for enforcing it, besides providing an opportunity to the migrant labourers to choose whether to return to their villages or stay back at the urban centres braving the lockdown. It may be possible for the urban middle class to somehow cope with such sudden decisions of the government but not for the millions of daily wage earners whose livelihoods are precarious at the best of times and dependent on daily labour. The series of controversies overfeeding and providing dry rations at the camps, the despicable scenes of migrants being disinfected and provided biscuits and water bottles, reminiscent of the slaves in ancient Rome, the unedifying debate over “to pay or not to pay” their train fare and the flip flop over cancellation and restoration of trains for their travel and the deaths by accidents, hunger and exhaustion must have surely destroyed their faith in the government and in the rest of us. Migrant labour being locked up in camps was not only counterproductive in fighting the pandemic but was repugnant to one’s conscience. A 48-hour notice would have helped the state governments and the NGOs to conserve scarce resources and their efforts. The administration would not have been distracted from their core function of epidemic control. Governments and society as a whole have failed the migrants after squeezing them out for their selfish development goals. Economy Experts say that the world will have to live with the pandemic for some more time to come. It makes sense to open up the economy smartly and expeditiously so that livelihoods are not destroyed permanently, without of course losing focus on controlling the pandemic through stringent measures. It makes sense to declare wards or even smaller affected units as ‘Containment Zones’ so that economic activity can take place in the rest of the country. Restoration of intra-state and inter-state transport should also be done in a calibrated manner to ensure that the ‘supply chain’, so critical for economic activity, functions. Lessons It is time that we learnt our lessons from the hardships of the lockdown and the pandemic. The state and central governments should make substantial budget allotments for healthcare, particularly for the poor, and drastically improve infrastructure. Comprehensive labour reforms with a focus on migrant labour should be brought about with a huge welfare bias so that migrants lead a life of dignity and are encouraged to serve the cause of urban India. It is time to jettison the doctrine of ‘Yuddha kale, shastrabhyasa’.   (The writer is a former Director-General and Inspector General of Police, Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/police-did-their-job-despite-being-unprepared-for-sudden-coronavirus-lockdown-844466.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||22 houses will be completed in Biligeri by June-end: H Shrinivas||Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation Project Director H Shrinivas said that the work on 22 houses for flood victims of 2018, will be completed in Biligeri by June-end. This apart, 140 houses that are being constructed in Galibeedu village and 80 houses at K Nidugane village are expected to be completed by November. District In-charge Minister V Somanna and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K S Eshwarappa had handed over 35 houses on October 25, 2019. Somanna, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R Ashok will hand over 383 houses in Jambur and 80 houses in Madenadu on June 4, he added. MLA Appachu Ranjan carried out an inspection of the houses in Galibeedu and K Nidugane villages.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/22-houses-will-be-completed-in-biligeri-by-june-end-h-shrinivas-844412.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus cases continue to surge in Mandya, Hassan||Mandya and Hassan districts continued to report a large number of Covid-19 positive cases on Monday, with a majority of them having a travel history of Maharashtra. While Mandya reported 15, Hassan confirmed 16 positive cases. Out of 15 cases in Mandya, four are female and the remaining 11 are male. While Patient 3238, a 20-year-old male, suffered from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), the contact history of P-3240, a 64-year-old female, is under tracing. The remaining 13 cases have a travel history of Maharashtra. With 15 positive cases on Monday, the total number of cases jumped to 285. In all, 61 patients have recovered and are discharged. There are 224 active cases. Sixteen people tested positive for Covid in Hassan, including a police constable from Nuggehalli. All other cases are from Channarayapatna taluk. With this, the total number of positive cases increased to 173. Out of 16 new cases, six are male and 10 are female. While the contact of P-3231, a 28-year-old female, is under tracing, the remaining have a travel history of Maharashtra. There are 148 active cases and 30 people have been discharged so far.  With the police constable diagnosed with Covid 19, Nuggehalli police station has been totally sealed down. He tested positive when the police personnel were subject to Covid tests on May 28, as a precautionary measure. Superintendent of Police Srinivas Gowda visited the police station on May 31 and directed to seal down the station. The police station has been temporarily shifted to Pre-Matric Girls Hostel and only two personnel are deployed. All others are under home quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-cases-continue-to-surge-in-mandya-hassan-844436.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Lockdown: Mysuru to go ‘Trin Trin’ again as bicycle service resumes||Trin Trin, the Public Bicycle Sharing (PBS) system, resumed services after a gap of nearly two months in the city from Monday. As the Union government relaxed Covid-19 lockdown guidelines, Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar permitted to resume the services in the city. All 450 cycles will be stationed at 52 docking stations in various parts of the city, within a day. According to Trin Trin manager Asha Kerakatty, the services commenced on Monday and full-fledged services will begin within a day. There is network problem in a few docking stations and the issue will be set right. Registered members can utilise the services, she said.   All cycles were stationed at Trin Trin Control Room in Krishnamurthypuram and there was a delay in shifting them to the respective docking stations, as a few specially-designed vehicles, used to transport the bicycles, were damaged. Out of six vehicles, five were damaged as a tree collapsed on them, recently during rain. It has to be mentioned that college students, employees and tourists were the major users of Trin Trin cycles. The demand for the cycles is likely to be less as education institutions are yet to open and tourists footfall is yet to resume. Trin Trin, the first ever such initiative in the country, is popular since it was introduced in 2017. The PBS is not limited for students and tourists, it was utilised to promote various activities such as Mysuru Dasara, Green initiatives and also Mysuru. The cycles were used for ‘Heritage Ride’, ride to heritage structures in the city, during Dasara. The bicycles were used to popularise the 83rd All India Kannada Sahitya Sammelana held in Mysuru in 2017. ‘Trin Trin’, also an app-enabled bicycle sharing system has more than 12,000 registered riders. On an average 1,300 riders used to register per day before lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/lockdown-mysuru-to-go-trin-trin-again-as-bicycle-service-resumes-844438.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus facilitates creation of new jobs||Contrary to the fear that coronavirus or Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown are causing job loss to many, new posts are being created to tackle the situation. A city-based PU college has published an advertisement, on the social media, inviting applications to recruit a nursing graduate. S R Ravi, president of Navodaya Foundation, which runs Vijaya Chethana PU College in Kuvempu Nagar, said, “Children are highly vulnerable and it is the responsibility of every institution to take utmost care of them. We have created a permanent post of a ‘Health Tutor’ and have invited applications from a nursing graduate, either BSc or MSc.” “We have created this post in the interest of both students and staffers of our college, to take care of their ‘health and hygiene’. We might create more such posts, depending on the situations, as well-being of the students and staffers is our priority,” he said. Jayachandra Raju, chairman and founder trustee of Global Education Trust, which runs Daksha PU College, said, ”Even his institution is exploring the possibilities, to create a similar post, in the interest of the students.” He said, “This is just one possibility. All challenges have their positives. We should rise to the occasion and find solutions, rather than crib over the drawbacks.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-facilitates-creation-of-new-jobs-844444.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||KMF rolls out turmeric milk to boost immunity||The Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) on the occasion of world milk day introduced ‘Nandini Turmeric Milk’ and termed it as an immunity booster. The KMF, South India’s largest milk union also launched mobile parlours to facilitate the sale of KMF products in various parts of Bengaluru. Balachandra Jarkiholi, Chairperson, KMF said that the new product—turmeric milk will lower the risk of infections and also addresses the nutrition problem among kids and youngsters. “Keeping in mind the covid-19 infection all around and help people develop their immunity, we have launched the new product,” Jarkiholi said. Mrutyunjaya Kulkarni, Director (Marketing), KMF said, “The turmeric milk is offered in a 200 ml bottle and priced at Rs 28. Initially, the milk will be sold at a discounted price of Rs 25.” The mobile parlours which will travel across Bengaluru will sell Nandini products.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kmf-rolls-out-turmeric-milk-to-boost-immunity-844477.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rail service to Hubballi, Shivamogga evokes tepid response||The Janshatabdi Express to Hubballi was one of the first among the 200 special trains that began operations across the country on Monday though the low number of passengers indicated that normalcy is still far off. The train (02079) left KSR Bengaluru station at 6 am with 120 passengers on board against the capacity of 934. It reached Hubballi at 1.06 pm. Only 157 of 197 passengers who had booked ticket, travelled in the return train (02080), which left Hubballi at 2.20 pm. It was the only train that arrived in Bengaluru. The other intra-state train left Yeshwantpur to Shivamogga (02080) with 109 passengers on board. However, the railway officials are expecting the number of passengers to go up in the coming days. “The numbers may increase as the word spreads on the availability of train services. The fear of coronavirus may be preventing people from travelling but many will jump on board eventually,” a senoir official said. In comparison, the inter-state trains had higher number of passengers. The train to Danapur (Bihar) left KSR Bengaluru with 859 passengers (1131 had reserved berths in the train). All the 366 berths were booked in the Hubballi-H Nizamuddin Link Express which departed later in the day. At Hubballi, 132 passengers boarded the train. Another SWR train to New Delhi left from Vasco Da Gama at 3 pm. Of the  total 1084 berths, 1076 were reserved. Only passengers with confirmed tickets are allowed to board trains as long as they do not have Covid-19 symptoms. Passengers shall reach the station at least 90 minutes in advance to facilitate thermal screening and wear face covers or masks. The railways has stopped providing blanket or bed roll in the trains.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rail-service-to-hubballi-shivamogga-evokes-tepid-response-844488.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government employees to protest on June 4||The All Karnataka State Government Employees’ Federation has announced that its members will show up to work wearing ‘black badges’ on June 4 as a sign of protest against the “anti-employees and anti-labour” decisions of the B S Yediyurappa government.  The Federation has flayed the government’s move to freeze dearness allowance increases from January 2020 to June 2021, disallowing employees to encash earned leave, removal of sanctioned posts in the name of “merging” departments among other decisions. It also opposed the government’s move to increase work hours from 8 hours to 10 hours a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-employees-to-protest-on-june-4-844489.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus in Karnataka: Health check-up for students before SSLC exams||The department of primary and secondary education is thinking of conducting health check-up of students appearing for SSLC examinations. The department officials began thinking of the health check-up on Monday, following advice by Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai at a meeting of education and home departments convened to discuss the safety and security measures put in place to conduct the examinations. Briefing the media after the completion of the meeting, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, “The home minister has given the advice to conduct health check-up of all students appearing for exams at their doorstep to ensure they are healthy and it will also boost their confidence to appear for the exams.” Minister also said that the department will discuss the matter with health and family welfare department officials. “We will work it out in all possible ways. We will discuss with the health department officials about conducting students health check-up at their doorstep,” he said. He said he is convening meetings with the health and transport authorities to ensure all necessary safety measures are in place during the exams.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-in-karnataka-health-check-up-for-students-before-sslc-exams-844501.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Online system for ECs puts farmers in quandary||The government has introduced online system to get Encumbrance Certificates (ECs). This is aimed at preventing people thronging sub-registrar offices in the wake of Covid-19. But people in general and farmers in particular are struggling to get ECs due to the lack of publicity about online process and technical snags. It’s an open secret that majority of farmers lack knowledge of computers and this has prompted them to rely on cyber centres. Only a handful of people are getting ECs and many are unable to upload applications. Speaking to DH, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha working president H R Basavarajappa said the introduction of online system has helped the cyber centres make a brisk business. Only 25% of online applicants are able to get ECs and the remaining 75% are even unable to upload applications. So, the government must issue an order directing the officials concerned to issue ECs manually, he said. Basavarajappa said he had written to Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, appealing him to introduce either token system or make arrangements to issue ECs at gram panchayat level and avoid inconvenience to people. He said the EC was an important document to get loans from banks and co-operative societies. Though the intention of government is good, it has failed to safeguard the interests of people. It must address the issue at the earliest, he said. An officer admitted that the introduction of online system was causing inconvenience to the public. But there is a help desk in each district to address the technical issues and people must utilise it, he said. As per the government’s order, people whose properties are registered after 2004 have to apply online to get ECs. However, people whose properties are registered before 2004 can avail manual service. Deputy Commissioner K B Shivakumar said the issue had already been brought to the notice of the government. The higher officials are likely to issue an order in a day to suit the convenience of the public, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/online-system-for-ecs-puts-farmers-in-quandary-844502.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||'Too busy with work', says BS Yediyurappa on dissidence in party||Chief minister BS Yediyurappa appeared to remain indifferent to the dissident activity by a faction of BJP legislators, saying that he is not worried about such developments. Speaking to reporters at a press meet held to mark the first anniversary of the second term of Narendra Modi government, Yediyurappa said, "I am busy working for the development of the state and controlling the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result, I have decided not to worry about such developments and will not issue any statement regarding the same," he said. The remarks by the CM came in the wake of meetings held by a faction of legislators from North Karnataka. While leaders of the faction like eight-time MLA Umesh Katti have reports of dissident activity, others like Basangouda Patil Yatnal were clear in their reservations over Yediyurappa's leadership. The response by Yediyurappa on Monday is seen as an attempt to play down the growing disgruntlement among senior BJP legislators over cabinet expansion and other issues. DyCM Ashwath Narayan had also dismissed the same on Sunday, saying that the noise was created by 'minor aspirations' of a few leaders. To a question on whether shortage of COVID19 kits had forced government to make people under quarantine return home without any tests, Yediyurappa said that there is no shortage of testing kits in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/too-busy-with-work-says-bs-yediyurappa-on-dissidence-in-party-844303.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: KPCC president D K Shivakumar's swearing-in ceremony put off again||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D K Shivakumar’s formal coronation that was scheduled on June 7 has been put off, once again, because Unlock 1.0 guidelines prohibit political congregations. Shivakumar had plans to take charge as the KPCC president on May 31, which got pushed to June 7. “I had requested the chief minister for permission on June 7. I even reached out to the police commissioner and the director-general. But guidelines issued by the Centre and state have banned political functions. They said they will decide based on the assessment of the situation,” Shivakumar told reporters. The Congress leader has an elaborate plan for his oath-taking, which will be called pratigna. “Here, some 100-150 people will gather. Simultaneously, the same number of people will gather at every panchayat and ward across 7,800 places. We will together chant Vande Mataram and the preamble of the Constitution given by B R Ambedkar and the Congress. We will hoist the national flag and the Congress flag. Social distance will be maintained. The entire event will be streamed live on TV and the web,” Shivakumar explained. “All we asked for is permission for just 100-150 people to get together. They're not allowing even that,” he said, smelling political vendetta. “I want to tell all my party workers who made all arrangements that only the date will change. There’s no question of cancelling the event. A date will be fixed after the government gives permission,” he said. Shivakumar was appointed KPCC president on March 11, just before the Covid-19 lockdown came into force. “I have been discharging my duty. At every step, we’ve done our work as the Opposition party. We’ve stood with people of all classes, we’ve been their voice and we’ve conveyed to the government what it is supposed to do,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-kpcc-president-d-k-shivakumars-swearing-in-ceremony-put-off-again-844340.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Don’t be surprised if Siddaramaiah joins BJP: C T Ravi||One need not be surprised if Opposition leader Siddaramaiah joins BJP. Anything is possible in politics, said District In-charge Minister C T Ravi.  The cold war between Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D K Shivakumar and Siddaramaiah can reach any point. Siddaramaiah too is a mass leader like B S Yediyurappa and H D Deve Gowda. "Siddaramaiah can not praise BJP government. If he praises BJP while being in Congress, then it will affect his political career. He will praise the BJP, the day he joins it. Those who had levelled allegations against BJP, including S M Krishna and Jyotiraditya Scindia, in the past have joined the party, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/don-t-be-surprised-if-siddaramaiah-joins-bjp-c-t-ravi-844403.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Conduct elections to GP, CMC: JD(S) state vice president H H Devaraj||JD(S) state vice president H H Devaraj urged the State Election Commission to take steps to conduct elections to gram panchayats and Chikkamagaluru city municipal council in the district.  The term of several gram panchayats will end in July. Due to the outbreak of COVID-19, the election had been postponed. The state government is planning to appoint an administrative council thereby giving powers to BJP workers. He said Minister C T Ravi had stated that underground drainage works under Amrut scheme would be completed by May end. However, the failure to complete the works has inconvenienced pedestrians and motorists in Chikkamagaluru. The UGD work carried out in Chikkamagaluru too is unscientific, he added and urged the deputy commissioner and CMC commissioner to inspect the ongoing works.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/conduct-elections-to-gp-cmc-jds-state-vice-president-h-h-devaraj-844418.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Party workers create ruckus at Congress meet||Pandemonium prevailed at the Congress meeting, which was convened to discuss about the preparations to be made as part of D K Shivakumar taking charge as president of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC), in a few days. The meeting was held at the Congress office in the city. The party workers started abusing each other and were involved in fisticuffs, right in the presence of KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed, for not mentioning the names of minority community leaders, during a speech. The commotion started as soon as KPCC member H K Mahesh completed his welcome speech. One of the leaders, Abdul, alleged that the party depends on minority community for votes, but is embarrassed to mention the names of the community leaders. A section of the party workers supported him and started shouting that there was no need to conduct a meeting. Another group of party workers also raised voice and alleged: “You people vote for BJP during elections and now demand that your names be mentioned. You should be ashamed of yourselves.” This resulted in heated exchange of words, and they started pushing each other. Though party leaders Gayathri Shanthegowda, NSUI president Manjunath, district president Javagal Manjunath, MLC M A Gopalaswamy and others pleaded them to stop, they continued to abuse each other in foul language. Meanwhile, KPCC vice president B Shivaramu left the meeting. Saleem Ahmed tried to pacify them, saying: “There is no religious discrimination in the Congress, as Congress itself is a religion. The people of all communities get an opportunity. I am an example for this. Give me the list of those who created ruckus. I will suspend them tomorrow.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/party-workers-create-ruckus-at-congress-meet-844440.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Centre’s eyes, ears closed, but only mouth open: Mallikarjun Kharge||Veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday attacked the Modi administration over the way it handled the Covid-19 humanitarian crisis, saying “its eyes and ears are closed, but only its mouth is open.”   Quoting the June 1 DH editorial, Kharge said the Centre had bungled on the migrants crisis. “This is the feeling of the press and intellectuals,” he said. It could have been avoided if the Centre had given sufficient time for people to move before imposing the lockdown,he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/centre-s-eyes-ears-closed-but-only-mouth-open-mallikarjun-kharge-844479.html
01-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar’s coronation as KPCC chief put off again||D K Shivakumar’s formal coronation as Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president that was scheduled on June 7 has been put off, once again, because Unlock 1.0 guidelines prohibit political congregations.  Shivakumar had plans to take charge as the KPCC president on May 31, which got pushed to June 7.  “I had requested the chief minister for permission on June 7. I even reached out to the police commissioner and the director-general. But guidelines issued by the Centre and state have banned political functions ” Shivakumar told reporters. The Congress leader has an elaborate plan for his oath-taking, which will be called Pratigna.  “Here, some 100-150 people will gather. Simultaneously, the same number of people will gather at every panchayat and ward across 7,800 places. We will together chant Vande Mataram and the preamble of the Constitution given by B R Ambedkar and the Congress. We will hoist the national flag and the Congress flag. Social distance will be maintained. The entire event will be streamed live on TV and the web,” Shivakumar explained.  “All we asked for is permission for just 100-150 people to get together. They’re not allowing even that,” he said, smelling political vendetta. “I want to tell all my party workers there’s no question of cancelling the event. A date will be fixed after the government gives permission,” he said.  Shivakumar was appointed KPCC president on March 11, just before the Covid-19 lockdown came into force. “I have been discharging my duty. We’ve done our work as the Opposition party. We’ve stood with people of all classes, we’ve been their voice,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-s-coronation-as-kpcc-chief-put-off-again-844487.html
01-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 1, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-1-2020-edition-844108.html
01-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 1||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 1,97,862 as of June 1. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 5,600 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 91.818 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-1-844109.html
01-06-2020||National||DH Toon: We can't be careless, says PM Narendra Modi ahead of 'Unlock 1.0'||As India begins a graded exit plan from June 8 and opening interstate travel from Monday after the 68th day of the nation-wide complete lockdown ends on Sunday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi cautioned people against dropping caution telling them that the road ahead for the fight against COVID-19 is a long one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-we-cant-be-careless-says-pm-narendra-modi-ahead-of-unlock-10-844111.html
01-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: Indian Railways resumes operations of 200 passengers train services, first train leaves Mumbai ||With Indian Railways starting operation of 200 regular time-tabled passenger trains (100 pair) daily from today, the first train, Mahanagari Express, departed from Mumbai's Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus for Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh.   "The first train 01093 CSMT Mumbai –Varanasi Special among 200 special trains to start, departed from Central Railway at 00.10 hours on 1.6.2020," the Mumbai headquartered Central Railway tweeted. Earlier, the Railways said around 1.45 lakh passengers booked tickets to travel on the first day. More than 26 lakh passengers have booked the advanced reservation tickets from June 1 to 30, said an official in the Railways.  These trains will run in addition to 15 pairs of Special Rajdhani Express that was started on May 12 and Shramik Special trains ferrying migrant workers, which started on May 1. Though Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh have expressed reservations about running trains or number of stoppages of these trains, late last night the Railway Ministry said, "All trains are running as planned."  "Ministry of Railways & Maharashtra Government after discussions, have reached a consensus on the issue of running of special trains from/to Maharashtra as per the schedule with effect from June 1, 2020", said the railways.. "Railway Board Chairman VK Yadav has written to Maharashtra Chief Secretary Ajoy Mehta, requesting him to issue necessary instructions to the district administration to organise the compliance to the guidelines of MHA & MOHF&W for running of special trains from June 1," the statement said. In the letter, Yadav mentioned that as large number of passengers have already booked to travel by these trains, it would cause severe inconvenience to the passengers and may also lead to law and order issues at various stations if these trains are cancelled, the statement said.  The operation of these trains is being seen as the Railways' plan towards a graded restoration of passenger train services. The trains are on the pattern of regular services and are fully reserved having both AC and non-AC coaches.  To avoid crowd, the Railways said there will be no unreserved coaches and general coaches have reserved sitting accommodation. For travel in 200 special trains, only confirmed/RAC ( Reservation Against Cancellation) ticket holders will be allowed to enter the railway station.  Passengers are advised to come 90 minutes early to the station to enable railway authorities to screen them properly. The Railways also asked all platform static stall to open including catering vendors. The trains with pantry car attached will provide a limited number of packaged food and drinking water to passengers on payment basis. However, Railways requested passengers to bring their food and drinking water from home. Since these trains will be connecting major cities of the states across the country, the Railways said passengers have to adhere to the health protocol of destination states on quarantine. Key things to note: * Platform tickets will not be issued. * Passengers have to wear a mask and maintain social distancing in the railway station. * Passengers advised to download Aarogya Setu App. * Only asymptomatic passengers will be allowed to travel in trains. * No blankets and linens will be provided to AC passengers. Passengers are advised to bring the same from home. * Temperature in AC coaches will be increased.  * Limited number of packaged food and drinking water will be provided to passengers on payment basis onboard trains. * Static catering stalls will be opened at railway platforms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-indian-railways-resumes-operations-of-200-passengers-train-services-first-train-leaves-mumbai-844112.html
01-06-2020||National||The Lead: A campaign to promote menstrual health among migrant labourers||The Lead from Deccan Herald podcasts brings to you voices from across the spectrum and various spheres of life. In this episode, you will hear from Dr. Meenakshi Bharat about her campaign to help migrant women laborers deal with menstruation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-a-campaign-to-promote-menstrual-health-among-migrant-labourers-844114.html
01-06-2020||National||COVID-19 lockdown extended in Himachal Pradesh till June 30 with more relaxations||The COVID-19 lockdown in Himachal Pradesh has been extended till June 30 with more relaxations such as the opening of religious places, hotels, and plying of inter-state buses services, according to a government notification issued on Sunday. The district magistrates of Hamirpur and Solan already issued orders on May 25 extending the curfew in their areas up to June 30. Relaxation in curfew has been extended and it would be from 6 am to 8 pm, Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur said on Sunday during a video conferencing with deputy commissioners, superintendents of police and chief medical officers. In a five-page notification, Chief Secretary Anil Khachi said the lockdown has been extended with more relaxations on the directions of the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and the chairperson of the national executive committee (NEC). Religious places and shrines will be open for locals of Himachal Pradesh following necessary standard operating procedures, the notification stated.  Hotels will be opened for use of guests for non-tourism purposes such as the housing of people visiting the state for official, business purposes only, it said.  The chief secretary stated the natives of Himachal Pradesh can stay in hotels but tourists from other states would not be entertained till further orders.   Similarly, restaurants and dhabas can serve food by operating at 60 per cent of their seating capacity, and in accordance with SOPs to be issued by the department of tourism, he said, adding HRTC and private buses will be allowed to operate with maximum 60 per cent capacity. However, the movement of people will remain strictly prohibited from 8 pm to 6 am throughout the state, the chief secretary stated in the notification. Meanwhile, director of higher education Amarjeet Kumar Sharma said vacation in state-run schools has been extended up to June 15. Chief Minister Thakur said over 1.60 lakh natives of Himachal Pradesh stranded in various parts of the country have reached the state.  Inter-district movement of the people would be allowed without any pass. But permits would be required for inter-state movement, he said, adding people coming from other parts of the country would be quarantined. Those coming from red zones will be institutionally quarantine and others home quarantined, the chief minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-lockdown-extended-in-himachal-pradesh-till-june-30-with-more-relaxations-844117.html
01-06-2020||National||Price of non-subsidised LPG cylinders, jet fuel hiked from June 1 ||Along with unlocking of the economy, the oil marketing companies (OMCs) raised the prices of domestic cooking gas (LPG) cylinder. After the hike, the prices in Delhi increased by Rs 11.50 for a cylinder. Prices of aviation turbine fuel (ATF) were also hiked by Rs 11,000/kilo litre to Rs 33,575/kilo litre in Delhi. In Kolkata, ATF will cost Rs 38,543/kilo litre while in Chennai, it will be priced at Rs 34,569/kilo litre. The new prices will be effective from today. “For the month of June 2020, there has been an increase in international prices of LPG. Due to increase in the prices in the international market, the RSP (retail selling price) of LPG in Delhi market will be increased by Rs.11.50 per cylinder," India’s largest fuel retailer Indian Oil Corporation said in a statement. However, the company has said that this hike will not impact beneficiaries of Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala (PMUY), who have been entitled to a free cylinder till June 30. Fuel retailers revise prices of LPG cylinders on the first day of every month. The price revision dependents on the international benchmark rate of LPG and the exchange rate of the US dollar and rupee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/price-of-non-subsidised-lpg-cylinders-jet-fuel-hiked-from-june-1-844125.html
01-06-2020||National||I&B Ministry releases e-booklet on Narendra Modi govt 2.0's 1st year in office||The Modi government on Sunday released an e-booklet highlighting its key achievements during the second term in which it stated that India was among the first few countries to put in place a "comprehensive action plan" to stop the spread of coronavirus. The 92-page booklet 'One Year of Modi 2.0 - Towards A Self-Reliant India' has been brought out by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Abrogation of Article 370, settlement of the Ram Temple issue, criminalisation of triple talaq, Bodo accord and the amendment to the Citizenship Act have been listed in the booklet among the key achievements during the second term of the Modi government which marked its first anniversary on Saturday. The booklet has a separate section for the actions taken to fight the COVID-19 pandemic and deal with the economic fallout of the crisis. It also highlights the government's decisions for the welfare of farmers, the Howdy Modi event in the US, the Namaste Trump event in Gujarat and the Mamallapuram Modi-Xi Jinping summit. The country and the world is going through an unprecedented crisis owing to COVID-19 since the beginning of 2020, the introduction to the e-booklet said. Nations across the globe have gone into lockdown and people are struggling to find ways to fight the disease and its spread, the e-booklet said. "Even as social distancing and change of lifestyles became a new normal, India under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi is one of the first countries to put up a concerted, comprehensive action plan to stop the spread of the virus and limit the number of COVID-19 infections," it said. India put in every effort to convert the crisis into an opportunity, the introduction to the booklet said. "It went into a mode of self-reliance and sprung into action to become 'Aatmanirbhar'. International Organisations like the WHO have praised the efforts made by the Indian government to fight the pandemic,' it said. India is one of the few countries which announced a complete lockdown even when the number of the COVID-19 cases in the country were less than 500, it said. "When the Corona crisis started, there was not a single PPE kit made in India. The N-95 masks were produced in small quantities in India. Today we are in a position to produce 2 lakh PPE and 2 lakh N-95 masks daily," the introduction said. "We were able to do this because India turned this crisis into an opportunity," it said. This vision of India - turning crisis into opportunity- is going to prove equally effective for our resolve of a self-reliant India, the booklet said. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the citizens demonstrated their full commitment in preventing the spread of COVID-19. Towards this direction the Prime Minister announced a Rs 20 lakh crore stimulus package, which is about 10 per cent of the GDP, in order to boost the economy and sustain the growth, it said. "The government had taken several important decisions which transformed India like never before. Foremost among them being the abrogation of Article 370 and 35A, thus fulfilling the decades-old demand of the nation," the introduction to the booklet said. "Sagacious leadership of the Prime Minister was once again proved during handling of the situation after the historic verdict of the Supreme Court on the Ayodhya-Ram Janmabhoomi," it said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had been voted back to power with an enhanced mandate in the General Elections held in April-May 2019 and several other promises like extending PM-KISAN to all farmers, pensions to small traders and farmers, forming a unified Jal Shakti Ministry and more, have already been fulfilled, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ib-ministry-releases-e-booklet-on-narendra-modi-govt-20s-1st-year-in-office-844129.html
01-06-2020||National||Pakistan summons senior Indian diplomat over expulsion of 2 High Commission officials on espionage charges||Pakistan on Monday summoned a senior Indian diplomat to register strong protest over India's decision to expel two officials of its High Commission in New Delhi on charges of espionage. Pakistan's Foreign Office (FO) said the Indian Charge d’Affaires was summoned for a "strong demarche", conveying Pakistan's condemnation of the decision to declare two officials of the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi persona non grata and rejection of all "baseless" allegations against them. Pakistan also conveyed that the Indian action was in "clear violation" of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the diplomatic norms, the FO said in the early hours of Monday. Earlier, Pakistan's Foreign Office said that the two staff members of the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi were lifted by the Indian authorities on May 31 on "false and unsubstantiated charges". They were, however, released on the High Commission's intervention, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-summons-senior-indian-diplomat-over-expulsion-of-2-high-commission-officials-on-espionage-charges-844145.html
01-06-2020||National||#BoycottMadeinChina: Sonam Wangchuk urges citizens to use ‘wallet power’||Responding to the questions on boycotting Chinese products, Ladakh-based engineer Sonam Wangchuk posted a second video on Sunday evening, once again urging netizens to use their ‘wallet power’ against China and make it a nationwide movement. CHEEN KO JAWAAB Part 2Hum sabh dengey samajhdaari se...! In the second part of the YouTube video, titled, ‘Cheen ko Jawab’, Wangchuk answers four questions including why citizens should avoid Chinese products even if they are available in the market. Stressing on ‘personal economic sanctions on China’ by every individual, he says in the video that the customer is the king. The innovator adds that it will take time for a government to stop the sale of Chinese products because of certain protocols but customers have the potential to impact the Chinese economy with their purchasing power alone. Later he says that instead of investing in ‘cheap, mindless, consumerism’ products, people should try to live a simple life, without depending on even the alternatives of Chinese products. The appeal by the educator comes amid the ongoing Indo-Chinese tensions after China intruded the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. The first video was posted on May 27, where he criticised the Chinese government and urged his viewers to exercise their ‘wallet power’ by boycotting Chinese software comprising different apps and games, and hardware within a year. In the video, Wangchuk accuses the Chinese government of having suppressed its domestic tensions in the past by intentionally provoking border disputes. He says the only way Indian citizens can help the Army is by boycotting Chinese products and thereby impacting the Chinese economy. Not only that, he states that the effort will also ensure that India becomes more self-reliant. Soon after, Milind Soman and Arshad Warsi tweeted in support of Wangchuk, and #BoycottChineseProducts and #BoycottChina started trending on social media. I am consciously going to stop using everything that is Chinese. As they are a part of most of the things we use, it will take time but I know, one day I’ll be Chinese free. You should try it too ... After the video made headlines online and received both positive and negative feedback, a Jaipur based startup launched an application named ‘Remove China Apps’, which has now reached over one million downloads. The app helps users identify and remove any Chinese applications that they have installed on their device. The Ramon Magsaysay Awardee is renowned as the man who inspired Aamir Khan’s character in the movie, ‘3 idiots’.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boycottmadeinchina-sonam-wangchuk-urges-citizens-to-use-wallet-power-844162.html
01-06-2020||National||India registers biggest single-day spike of 8,392 COVID-19 cases; total rises to 1,90,535: Govt||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 5,394 and the number of cases climbed to 1,90,535 in the country, which registered biggest single-day spikes of 230 deaths and 8,392 cases till Monday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry. India is the seventh worst-hit nation by the novel coronavirus pandemic. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 93,322 while 91,818 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the ministry said.   "Thus, around 48.19 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total number of confirmed cases includes foreigners. Of the 230 deaths reported since Sunday morning, 89 are in Maharashtra, 57 in Delhi, 31 in Gujarat, 13 in Tamil Nadu, 12 in Uttar Pradesh, eight in West Bengal, seven in Madhya Pradesh, five in Telangana, three in Karnataka, two in Andhra Pradesh and one each in Bihar, Punjab and Rajasthan. Out of the total 5,394 fatalities, Maharashtra tops tally with 2,286 deaths followed by Gujarat with 1,038 deaths, Delhi with 473, Madhya Pradesh with 350, West Bengal with 317, Uttar Pradesh with 213, Rajasthan with 194,Tamil Nadu with 173, Telangana with 82 and Andhra Pradesh with 62 deaths. The death toll has reached 51 in Karnataka and 45 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 28 fatalities due to the disease, Bihar has 21, Haryana has 20 deaths, Kerala has nine while Odisha has reported seven deaths so far.   Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand have registered five COVID-19 fatalities each while Chandigarh and Assam have recorded four deaths each so far. Meghalaya  and Chhattisgarh have reported one COVID-19 fatality each, according to the ministry's data.  More than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, according to the health ministry website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-registers-biggest-single-day-spike-of-8392-covid-19-cases-total-rises-to-190535-govt-844177.html
01-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: Indian Railways deploys COVID-19 coaches for suspected patients||A rake with 10 coaches has been deployed and it can accommodate 160 patients. The rake has nine non-AC coaches for patients while one AC coach for medical staff, said an official from Ministry of Railways. On the request from the Delhi Government, the Railways has deployed one rake containing 10 coaches of COVID isolation coaches for treat COVID-19 patients, said the officer..  The rake was placed at coach washing area at Shakur Basti Railway Station and the Delhi Government will deploy health care staff. The Indian Railway converted 5,231 non-AC sleeper and General coaches as COVID-19 coaches to supplement hospital isolation beds. The Railways also identified 215 major stations across the country for its deployment and asked the states to utilise it to treat mild and very mild COVID-19 patients. Since no states have come forward to utilise it, the Railway Board has decided to convert around 3,100 coaches as normal and deploy it for Shramik Special trains as there is a huge demand for non-AC coaches. However, around 2,131 coaches will remain as isolation coaches and will be given to states as and when they demand, said an official in the railways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-indian-railways-deploys-covid-19-coaches-for-suspected-patients-844179.html
01-06-2020||National||Senior ICMR scientist tests positive for coronavirus||A senior scientist at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has tested positive for novel coronavirus following which the entire ICMR building is being sanitised, sources said. The scientist, who is from Mumbai, had come to Delhi a few days ago and tested positive for the virus on Sunday morning. The scientists is from the National Institute for Research in Reproductive health in ICMR, Mumbai. The ICMR building will be sanitised and fumigated for two days, a source said. The scientist had last week attended a meeting in which ICMR Director-General Dr. Balram Bhargava among others was present.  A message from the administration was sent to a section of employees, urging them to work from home as the ICMR headquarters is under fumigation, the sources said. "Only the COVID-19 core team may come, if absolutely necessary. Others should work from home only," the message said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-icmr-scientist-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-844182.html
01-06-2020||National||COVID-19: PM Modi pitches for new tech in healthcare||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday sought a discussion on advances in telemedicine, the use of 'Make in India' products in healthcare and the use of IT tools in the medical sector for a healthier society. Addressing an event at the Rajiv Gandhi Health University in Bengaluru via video conference, he sought a discussion on whether new models can be conceived that make telemedicine popular on a larger scale. Referring to the "Make in India" program, he said the initial gains made in this field make him optimistic. "Our domestic manufacturers have started production of personal protective equipment and have supplied about one crore PPEs to those in the frontline of fighting COVID-19. Modi said IT-related tools for healthier societies can be of great help.  "I am sure you have heard of Arogya Setu. Twelve crore health-conscious people have downloaded it. This has been very helpful in the fight against coronavirus," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-pm-modi-pitches-for-new-tech-in-healthcare-844190.html
01-06-2020||National||501 domestic flights carrying 44,593 passengers operated on Sunday: Puri||A total of 501 domestic flights carrying 44,593 passengers operated in the country on May 31, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Monday. Domestic services were suspended in India due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown and resumed after a gap of two months on May 25. Indian carriers operated a total of 3,370 flights till May 31 -- 428 on May 25, 445 on May 26, 460 on May 27, 494 on May 28, 513 on May 29 and 529 on May 30. "Domestic operations on 31st May 2020 (Day 7) till 2359 hrs. Departures 501. 44,593 passengers handled. Arrivals 502. 44,678 passengers handled," Puri tweeted on Monday. A departure is counted as a flight during the day. During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said. In February, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data. Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/501-domestic-flights-carrying-44593-passengers-operated-on-sunday-puri-844192.html
01-06-2020||National||Southwest monsoon makes onset over Kerala: IMD||The southwest monsoon has made an onset over Kerala, marking the commencement of the four-month-long rainfall season, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday. "The southwest monsoon has made an onset over Kerala," IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra said.  The four-month monsoon season from June to September accounts for 75 per cent of rainfall in the country.  Private forecaster Skymet Weather on May 30 had declared the arrival of monsoon, but the IMD had differed, saying conditions were not ripe then for such an announcement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/southwest-monsoon-makes-onset-over-kerala-imd-844196.html
01-06-2020||National||Narco-terror module busted in Jammu and Kashmir, 6 JeM associates held||Security forces and police have busted a narco-terror module in Budgam district of Jammu and Kashmir and arrested six associates of banned Jaish-e-Mohammad (JeM), an official said on Monday. According to the police, the militant associates were in close connection with Pakistan-based handlers and involved in drug trade, supply of weapons and assisted financially to active militants of JeM, he said. Acting on a credible input, a joint team of police, army and CRPF apprehended them from Chadoora area of the district, a police official said. He said the arrested persons have been identified as Mudassir Fayaz, Shabir Ganaie, Sageer Ahmad Poswal, Issaq Bhat, Arshid Thoker and a minor whose identity has been withheld. "Incriminating materials, arms and ammunition, including a Chinese pistol, a hand grenade, Rs 1,55,000 cash and one kilogram of narco heroine, were recovered from their possession," the official said.  He said the "recoveries have exposed the connection between drug dealers and terrorists".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/narco-terror-module-busted-in-jammu-and-kashmir-6-jem-associates-held-844205.html
01-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Delhi borders sealed for a week||Delhi borders have been sealed for one week amid surging COVID-19 cases and the government kept the option open for extending it even as the capital allowed functioning of barber shops and removed odd-even restrictions on shops in markets. Announcing the decision on Monday as the country entered into "unlock" mode, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said the state government has also removed the restrictions on passengers in auto-rickshaw and staggered timing for the working of industrial units. From now on, more than one person can travel in an autorickshaw, pillion rider is allowed on two-wheelers and all shops in a market can function. However, spas will not be allowed though barbers shops and salons will open after 10 weeks since March 25. However, Kejriwal said the state government has decided to seal the borders with other states for at least one week and sought suggestions from people whether he should extend it keeping in view the surge in COVID-19 cases in the capital. "Delhi borders are sealed for one week. Only essential services are exempted. Only those people providing essential services and holding government identity cards and e-passes will be allowed to enter. We will take a decision again in one week to open borders after seeking suggestions from citizens," he said. Kejriwal said people will flock to Delhi once borders are opened, as the capital has one of the best healthcare systems in the country and it is free in government hospitals here. "There is one suggestion that Delhi hospitals should be reserved for residents of Delhi. But Delhi is everyone's and it is the capital. Another suggestion is that we should keep the hospitals reserved for Delhiites till COVID-19 cases are in control. I need your views," he said. Delhi government's decision to seal the border came hours after Haryana government announced that it is opening Delhi-Gurugram border. Several people, including office-goers, residing in Noida and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh as well as in Haryana's Gurugram come to Delhi and vice versa for carrying out daily affairs and the ban could have an impact on them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-delhi-borders-sealed-for-a-week-844206.html
01-06-2020||National||Odisha reports highest single-day spike of 156 cases||Odisha registered its highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases on Monday with 156 new infections, taking the state's tally to 2,104, a Health department official said. Of the new 156 cases, 153 were detected from quarantine centres, while three others were found positive during COVID-19 contact tracing. The fresh cases were reported from 19 of the state's 30 districts. The state on Sunday had reported 129 new cases. The maximum new cases were reported from Kendrapara with 50 cases, followed by Cuttack (20), Ganjam (17), Jagatsinghpur (14), Jajpur (11), Kandhamal (9), Bhadrak (7). Three cases each have been reported from Khurda, Nayagarh Sundergarh, Nuapada, Mayurbhanj, Bargarh, and Sonepur. Similarly, two cases were reported from Bolangir and Sambalpur, while one each case reported from Boudh, Kenojhar, and Malkangiri districts. The state health department has so far tested 1,55,690 samples, he said.  A total of 3,559 samples were tested on Sunday, the official said, adding that new cases are being sent to COVID hospitals. All returnees are lodged in 16,648 temporary medical centers or camps in 6,798-gram panchayats. With fresh cases, the state now has 969 active COVID-19 cases, while 1,126 people have recovered by Monday forenoon. Seven people have died of the disease, the state government said. The districts which have reported more than 100 COVID-19 cases are Ganjam (431), Jajpur (280), Balasore (152), Khurda (141), Bhadrak and Cuttack (120 each) and Kendrapara joined the club with 139 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-reports-highest-single-day-spike-of-156-cases-844207.html
01-06-2020||National||Over 100 Kerala doctors, nurses to help Mumbai fight coronavirus||Mumbai needs more human resources in terms of medical staff. A team of 16 doctors from Kerala is expected to reach Mumbai on Monday, Dr Santhosh Kumar, Deputy Superintendent of Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram, told PTI. Nearly 50 doctors and 100 nurses from Kerala will be in Mumbai in the next few days, said Kumar, who has already reached here along with two other doctors. "We will be working in the Seven Hills Hospital. It is safe for medical practitioners here and they should volunteer in this effort to fight COVID-19. All doctors who are coming to help the medical staff in Mumbai are working in the private sector back home (Kerala) and have volunteeredto assist their fraternity members here," he said. Kumar said he is working with a Kerala government hospital, but he also volunteered along with private doctors from his state to assist doctors in Mumbai in the fight against COVID-19.  The Seven Hills Hospital, located in Andheri area here, is well-equipped and safe for medical staff, he said. "What is lacking is the human resources. Even doctors from Maharashtra should join in," he said. Kumar rejected comparisons between the COVID-19 situation in Kerala and Mumbai. "There is no place in Kerala like Mumbai. This is a huge city with 30 million people and slums. Reasons for the infection in both the places are different and hence, strategies to deal with the virus are different," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-100-kerala-doctors-nurses-to-help-mumbai-fight-coronavirus-844209.html
01-06-2020||National||Two Pakistan High Commission officials expelled from India for spying return home||Two undercover agents of Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) left India on Monday, a day after their cover was blown by a joint operation by police and counter-espionage agencies in New Delhi.     Abid Hussain and Muhammad Tahir were living in New Delhi under the guise of consular officials of the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi. They left early in the morning on Monday and crossed over to Pakistan through the Attari-Wagah border between India and its western neighbour in the evening. New Delhi on Sunday declared both Hussain and Tahir as “Persona Non-Grata” and asked Pakistan to withdraw them from India within 24 hours. The government expelled Hussain and Tahir as a probe by the police and counter-espionage agencies found them to be ISI agents and involved in espionage in India under the guise of consular officials of Pakistan. They were apprehended by the law-enforcement agencies from Karolbagh in New Delhi on Sunday “for indulging in espionage activities”. New Delhi’s move irked Islamabad. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MoFA) of the Pakistan Government summoned acting High Commissioner of India in Islamabad, Gaurav Ahluwalia, late at night on Sunday and served him a demarche, protesting against expulsion of Hussain and Tahir. Pakistan rejected what it called “the baseless allegation” against the two officials of its High Commission in the capital of India. “We condemn the detention and torture as well as threatening and pressuring of the diplomatic officials to accept false charges,” the MoFA of Pakistan Government said in a press release issued in Islamabad. It also described the action by the Government of India as a “clear violation” of the 1961 “Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations” as well as the “norms of diplomatic conduct”. Islamabad claimed that the High Commission of Pakistan in New Delhi had always worked within the parameters of international law and diplomatic norms. “The Indian action is clearly aimed at shrinking diplomatic space for the working of Pakistan High Commission,” the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the neighbouring country’s government said in Islamabad. It accused New Delhi of trying to escalate the tension between India and Pakistan to divert attention from the “ongoing internal and external issues faced by” the Central government or “from the worsening situation and gross human rights violations being perpetrated” in Jammu and Kashmir. Hussain and Tahir were caught red-handed by the police from Karolbagh in Delhi when they were obtaining documents related to the security establishment of India. They were obtaining the documents from an Indian, whom they gave money and an I-phone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-pakistan-high-commission-officials-expelled-from-india-for-spying-return-home-844219.html
01-06-2020||National||Barber shops, salons to open in Delhi, spas to remain shut: Kejriwal||After being shut for over two months, barbershops and salons will reopen in Delhi, but spas will remain closed, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Monday while announcing the next-phase of relaxations. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said there will also be no restrictions on the number of persons traveling in four-wheelers, two-wheelers, auto-rickshaws, e-rickshaws, and other vehicles in the city. The announcements came as the nation exits the COVID-19 lockdown in a phased manner. The chief minister said that the Delhi government will implement all the relaxations permitted by the Centre.  He said that until now, shops in markets were being allowed to open on an odd-even basis, adding that there are no such restrictions mentioned by the Centre in its latest guidelines. Now, all shops in the city will be permitted to function, Kejriwal said. The chief minister said that there will also be no restrictions on the functioning of industries in the national capital||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/barber-shops-salons-to-open-in-delhi-spas-to-remain-shut-kejriwal-844220.html
01-06-2020||National||Coronavirus Unlock 1.0: List of activities allowed in Uttar Pradesh from June 1||Largely following the guidelines laid down by the Centre, the Uttar Pradesh government announced the latest set of rules to abide by in the fifth phase of the lockdown, which is also the first phase of easing the lockdown norms, Unlock 1.0. The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday allowed interstate travel but restrictions on movement of people into Ghaziabad and Noida from the adjacent national capital continue for now.  In guidelines on the next phase of the lockdown, which begins Monday and will last till June 30, the state government left it to Gautam Buddh Nagar and Ghaziabad administrations to take a call on relaxing restrictions travellers from New Delhi. Here is a list of activities which are now allowed in non-containment zones of the state: 1. All government and private offices have been allowed to operate at full capacity starting June 1. 2. Inter-state travel will be allowed without a pass. However, people coming in from containment zones of Delhi will be restricted from entering the state. District administration of Noida and Ghaziabad will take a call in such cases. 3. Shopping malls, religious places and hotels and restaurants are set to reopen from June 8. 4. The decision regarding educational institutions is due to be taken in July after further discussion. 5. Markets will open on a rotation basis between 9 am-9 pm. Vegetable mandis will remain open from 6 am to 9 pm on the condition that social-distancing norms are being followed. Sweet shops are also allowed to reopen. 6. Beauty parlours, supermarkets and salons are allowed to open, given that social distancing norms and other necessary precautions are followed by everyone. 7. Wedding halls have been allowed to reopen with not more than 30 guests. 8. Two persons are now allowed on two-wheelers, considering they are wearing mandatory face masks. 9. Taxis and Rickshaws will take passengers according to their seating capacity. Buses are allowed to ferry on roads. However, no passenger is allowed to travel standing on a bus.   10. No decision has been taken to reopen religious places as they might attract large gatherings, which continue to be prohibited. Additional Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh, Awanish Awasthi, stated that if any COVID-19 positive case is found, about 250 metres of the area will be declared and a containment zone. He added if there are more than one cases, the radius of the containment zone will be increased to 500 metres.  None of the above-mentioned relaxations applies to these containment zones, all restrictions as specified by the home ministry guidelines will be applicable to those areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-unlock-10-list-of-activities-allowed-in-uttar-pradesh-from-june-1-844230.html
01-06-2020||National||Coronavirus Unlock 1.0: List of activities allowed in Delhi from June 1||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced further relaxations in the state for the fifth phase of the lockdown, also referred to as Unlock 1.0. In a press conference on Monday morning, Kejriwal stated the list of activities which now allowed in the national capital.  Here is the list of activities that are allowed in Delhi from June 1: 1. The curfew timings have been revised to 9 pm-5 am as advised by the MHA guidelines. 2. Barber shops and salons will reopen from June 1 on the condition that social-distancing norms are being followed by everyone. However, spas will remain closed. 3. All shops will now be allowed to continue their services without having to comply with the odd-even rule.  4. Restriction on the number of passengers travelling in auto, e-rickshaws and other vehicles has been lifted. 5. The borders of Delhi will be sealed till June 8 and no one without a pass can enter the state. 6. Malls, restaurants, hotels and places of worship will reopen on June 8. 7. Cinema halls and educational institutions will remain closed until further orders. 8. People from containment zones of Delhi will be restricted from entering Noida and Ghaziabad. They will be required to get permission from the district administration in such a case. The state government, had earlier, in the fourth phase restricted religious and social gatherings, and it remains banned. The Chief Minister had previously stressed that there cannot be a permanent state of lockdown. Stating that Delhi needs to start reopening the economy in a phased manner, he had said that his government is “four steps ahead of the coronavirus”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-unlock-10-list-of-activities-allowed-in-delhi-from-june-1-844241.html
01-06-2020||National||Situation at border with India 'stable and controllable': China||China on Monday said that the overall situation at the border with India was "stable and controllable", and both the countries have "unimpeded" communication channels to resolve the issues through dialogue and consultations. The comments by the Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian came in the backdrop of the continuing standoff between the militaries of India and China at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). "China has been implementing the consensus between the two countries' leaders. We have been committed to upholding our national sovereignty, security as well as stability along the border," Zhao said. "Now the overall situation in our border areas is stable and controllable. We have unimpeded communication channels and we hope and believe through dialogue and consultations we can properly resolve the relevant issue," he said in response to a question on Defence Minister Rajnth Singh's remarks that India will not allow its dignity to be harmed on the border issue. India on Wednesday said it was engaged with China to peacefully resolve the border row, in a carefully crafted reaction to Trump's offer to arbitrate between the two Asian giants to settle their decades-old dispute. "We are engaged with the Chinese side to peacefully resolve it," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, replying to a volley of questions at an online media briefing. "The two sides have established mechanisms both at military and diplomatic levels to resolve situations which may arise in border areas peacefully through dialogue and continue to remain engaged through these channels," he said. India-China border tensions have flared up again in Ladakh and Sikkim On May 5, the Indian and the Chinese army personnel clashed with iron rods, sticks, and even resorted to stone-pelting in the Pangong Tso lake area in which soldiers on both sides sustained injuries. In a separate incident, nearly 150 Indian and Chinese military personnel were engaged in a face-off near Naku La Pass in the Sikkim sector on May 9. At least 10 soldiers from both sides sustained injuries. The troops of India and China were engaged in a 73-day stand-off in Doklam tri-junction in 2017. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long Line of Actual Control. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquility in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/situation-at-border-with-india-stable-and-controllable-china-844243.html
01-06-2020||National||Goa: Market closed, wholesale fish traders threaten strike||The Margao Wholesale Fish Markets Association has called for a strike from Tuesday on import of fish, which may bring about a shortage of the item in several parts of Goa, especially since inclement weather at sea has kept trawlers off over the past couple of days. Margao Wholesale Fish Markets Association president Maulana Ibrahim told reporters its members will go on strike from Tuesday as South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) was not allowing them to open the wholesale fish market in Margao. The Margao wholesale fish market is the main center where fish imported from various states arrives and then gets further distributed, he added. "This may adversely impact its availability in the state as local trawlers have already stayed away from fishing due to the current weather at sea. Despite permission from the district magistrate, the SGPDA, which owns the wholesale fish market premises, has refused nod to open it," he informed. He also alleged some traders who started selling fish outside the marker were assaulted by police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-market-closed-wholesale-fish-traders-threaten-strike-844244.html
01-06-2020||National||Keep middle seats vacant to extent possible: DGCA to airlines||After a rap from the Supreme Court, the civil aviation regulator on Monday urged airlines to try and keep the middle-seat vacant in an aircraft or give a “wrap around gowns” to those occupying the seats to protect the health of air travelers. In an earlier order, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation had allowed airlines to have passengers on the middle seat of the aircraft with the government arguing that keeping the seats vacant would make air travel unviable – both for passengers and the airlines. “The airlines shall allot the seats in such a manner that the middle seat between two passengers is kept vacant if the passenger load and seat capacity permits the same,” the DGCA said. However, it added that members of the same family may be allowed to sit together. If the middle seat is occupied due to the passenger load factor, the civil aviation regulator has asked airlines to provide an additional protective equipment like a “wrap around gown” as per the standards prescribed by the textiles ministry. The new directions come into effect from June 3. As per the standard operating procedures (SOP) for air travel, only asymptomatic persons are allowed to undertake a flight journey. The DGCA regulations also make it incumbent on the airline to provide face mask, sanitiser and face shields to the passengers before boarding the aircraft. The revision in the middle-seat guidelines came in response to a Special Leave Petition filed in the Supreme Court against the SOP for the Vande Bharat evacuation flights which allowed passengers on the middle seat. The matter is before the Court, which had allowed the DGCA to alter the norms during the pendency of the matter in the interest of public health. Accordingly, the Civil Aviation Ministry had set up a committee of experts to review the public health related protocols of air travel. The committee also suggested that no meals or drinking water would be served on board an aircraft except in extreme circumstances arising due to health reasons. It also asked the airlines to adjust the air conditioning in such a manner that the air inside an aircraft gets replaced in the shortest possible time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/keep-middle-seats-vacant-to-extent-possible-dgca-to-airlines-844249.html
01-06-2020||National||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, three other ministers in self-quarantine after colleague tests positive||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and three cabinet colleagues were in self-quarantine Monday following a meeting last week with Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj, who has tested positive for coronavirus. Satpal Maharaj, his wife and 21 other people – family members, staff and his followers staying in the same household – have tested positive, an official said on Sunday. On Friday, Satpal Maharaj had attended a meeting of the state cabinet. The state health department said there was no need for the ministers and officials who attended Friday’s meeting to isolate themselves, going by the Centre’s guidelines. "The ministers and officials fall into the category of low risk contacts as they were not in close contact with Satpal Maharaj. They can function in a normal way and there is no need to quarantine them," state Health Secretary Amit Negi said. But the CM and the three other ministers -- Harak Singh Rawat, Madan Kaushik and Subodh Uniyal -- decided to remain in self- quarantine as a precautionary measure, an official at the Chief Minister's Office said. "They will remain in self- quarantine at least for the next few days during which they will be tested for COVID-19," he said. "Whether or not they resume normal day-to-day functions in a few days will depend on what their test reports say," he said. Satpal Maharaj’s wife Amrita Rawat tested positive for the infection on Saturday. Their two sons, daughters-in-law and a one-and-a-half-year-old grandson were among the others found infected with the virus on Sunday. Amrita Rawat, a former state minister, was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Rishikesh on Sunday morning. The minister and some other members of the family too are kept there, an AIIMS official told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-three-other-ministers-in-self-quarantine-after-colleague-tests-positive-844261.html
01-06-2020||National||Lakhs of power sector workers protest against Electricity Amendment Bill 2020: AIPEF||Lakhs of power sector employees and engineers are protesting against the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 and the government's move to privatise power distribution companies in union territories, according to a statement by AIPEF. Last month, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had announced the government's plan to privatise power distribution utilities in union territories. The power ministry also circulated a draft Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 on April 17, 2020. "Lakhs of electricity employees and engineers across the country today joined hands to observe a protest demonstration maintaining social distance against the Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 and move to privatise the power distribution in Union Territories," All India Power Engineers Federation (AIPEF) spokesperson V K Gupta said in the statement. According to the statement, power sector employees and engineers exercised their democratic right by wearing black badges and holding gate meetings in all the states and UTs, including Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Assam, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, West Bengal, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Jammu & Kashmir, Ladakh, among others. Gupta termed the Bill “anti-farmer" and "anti-domestic consumer", as it paves the way for privatization of the entire power sector in the country. After the Bill is passed, farmers will have to pay a monthly power tariff of Rs 5,000-6,000, while subsidized domestic consumers will have to pay at least Rs 8-10 per unit for the consumption of up to 300 units per month, he said. The Bill has been notified by the power ministry at a time when all forms of meetings, interactions, discussions and protests are choked. Access to affordable electricity is a right and not a luxury and burdening farmers and BPL (below poverty line) consumers with high rates is a retrograde step, he added. The Bill proposes some policy amendments and functional amendments to the Electricity Act of 2003. The quest for profit and greater commercial orientation than government-owned power distribution companies seem to be the only aim of the central government, he said. The Centre has violated the concurrent status of electricity to states by dictating on cross-subsidy, Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) to farmers and BPL consumers, setting up of ECEE (electricity tribunal) and dictating on franchising of electricity distribution. Further, the government has moved one step ahead and issued orders to privatise the electricity systems of UTs, the statement said. The policy of cross-subsidy was introduced to provide electricity to poorer citizens and farmers at cheaper rates as compared to commercial and industrial consumers, it said. Now to abolish the cross-subsidy in a time-bound manner and proposing a DBT to such consumers by state governments will snatch away the rights of access to electricity for them, it noted. "The Centre seeks to usurp this right of states which is totally unacceptable. It is unwise to bring legislation that would virtually finish the state sector and make the entire power supply sector dependent on private companies," AIPEF said. In the proposed amendment, there is no political move at course correction based on experiences gained in more than one decade, for revamping the Electricity Act 2003, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lakhs-of-power-sector-workers-protest-against-electricity-amendment-bill-2020-aipef-844263.html
01-06-2020||National||People throng streets in large numbers, traffic snarl in Kolkata||Many shops across the city that remained closed during the lockdown also reopened during the day. Religious places like the Thantania Kali temple and Lake Kali Bari also reopened, but the Kalighat temple remained closed. "A decision on reopening will be taken by the shrine committee," sources said. People either availed of the skeletal public transport or travelled to their workplaces in two-wheelers and cars. Traffic snarls were noticed on Jessore Road near airport, Esplanade, Howrah Bridge and VIP Road, with people standing in queues waiting for buses and auto. Huge traffic was also noticed on BT Road. Some buses are plying in few routes of the city, and in districts like Howrah and Hooghly. State buses plied in 40 city routes and some inter-district routes. Ferry services across the Hooghly river also resumed at one-hour intervals. The state government had on Saturday extended the lockdown till June 15, but allowed total attendance in micro, small, medium and large industries, including mining activities, from June 1. The government also allowed construction activities with 100 per cent of the strength of workers from Monday. It has also given nod to indoor and outdoor activities related to TV and cinema production, barring reality show production, from June 1. As the West Bengal government has allowed 100 per cent deployment of workforce in the jute industry from Monday, there was nearly 60 per cent attendance in the first shift. Sources said it would fall to 50 per cent in the second shift and further to 30 to 40 per cent in the night shift. This is due to a huge chunk of the labourers having gone back to their native places like Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha due to the lockdown, according to sources. While the state government also allowed 100 per cent deployment of workforce in the tea gardens, it was much higher on Monday than the previous days, sources said. The Home Ministry had said on Saturday 'Unlock-1' would be initiated across the country from June 8, in which the nationwide lockdown from March 25 would be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions would remain in places till June 30 in the containment zones.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-throng-streets-in-large-numbers-traffic-snarl-in-kolkata-844270.html
01-06-2020||National||EC meets physically for the first time in three months||A meeting of the "full commission" -- the chief election commissioner and two election commissioners -- took place at the Nirvachan Sadan here on Monday for the first time in nearly three months. The poll panel had been holding virtual meets as Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora, who was visiting the United States on leave in the first half of March, got stranded there due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Arora returned to India recently and underwent the mandatory quarantine before joining office on Monday. A key decision taken in one such virtual meeting was to allow the legislative council election in Maharashtra to pave the way for Uddhav Thackeray becoming a member of the state legislature within the stipulated six months of becoming chief minister. The polls were deferred due to the coronavirus outbreak. Other senior officers of the poll panel were present in Monday's meeting, a spokesperson said, sharing pictures of it on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-meets-physically-for-the-first-time-in-three-months-844281.html
01-06-2020||National||Odisha, Sikkim, Mizoram join 'One Nation-One Ration Card' scheme: Ram Vilas Paswan||Three more states -- Odisha, Sikkim and Mizoram -- have joined the 'One Nation-One Ration Card' scheme, taking the number of states and union territories (UTs) which have joined the scheme to 20, Food Minister Ram Vilas Paswan said on Monday. By August, Uttarakhand, Nagaland and Manipur will also be added to the national cluster, he added Under the 'One Nation-One Ration Card' initiative, eligible beneficiaries would be able to avail their entitled foodgrains under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) from any Fair Price Shop in the country using the same ration card. The Food Ministry aims to implement this facility across the country by March 2021. "Today three more states namely - Odisha, Sikkim and Mizoram have been included in the scheme," Paswan said in a statement. He said necessary infrastructure work -- upgradation of electronic Point of Sale (ePoS) software, integration with central Integrated Management of PDS (IM-PDS) and Annavitran portals, availability of ration cards/beneficiaries data in central repository and requisite testing of national portability transactions -- required for ration card portability has been completed in these three states. So far, ration card portability has been enabled in 17 states and UTs -- Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu, Goa, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Punjab, Telangana, Tripura and Uttar Pradesh. "Further, constant efforts are being made by this Department to expand the reach of national portability to the beneficiaries of other states/UTs also in association with respective state/UT governments," Paswan said. The Food Ministry is doing all necessary arrangements to include remaining 13 states and UTs to the national cluster. A central technical team has imparted the requisite orientation training to the technical teams and concerned officers of these states through video conferencing and necessary guidelines/instructions for the implementation of national/inter-state portability were also provided to them, Paswan said. He also reiterated that ration cards which have recorded at least one Aadhaar authenticated transaction during the last six months shall be eligible for national portability transactions under this plan. This feature has been enabled through the central repository of ration cards/beneficiaries maintained by National Informatics Centre (NIC). The requisite web-services for reporting of portability transaction details to the central dashboard are also enabled for these states with immediate effect and the central NIC team shall be continuously assisting the state governments in seamless roll out of the 'One Nation-One Ration Card' plan. Paswan asked the 20 states/UTs to commence national/inter-state portability transactions in June 2020 so that beneficiaries can take benefit of portability service with immediate effect.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-sikkim-mizoram-join-one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-ram-vilas-paswan-844285.html
01-06-2020||National||NITI Aayog officer tests positive for coronavirus||A NITI Aayog officer has tested positive for coronavirus and a floor of the NITI Aayog building here has been sealed for sanitation, sources said on Monday. According to sources, the official who was working on the third floor attended office until last week. The sanitisation process of the floor is underway and all due protocols and precautionary measures are being undertaken. A director-level officer working at NITI Bhavan had also tested positive for COVID-19 on April 28. On March 29, the government constituted 11 empowered groups to suggest measures to ramp up healthcare, put the economy back on track and reduce misery of people as quickly as possible post the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Empowered Group on medical equipment and management plan headed by NITI Aayog member V K Paul and the empowered group on coordinating with private sector NGOs and international organisations headed by NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant are functioning from NITI Bhavan.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/niti-aayog-officer-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-844286.html
01-06-2020||National||Not advisable to open religious places now, says noted epidemiologist||Guidelines allowing the opening of religious places from June 8 has earned a thumbs down from a noted public health expert and epidemiologist, who said that it would risk a higher number of infections in view of the greater density in such places, particularly in the elderly. Professor and Head of Life Course Epidemiology at the Public Health Foundation of India Giridhara R Babu said it is not the most advisable thing to do at the current stage. "First of all, religious institutions are not the most vital factor for survival, though for a lot of people, mental health is affected because of the sudden lockdown and lack of normal ways of functioning," he told PTI. "Most of the religions have provision to worship from their houses. It is risky to open religious institutions because most of them are closed spaces, density is highest inside most places and the vulnerable like the elderly visit the most," Prof. Babu said. The gathering of elderly together at one place along with the young and healthy ones would pose a higher risk as the latter may ignore mild symptoms and not follow the guidelines, he said. Prof. Babu, who has worked with World Health Organisation for nearly six years, during which his efforts included stopping polio transmission in the state of Karnataka and initiation of Measles surveillance, blamed influx of people from other States for the spike in COVID-19 cases. Giving an example, Prof Babu said Karnataka reported 248 COVID-19 cases last Friday, including 227 with inter-state travel history, especially Maharashtra. According to him, guidelines for preventing large congregations must be clear, strict and binding throughout the country. "The next course of infection spread mostly occurs through clusters. Among them, clusters that mix elderly and other vulnerable with healthy are more dangerous," added Prof. Babu, who is trained in Epidemiology (MPH and PhD) from University of California Los Angeles (UCLA).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-advisable-to-open-religious-places-now-says-noted-epidemiologist-844292.html
01-06-2020||National||Lawyers-police clash: HC grants judicial commission time till Dec 31 to complete probe||The Delhi High Court on Monday gave time till December 31 to its judicial inquiry commission, set up to probe the clash between lawyers and police on November 2 at Tis Hazari court complex here, to complete investigation. The order by a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan came after perusing a report sent by the commission, headed by Justice (retired) S P Garg, seeking more time as it was unable to examine all the witnesses due to the COVID-19 lockdown, central government standing counsel Anil Soni said. According to the report, till date the commission has examined 124 witnesses and more remain to be examined, Soni also said. On November 2 last year, a parking dispute between an on-duty policeman and a lawyer triggered the clash between the two sides at the court complex, leaving over 20 police personnel and several advocates injured. The high court by way of an interim order has protected lawyers from any action in connection with FIRs lodged in relation to the November 2 incident, till the judicial probe is going on. Similar order for protection was passed in favour of two cops against whom FIRs were lodged in relation to the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lawyers-police-clash-hc-grants-judicial-commission-time-till-dec-31-to-complete-probe-844293.html
01-06-2020||National||Monsoon forecast: India to receive 102% of average rainfall between June, September||India Meteorological Department on Monday announced that the country would receive 102 per cent of its average rainfall between June and September this year. The announcement comes within hours of the south west monsoon reaching the Kerala coast, four days ahead of its scheduled date. The north-west, central and peninsular India is to be showered with 107 per cent, 103 per cent and 102 per cent of average rainfall respectively but the precipitation would be little less for north-east India which would get 96 per cent of the average rainfall. India’s long period average rainfall is 88 cm, which is the average monsoon rainfall between 1961 and 2000. For the whole country, the error margin is 4 per cent, which goes up to 8 per cent for the region. The July rainfall - crucial for India's trillion dollar economy that rides high on farm productivity - would be 103 per cent of the average while rainfall will go down a bit in August as the IMD six-parameter statistical monsoon model predicts 97 per cent of the rain. Even the probabilistic calculations favour a normal monsoon. There is 41 per cent probability of a normal monsoon (96-104 per cent of the LPA); 25 per cent probability of above normal monsoon (104-110 per cent of LPA) and 14 per cent probability of excess (above 110 per cent) monsoon. Taken together, there is 80 per cent chance of the monsoon being a normal or above normal one. "The probability distribution is skewed towards the positive side. It's good news," said M Rajeevan, Secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences. The June update of the IMD's long range weather forecast is an improvement from the weather bureau's April forecast when it announced that the country would cumulatively receive 100 per cent of its average rainfall in these four months. A dynamical experimental model developed by the IMD under the monsoon mission also producten normal rainfall (107 per cent of the LPA with 4 per cent error margin). Rajeevan ruled out any threat from the El Nino (an unusual warming of the Pacific sea surface temperature that plays havoc with weather systems around the world). Either a cold ENSO (El Nino - Southern Oscillation)  or weak La Nina conditions (opposite to El Nino and beneficial to monsoon) are likely to persist during the season. On the cyclonic storm that is brewing in the Arabian Sea, IMD director general M Mahaputra said the existing deep depression will be transformed into a cyclonic storm that would hit the coast at a velocity of nearly 100 kmph on June 3 impacting coastal districts of Maharashtra like Sindhudurg, Raigad, Mumbai, Thane and Ratnagiri, as well as south Gujarat. While Maharashtra and Gujarat are the two states that are to be impacted by the severe cyclone, the exact landfall areas would be known by Tuesday morning, he said. Coastal Karnataka and north Kerala would also experience high speed winds, rains and rough sea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-forecast-india-to-receive-102-of-average-rainfall-between-june-september-844295.html
01-06-2020||National||Over 1,000 non-swadeshi products junked from CAPF canteens||Over 1,000 products manufactured by firms like Dabur, VIP industries, Eureka Forbes, Jaguar, HUL (foods), Nestle India will not be sold at CAPF canteens anymore from Monday as they are not 'swadeshi' or are prepared from purely imported products, a government order said. The Ministry of Home Affairs on May 13 declared that this nationwide network of over 1,700 Central Police Canteens (CPCs) or Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF)canteens will only sell indigenous or "swadeshi" products from June 1 in a bid to give fillip to domestic industries. The order said all those items which are made from "purely imported products" are being de-listed from Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandar or CAPF canteens from Monday. The firms whose certain products use imported goods and have been de-listed include Blue Star Limited, Borosil Glass Works Limited, Colgate Palmolive India Ltd, Dabur India Ltd, VIP Industries, Eureka Forbes, Jaguar, HUL (foods), Nestle India, among others. The order said the rejection or de-listing of non-swadeshi goods is done by the canteen board "on the sole basis of information submitted by the firms". The CAPF canteens do an estimated business worth Rs 2,800 crore annually by selling their products to 50 lakh family members of about 10 lakh personnel of these forces tasked for a variety of internal security duties and border guarding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1000-non-swadeshi-products-junked-from-capf-canteens-844299.html
01-06-2020||National||NGT refuses plea for implementation of Centre's contingency plan to control locust attack||The National Green Tribunal Monday refused to entertain a plea seeking implementation of the Centre's contingency plan to combat the looming locust attack saying there was nothing to show in the petition that no action is being taken by the concerned authorities in the matter. "The applicants acknowledge that there is a contingency plan. There is nothing to show that no action is being taken by the concerned authorities in the matter. On this material, we do not find any ground to pass any order on an assumption that the authorities are not taking any action," said, a bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel. The tribunal granted liberty to the NGO, Centre for Wildlife and Environmental Litigation Foundation, to approach the concerned departments in case of a grievance. The plea filed by the NGO, through advocate Gaurav Bansal, had said that despite having the contingency plan several states like Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh are facing the locust swarm attack since February and the situation is getting worse in some of the areas. Gujarat and Maharashtra have also been impacted by the swarm of millions of insects which eat up crops in the field they attack, inflicting heavy crop damage. The Delhi government issued an advisory on Tuesday on preventive measures to control the looming locust attack in the national capital. It asked the authorities to organise awareness among farmers, spraying of insecticide and not letting the swarms rest during the night. The plea had said: "The worst affected are the farmers of the said area, thus the applicant NGO seeks urgent intervention of this tribunal and seeks direction to submit status report on the implementation of plan prepared by Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage, Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmer Welfare, Union of India." The contingency plan is a guidance document for Locust Field Offices, state governments and other stake holders during the attack, said the plea filed by 'Centre For Wildlife And Environmental Litigation Foundation'. According to the plea, the plan covers assistance required from different stakeholders, their contribution and role, activities, type of strategy to be adopted, formation of teams, available resources, short falls and ways and means of obtaining additional resources, and the deployment as also the actions that need to be taken. The plan also provides for use of aircraft with spraying kits for locust control purpose, it said. The NGO has sought the constitution of committees to control the locust swarm attack within their respective states. "Direct the Centre to evaluate the crop damage caused due to locust swarm attack and provide compensation to poor farmers affected by it," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-refuses-plea-for-implementation-of-centres-contingency-plan-to-control-locust-attack-844302.html
01-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi indispensable leader but how to rectify mistakes, asks Shiv Sena||In a sarcastic attack on the BJP on the first anniversary of the second term of the NDA government, the Shiv Sena on Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi is an "indispensable" leader but can lives of those people who died unnecessarily during the 2016 noteban and the ongoing lockdown be brought back again. The Sena also said the imposition of "bungled" lockdown and hardships being faced by migrant workers in the last two months reminded of the plight of the people displaced during the Partition of 1947. "India is fortunate to have leadership like Narendra Modi! He feels for the country and various issues. He is a strong and capable leader and there is no alternative to him," said the editorial in the Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana'. Stating that Modi has taken some good decision as the prime minister, the edit also said that like "some mistakes which had happened in the 60 years (preceding 2014 when the Congress had mostly ruled the country),the last six years (of the NDA government) had also seen some mistakes". The Congress is a ruling constituent in the Sena-led Maharashtra government. Recently, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi had said that his party was not a decision-maker in the Maharashtra government, triggering speculation over coordination among three partners, other being the NCP, in the state government. "The manner in which the lockdown was imposed in the country and hardships the poor migrant labourers had to suffer because of it reminded many of the Partition days. "How to rectify this mistake? India is fortunate to have Modi as the leader, but how can life of those who died during the lockdown and demonetisation (in 2016) be brought back again?" the Sena questioned. The Sena also took a dig at leaders of the BJP for hailing the last six years of the NDA rule like never before. "If leaders of the BJP to be believed our country has history of only six years (since Modi came to power in 2014). It seems India did not exist prior to that. Fight for Independence and struggle to become a nation, and the country's growth on fronts of industry, society, science and medicine is just an illusion," the edit said. The Sena, however, said Modi had rectified some past mistakes by "abrogating Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir, abolishing triple talaq, and starting the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya". "In 1971, Indira Gandhi avenged Partition of India by breaking Pakistan and creating Bangladesh. Should this be considered a historic achievement or a blunder? "(late PM) Rajiv Gandhi had laid foundation for digital revolution in India. (Former PMs) Narasimha Rao and ManmohanSingh had improved the country's economy. If all this is wrong, how are you (BJP) going to rectify this?" the Sena asked the BJP. In the last 70 years, Atal Bihari Vajpayee of BJP had served as the PM for five-and-a-half years while other leaders like VP Singh and Chandrashekar served as PMs for nearly two years, it said. "Those who saythat all this period was a waste and India grew in just six years from 2014,it would be wrong," it said. The Sena further said that the previous governments had committed the blunder of insulting patriot V D Savarkar in the last 60 years. "But why was Bharat Ratna was not given to Savarkar in the last six years and the old mistake was rectified?" it asked while targetting the ruling BJP. The Sena said that imposition of GST and demonetisation, which the NDA government counts as its major achievements, indeed crippled the economy and left many jobless. The editorial further said that removal of the Article 370 did no good to Jammu and Kashmir. "Trouble has started on Indo-China border. A country like Nepal is claiming our land. This is not a sign of being 'Atmanirbhar' and strong," it added. PTI MR NSK NSK||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-indispensable-leader-but-how-to-rectify-mistakes-asks-shiv-sena-844311.html
01-06-2020||National||Bengal BJP resumes political activities||With the lockdown restrictions being relaxed to a great extent in West Bengal, BJP is eager to resume active politics. With an eye to the 2021 Assembly elections, the state BJP has started a new door to door campaign on Monday (June 1) highlighting the achievements of the Narendra Modi government in the last one year. According to the state, BJP leadership teams only comprising of two members will visit households during the campaign to maintain social distancing. It is compulsory for party workers to wear masks and gloves during the visits and social distancing is to be strictly maintained in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. They also said that the campaign will be carried out in every booth of the state not only to highlight the success of the BJP government at the Centre but also to make people aware of the failures of the Trinamool Congress (TMC) government in Bengal on several fronts. “Our workers will visit every household in all the booths across the state.  Being a responsible party we will ensure that social distancing another hygiene-related precaution is strictly maintained,” state BJP general secretary Sayantan Basu told DH. Ironically, it was the saffron party which repeatedly accused Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of violating the lockdown when she visited several market places and localities to raise public awareness about the pandemic.  Questions are being raised from within the Bengal BJP regarding the rationale behind starting such a campaign at a time when COVID-19 infection is steadily increasing in the state. The state witnessed its biggest single-day spike on Sunday (May 31) with 371 cases in 24 hours. According to state BJP sources, a section of party leaders is skeptical about how social distancing will be maintained during such a campaign. They said that such a campaign during the pandemic may put the party in a spot and give TMC an opportunity to accuse BJP of putting politics ahead of public health.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bengal-bjp-resumes-political-activities-844315.html
01-06-2020||National||Yogi Adityanath, Priyanka Gandhi again engage in verbal duel over handling of COVID-19 crisis||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra once again engaged in a verbal duel over COVID-19 situation in the state. While Adityanath termed Priyanka, without naming her, a ''Twitter politician'', who had done precious little for the migrant workers, the latter accused the chief minister of resorting to false publicity. ''Some people only indulge in politics through Twitter....they have not done anything to provide succor to the migrant workers,'' the chief minister said. Priyanka, who has been taking on the UP government through her posts on Twitter, has hit back saying that the situation in UP is a lot different that what the chief minister is publicising. ''The number of COVID-19 patients has been rising in UP...the quarantine centres lack adequate facilities,'' the Congress leader said on Monday. Priyanka has also been tweeting the videos showing the protests against the lack of facilities at the COVID hospitals and news clippings stating the difficulties being faced by the migrant workers in the state.  Earlier also the two leaders had engaged in a verbal fight over the offer of one thousand buses by Priyanka to ferry the stranded migrant workers home. Adityanath, however, claimed that the state government did not give permission for the buses offered by Priyanka as many of them were not fit to ply while many registration numbers in the list of buses were those of autos and scooters.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yogi-adityanath-priyanka-gandhi-again-engage-in-verbal-duel-over-handling-of-covid-19-crisis-844322.html
01-06-2020||National||Supreme Court denies bail to man accused of repeatedly raping his sister-in-law||The Supreme Court has dismissed an appeal filed by a man accused of repeatedly raping his sister-in-law with the alleged connivance of her husband and father-in-law, challenging the denial of bail to him in the case. The apex court refused to interfere with the February this year order of the Bombay High Court which had rejected the bail plea filed by the accused. A bench headed by Justice L Nageswara Rao, hearing the matter through video-conferencing, was informed by the counsel representing the accused that the charge sheet has been filed in the case in December last year and the petitioner is in custody for nine months. "On an overall consideration of the facts of the case, we are not inclined to interfere with the order passed by the high court," said the bench, also comprising Justices Krishna Murari and S Ravindra Bhat. "However, we give liberty to the petitioner to renew his bail application after the evidence of the prosecutrix (alleged victim) is recorded," the bench said in its May 26 order. The bench noted that the petitioner is accused of committing offences under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), including the one related to commission of repeated rape on the same woman and also under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. According to the police, the woman has alleged in her complaint that her brother-in-law had persistently raped her in the months of February and May 2019. In its February this year order, the high court noted that the woman alleged that she had disclosed about this to her husband and even her father-in-law but they "turned a blind eye". An FIR was lodged by the woman in July last year. The counsel representing the man had claimed before the high court that allegations levelled against his client were not believable and there was delay in lodging the FIR. The lawyer had also argued in the high court that since the husband and father-in-law of the woman have already been granted bail in the case, the man should also be released on bail on merits as well as parity. In its order, the high court had referred to the woman's school record and noted that she was below the age of 18 years when she was allegedly subjected to forcible sexual intercourse for the first time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-denies-bail-to-man-accused-of-repeatedly-raping-his-sister-in-law-844325.html
01-06-2020||National||Bihar police collect Rs 20 cr as fine during 69-day lockdown||The 69-day lockdown may have financially crippled almost all the major sectors in the country. But, in Bihar, the cops are laughing all the way to the bank. After all, in over two months of lockdown, the men-in-uniform have collected more than Rs 20 crore as fine from all those who violated lockdown guidelines in the State. The lockdown-4 ended in Bihar on Sunday. Keeping the containment zones aside, the process to ‘unlock’ started on Monday. However, till Sunday, i.e, between March 24 and May 31, the Bihar cops seized 84,649 vehicles for violating lockdown guidelines and collected Rs 20.23 crore as fine from the defaulters. They also arrested 2,432 persons in the State for violating rules. “Even on Sunday (May 31), 18 persons were arrested, while 756 vehicles were seized,” said Additional Director General (ADG) of Police, Headquarters, Jitendra Kumar. “On an average, Rs 29 lakh (approx) was collected as fine every day,” said a police source, adding “the punitive action was initiated by the Bihar Police so that it could serve as a deterrent to those who wilfully violated lockdown rules during COVID-19 crisis.” The State has already seen 23 deaths while the number of coronavirus positive cases has now increased to 3807.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bihar-police-collect-rs-20-cr-as-fine-during-69-day-lockdown-844327.html
01-06-2020||National||Elections to 18 Rajya Sabha seats on June 19: Election Commission of India||The polls to 18 Rajya Sabha seats, deferred due to the coronavirus pandemic, will be held on June 19, the Election Commission announced on Monday. Out of these 18 seats, four each are from Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat, two from Jharkhand, three each from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan and one each from Manipur and Meghalaya. The counting of votes will be held on the evening of June 19 itself, the Commission said in a statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elections-to-18-rajya-sabha-seats-on-june-19-election-commission-of-india-844330.html
01-06-2020||National||June 3 meeting of parliamentary panel on home affairs deferred||A meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs convened on June 3 to discuss the coronavirus-induced lockdown has been deferred after some members expressed their inability to attend it due to travel restrictions, sources said on Monday. Chairman of the committee and senior Congress leader Anand Sharma had convened the meeting and Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla was to brief its members on the coronavirus lockdown and issues of coordination with states. Inability expressed by some members to attend the meeting of the committee due to travel constraints on account of mandatory quarantine in different states was the reason for deferring the meeting, the sources said. No new date for the meeting has been fixed and the sources said it would be worked out soon in consultation with the panel's members. The chairpersons of different parliamentary panels are empowered to convene regular meetings of the committees that are usually held in Parliament complex. Sharma had sought approval of the Rajya Sabha Chairman to allow members not able to attend the meeting of the committee to participate through video conferencing, but was denied permission, the sources said. This was to be the first meeting of the parliamentary committee since the nationwide lockdown was imposed to combat the novel coronavirus on March 25. The issue of thousands of migrant workers walking on the roads in their bid to reach home during the lockdown were likely to be discussed at the panel meeting, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/june-3-meeting-of-parliamentary-panel-on-home-affairs-deferred-844331.html
01-06-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: MHA puts on hold list of non-Swadeshi items for CAPF canteens||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had egg on its face on Monday after it had to withdraw a list of 1,026 'foreign' products that were barred from sale in Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) canteens as a part of the 'Atma Nirbhar Abhiyan', with many 'Made in India' items finding a place in the prohibited list. Sleepwell mattresses, manufactured by a company founded by former BJP MP late Sheela Gautam, the popular VIP suitcases as well as products of Dabur, Bajaj and TTK Prestige were among the articles that will be barred from sale in the Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandar (Central Armed Police Forces Canteen) from June 1. The order was issued on May 29 by Central Police Canteen CEO-cum-General Manager R M Meena, after Union Home Minister Amit Shah, on May 13, directed that all canteens should sell only 'swadeshi' products from June 1, taking a cue from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'be vocal about local' appeal. She had then said the Prime Minister's appeal was aimed at making the country self-reliant and would help the industries in the country bounce back from the economic repercussions due to COVID-19 lockdown. Officials had said only "Made in India" products will be allowed to be sold in the 119 Master Canteens that act as distribution centres and 1,778 subsidiary canteens, which conducts business of around Rs 2,800 crore annually. However, a controversy arose, as the new order delisted products that were manufactured by Indian companies as well as those made by foreign companies in India. CRPF Director General and Welfare and Rehabilitation Board Chairman A P Maheshwari said the order was issued “erroneously” at the level of the CEO and the action has been initiated for the lapse. MHA officials said it was issued by the official without approval from seniors though the order says it was issued with the "approval of the competent authority". According to the now withdrawn list, all products of companies like Skechers, Red Bull and Ferrero India Pvt Ltd were delisted. Products like Colgate Palmolive's body wash and mouth wash, Havells India products like hair straightener, GlaxoSmithKline's Horlicks and Hindustan Unilever's Kwality Magnum chocolate ice cream were also delisted. The May 29 order had classified companies into three categories -- products purely made in India, raw materials imported but products manufactured or assembled in India and purely imported products.  Products falling under first two categories will be allowed to be on KPKB inventory and for sale through canteens while the category 3 products -- imported -- will stand delisted. The order also said that the product categorisation has been done on the sole basis of information provided by the firms. "In case of any litigation, the information provided by the firms will be used as evidence and onus to prove the information as correct will be on the respective firm. If a case of misinformation or hiding of information/facts by any firm is found at a later stage, the concerned firm will be liable for suitable proceedings," it had said adding. On the lines of military canteens, paramilitary forces also run canteens to serving and retired personnel and their families. The MHA had set up the Central Police Canteen System on September 26, 2006. Later, Central Police Canteen facilities were also extended to various departments under MHA personnel and other central security agencies personnel. These canteens sell cosmetics, electronic goods, food articles, footwear, grocery, food items, and utensils at a cheaper rate than the market price. The Central Police Canteen has also tied up with automobile firms to sell two-wheelers and four-wheeler firms to provide vehicles at cheaper rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-mha-puts-on-hold-list-of-non-swadeshi-items-for-capf-canteens-844332.html
01-06-2020||National||Ayodhya seers reject VHP's model for Ram Temple, Seek changes in design||Several prominent seers in Ayodhya have rejected the Vishwa Hindu Parishad's (VHP) model for the proposed Ram Temple and have sought changes in its design. These seers, who include Digambar Akhara chief Mahant Suresh Das and former BJP MP Ram Vilas Vedanti, both members of the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust, also alleged that those, who had spearheaded the Ram Temple movement, were completely 'sidelined'. They held a meeting in Ayodhya and said that the VHP model was an old one and that the design of the proposed Ram Temple must be changed. They also met the local BJP MLA Ved Prakash Gupta and submitted a memorandum to him containing their demands. ''We want a grand Ram Temple in Ayodhya....there is no dearth of resources now...the design of the Temple should be changed,'' Mahant Suresh Das said. The seers said that they would also send the memorandum to prime minister Narendra Modi and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Vedanti launched a veiled attack on the VHP and said that people like him, who had played a leading role in the Ram Temple movement, were ignored while forming the new Trust for Temple construction. The seers, associated with the VHP, however, denounced the demand for change in the design and virtually termed the opposing seers as 'Ravana'. ''Even Lord Rama had to face opposition from Ravana....there will always be people, who oppose the Ram Temple....we must not pay any attention to them,'' said Mahant Dinendra Das of Nirmohi Akhara in Ayodhya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayodhya-seers-reject-vhps-model-for-ram-temple-seek-changes-in-design-844333.html
01-06-2020||National||Kerala commences fresh academic year online amidst COVID-19||Even as Kerala continues to be in the grip of COVID, the fresh academic year commenced in the state as usual on June 1, but through online platforms. While over 40 lakh students from standard one to higher-secondary, except plus-one, of 12,500 odd schools in the state syllabus were offered classes through the state government's education channel Victers, around 1,200 CBSE and ICSE schools have developed own online platforms. Colleges also commenced classes through different online platforms. As directed by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, arrangements are being made by teachers and other agencies involved to ensure that all students are having access to the virtual classrooms. A preliminary assessment found that about 2.5 lakh students lacked facilities to access the virtual classrooms. Anwar Sadat, executive director of Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education that runs the Victers channel told DH that roughly there were around 30 lakh viewers for the channel on Monday. The teachers will be personally interacting with each student to ensure that they have access to the channel. At places where no access is available, arrangements would be made in association with local bodies or other agencies. In places like tribal hamlets, common facilities would be set up so that more than one student could view at a time by ensuring social distancing.  Different time-slots with duration ranging from 30 minutes to two-hour have been fixed. There would be re-telecast also. Apart from TV, Victers channel could be accessed through the internet as well. Online modules are prepared by various agencies under the state education department. Textbooks were also provided online.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-commences-fresh-academic-year-online-amidst-covid-19-844336.html
01-06-2020||National||Yoga, music, Bible: How frontline workers keep calm amid COVID-19 storm||From doing yoga routines to listening to music and reading literature to holy books -- this is how many doctors and nurses working in the frontline of the war against COVID-19 are coping with the tremendous stress and anxiety that comes with their critical jobs. Senior doctor V K Verma, who works at Delhi government-run Babu Jagjivan Ram Hospital, begins his day by performing 'pranayanams' and a few other 'asanas' before heading to work everyday. For Dolly Massey, a senior nurse at a Max hospital here, the Bible is her constant companion at the facility that she says keeps her "calm amid this storm". "I keep a pocket Bible in my bag all the time and even an e-Bible on my mobile phone," Massey said. "I read Psalms and texts from the holy book during breaks, and before and after finishing work. It keeps me anchored, mentally and physically." The 27-year-old said she never felt afraid even in the beginning when coronavirus had just come up or during the lockdown when the cases kept rising, and deaths were happening. "But, now, I'm a little bit afraid that I might get infected too," she told PTI. Delhi-born Massey, who hails from Dehradun, said she had been working with the Max Smart Hospital for the past four years. "I'm a very God-fearing person and so, believe this pandemic is also a sign from Him for us humans to introspect, and repent for the mistakes that we have committed, whether it's damaging of our nature or not being sensitive to fellow human beings," she said. From government hospitals to private facilities, doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers are at the forefront of the battle against the COVID-19 pandemic, and nearly 500 of them have tested positive for the disease in Delhi. The heathcare workers are at a very high risk of contracting the infection as they are on the frontline of this COVID-19 war, according to Kumud Bharti, a senior doctor at the LNJP Hospital. "While doctors are taking precautions with personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, gloves and other measures, and we know our duty to serve humanity in such situations, doctors, afterall, are also humans," Bharti said. The LNJP Hospital, run by the Delhi government, is a dedicated COVID-19 facility and hundreds of coronavirus patients are admitted there. A senior technical supervisor who worked in the operation theatre at the hospital, had recently died of COVID-19. "We keep hearing about doctors getting infected by COVID-19, so that fear is there somehow inside us too, who are serving. But, we have to do our job, taking the utmost precautions that we can," Bharti said. Vikas Maurya, director, pulmonology and sleep disorders department at Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh, said when the virus had just hit the country in the initial days, "there was a bit of fear in going near patients".  "But, then, serving humanity is our job and we actually now allow COVID patients to hold our hands if it gives him or her comfort," he told PTI. "I even pat on their shoulder sometimes, motivating them to think positive and fight the disease." Maurya said high-quality PPE kits in enough numbers already brings a lot of ease to their minds, and patients' willpower and desire to live also "makes us doctors stronger". "We slip into our PPE suits for six hours straight, initially medics were wearing it for even longer period. The entire innerwear gets drenched in sweat when we remove it. "So, you can imagine the temperature inside. Plus, some doctors fear that there could be breach in PPE so that affects their mental well-being," Maurya added. Asked how he keeps himself relaxed, Maurya said listening to music, watching some shows on TV or reading books at home is "how I unwind myself after duty hours". Senior doctor V K Verma at Babu Jagjiwan Ram Hospital was apprehensive that more healthcare workers would be affected by COVID-19 with mounting cases as they were the first line of defence. As many as 75 staff, including 12 doctors, had tested positive for coronavirus at this hospital recently. According to Verma, what doctors see throughout the day, it plays on their minds. "Everyday, I think, I might be carrying infection to my family," he said.  Initially, Verma added, many heathcare workers were being put up in hotels, but now many had no other option but to go to home after end of duty. "I don't allow my family members to eat with me and, after returning from the hospital and taking a bath, I spend most of the time in the drawing room," he said. "Some have houses which have very few rooms, where will they isolate themselves?" Verma asked. "And, they are afraid more about their family members than themselves."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yoga-music-bible-how-frontline-workers-keep-calm-amid-covid-19-storm-844342.html
01-06-2020||National||Can't constitute special purpose vehicle for Yamuna rejuvenation: DDA to NGT||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has expressed its inability before the National Green Tribunal to constitute a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for rejuvenation of the Yamuna river. The DDA told the tribunal that there were legal impediments in creating a separate legal entity under the Delhi Development Act, 1957 as SPV. The NGT in March had directed that DDA may constitute a special purpose vehicle within two weeks for rejuvenation of the Yamuna river. The DDA said the word "may" was used by this tribunal in its order since it considered it appropriate that taking into account all the attendant circumstances DDA should consider the option whether or not to constitute an SPV. "In light of the provisions of DDA Act, it is submitted that as per section 52 of the Act, DDA may delegate powers exercisable by only to officers, local authority or committees. There is no enabling provision under the  Act to either constitute a society or a special purpose vehicle or to delegate its powers to an entity or other person not specifically mentioned in section 52 of the Act. "It is submitted that since DDA has been created under DDA Act, it cannot operate beyond the limits set by the said Act. It shall not be out of place to mention here that already a mechanism is in place in order to monitor the Yamuna. This includes Upper Yamuna River Board and Unified Centre for Restoration and rejuvenation of River Yamuna," DDA said its report filed in the NGT. The DDA said that the function of Upper Yamuna River Board includes the regulations of supply of water from old storages, barrages and maintenance of minimum flow through the year from ecological consideration and monitoring the return flows from water from Yamuna by different states. The report filed through advocate Kush Sharma, said in view of the statutory provisions, DDA may not be in a position to establish an SPV as contemplated. "It is prayed that the present report may be taken on record and the submissions of DDA regarding the statutory prohibition on the creation of an SPV be kindly considered," it said. The green panel had directed the Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments to take expeditious action on sewage management, industrial pollutants and solid waste being discharged into the river. The NGT had said the functions of the special purpose vehicle will include ecological restoration of flood plain zones, setting up of bio-diversity parks, artificial wetlands, phytoremediation of drains at the river mouth locations, maintaining vigil and undertaking flow measurement, creating ecological services, removing encroachments and undertaking other activities, including river front development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cant-constitute-special-purpose-vehicle-for-yamuna-rejuvenation-dda-to-ngt-844343.html
01-06-2020||National||Factors like lockdown in metro cities need to be addressed before resuming international flights: Puri||Several factors like the lockdown in metro cities and the ban imposed by various countries on the entry of foreigners need to be addressed before resuming international passenger flights in India, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Monday. Domestic services were suspended in India due to the coronavirus lockdown and resumed after a gap of two months on May 25. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country. "Numerous citizens have been approaching us to restart international flights. Several factors need to be addressed. Many international destinations are not allowing incoming passenger traffic, except for their own citizens or diplomats," Puri said on Twitter. Within India, most international flights operate from the metro cities where travellers arrive from the neighbouring cities and states, he said. "Our metro cities were under various degrees of lockdown which are beginning to be lifted. Some of them are still allowing only limited flights to operate," the minister noted. Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases. The minister said: "MHA (Ministry of Home Affairs) guidelines for lockdown 5.0 have further opened up inter & intra-state travel, and will facilitate calibrated reopening of the sector. As we move towards the critical mass of 50-60% operation of domestic flights, our ability to resume international operations will also improve." Indian carriers operated a total of 3,370 domestic passenger flights till May 31 -- 428 on May 25, 445 on May 26, 460 on May 27, 494 on May 28, 513 on May 29 and 529 on May 30. During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said. In February, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/factors-like-lockdown-in-metro-cities-need-to-be-addressed-before-resuming-international-flights-puri-844345.html
01-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Day 1 of Unlock India 1.0||From the Newsroom is a DH podcast that brings to you major developments of the day. In this episode, DH correspondent from New Delhi, Shemin Joy, spells out Delhi’s Day 1 of Unlock India 1.0. NASA astronauts reached the International Space Station on SpaceX's Dragon rocket. Pakistan officials who were expelled from India yesterday went back home through the Wagah border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-day-1-of-unlock-india-10-844348.html
01-06-2020||National||Railways board asks zones to ensure punctuality of Shramik Special trains||With reportedly 40 per cent of the Shramik Special trains running late by eight hours on an average, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has instructed the zones to ensure a punctual operation of these trains. An order issued by the Railway Board on Monday said the punctuality of both the Rajdhani special trains that have been operational since May 12 and the special train services that began on Monday needs to be maintained. The railways has run 4,000 Shramik Special trains and ferried more than 56 lakh passengers across the country so far. In the order issued to the general managers of its zones, the board said punctuality needs to be enforced in the operations of these trains. "The MR (minister of railways) desires that punctuality of mail/express special trains being operated with effect from May 12 and June 1 should be closely monitored at the divisional and zonal level, a special focus on the punctual operation of Shramik Special should be continued (reason for detention, if any, should be analysed and immediate action should be taken to ensure punctual running of trains. Matter most urgent, ensure compliance," the order stated.  According to reports, an analysis of 3,740 Shramik Special trains showed that around 40 per cent of those reached the destination with an average delay of about eight hours. As many as 421 trains were delayed by 10 hours or more. Around 10 per cent or some 373 Shramik Special trains were late by 10-24 hours. There were 78 trains that were delayed by a day or more and 71 of them were delayed by over 72 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/railways-board-asks-zones-to-ensure-punctuality-of-shramik-special-trains-844360.html
01-06-2020||National||Indian Railways to start more trains soon||Indian Railways is closely monitoring the ticket booking pattern for 100 pair trains started on Monday (June 1)  and is likely to start more passenger trains on busy routes including Shatabdi Express soon,  said Indian Railways on Monday. "Indian Railways will run more trains on specific routes that have high demand and also Shatabdi trains will be redeployed and booking will start soon," tweeted Indian Railways Other trains like Duronto and Garib Rath will also be resumed once passengers' demand picks up, said an official in the railways. The railways started resumption of 200 regular timetabled passenger trains (100 pair) daily from Monday. More than 1.5 lakh people have booked tickets to travel on first day while more than 27 lakh passengers booked tickets for journey from June 1 to June 30. "The average occupancy of trains started on Monday is around 75.4 per cent," said the official.  These trains will run in addition to 15 pair Special Rajdhani Express started on May 12 and Shramik Special trains ferrying migrant workers started on May 1. Though Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Andhra Pradesh have expressed reservations about running trains or number of stoppages of these trains, after discussion, railways and state government reached consensus on running these trains. All trains are running as planned, said railway official. The operation of these trains is being seen as a railways plan towards a graded restoration of passenger train services. The trains are on the pattern of regular services and are fully reserved having both AC and non-AC coaches. To avoid crowd, the railways said there will be no unreserved coaches and  general coaches have reserved sitting accommodation. For travel in 200 special  trains, only confirmed/ RAC ( Reservation Against Cancellation) ticket holders will be allowed to enter railway station.  Passengers have been advised to come 90 minutes early to station in order to enable railway authorities screen them properly. The railways also asked all platform static stall to open including catering vendors. The trains with pantry car attached will provide limited number of packaged food and drinking water to passengers on payment basis. However, railways requested passengers to bring their food and drinking water from home  . Since these trains are connecting major cities of the states accorss the country, the railways said passengers have to adhere health protocol of destination states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-start-more-trains-soon-844364.html
01-06-2020||National||Supreme Court orders status quo on Karnataka HC's order to BDA to give back land to senior citizen||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-orders-status-quo-on-karnataka-hcs-order-to-bda-to-give-back-land-to-senior-citizen-844378.html
01-06-2020||National||IIMA rapid survey finds communities unable to access their rights in lockdown||A rapid survey conducted by Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad (IIMA) has found that communities have not been able to access their entitlements during the lockdown and were unaware of what precautions to be taken to fight the global coronavirus pandemic. The findings have been drawn after surveying 65 civil society leaders working for the communities at the grassroot level, spread in various parts of the country battling the unprecedented crisis. The survey led by Professor Ankur Sarin and a team of researchers states, "More than 40 per cent (leaders) found that most households in the communities are not being able to access their entitlements and more than 20 per cent found that communities were not aware of precautions required. It is even higher among smaller organisations." It has found that organisations have not been able to partner with the government "productively."  According to the findings, almost half the leaders did not find "relevant government functionaries they needed to work with on the ground, to be accessible", while more than two-thirds felt that those making policies were not very receptive to their inputs. Accessibility to government officials was even lower for those working in only rural areas and for smaller organisations. A significant 40 percent of the organisations opined that the biggest challenge for them was to "coordinate with the government for the work." Only 10 percent responded that they were directly involved with the government.  Interestingly, "almost half the leaders have had difficulty navigating through government directives relevant for their work," the survey has found which was undertaken from May 3 to May 10. "Government notifications and directives have been confusing/difficult to understand: Almost half the leaders have had difficulty navigating through government directives relevant for their work," the survey has found. 60% of organisation leaders have also said that mobilising financial resources for relief efforts takes up all their time. "Several leaders shared their anxieties about critical areas of interventions such as malnutrition, education, domestic violence, child abuse, and women’s rights issues being side-lined or at least deprioritised (by the government and donors). This, many felt, would undermine years of collective efforts and progress. Over a quarter reported that re-planning their activities, and coordination and communication with funders was taking up most of their time. The survey found that civil society leaders worry about donors deprioritising other on-going long-term efforts," the survey has found.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iima-rapid-survey-finds-communities-unable-to-access-their-rights-in-lockdown-844379.html
01-06-2020||National||Indian Railways to take decision on discontinuing services of Shramik Special trains soon||With the demand for Shramik Special trains, meant to ferry migrant labourers, coming down drastically, the Indian Railways is likely to take a decision on discontinuing its services soon. As on May 31, the railways has received demands from states to run only 321 Shramik Special trains. If the states did not ask more Shramik Special trains, the railways may discontinue the services after running 321 trains in a couple of days. Most of these trains are scheduled to go West Bengal from Maharashtra and Gujarat, said an official in the railways. With most of the states sent registered migrant workers to their home states, the demand for Shramik Special trains reduced. Earlier, Railway Board chairman V K Yadav said the railways ready to operate any number of  Shramik Special trains as long as the states demand it. Uttar Pradesh already announced its plan to discontinue to receive any Shramik Special trains. With the railways operating  200 regular time tabled trains daily from June 1,  the demand for Shramik Special trains will reduce. Besides, most of the workers already reached their home states and remaining workers may want to stay back since factories have started functioning,  said an official. Since May 1, the railways operated 4000 Shramik Special trains ferrying over 56 lakh migrant workers and stranded students to their home states. Uttar Pradesh received highest number of trains followed by Bihar, said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-to-take-decision-on-discontinuing-services-of-shramik-special-trains-soon-844393.html
01-06-2020||National||Delhi HC declines plea for pan-India guidelines to protect women from violence, calls it a 'publicity stunt'||The Delhi High Court on Monday declined to entertain a PIL seeking directions to the Centre to formulate pan-India guidelines to protect women against all kind of violence and discrimination during COVID-19 pandemic, saying it has been filed "for the purpose of news bites". A bench of Justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Asha Menon cautioned the lawyers, who filed the petition, not to "misuse the PIL route in future" and said this time it was allowing them to withdraw the petition without imposing any costs. It also observed that "for the purposes of news bites, reliefs are claimed of which no basis even is known to the petitioners in spite of being advocates".  The high court in its order noted that "the petitioners are unable to answer how or under which law this court can issue 'pan-India comprehensive guidelines' and how the same would be binding on other states having their own High Courts. "They are even unable to state whether the subject qua which the guidelines are sought, falls in the Legislative List of the Union of India or the States." The bench said,"This petition filed as a PIL is yet another instance of filing PILs on the basis of newspaper reports and material on the internet and without any study of law." Sensing the mood of the bench, the petitioners withdrew their plea. "The petition is dismissed as withdrawn," the bench said and directed the petitioners to be careful in future and not file PILs without studying the law.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-declines-plea-for-pan-india-guidelines-to-protect-women-from-violence-calls-it-a-publicity-stunt-844400.html
01-06-2020||National||India's COVID-19 recovery rate improving, fatality rate declining: Health Ministry||India's COVID-19 recovery rate has been improving and stands at 48.19 per cent now, whereas the rate of fatality has seen a steady decline to reach 2.83 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Monday as the death toll rose to 5,394 and the number of infections climbed to 1,90,535. The country has registered a record single-day spike of 8,392 cases and 230 deaths till Monday 8 am and is now the seventh worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic, after US, Brazil, Russia, UK, Spain and Italy. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 93,322 while 91,818 people have recovered so far, of whom 4,835 cured in the last 24 hours. "The recovery rate in the country is progressively increasing and has reached 48.19 percent amongst COVID-19 patient," the ministry said. The recovery rate has improved from 11.42 percent on April 15 to 26.59 percent on May 3 and to 38.29 percent on May 18, the ministry said. Presently there are 93,322 active cases in the country which are under active medical supervision. The case fatality rate is 2.83 percent as against 6.19 percent globally, the ministry said. From 3.30 percent on April 15, India's COVID-19 fatality rate declined to 3.25 percent on May 3 and came down further to 3.15 percent on May 18. "A steady decline can be seen in the case fatality rate in the country. The relatively low death rate is attributed to the continued focus on surveillance, timely case identification and clinical management of the cases," the ministry said. "Two specific trends are thus noticed, while the recovery rate is increasing on one hand, case fatality is going down on the other," it said. The ministry further said that the testing capacity has increased in the country through 472 government and 204 private laboratories (total 676 laboratories). Cumulatively, 38,37,207 samples have been tested so far for COVID-19, whereas, 1,00,180 samples were tested yesterday.  Presenting the case fatality rate for countries having the highest number of deaths, vide WHO situation report-132 dated May 31, the ministry said USA with 1,01,567 deaths has a case fatality rate of 5.92 per cent while UK with 38,376 deaths has a case fatality rate of 14.07 percent. Italy, Spain, France and Brazil with 33,340, 29,043, 28,717 and 27,878 deaths have a case fatality rate (CFR) of 14.33 pc, 12.12 pc, 19.35 pc and 5.99 pc respectively. Mexico which has reported 9,415 COVID-19 casualties has a CFR of 11.13 per cent, Germany with 8,500 deaths has a CFR of 4.68 percent and Canada with 6,996 deaths has a CFR of 7.80 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-recovery-rate-improving-fatality-rate-declining-health-ministry-844406.html
01-06-2020||National||HM Amit Shah assures Vijay Rupani, Uddhav Thackeray help to deal with cyclone; reviews preparations||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday reviewed the preparations in Gujarat and Maharashtra for an impending cyclone and assured the chief ministers of the two western states all possible central help to deal with any situation arising out of it.   The Home Ministry has deployed 31 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Union Territory of Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, officials said. The home minister held a video conference with Chief Ministers of Gujarat and Maharashtra -- Vijay Rupani and Uddhav Thackeray respectively --  and Administrator of Dadra and Nagar Haveli and Daman and Diu, Praful Patel, and assured them all central help in view of the impending cyclone, an official statement said here. Shah asked them to spell out in detail the requirements and resources needed to deal with the situation. Earlier, the home minister held a review meeting with top officials of the Home Ministry, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA), the Indian Coast Guard and others to take stock of the preparations for the cyclone. "Union Home Minister @AmitShah held review meeting with senior officials of NDMA, NDRF, IMD & Indian Coast Guard on preparedness for dealing with Cyclone brewing in Arabian sea which is expected to hit some parts of Maharashtra & Gujarat. MoS @nityanandraibjp was also present," Shah's office tweeted. Of the 31 teams of the NDRF,  13 teams have been deployed in Gujarat, including 2 kept as reserve, and 16 teams in Maharashtra, including 7 teams kept as reserve. Two teams were deployed in UT Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The NDRF is aiding the state governments for evacuation of people from low lying coastal areas. The cyclone is expected to hit some parts of Maharashtra and Gujarat and Daman and Diu. The India Meteorological Department informed that the well marked low pressure area over South-East and adjoining East-Central Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep area concentrated into a depression and it is very likely to intensify into a deep depression by Tuesday and intensify further into a cyclonic storm over east-central Arabian sea by Wednesday. The IMD said the deep depression is likely to intensify into a severe cyclone and cross the north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts on June 3. Nearly 260 km patch between Raigad and Daman has one of the highest population densities in the country. Apart from Mumbai, it also has satellite cities like Thane, Navi-Mumbai, Panvel, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar, Ulhasnagar, Badlapur and Ambernath. When it crosses the coast on the evening of June 3, it will have a speed of 105-110 kmph, the IMD said, adding that heavy rains are also expected in south Gujarat and coastal Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hm-amit-shah-assures-vijay-rupani-uddhav-thackeray-help-to-deal-with-cyclone-reviews-preparations-844405.html
01-06-2020||National||COVID-19: CAPFs register 70 pc recovery rate; fresh cases continue||The Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), deployed across the country for a variety of internal security duties, have registered a recovery rate of 70 per cent as they continue to register fresh coronavirus cases, an official data said on Monday. As per a centralised data accessed by PTI, the five CAPFs and the elite commando force National Security Guard (NSG) and federal contingency force National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have reported a total of 1,426 COVID-19 cases till May 31. The five CAPFs are the Central Reserve Police Force, Border Security Force, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Central Industrial Security Force and Sashastra Seema Bal. As per data, out of the total, 984 personnel have been cured or have recovered from the disease while about 435 are admitted to various COVID-19 designated hospitals in the country. The recovery rate is about 70 per cent, it said. At least 28 fresh cases were reported in the five CAPFs on Monday. "The Border Security Force and Indo-Tibetan Border Police force top the recovery tally with 91.37 per cent and 88.94 per cent. "The CISF has recorded a recovery rate of 57.24 per cent while the CRPF has a recovery rate of 56.07 per cent," according to data updated till May.  A total of eight deaths have been recorded in these forces with four in the CISF and two each in the CRPF and the BSF.   The death rate in these total seven forces is about 0.61 per cent. These central forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh personnel, render a variety of security duties, law and order management, border guarding, counter-insurgency and counter-terrorist operations and disaster rescue and relief. All of them function under the command of the Ministry of Home Affairs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-capfs-register-70-pc-recovery-rate-fresh-cases-continue-844414.html
01-06-2020||National||Prepare plan for restarting sick industries, Yogi Adityanath tells officials||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Monday directed officials to prepare a plan to make sick industrial units functional. “The CM has asked for an action plan for starting the industries that have been shut down in the state so that more employment opportunities could be created," Additional Chief Secretary (Home and Information) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said. He said so far, skill mapping of 24 lakh people has been completed. The CM also instructed for intensive patrolling on highways, markets and parks. The chief minister has asked for quality infrastructure and uninterrupted power supply at hospitals, Awasthi added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prepare-plan-for-restarting-sick-industries-yogi-adityanath-tells-officials-844417.html
01-06-2020||National||Lockdown: Working women complain of 'online' sexual harassment, say experts||Getting unwarranted video call requests at odd hours, being talked down during virtual meetings were among the complaints of sexual harassment from women working from home during the nationwide lockdown, according to experts working in the field. The coronavirus-triggered lockdown has posed a lot of challenges for many women professionals who have been working from home for such a long period of time while struggling to manage the work-life balance. Many women had approached the experts for guidance as they were unsure of how to raise complaints of sexual harassment while working from home. "There are no clear guidelines by companies on how work from home should function in an organisation and that confuses women. I have been receiving 4-5 such complaints of harassment everyday ever since the lockdown was imposed," said Akancha Srivastava, who runs the foundation Akancha Against Harassment, India's largest social impact against cyber harassment initiative. However, the number of complaints received by the National Commission for Women (NCW) has been low since the lockdown began but the experts say that could be because many women do not want to officially complain and wish to consult what they can do in the matter. "During the lockdown, many women are worried about their job security so they are not sure if they should speak up or not. The women have the constant dilemma that they should not be looked upon as troublemakers," Srivastava said. She said work from home means there are going to be some disruptions and that one must respectfully accept but that is not happening and it is causing even more stress to women. "Since we have never experienced absolute work from home before, women are always second-guessing if it was harassment, where does one draw the line, how does one define the body language as offensive or indecent? Male colleagues stalking them on social media or sending friend requests, commenting on their pictures when they are not even friends. "They are made to feel guilty of any home responsibility they might have and women are being demanded to come online at odd hours they are being talked down if the environment is not to their liking. These are very subtle ways of sexually harassing women," she said.  Giving examples, Srivastava said one woman had recently received a video call request from her boss at 11 pm for an "urgent matter", but when she received the call it turned out to be for something that on a regular day would have been easily taken care of over an email.   In another case, a woman was asked by her boss over video call if she was capable of handling work assigned to her as she seemed "distracted" because of her children who were playing in the background. Some women have also complained that they find their colleagues to be inappropriately dressed during virtual meetings that made them uncomfortable. The Prohibition of Sexual Harassment Act 2013 (or POSH) was enacted to ensure safe working spaces for women and to build enabling work environments that respect the rights of working women to equality of status and opportunity. It defined a 'workplace' as "any place visited by employee arising out of or during the course of employment, including transportation provided by the employer for undertaking such a journey". An expert at InfoSec Girls, an organisation educating women in cyber security, said a lot of people don't report but wish to discuss what they do in such scenarios. The expert said a number of times it has been seen people do not realise there are women on the call as well and intentionally or unintentionally pass inappropriate comments. When everyone is home, people call anytime and keep the meetings at anytime. This can make women uncomfortable and the other issue to balance the family, she said.   "When women raise these kinds of concerns or discuss we suggest them to, if you feel uncomfortable with any discussion or comment, raise the concern then and there on call so it does not happen again, if that makes them uncomfortable then discuss it with the leadership or raise it via the organisation reporting channel," she said. "Every organisation has set policies on harassment. There is a proper council that addresses all these concerns. Women can anonymously report the concerns and discuss the whole story. The council discusses the same with the concerned person and address it on time to make it happen again. The last piece is nothing working out to report to local authorities," the expert said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-working-women-complain-of-online-sexual-harassment-say-experts-844425.html
01-06-2020||National||Farmers wanted their due, not charity: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh on MSP hike||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday rejected the MSP hike announced by the Centre for paddy, saying farmers ‘wanted their due, not charity’. Urging the Centre to immediately review the decision and come out with a comprehensive package, the chief minister said the Union government “failed” to address the extreme distress faced by the farmers even amid the coronavirus crisis. The debt-ridden and stressed farming community was looking to the Centre to come to their rescue in these times of unprecedented woes, but the much-needed support once again eluded them, said the CM in a press release. The chief minister said the Centre on Monday announced a minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,868, a hike of Rs 53 per quintal for paddy, as against the demand of Rs 2,902 per quintal raised by him in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi last month. “What they (farmers) wanted in exchange was not charity but their due, but the BJP-led government at the Centre continued to ignore their justified demands and needs,” said the CM, describing the hike as ‘inadequate’. The CM said far from compensating the farmers for the increased cost of production, particularly the hike in the labour cost, the hike was not sufficient to compensate them for the crops losses suffered due to the untimely rains in March and April. The central government had not come out with any special package for the farmers, nor had it accepted the state's demand for incentives for staggered wheat procurement or the Rs 100 per quintal bonus for paddy straw management, the CM pointed out. The CM said notwithstanding the immense hardships faced by them on account of the coronavirus pandemic, Punjab's farmers had ensured successful completion of a mega rabi harvesting and procurement operations to once again provide the nation the much-needed food security amid this unprecedented crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/farmers-wanted-their-due-not-charity-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-on-msp-hike-844439.html
01-06-2020||National||Moody's, Fitch and S&P trying to destabilise India's economy as part of 'Chinese conspiracy', says BJP MP Nishikant Dubey||BJP MP Nishikant Dubey has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take immediate action against global rating agencies Moody's, Fitch and S&P, alleging that they are "trying to destabilise" India's economy as part of a "Chinese conspiracy". Though these rating agencies are based in the US, "China has invested in these firms for its strategic interest", he said in a letter to the prime minister on May 31. "...these rating agencies act and behave like God and treat our country as a third-grade country. Therefore, India's sovereign rating remains low,” he said. Incidentally, Moody's on Monday downgraded India's sovereign rating to 'Baa3' from 'Baa2', saying there will be challenges in implementation of policies to mitigate risks of a sustained period of low growth and deteriorating fiscal position. 'Baa3' is the lowest investment grade - just a notch above junk status. "These three rating agencies for long have not taken into consideration the correct financial strength of our country like less debt to GDP ratio, and other factors," Dubey said in the letter. Despite making millions of dollars via their Indian subsidiaries, the Lok Sabha member said, these rating agencies have failed to bring in any advantage or value addition to India and Indian companies. "...the need of the hour is to put these foreign rating agencies on a tight leash so as to protect India, Indian business and its citizens," he said and requested the prime minister "to take immediate action and protect our country from this Chinese conspiracy". The BJP MP said the compulsion of ratings from these agencies for Indian entities to avail bank loans should be withdrawn. "Rating should be compulsory only for public/market fund raising that too with Indian owned and Indian controlled rating agencies taking its responsibility," he said. Dubey also demanded that the agencies make public their rating models on their websites and their fees be capped at 25 per cent of the existing charges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moodys-fitch-and-sp-trying-to-destabilise-indias-economy-as-part-of-chinese-conspiracy-says-bjp-mp-nishikant-dubey-844449.html
01-06-2020||National||Govt kept its promise of fixing MSP at 1.5 times of cost of production: Nadda||BJP president J P Nadda on Monday said the government has kept its promise of fixing the minimum support price (MSP) at a level of at least 1.5 times of the cost of production. Welcoming the Union Cabinet's decision to fix the minimum support price for kharif crops, including paddy, cotton and maize, Nadda said the government has also extended the crop loan repayment to August 31 along with rebate and interest subvention, which will hugely benefit farmers. "The government has kept its promise of fixing the MSP at a level of at least 1.5 times of the cost of production. Crop loan repayment has also been extended to August 31 with rebate and interest subvention hugely benefitting farmers," Nadda said in a series of tweets. He also congratulated the Modi government for taking urgent actions to quickly operationalise monetary measures announced for strengthening Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and helping 50 lakh street vendors as part of "Atmanirbhar package". The Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, approved provisioning of Rs 20,000 crore as subordinate debt to provide equity support to stressed MSMEs and proposed equity infusion of Rs 50,000 crore for units through a fund as part of a roadmap to implement the package announced for the sector. The government on Monday raised the MSP of paddy marginally by Rs 53 per quintal to Rs 1,868 per quintal for the 2020-21 crop year, while the rates for oilseeds, pulses and cereals were hiked substantially.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-kept-its-promise-of-fixing-msp-at-15-times-of-cost-of-production-nadda-844450.html
01-06-2020||National||EC sets new date to hold deferred polling to fill 18 Rajya Sabha vacancies||The Election Commission is set to hold polling to fill up the 18 vacancies in the Rajya Sabha on June 19 next as the government is now withdrawing the curbs it enforced to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. The EC on Monday announced that polling to elect the 18 members of the Rajya Sabha from Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Meghalaya and Rajasthan would be held on June 19 and the counting of votes would also take place on the same day. The 17 of the 18 seats, which will go to polls on June 19, fell vacant on April 9, while the remaining one fell vacant on April 12. The polling to fill up the Rajya Sabha vacancies had originally been scheduled on March 26. The process to submit the nomination had already been over and the final list of candidates had also been prepared, but the EC had to postpone polling in view of the lockdown imposed by the Centre and the State Governments to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. The poll-panel on April 3 further postponed the election process “beyond the prescribed term(s)” of the respective Rajya Sabha seats. The EC had on February 25 announced the elections to fill up the 55 Rajya Sabha vacancies and issued the notification on March 6. Thirty seven seats in the upper House of Parliament had already been filled up uncontested without requiring polling. The EC on Monday stated that it had decided to hold the polling for the remaining 18 seats on June 19, after taking into account the reports of the Chief Electoral officers and the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on May 30 for phased withdrawal of the restrictive measures imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. The commission also decided that the Chief Secretaries of the State Governments would depute a senior officer to ensure compliance of the extant instructions regarding COVID-19 containment measures while making arrangements for conducting the polling.  The EC had on May 21 held polls to fill up the nine vacancies in the state legislative council of Maharashtra, even as the nationwide lockdown was still on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ec-sets-new-date-to-hold-deferred-polling-to-fill-18-rajya-sabha-vacancies-844459.html
01-06-2020||National||It is for India and China to resolve eastern Ladakh dispute bilaterally: Australia||As Indian and Chinese troops remained engaged in a tense standoff in eastern Ladakh, Australia on Monday said it was for India and China to resolve the row bilaterally and there was no role for any other country. At the same time, Australian High Commissioner Barry O'Farrell said his government is concerned over the growing Chinese assertiveness in South China Sea as well as China's plan to enforce a security law in Hong Kong notwithstanding the widespread protests by its citizens. "The issue is for China and India to resolve bilaterally. It is not an issue for Australia or any other country," he told reporters during an online media briefing when asked about the border standoff in eastern Ladakh. He said issues around borders or territorial disputes are matters which are usually resolved bilaterally between the parties involved. Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a bitter standoff in several areas along the Line of Actual Control in mountainous eastern Ladakh for close to four weeks. Both the countries are holding talks at military and diplomatic levels to resolve the dispute. Last week, US President Donald Trump offered to mediate between India and China to end the face-off. However, both India and China rejected the offer, saying they have bilateral mechanisms to resolve the dispute. O'Farrell said India and Australia were aiming to boost cooperation in ensuring peace and stability in the Indo-Pacific region. China has been fast expanding military and economic influence in the Indo-Pacific region, triggering concern in various countries of the region and beyond. The Australian envoy indicated that ways to boost cooperation between Australia and India in Indo-Pacific may figure during the online summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison on Thursday. O'Farrell also said that the quadrilateral coalition among India, the US, Australia and Japan has been an effective forum in dealing with issues relating to the Indo-Pacific region. "The Quad has been a very useful forum to coordinate common approaches relating to maritime security," he said. In November 2017, the four countries gave shape to the long-pending "Quad" coalition to develop a new strategy to keep the critical sea routes in the Indo-Pacific free of any influence. The US has been pushing for a greater role for India in the Indo-Pacific which is seen by many countries as an effort to contain China's growing clout in the region. Asked whether Australian companies operating in China were looking at shifting base to India in the wake of the global criticism of Beijing over the coronavirus pandemic, O'Farrell did not give a direct reply. "I think India has reasons to be confident about achieving the goals it has set out, and of course, in part, those goals will flow from what has happened as a result of COVID-19. Equally it will also flow from the implementation of reforms the government of India has announced," he said. On India-Australia bilateral ties, the envoy said a mutual logistics support agreement for deeper defence cooperation as well as a number of other agreements are expected to be finalised at the online summit between Prime Minister Modi and his Australian counterpart on Thursday. "In the virtual summit between the two leaders, you will see the Australia-India relationship reaching a historic high, matched by an ambitious agenda by both countries on what we can achieve in the future," he told a group of journalists at an online briefing. O'Farrell said the focus of the talks will be to boost cooperation in areas like public health, education, science and technology cooperation, cybersecurity and critical technology and defence. "Over the past months and years, we have seen India and Australia work even more closely together on shared goals particularly in contributing to a more secure, open, inclusive and prosperous Indo-Pacific," he said. O'Farrell said further enhancing bilateral maritime security as well as expanding cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region would be the other key issues for talks. On declining economic growth rate in India in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, the envoy said he was optimistic about the Indian and Australian economies. "We have some of the wealthiest funds in the world and India is looking for foreign direct investment. There is a synergy between us," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-is-for-india-and-china-to-resolve-eastern-ladakh-dispute-bilaterally-australia-844508.html
01-06-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh reports 116 fresh COVID-19 cases, total rises to 8,191||Uttar Pradesh reported 116 fresh coronavirus cases on Monday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the state to 8,191, officials said. Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad said so far, 217 people have died due to COVID-19 and the recovery rate in the state is 59.71 per cent. The number of active cases in the state stands at 3,083, he said. A total of 4,891 people have recovered and have been discharged from hospitals, Prasad said. "ASHA workers have tracked a total of 11,47,872 migrant workers returning from other states and among them 1,027 have been found to be having COVID-19 symptoms. Their samples are being tested," Prasad said. The role of gram and 'mohalla nigrani samitis' have become very important as they have to ensure that those who have been put under home quarantine follow it strictly to check the spread of the infection, he said. Prasad advised all those travelling in trains follow the laid down protocols.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-reports-116-fresh-covid-19-cases-total-rises-to-8191-844510.html
01-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi wishes Armenian PM, family speedy recovery from coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday wished his Armenian counterpart Nikol Pashinyan and his family a speedy recovery from COVID-19, saying India stands with Armenia in the fight against the pandemic. According to reports, the Armenian prime minister and his family have tested positive for coronavirus. "In this difficult time of COVID-19 pandemic, wishing Armenian PM Nikol Pashinyan and his family a speedy recovery," Modi tweeted. India stands with Armenia in the fight against COVID-19, the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-wishes-armenian-pm-family-speedy-recovery-from-coronavirus-844519.html
01-06-2020||National Politics||Surjewala slams BJP govts in Haryana, UP for 'failing to protect' ex-woman IAS officer||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Sunday slammed the BJP-led governments in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh and accused them of failing to protect Rani Nagar, the Haryana cadre IAS officer who had resigned earlier this month citing 'personal safety on government duty' as the reason. Nagar (35), who had moved to her hometown Ghaziabad in U.P., has alleged that a man tried to attack her with an iron rod in the area where she lives on Saturday evening and though she ran away her sister was injured. “What is the reason behind the constant, deadly attacks, the exploitation and atrocities on the only backward class woman IAS officer from the Gurjar community, Rani Nagar?,” the Congress' chief spokesperson asked. He also said “nobody in Haryana government lent an ear to the woes of the (ex) woman IAS officer. Why have BJP governments in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh failed to protect the woman IAS officer, who is also the daughter of Gurjar community?”. Surjewala, in a statement, further asked, “why are the BJP governments in UP and Haryana not investigating the conspiracy behind the murder attempts on Haryana IAS officer, Rani Nagar?”. He also asked why the BJP governments had not taken a decision on the change of cadre of Rani Nagar from Haryana to UP. “The sheer incompetence and apathy of the Khattar government in not acting against those guilty of repeatedly attacking Rani Nagar constrained her to take the extreme step of submitting her resignation on May 4 from the IAS cadre itself and she mentioned in her resignation letter that she was forced to resign from the service for fear of her own personal safety,” said the Congress leader. He said on May 30 evening “a murderous attack was launched with iron rods on Rani Nagar and her sister in Ghaziabad, in which her sister Reema Nagar was injured”. The Congress leader accused Haryana Chief Minister M L Khattar of maintaining “a conspiratorial silence despite dozens of complaints” on various issues the former officer faced in Haryana during her stint in the state. “CM Khattar did not deem it fit to at least call Nagar for a personal hearing, understand the history of repeated exploitation and take action against the guilty,” he said. Surjewala said that in December 2017 when Nagar was posted as SDM Dabwali in Sirsa district, an incident of criminal trespass into her house took place. He also mentioned that in June 2018, she accused an additional chief secretary-level bureaucrat of Haryana of harassing her, but no action was taken by the Khattar dispensation. Notably, on May 4, Nagar had resigned from IAS citing 'personal safety on government duty' as the reason for it. However, Nagar did not elaborate on what she meant by the reason of her resignation. She had also sent copies of the resignation to the president, prime minister, Haryana governor and the chief minister through e-mail. “The reason for submitting this resignation is the personal safety on government duty," she had said in a letter to the chief secretary. She had later left Chandigarh for her hometown Ghaziabad with her sister. On May 7, Union Minister of State and Faridabad MP Krishan Pal Gurjar had in a series of tweets said that Khattar had “turned down” her resignation and has recommended to the Centre to change Nagar's cadre to her home state Uttar Pradesh. After her resignation, BSP president and former UP Chief Minister Mayawati had said the way a woman IAS officer had to resign on such grounds and return to her hometown in Ghaziabad was extremely unfortunate. Mayawati had also questioned the government's silence on the episode. Nagar had come into limelight in June 2018, when she accused an additional chief secretary-level bureaucrat of harassing her. The state government had conducted an inquiry into the allegations, but the charges did not hold against the officer, a senior official had earlier said. In an earlier post on her Facebook page, Nagar, who was earlier living in the UT guest house of Chandigarh since 2018 along with her sister, had claimed that despite numerous complaints against the senior bureaucrat, no action was taken against him.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/surjewala-slams-bjp-govts-in-haryana-up-for-failing-to-protect-ex-woman-ias-officer-844140.html
01-06-2020||National Politics||BJP to sound poll bugle in Bihar next week with 'virtual rally' by Amit Shah||Union Home Minister and former BJP president Amit Shah will address party leaders and workers in Bihar through video conferencing on June 9. This will be for the first time in the history of an Indian election campaign where a digital mode of electioneering will kick-start for an Assembly poll. Bihar is slated to have Assembly elections for 243 seats in October-November this year and will be the first State to have polls post-COVID-19 crisis. “Home Minister Amit Shah will address at least one lakh people through video-conferencing. The virtual rally will be the beginning of digital mode of campaigning,” said Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal, who is also party Lok Sabha member from West Champaran. Senior BJP leader and Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar, Sushil Modi, had last month dropped ample hint that instead of conventional method of campaigning, the BJP could go for a digital mode of electioneering. In Bihar, the JD (U) and the BJP are ruling alliance partners since 2017. Shah has already announced that the ensuing Assembly polls in the State will be contested under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-to-sound-poll-bugle-in-bihar-next-week-with-virtual-rally-by-amit-shah-844307.html
01-06-2020||National Politics||70% people want Narendra Modi to be PM for another term: Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Monday claimed 70 per cent of the people of the country want Narendra Modi to not only complete the current term, but also want him as the Prime Minister for the next term. He also called Modi "iron leader" for abrogation of Article 370 that terminated special status to Jammu and Kashmir. Yediyurappa said: "70 per cent of the people of this nation want Narendra Modiji not only to complete this term, but also want him as the Prime Minister for the next term, so that he can find solution to the problems faced by this country. This is the aspiration of the young India." He said Modi has successfully completed one year of the second term and the country is surging ahead in the path of progress under his "exceptional and far-sighted leadership." "The Prime Minister is leading the country forward towards development with his Sab Ka Saath, Sab Ka Vikas, Sab Ka Vishwas principle and inclusive schemes," he said, adding that Modi is spearheading the cause of building a "strong and self-reliant Bharath." Speaking to reporters in the backdrop of the one year of the Modi government's second term in office, the chief minister said Modi is recognised as an exceptional leader not only in India, but also at the global level, through his mantra - Vasudaiva Kutumbakam. Yediyurappa termed the PM "iron leader" for abrogation of Article 370 that terminated special status to Jammu and Kashmir, and formation of Jammu- Kashmir and Ladakh as Union Territories. He listed the key decisions of the BJP-led central government such as banning the practice of triple talaq among Muslims, the Vande Bharath Mission, the Citizenship Amendment Act, one country-one ration card scheme, new Motor Vehicle Act, besides also "finding solution to Ram Mandir issue" , among others. Yediyurappa said Modi's decision has played a decisive role in dealing with the COVID-19 situation in India. He has competently handled a huge challenge of combating the coronavirus in a country with a population of 130 crore. "He implemented the most stringent lockdown restrictions in the world to control the spread of COVID-19 and achieved remarkable success," he said, and lauded the Rs 20 lakh crore package that has been announced to revive the economy amid the pandemic. "Modiji also supported the State during the devastating floods last year.....the state government is determined to develop Karnataka deriving inspiration from our Prime Minister's efficiency." Responding to a question about state's share of money being deducted by the Centre despite a BJP government being in power at both levels, the Chief Minister said both state and central governments are facing financial problems. "I have got 100 per cent confidence in coming days, he (PM) is going to release more money to Karnataka," Yediyurappa added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/70-people-want-narendra-modi-to-be-pm-for-another-term-yediyurappa-844310.html
01-06-2020||National Politics||Govt must take parties, country into confidence over situation on border with China: Congress||The Congress on Monday asked the government to take all political parties and the country into confidence over restoration of the status quo ante on the border with China. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said there can be no compromise on India's security and territorial integrity and posed a set of questions to the government on the situation at the border in Ladakh. He questioned the "silence" of the government on the "brazen Chinese transgression" into Indian territory. The Congress leader also expressed concern over issues raised by Nepal and hoped the government would find a lasting solution to it. Troops of India and China were engaged in a major standoff for over three weeks in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh, in what is turning out to be the biggest confrontation between the two countries after the Doklam episode in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-must-take-parties-country-into-confidence-over-situation-on-border-with-china-congress-844323.html
01-06-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha may sit on alternate days for monsoon session||Since there is no requirement of maintaining the confidentiality of the proceedings, unlike Parliamentary Standing Committees, the option of holding virtual proceedings is considered. Directions have been given to Secretaries General of both Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha by Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday to explore these options during a meeting they had with senior officials of Parliament, sources said. Meanwhile, the meeting of Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs scheduled on June 3 to discuss the handling of COVID-19 lockdown by the Ministry of Home Affairs has been postponed as several MPs expressed inability to attend the meeting due to travel constraints on account of quarantine in different states. Panel chairman Anand Sharma requested Naidu to allow video conferencing but was disallowed after Naidu and Birla held discussions and opined that they were not empowered to suspend the Rules regarding confidentiality of committee meetings. They have decided to refer this matter to the Rules Committees of both the Houses. Sources said both Naidu and Birla held a detailed discussion on holding the Monsoon Session against the backdrop of COVID-19 induced social distancing norms. They asked the Secretaries General to examine the feasibility of using the Central Hall for Parliamentary proceedings. The top officials have been asked to consider holding the Lok Sabha proceedings in the Central Hall and shifting the working of Rajya Sabha to the Lok Sabha hall. They have also been asked to check the feasibility of holding the sittings of the Houses on alternate days. Earlier, DMK MP Tiruchi Siva had suggested the same in a letter to Naidu. With several countries conducting Parliament sessions through virtual mode, Naidu and Birla also asked the officials to look into the possibility of holding virtual sessions as a long-term option to tide over situations when regular meetings are not possible. Since there is no requirement of maintaining a confidentiality of the proceedings of both the Houses, which are open to general public besides being telecast live, sources said, virtual Parliament is an option to be explored. The meeting also discussed the demand for holding virtual meetings of Parliamentary committees. The Secretaries General, who were earlier asked to prepare a road map, briefed the meeting about the need for providing a safe technological platform, complying with the rules of confidentiality, and the difficulties in ensuring the same in case of virtual meetings and the infrastructure upgrade to be undertaken.  Both the Chairman and the Speaker took cognizance of the long-existing rules regarding confidentiality of the Committees and the implications of holding virtual meetings and opined that it would be necessary to refer the issue of virtual meetings to the Rules Committees of both the Houses. With some MPs opining that the presiding officers could suspend rules, the Secretariat officials told the meeting that such suspension requires a motion to be carried in the House and Presiding Officers cannot supersede Rules by issuing directions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-lok-sabha-rajya-sabha-may-sit-on-alternate-days-for-monsoon-session-844365.html
01-06-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari, party workers detained during protest against AAP govt||Delhi BJP president Manoj Tiwari was detained along with party workers for alleged violation of lockdown norms on Monday after they gathered at Rajghat to protest against Arvind Kejriwal government's failure to contain COVID-19 cases in the national capital. Tiwari denied that the protest was a "political" activity and added that police had detained him and his party workers fearing that the protest would lead to a large gathering. "We had gathered at Rajghat to protest against Kejriwal government's failure to contain coronavirus in Delhi. Only a few party workers without carrying party flag were present there maintaining social distance norms," he said. Police said nine persons, including Tiwari were detained from Rajghat for gathering in violation of lockdown norms. "Nine people including Delhi BJP President Manoj Tiwari were detained for organising a protest in violation of lockdown norms. They were taken to Rajender Nagar police station and were released later," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said. Tiwari attacked the Delhi government and the Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal during the protest, alleging that they were trying to divert attention from the growing number of COVID-19 cases. "Kejriwal government has failed to check coronavirus in Delhi and more than 1,000 fresh cases have come to light in the past four days. To divert attention from this, they have demanded Rs 5,000 crore from the Centre, sealed Delhi borders and raised the issue of patients from outside coming to Delhi to avail treatment," Tiwari said. Besides Tiwari, former Delhi BJP president and Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta was also detained during the protest near the Rohini East Metro station. The Union Home Ministry in its guidelines for  "Unlock-1" has clubbed political gatherings along with other prohibited activities till June 30. Several senior leaders, including national vice presidents Shyam Jaju and Dushyant Gautam, Lok Sabha MPs Parvesh Verma and Ramesh Bidhuri, also led protests in different parts of the city. Delhi BJP Yuva Morcha president Sunil Yadav, spokesperson Pravin Shankar Kapoor and Harish Khurana, media department head Ashok Goel also took part in the protest organised by the Delhi BJP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-delhi-bjp-chief-manoj-tiwari-party-workers-detained-during-protest-against-aap-govt-844416.html
01-06-2020||National Politics||Mallikarjun Kharge accuses govt of creating man-made calamity amid COVID- 19||Veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday hit out at the union government, accusing it of creating a man-made calamity amid the COVID-19 pandemic, holding it responsible for the deaths of many migrants. "What have you to say for a man made calamity? COVID-19 is a natural calamity.... It is there across the world, but because of your (government) economic situation, your polices and because of your mistakes, about 560 people have died- walking on the streets, in trains, without food and water, who is responsible for this?," Kharge told reporters here. Migrants, organised and unorganised workers are all in distress and similar was the situation of farmers and farm labourers, as their produce did not find a market with consumers lacking purchasing power, he said. Had the government announced the lockdown with some planning, the migrant workers' crisis would not have arisen, he said. "It is only after Congress President Sonia Gandhi's intervention that the government arranged for trains for migrant workers... Without any idea or planning they announced the lockdown. When the infections were less, they (government) announced the lockdown. When there is spread and deaths are occurring, they are opening things," he added. Kharge, a former Railway Minister, also blamed the Ministry for the "mess" in handling migrant labourers travel and in ensuring they reach their destinations, despite having 13,000 passenger and 9,000 freight trains. "He (Railway Minister) should take the moral responsibility for the insult caused to labourers by violating their human rights and should resign, "Kharge said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mallikarjun-kharge-accuses-govt-of-creating-man-made-calamity-amid-covid-19-844430.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand minister test coronavirus positive; CM, colleagues under watch||Uttarakhand Minister Satpal Maharaj on Sunday tested positive for Covid-19, bringing the entire council of ministers, including Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat under the glare of the infectious disease. 68-year-old Satpal Maharaj has attended the meeting of the state cabinet on Friday, prompting health authorities to keep the entire council of ministers, including the chief minister under close watch. Top health officials of Uttarakhand said that none of the cabinet ministers were in close contact with Satpal Maharaj, who is also a prominent spiritual leader with following across northern India. Satpal Maharaj’s wife Amrita had tested positive for Covid-19 earlier and his family members and 17 members of staff were found to be infected by the virus on Sunday. “Since the cabinet ministers were not in close contact with Satpal Maharaj, there is no need to put them under quarantine,” a Uttarakhand Health Department official said. “However, the health of the cabinet ministers will be under close watch for 14 days,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-minister-test-coronavirus-positive-cm-colleagues-under-watch-844100.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||With 242 cases in a day, Bihar's COVID-19 tally soars to 3,806||The state government, however, appeared optimistic that the worst may well be over in Bihar as they planned to wind up over 12,000 block-level quarantine centres set up to lodge the state's migrant workers returning back form elsewhere in the country. The spurt in COVID-19 cases in the state is due to the returning migrants, most of whom have reached their native places in the state after completing their 14-day stay in quarantine centres, said officials. "Altogether 12,291 block quarantine centres are functional in the state at present. They will be winded up by June 15. Till now, 7.94 lakh people have returned to their homes after the 14-day quarantine period," Bihar's Information and Public Relations Secretary Anupam Kumar told reporters on Sunday. "Another 5.76 lakh are stationed at these quarantine centres and their stay period will be over shortly," he added. "Almost all migrants from across the country, who desired to return to Bihar because of the lockdown, have already come back. The few that remain are expected to be here in a day or two. Hence, the quarantine centres can now be dispensed with," he added. More than 20 lakh migrants are said to have returned to the state since the beginning of this month, by special trains and other modes of transport. Many of them have returned from places much worse affected by the COVID-19 outbreak, carrying the infection.  Since May 3, the state has witnessed its tally grow by 3,000 and the number of migrants who have tested positive during the period is a staggering 2,569. The infected migrants have come back from 23 states, with returnees from Maharashtra being 648, Delhi (559), Gujarat (327), Haryana (220), Uttar Pradesh (134), Rajasthan (125), West Bengal (106), Telangana (104) and Punjab (80), comprising the major chunk, reveal the state's Health Department data. Meanwhile, the spike witnessed during the day was primarily due to a high number of cases reported from districts like Begusarai (46), Bhagalpur (32), Kishanganj (24), Supaul and Purnea (13 each), Muzaffarpur (11) and Jehanabad (10). The spurt in Begusarai has caused its tally to swell to 231, only behind Patna with 245 case. Other badly affected districts are Rohtas (206), Madhubani (190), Bhagalpur (162), Munger and Khagaria (157 each) and Jehanabad (148). COVID-19 cases have been reported from all 38 districts in the state and 13 of these have tallies exceeding 100. Only Sheohar, with nine cases, has a single digit tally. Death toll in the state stands at 21, with Khagaria accounting for the maximum number of three casualties followed by Patna, Vaishali, Bhojpur and Siwan (two each) and Begusarai, Munger, East Champaran, Sitamarhi, Saran, Jehanabad, Bhagalpur, Samastipur, Rohtas and Nalanda (one each).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-242-cases-in-a-day-bihars-covid-19-tally-soars-to-3806-844126.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||3 doctors booked for not informing authorities about patients with fever, cold||Three doctors here have been booked for allegedly not informing the UP health department about their patients having fever and cold, which are also symptoms of COVID-19, police said on Sunday. According to officials, it has been made mandatory for private doctors to inform the district health department if any of their patients have fever, cough or cold. Dr Arun Kumar, Dr M L Garg and Dr Hemant Kumar were booked on the complaint of chief medical officer Dr Praveen Chopra and their clinics sealed, a police official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/3-doctors-booked-for-not-informing-authorities-about-patients-with-fever-cold-844132.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Fire breaks out at two commercial properties in Noida||Fire broke out at two commercial properties in different areas of Noida early on Monday, officials said. Around 2 am, a fire was reported at a mattress-manufacturing firm's four-storey building in Phase 3 area of the city, a police official said. “Fire in the lower half of the building has been contained, while fire-fighting is underway in the upper half of the building. Fire tenders are at work,” the official told PTI around 9:45 am. The other incident was reported around 2.30 am from a sanitiser-making company's office in Phase 2 area of the city, another police official said. “The fire was caused by a short circuit,” the official said. Fire tenders were at work at the site and the blaze has “almost been doused”, the official added. Further details were awaited in both the cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fire-breaks-out-at-two-commercial-properties-in-noida-844157.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Three unidentified militants killed as Army foils infiltration bid along LoC||Three unidentified militants were killed as the Army foiled a major infiltration bid by ultras along the Line of Control (LoC) in Nowshera sector of Rajouri district in Jammu region on Monday. Sources told DH that on the intervening night of May 29 and 30, an infiltration bid took place on LoC in Kabootar Gala area located in Kalal of Nowshera sector. “While the infiltrators were trying to sneak in, an explosion took place that was possibly after one of the infiltrators stepped on an anti-personnel mine. Soon after it, the ambush parties of the army cordoned around 400 meters area and a fierce firefight took place which lasted for several hours,” they said. Inspector General Police (IGP), Jammu, Mukesh Singh while confirming the killing of three heavily armed militants said fourth one sustained injuries for whom search operation is on. “Three militants have been killed. It was an infiltration bid and they were trying to sneak in,” he said and added that a fourth militant was injured in the exchange of fire and may be hiding in the area. Sources said a huge cache of arms and ammunition was recovered from the encounter site, which includes an American made M-16 rifle, two AK 47 rifles and Under Barrel Grenade Launcher along with grenades. Unconfirmed reports said ten more infiltrating militants were killed in Mendhar sector of neighbouring Poonch district. “Indian Army retaliated to the Pakistani ceasefire violation and destroyed a terror launch pad housing 10 to 15 terrorists who were waiting for the opportunity to infiltrate into the Indian side,” sources said. They said the Army had the inputs that a group of 10 to 15 militants had assembled at a launch pad across the LoC. “To help the infiltrators cross over the LoC, the Pakistan Army resorted to the unprovoked ceasefire violation which was retaliated by the Indian troops. In the retaliation, the terror launch pad was targeted in which ten terrorists were killed and others were injured,” sources said. They added that with cornavirus pandemic spreading chaos everywhere, the Pakistan army is trying to take advantage of the crisis and push militants into Jammu and Kashmir. Since last two months several attempts were made by the infiltrators with Pakistani army giving them covering fire along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir. Lt Gen B S Raju, General-Officer-Commanding (GOC) of strategically located 15 Corps in Srinagar, anticipates an increase in infiltration attempts from across the border this summer to replenish the diminishing militant cadres in J&K. “The back of terrorism has been virtually broken and that Pakistan is unable to digest that Kashmiris are experiencing peace and an improved law and order situation. I anticipate more and more attempts to replenish the depleting cadres, as the window for infiltration is also restricted to the summer season only,” he said. The general said there have been several ceasefire violations by Pakistani Army to support the infiltrating militant groups, but added such designs have been frustrated as “our befitting response to ceasefire violations has been swift, hard and punitive.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-unidentified-militants-killed-as-army-foils-infiltration-bid-along-loc-844168.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi airport sets up dedicated area to sanitise cabs before pick up||Radio taxi services like Mega and Meru and app-based cab aggregators like Uber and Ola have a designated area at the airport's arrival floor's parking zone. "A dedicated area has been set up at the entry point of the multi-level car parking (MLCP) zone for each operator to conduct car sanitisation thoroughly from inside and outside," the statement said. Explaining the disinfection process, DIAL said its sanitisation personnel use a specially developed fumigation machine to spray disinfectant inside the vehicle. "This neutralises any virus inside the vehicle. Once the spray is done, the vehicle is left idle for two minutes for higher impact on eliminating viruses and other germs," it said. DIAL said after completion of the internal disinfection process, the entire outer body of the vehicle is properly disinfected through sanitiser spray treatment.  "Special emphasis is given to sanitise the touch points of a vehicle. This includes sterilisation of vehicle's door latches, interior of vehicle viz. doors, glove box, dashboard, seats, seat gloves, steering wheels, gear lever, head rests, AC vents/buttons. among others," DIAL said. India resumed domestic passenger flights after a gap of two months on May 25. International passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country due to the COVID-19 lockdown. DIAL said taxi drivers have been instructed to spray "high touch points" with sanitiser after every trip. Every taxi driver has to also undergo mandatory thermal screening at the airport, it said.  "In case of any abnormality in body temperature, the driver is refrained from driving the vehicle and instead advised to meet airport health officials for next steps," DIAL said. Drivers and the passengers have been asked to strictly adhere to the government's guidelines by wearing hand gloves and face mask while on a trip, it said. The novel coronavirus has infected more than 1.9 lakh people and killed over 5,300 people in India till now. PTI DSP http://ptinews.com/images/pti.jpg “We bring the World to you" Disclaimer : This e-mail message may contain proprietary, confidential or legally privileged information for the sole use of the person or entity to whom this message was originally addressed. Please delete this e-mail, if it is not meant for you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-airport-sets-up-dedicated-area-to-sanitise-cabs-before-pick-up-844170.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: India now world's seventh worst-hit country||India on Monday jumped to the seventh hardest-hit nations by COVID-19 as it reported an increase of 8,392 cases, taking the total confirmed cases to 1,90,535, as the government eased lockdown conditions to allow free movement of people and re-start economic activity. In the process, India surpassed the total cases of Germany and France which have 1,83,494 and 1,88,882 cases of coronavirus infections respectively. India’s death toll also spiked by 230 to touch 5,394, more than double the number of fatalities reported on May 15. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 93,322 while 91,818 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the ministry said, pegging the recovery rate at 48.19 per cent. As per a separate DH COVID-19 Tracker, the total number of confirmed cases was 1,94,745 and the death toll was 5,491 at 8:00 p.m. on Monday. According to the WHO situation report, India ranked 13th in the world in the countries with highest number of deaths. However, the case fatality rate in India is among the lowest in the world at 2.83 per cent, which the health ministry attributed to continued focus on surveillance, timely case identification and clinical management.  The CFR has been on a steady decline since April 15 when it was 3.30 per cent, on May 3 the CFR was 3.25 per cent and on May 18 it was 3.15 per cent. Maharashtra has reported the highest number of deaths – 2,286 – due to COVID-19, followed by Gujarat (1,038), Delhi (473), Madhya Pradesh (350), and West Bengal (317). These five states have recorded 83 per cent of all COVID-19 deaths in the country. In the number of cases too, Maharashtra leads the pack with 67,655 cases, an increase of 2,487 since Sunday, followed by Tamil Nadu 22,333 confirmed cases, Delhi (19,844), Gujarat (16,779), Rajasthan (8,831) and Madhya Pradesh (8,089). The number of active cases in Maharashtra is 36,040, followed by Delhi (10,893), Tamil Nadu (9,403), Gujarat (5,822) and West Bengal (3,027). Out of the 93,322 active cases in India, the top five states account for 70 per cent. Active cases are those who are receiving treatment at Covid facilities and exclude those who have recovered and the dead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-india-now-worlds-seventh-worst-hit-country-844186.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir: Security forces launch search ops after 'suspected movement' along IB||Security forces launched a search operation following "suspected movement" in the riverine areas along the International Border (IB) in Jammu and Kashmir's Kathua-Samba sector, officials said on Monday. The Border Security Force (BSF) and police launched the operation in the Hiranagar area late Sunday night after receiving information about the use of torch lights and suspected movement along the border, they said. The entire area was cordoned off and searches conducted till Monday morning, the officials said. The operation is going on in Samba sector's riverine areas of Basantar and Eik Nalah areas, which are adjacent to Hiranagar, they said. In the last few years, terrorists have infiltrated into India through Hiranagar and Samba and carried out attacks on army camps, police stations in Samba, Kathua, Jammu and Nagrota areas. Checkpoints along the International Border and on the Jammu-Pathankot highway are on alert.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-security-forces-launch-search-ops-after-suspected-movement-along-ib-844198.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Woman seriously injured in bear attack in Jammu and Kashmir's Doda distt, hospitalised||A woman was injured after a bear attacked her near her house close to a forested area in Jammu and Kashmir's Doda district, officials said. Hajra Begum, a resident of Void Drubel in Chatroo, was attacked on Sunday evening. She was saved by locals and later hospitalised, they said. She has suffered critical injuries, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-seriously-injured-in-bear-attack-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-doda-distt-hospitalised-844201.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: List of activities allowed in Madhya Pradesh from June 1||He said that following the guidelines, the state government will start conducting economic activities in a phased manner in the state.  Here is a list of activities that are now allowed in the state in non-containment areas: 1. Starting June 8, religious places, hotels, restaurants, shopping malls and other hospitality services will reopen in the state.  2. Not more than 50 guests are allowed at a wedding ceremony. Similarly, a maximum of 20 people can attend a funeral in the state. Other than that, large gatherings continue to be suspended until further notice. 3. Cinema halls, gymnasium, swimming pool, amusement park, theatre, bar and auditorium, assembly room, marriage garden have been barred from continuing services. 4. No pass will be required for travelling in or out of the state. 5. Curfew timings have been revised to 9 pm-5 am. During these hours, one is only allowed to step outside for essential services. 6. Schools will reopen solely for Class 12 exams. Except that, all educational institutions will remain closed until the government reaches any decision. The decision is expected to be taken in July after consultation with all the stakeholders. 7. All restriction on shops and markets has been lifted in the state. However, one-fourth of the shops in the urban areas of Indore, Ujjain, Neemuch and Burhanpur will be opened turn-by-turn. One-third of the shops in Bhopal will open turn-by-turn. Half the shops in Dewas, Khandwa municipal corporation and Dhar and Neemuch municipality areas will open but standalone shops and neighbourhood shops will be free from this ban, Chouhan announced. 8. All government and private offices have been allowed to function at full capacity except offices in Ujjain, Indore, and Bhopal would function with 50 percent employees. 9. Inter-state buses will not operate till June 7. Barring Ujjain, Indore, and Bhopal, public transport buses have been allowed to operate with 50 percent passengers. 10. While spitting in public places remains a punishable offence, consumption of alcohol, betel leaf, gutka, tobacco in public places will also remain prohibited. The above-mentioned relaxations will do not apply to containment areas. Lockdown in those areas has been extended till June 30 and only essential services will be allowed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-list-of-activities-allowed-in-madhya-pradesh-from-june-1-844202.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Four more COVID-19 deaths in Rajasthan; death toll rises to 198||Four more COVID-19 deaths were reported in Rajasthan on Monday, taking the total number of fatalities due to the disease to 198 in the state, officials said. The number of novel coronavirus cases increased to 8,980 after 149 people tested positive for the infection, they said. Two deaths were reported from Jaipur and one each from Baran and Bikaner districts on Monday, the officials said.   Of the fresh 149 positive cases, the highest of 44 cases are from Bharatpur, 32 from Jaipur, 27 from Baran, 21 from Pali, 10 from Kota, five from Jhalawar, four from Jhunjhunu, three from Sirohi, two from Dausa and one from Tonk, they said.   The officials said 5,325 COVID-19 patients have been discharged from hospitals so far. There are 2,742 active cases in the state as of now, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-more-covid-19-deaths-in-rajasthan-death-toll-rises-to-198-844208.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Gang running fake website to dupe people for job under Ayushman Bharat scheme busted in Delhi||Four people have been arrested for allegedly duping over 4,000 people by promising them jobs under the Centre's flagship Ayushman Bharat scheme, officials said on Monday. The accused had created a fake website, which resembled a government site, and placed an advertisement for thousands of jobs. They charged aspirants Rs 5,000 as registration fees, the police said. The National Health Authority, the agency that administers the health assurance scheme Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana, registered a complaint with police alleging that it received grievances from public regarding an "unscrupulous agency" which was portraying a false association with the scheme. The accused have been identified as Umesh (37), Rajat Singh (33), Gaurav (26) and Seema Rani Sharma (33). Deputy Commissioner of Police (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy said the arrests were made on the basis of technical analysis and a laptop, four mobile phones along with ATM cards were recovered from the possession of the accused. The details of the website https://ayushman-yojana.org were obtained and the payment gateway and the bank account linked with it analysed during the investigation. "During interrogation, the accused revealed that they hatched a conspiracy to dupe people in the name of Ayushman Scheme of Govt. of India. For this, they first formed Ayushman Yojana Trust and accused Rajat Singh, being a web designer, designed a website like a genuine government website," the DCP said. The police said further investigation is underway and efforts are being made to nab the remaining accused.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gang-running-fake-website-to-dupe-people-for-job-under-ayushman-bharat-scheme-busted-in-delhi-844235.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Mayawati expresses concern over rising COVID-19 cases, says govt must be 'more serious'||The Centre and state governments need to be "more serious" amid concerns over the rising number of novel coronavirus cases, BSP chief Mayawati said on Monday as the nation prepares to exit the COVID-19 lockdown in a phased manner. While announcing 'Unlock-1', which will be effectuated from June 8, the Union Home Ministry said there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods, and no additional permission required for such travels "Amidst concern over rising deaths and patients due to corona (COVID-19) pandemic, lockdown-5 started on 69th day with a number of relaxations and will continue till June 30. "As the entire country is hit by corona, it is needed that the Centre and state governments should become more serious," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. The nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus. In a separate tweet, she advised the Centre to seriously think about the "unexpected" step of neighbouring Nepal on the border issue. "By staking claim on Kalapani and 370 km area of India in its new map, Nepal has put India in a difficult situation. In such a scenario, the Centre should seriously think about this unexpected step of neighbouring Nepal," Mayawati said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mayawati-expresses-concern-over-rising-covid-19-cases-says-govt-must-be-more-serious-844260.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||HC seeks Centre, NCLT acting president's response on plea challenging transfer orders||The Delhi High Court Monday sought response of the Centre and National Company Law Tribunal's (NCLT) acting president on a plea by its member (judicial) challenging the transfer orders issued in April and May. Justice V Kameswar Rao, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, issued notice and asked the Centre, through ministries of Corporate Affairs and Law and Justice, NCLT acting president and its registrar to file their counter affidavits on the petition. The court listed the matter for further hearing on June 12. The plea filed by Rajasekhar VK, member (judicial) has sought to set aside the order transferring him from NCLT Mumbai to Kolkata bench. He has also challenged two other orders by which the NCLT acting president BSV Prakash Kumar has transferred himself from NCLT Chennai to Mumbai bench and the transfer of eight other members, contending that the orders are illegal. The acting president by April 30 and May 12 orders, had shuffled the posting of the NCLT members. The petition, filed through advocate Vandana Sehgal, also sought a direction to appoint an eligible member as the acting president, in place of Kumar. Rajasekhar was appointed NCLT member (judicial) on May 3, 2019 and was posted to the Mumbai bench. The plea has sought a status quo in respect of postings of members of NCLT till the time a regular president is not appointed and that the president or acting president of the tribunal shall remain at the principal seat, that is Delhi, in terms of the statutory provisions. The plea said Kumar has only worked as a district judge and as a member of Company Law Board before being a member of the NCLT and since he was not a high court judge, he was not eligible to be appointed as president, particularly, when Justice Rajesh Dayal Khare, a retired high court judge, was available and functioning as member (judicial) at NCLT, Allahabad bench. “As acting president, Kumar cannot ask for a transfer, nor can he be transferred to any place, as he has to remain at the principal bench at New Delhi so long as he is acting as president of the tribunal,” the petition contended. The plea claimed that the transfer orders are in violation of statutory provisions and the rules and in the absence of any consultation or order passed by the Central Government's Ministry of Law and Justice, the orders of transfer of NCLT Members were illegal and contrary to the decisions of the Supreme Court. It said the transfer orders were signed by the NCLT registrar who had no power to do so. It added that there were no compelling circumstances for the issuance of the transfer orders when the NCLT was functioning without a president and the members could anyway not take charge of their designated places of postings until the lockdown was lifted by the government. The petition has arrayed Centre, through ministries of Corporate Affairs and Law and Justice, NCLT acting president and its registrar as parties.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-seeks-centre-nclt-acting-presidents-response-on-plea-challenging-transfer-orders-844280.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Indore COVID-19 tally rises to 3,539, toll reaches 135||The number of COVID-19 cases in Indore rose to 3,539 on Monday after 53 more people tested positive for the disease in the Madhya Pradesh district in last 24 hours, a health department official said. Besides, three more deaths of COVID-19 patients were reported, taking the toll in the district to 135, he said. Of the three victims, a 72-year-old woman died on May 31, another woman aged 51 succumbed to the disease on May 10, while a 66-year-old man died on May 13 in different hospitals here, the official said. Till Sunday, 3,486 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district, but with 53 more people testing positive for the disease in last 24 hours, the number has gone up to 3,539, he said. The delay on part of the health department in disclosing deaths of some patients has been criticised by health activists, who have alleged that fatalities were being reported by the department as per its "own convenience". When asked about such allegations, a health department spokesman said some hospitals were sharing late the information of death of COVID-19 patients, and an explanation has been sought from such medical facilities.  So far, 1,990 people have been discharged from various hospitals after recovery, another official said. The COVID-19 outbreak was first reported in Indore on March 24, when four persons tested positive for the deadly viral infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-covid-19-tally-rises-to-3539-toll-reaches-135-844291.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Indian Railways' first isolation coaches deployed for treatment of coronavirus patients in Delhi||After almost two months of sitting idle, the railways' first COVID-19 care centre consisting of 10 modified coaches with 160 beds has been deployed in Delhi, officials said on Monday. These coaches have been stationed at the maintenance depot of the Shakur Basti railway station here. In addition to the 10 non-AC coaches with 160 beds, the COVID-19 care centre will have an AC coach for healthcare staffers, including doctors, an official said. The coaches have been deployed on Sunday following a written request from the Delhi government. The national capital is among the worst hit by the COVID-19 pandemic in the country with nearly 20,000 cases. These coaches are the first of the 5,321 coaches which have been converted into isolation wards by the railways for the treatment of coronavirus patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-railways-first-isolation-coaches-deployed-for-treatment-of-coronavirus-patients-in-delhi-844312.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||NGT directs forest dept to look into plea alleging cutting of trees outside Anand Vihar Rly station||The National Green Tribunal Monday directed the Delhi forest department to look into a plea alleging cutting of trees outside Anand Vihar Railway station. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel asked the Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (PCCF), Delhi to take appropriate action in the matter. "The grievance with regard to the treatment of effluents before discharge into Anand Vihar drain in violation of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974... need to be considered in the first instance by the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the East Delhi Municipal Corporation," the bench said. The tribunal was hearing a plea filed by city resident Amit alleging cutting of trees outside Anand Vihar Railway station, adjacent to the public toilet. It had also sought directions for treatment and cleaning of effluents before discharge in Anand Vihar drain. While deciding the plea, the tribunal said,"this application is disposed of with a direction that the above statutory authorities may look into the grievances and take further action in accordance with law. "The applicant is at liberty to present his viewpoint before the said authorities within 15 days. Necessary action may be initiated within two weeks thereafter.," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ngt-directs-forest-dept-to-look-into-plea-alleging-cutting-of-trees-outside-anand-vihar-rly-station-844319.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi HC suspends life convict's sentence in 1984 anti-Sikh riots case by 12 weeks on medical ground||The Delhi High Court Monday suspended for 12 weeks the life imprisonment sentence awarded to one of the convicts in a 1984 anti-Sikh riots case as he was suffering from chronic kidney ailment and was highly vulnerable to a contagious disease like COVID-19. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula, noted, while conducted the hearing through video conferencing, that Naresh Sehrawat was admitted to the medicine ward of the Central Jail Hospital, Tihar. “Since the petitioner (Sehrawat) is a chronic kidney disease, stage-IV patient and is admitted in the medicine ward of the Central Jail hospital and is highly vulnerable to a contagious disease like COVID-19, the sentence of the appellant-convict is suspended for a period of twelve weeks from the date of release subject to his furnishing a personal bond and local/close relative surety bond of Rs 20,000 each to the satisfaction of the trial court,” the bench said. The court passed the order on a plea by Sehrawat, who is serving life imprisonment in the riots case, seeking interim suspension of sentence for three months on the ground that he needs to undergo liver and kidney transplant simultaneously and at the earliest. The court had earlier directed the jail authorities to take him to Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences (ILBS) Hospital for medical check up as he has to undergo liver and kidney transplant. Sehrawat's counsel submitted that he was being repeatedly referred to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital as well as Central Jail hospital even though the DDU and RML hospitals have already stated that facilities for transjugular renal transplant are not available with them. Senior advocate R S Cheema and lawyer Tarannum Cheema, representing the Special Investigation Team (SIT), said the convict was being looked after and treated compassionately in the jail hospital and that he was being kept isolated and protected.  An SIT was earlier set up by the Ministry of Home Affairs to reinvestigate the riot cases. The trial court had awarded death penalty to convict Yashpal Singh and life term to Naresh Sehrawat in the case relating to the killing of two men in New Delhi during the 1984 riots -- the first convictions in the cases reopened by the SIT. Sherawat has also appealed against his conviction and the sentence before the high court which is pending. The death reference as well as appeal of Singh against the capital punishment awarded to him is also pending in the high court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hc-suspends-life-convicts-sentence-in-1984-anti-sikh-riots-case-by-12-weeks-on-medical-ground-844326.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir reports fresh 155 coronavirus cases, three deaths||Jammu and Kashmir had 155 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday taking the total cases reported in the Union Territory (UT) to 2,601 while three deaths were also reported taking the toll to 31. Among fresh cases, 53 cases were reported from Ramban district, 21 from Doda, 12 from Anantnag, 11 from Kupwara, 10 from Srinagar, eight from Jammu, six each from Baramulla and Kulgam, five each from Shopian and Kathua, four each from Pulwama and Kistwar, three from Rajouri, two each from Ganderbal and Udhampur and one from Samba. The proportion of travelers among new cases of COVID-19 dropped increased again on Monday with 96 having travel history out of the 155 reported. In Kashmir division, out of the 56 positives today, 20 were people returning from outside, while the rest, 36, had no recent travel history. In Jammu division, 76 out of the 99 reported cases were people returning from outside. According to daily Media Bulletin number of confirmed cases has now reached 2601, out of which 1999 are in Kashmir, while 602 are in Jammu.  There are 1624 active cases of the coronavirus disease in J&K -  1157 in Kashmir and 467 in Jammu - and 946 (815 from Kashmir and 131 from Jammu) patients have recovered, it added. The J&K has witnessed 31 COVID-19 (27 from Kashmir, 4 from Jammu) deaths so far, including three deaths reported on Monday. J&K has been witnessing a spike in COVID-19 cases in the past 11-days. The UT recorded the highest single day spike of 177 new cases on Saturday. From 500 cases on 28 April to 1000 cases on 15 May, it took J&K 17 days to double its COVID19 cases. However, in the last two weeks there has been a substantial rise in positive cases.  While the first case was reported on March 9, the first 1000 patients took 80 days to accumulate. J&K government says the rise in cases is due to intensive testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-reports-fresh-155-coronavirus-cases-three-deaths-844395.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi coronavirus cases go over 20,000||Covid-19 cases in Delhi crossed the 20,000-mark on Monday though the cases fell below 1,000-mark for the first time after four days while death toll touched 523. The capital reported 990 cases, compared to 1,295, the highest for a single day on Sunday. Since May 28, Delhi has been witnessing over 1,000 cases every day.  According to the medical bulletin, 50 more deaths were added to the toll, taking the total over 500. Of this, 12 got reported in the past 24 hours. It said 268 more patients were discharged taking the total recoveries to 8,746. At present, 11,565 are under treatment of which 6,238 are in home isolation. The national capital has conducted 2.17 lakh tests, including 4,753 fresh samples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-coronavirus-cases-go-over-20000-844410.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Tax relief for bus operators in Punjab||In a relief to the transport sector hit hard by the coronavirus lockdown, the Punjab government on Monday slashed tax on per kilometer travel for non-AC buses. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh also directed the state Transport Department to allow vehicle owners to pay tax arrears by June 30 without penalty or interest. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ordered a reduction in tax rate from Rs 2.80 to Rs 2.69 per km per vehicle per day, an official release said. With thousands of people directly/indirectly earning their livelihood from the transport sector, these moves will help alleviate some of their sufferings in these times of crisis, said the CM in the release. He pointed out that the suspension of the bus service following the imposition of the lockdown had resulted in a huge loss to operators of non-AC buses, which are a common mode of transportation for ordinary people. Principal Secretary (Transport) K Siva Prasad said the decision aimed at providing an immediate relief to the stage carriage buses. The move will help protect interests of people employed in the sector, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/tax-relief-for-bus-operators-in-punjab-844432.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Haryana has opened interstate borders but situation to be assessed daily: Home Minister Anil Vij||Haryana Home Minister Anil Vij on Monday indicated that if the situation demanded curbs could be reimposed on the state’s borders, reopened in line with Centre's fresh guidelines on exiting coronavirus lockdown. Vij said that the situation at the borders will be assessed daily. “The Centre has said there shall be no restriction on interstate and intrastate movement of persons and goods. At the same time, they have given the states the right to make their own assessment of the situation and take action based on that,” Vij told reporters. “We will assess the situation daily. If the need is felt, we have the right to take action and we will take it,” said Vij, who also holds the health department portfolio. The Haryana government had on Sunday issued fresh guidelines for the next phase of lockdown and decided to open its interstate borders, including those with Delhi from June 1 and places of worship, hotels and malls from June 8. Seeking to follow the Centre's guidelines for the next phase of lockdown, starting June 1, the state government also decided to allow interstate movement of people and goods. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar held a meeting with some of his senior ministers including Vij and officials on late Sunday evening and took a call on the Centre's fresh lockdown guidelines, termed as ‘Unlock 1.0’. “It was decided in the meeting that there will be no restriction on interstate and interdistrict movements of people and goods,” a state government statement had said after the three-hour meeting. Vij had justified the earlier sealing of the borders with the national capital, saying coronavirus cases in Haryana would have been at par with Delhi had they not taken the step. The Haryana government had maintained that a spurt in infection has been due to rising cases in districts adjoining the national capital owing to the cross-border movement of people from Delhi. In the fresh guidelines issued on Saturday, the Centre said there shall be no restriction on interstate and intrastate movement of people and goods and no separate permission, approval or e-permit will be required for such movements. However, the Centre made it clear that if a state/UT, based on reasons of public health and its assessment of the situation, proposes to regulate movement of persons, it will give wide publicity in advance regarding the restrictions to be placed on such movement, and the related procedures to be followed. Meanwhile, Vij on Monday also said that the shops will remain open from 9 am to 7 pm. “For shops in market places, it has been decided that they will open daily without any 'left-right' or 'odd-even' system from 9 am to 7 pm and the shops will remain shut for a day as per whatever is their weekly day off,” he said.  During the lockdown earlier, the shops used to open on the left side of the road on one day and on right side the other day and shops with odd number were allowed to open on one day while the following day shops having even number would open the other day. The deputy commissioner concerned can, however, impose suitable restrictions in highly congested markets depending on their own assessment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-has-opened-interstate-borders-but-situation-to-be-assessed-daily-home-minister-anil-vij-844443.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Muslim, Sikh outfits in Jammu demand reservation in Assembly, higher education, jobs||Some Muslim and Sikh organisations in Jammu on Monday demanded reservation for the communities in the Assembly, higher education and employment, claiming that they have "suffered neglect". Their demand for reservation in the Assembly came at a time the government has set in motion the process of delimitation of constituencies. "While undertaking the process of delimitation of Assembly constituencies, Jammu Muslims should be given proper representation...as we have suffered neglect throughout," Jammu Muslim Front (JMF) chairman Shuja Zaffar said after a meeting of the outfit here. The JMF demanded that six constituencies be reserved for them. Zaffar also sought immediate reservation for his community in higher educational institutions and jobs. Various Sikh outfits, including the J&K Gurdwara Parbandhak Board (GPB) and the Jammu District Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (DGPC), have also made similar demands. "We demand minority status for the community and proper consultation with our leaders while undertaking the process of delimitation of Assembly constituencies," said Tarlochan Singh Wazir, the GPB chairman and a former member of the Legislative Council. He said five Assembly constituencies should be reserved for the community to meet their "political and democratic aspirations". He said the Sikh community in Jammu and Kashmir, which has mostly come from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir after the Partition, has been "deprived of their political and fundamental rights in every sphere of life". The demand came just three days after the National Conference rejected the process of setting up of a delimitation commission by the Centre for redrawing parliamentary and Assembly constituencies in the newly created Union Territory. On Friday, the National Conference announced the rejection of the delimitation process and said its three members of Parliament would not participate in the commission as it "will be tantamount to accepting the events of 5th August 2019". On August 5 last year, the Centre revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 of the Constitution and bifurcated the erstwhile state into Union Territories -- Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/muslim-sikh-outfits-in-jammu-demand-reservation-in-assembly-higher-education-jobs-844523.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Retired IAS officer accused in money laundering case surrenders before ED court in Jaipur||Retired IAS officer Ashok Singhvi, who is an accused in a money laundering case, surrendered before a special Enforcement Directorate court here on Monday. Singhvi, the former principal secretary (mines) in Rajasthan, surrendered before the special ED court in the matter related to a mining scam which was unearthed by Rajasthan Anti-Corruption Bureau in 2015. Later, the Enforcement Directorate had initiated investigation against Singhvi and other accused involved in the scam. The court had issued a non-bailable arrest warrant against Singhvi in January last year, which was challenged in the High Court. The High Court upheld the special court's order, following which Singhvi has now surrendered. “He surrendered before the special court today and the court has sent him to judicial custody. We have moved a bail application in the court which will be taken up for hearing tomorrow,” Deepak Chauhan, counsel for Singhvi, said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/retired-ias-officer-accused-in-money-laundering-case-surrenders-before-ed-court-in-jaipur-844531.html
01-06-2020||North and Central||Possible rise in COVID-19 cases? Madhya Pradesh govt readies 60,000 beds||The Madhya Pradesh government has readied 60,000 beds in various hospitals to deal with spike in COVID-19 cases, if any, after easing of the lockdown curbs, a senior Health official said on Monday. Additional Chief Secretary (ACS), Health and Family Welfare department, Mohammad Suleiman told reporters that nearly 3,000 COVID-19 patients remained admitted in different hospitals across the state. "In the event of cases spiking after resumption of economic and other activities in the state, we are ready for such scenario and have created 60,000 beds of different categories in hospitals. 6,000 of these beds have oxygen supply facility," Suleiman told reporters after reviewing the situation in Indore division. The ACS added that the number of beds with oxygen supply facility will soon be enhanced from 6,000 to 14,000, and oxygen supply lines are being laid in hospitals. As on Sunday, Madhya Pradesh's coronavirus case count stood at 8,089 and fatalities at 350. Indore district, which is worst hit by the virus pandemic, has reported 3,539 cases with 135 deaths as on Monday. Meanwhile, Suleiman said that everyday 6,100 samples can be tested and this capacity will be raised to 15,000. "There is no need to fear COVID-19 pandemic by creating scare. But we appeal to the people with folded hands that they should observe precautions totally and take care of themselves, as no iron wall can be constructed for saving persons from this virus," he said. At present, 1,400 samples are being tested in Indore, and to enhance this capacity an advanced machine is being imported from the USA. Speaking on the Indore situation, he said, "Coronavirus infection probably started in Indore in February. At that time, we possibly didn't get to know about it which resulted into the sudden spike in the number of cases in dense localities. At that time, the viral load too was much". Suleiman further said the virus spread has been "surprisingly controlled in the last few days, which is a "success story of containing the pandemic". Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had on Sunday said extensive relaxations announced by the Centre will be followed in MP as well, adding that economic activities along with "unlocking" will take place in a phased manner in the state. Places of worship can remain open from June 8, though social, political, sports, entertainment, cultural and other large congregations, including religious ones, shall remain suspended, and a decision on these would be taken later, he had said. A decision on re-starting inter-state public transport will be taken on June 7, he had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/possible-rise-in-covid-19-cases-madhya-pradesh-govt-readies-60000-beds-844533.html
01-06-2020||Opinion||Will India experience the fallout of Trump vs Twitter?||Acting against Trump One of the most polarising figures on social media is US President Donald Trump. For years many have asked the question 'What will it take for Twitter to act on his tweets?' In March, the company deleted tweets by Brazil's Jair Bolsonaro and Venezuela's Nicolas Maduro for COVID-19 related misinformation. After that, it became a question of when, not if, it would take action against content posted by Mr. Trump. It took another step in this direction by blocking the hashtags "InjectDisinfectant" and "InjectingDisinfectant" after Trump suggested it could be a cure for COVID-19 but stopped short of acting on his original posts. US government response In parallel, Yoel Roth, head of site integrity at Twitter, was attacked by right-leaning media outlets and social media accounts for having previously posted anti-conservative views on Twitter. Accusations of pro-liberal biases on the internet are a long-running theme. As far back as 2006, Conservapedia – a conservative antidote to Wikipedia's alleged liberal bias, went online. And as recently as last week, there were reports of a panel that would look into allegations of bias against conservatives in the United States by social media platforms. Indian experience This is unsurprising given how tribalism is firmly part of the social media package. We've seen this in India too. A photograph of Twitter CEO, Jack Dorsey, holding up a poster which said 'Smash Brahmanical Patriarchy' enraged many in November 2018. In February 2019, the IT Standing Committee 'summoned' Jack Dorsey to appear in front of it, after concerns that the platform was not safeguarding 'citizens rights'. This action followed a #ProtestAgainstTwitter campaign accusing it of an 'anti-right wing attitude'. Later in the year, it faced ire from the other end of the ideological spectrum when lawyer Sanjay Hegde's Twitter account was suspended leading many users to temporarily adopt Mastodon. And we now appear to have come a full circle. In March, Wikipedia was accused of an 'anti-Hindu' bias after a tussle between editors on a page on the 2020 Delhi riots. And in April, Twitter suspended media personality, Rangoli Chandel's, account for a post containing 'dangerous speech'. Claims of unjustified account suspensions or shadow bans continue. After the executive order, some Indian news channels even held TV debates on whether this should be replicated in India to check what is perceived to be selective or biased censorship by social media platforms. And at the time of writing this, there appears to be some limited activity on Twitter using #TwitterTimeUp and #Twitterpickssides in the aftermath of that debate. The graphic illustrates a diffusion chart of tweets using the hashtag #TwitterTimeUP Blind imitation won’t work But before resorting to isomorphic mimicry, it is important to understand what the executive order proposes. A reading suggests that it seeks to narrow the definition of 'good faith' under which a platform can carry out 'Good Samaritan' blocking. Experts in the field such as Kate Klonick were quoted in the media as saying that the order was not enforceable and even referred to it as 'political theatre'. Daphne Keller published an annotated version of the order in which she classified various sections as 'atmospherics', 'legally dubious' and points on which 'reasonable minds can differ'. The current trajectory in India appears to be headed in the opposite direction. A recent PIL in the Supreme Court, filed by a BJP member, sought to make it mandatory to link social media accounts with identification. While the petition itself was disposed of, the petitioner was directed to be impleaded in the ongoing Whatsapp Traceability case. The draft Personal Data Protection law proposes 'voluntary' verification for social media intermediaries. And the draft version of the Intermediary Guidelines of the Indian IT Act, published in November 2018, seeks to put more responsibility on platforms by changing the 'safe harbour' protection they currently enjoy. Assuming that the guidelines do not change substantially in their final form, platforms will resort to over-regulation of speech in order to avoid liability. The result of such a regulatory regime will likely be, more, not less censorship. (Prateek Waghre is a research analyst at The Takshashila Institution) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/will-india-experience-the-fallout-of-trump-vs-twitter-844212.html
01-06-2020||Panorama||Keeping youth away from tobacco||May 31 was observed as 'World No Tobacco Day' around the world. This year the theme for this day was ‘protecting youth from industry manipulation.’ India is home to approximately 120 million smokers and this constitutes 12% of the smokers in the world. Without a doubt, this has a significant implication on the general health of the population. For decades, the tobacco industry has been strategically and aggressively trying tactics to attract youth to use tobacco and nicotine products. Leading companies in the sector have been using various resources at their by innovating with different flavours, celebrity/influencer sponsorships and sale of single stick cigarettes and other tobacco and nicotine products near schools. E-cigarettes were proposed as a suitable alternative to regular cigarettes. However, some side effects associated were worse and proactive governmental policies to ban e-cigarettes thwarted this effort. According to a recent report, India suffers from a huge burden of substance abuse and associated morbidity and mortality. Among all substance use, tobacco consumption was found to be the most common. The study further highlights that the use of tobacco peaked among people in the age group 24 to 34 years, smoking was prevalent among 15 to 24-year-olds. It also highlights how in recent years, the prevalence of smokeless tobacco has been higher (47.5%) as compared to the prevalence of smoking (28.2%). With changing trends, we can see changing trends in lung cancer with more distal cancers, changing subtype of cancers and the occurrence of disease at a younger age. Behavioural sciences have also highlighted how young people sometimes make irrational decisions because these are manipulated. Due to exposure to various marketing campaigns through several offline and online mediums, a large percentage of youth in India consume tobacco at a very young age. However, most adolescents smoke lesser than adults. As a consequence, since the nicotine dependence by dosage is lower, any early intervention directed towards this subgroup will have a great impact.  There are several causes behind addiction. A leading cause is industry manipulation and enticing advertisements in mass media. According to the Journal of ConsumerResearch, studies have shown that 1) mass media can have a large influence on consumers, potentially affecting their health, 2) media also exerts a strong influence on teens, 3) and can influence consumers more than changes in prices. Moreover, social and behavioural factors, peer dynamics, the lack of awareness and an overall lack of belief in the existing tobacco control measures lead to dependency on tobacco. The high consumption of tobacco can lead to various problems like oral, lung cancer and fertility problems among the youth. While many people are aware that tobacco use increases the risk of cancer, there are alarming gaps in knowledge of the cardiovascular and respiratory risks of tobacco use.  The problem of addiction compounds as it is not widely discussed in families. Parent counselling is also weak. Apart from occasional advice, there is no sustained pressure on the youth to quit smoking unlike the pressure on alcohol consumption.  In schools, there are no special classes for students to discuss and demonstrate problems with tobacco. Nor is there much psychological counselling. School-based interventions can play a major role in reducing or postponing smoking. School-based prevention programs must have classroom curricula that is age-specific, peer education programs, special programs and media literacy training. These programs have to create awareness among participants about the dangers of smoke, build their capacity to identify and resist the influence of peers and tobacco marketers. The cessation programs focus on supporting students in their efforts to quit using tobacco products and teach students refusal skills and avoidance techniques. The way forward is to encourage community and statewide programmes, mass media campaigns, launch policy-driven approaches which seek to limit the access of tobacco products to the youth and launch policies that affect product labelling, create smoke-free environments and restrict advertising.  (The writer is a consultant Interventional Pulmonologist)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/keeping-youth-away-from-tobacco-844472.html
01-06-2020||Panorama||What is a prayer?||What is prayer? Is it a collection of sacred syllables we chant every day, without understanding its meaning? Is it the holy names of the various gods that we repeat every day with closed eyes? Or is it scriptures we read without understanding its meaning or imbibing its essence?  Prayer is much more than all these things put together. Words chanted without the feeling of devotion, compassion and love are just words, they cannot become a prayer. Prayer is an attitude, it’s a way of life. Three people in my life have shaped my definition of prayer. My guru Sadguru Mata Amritanandamayi Devi always says that being compassionate, saying a few consoling words, being kind to a person, is a prayer by itself.  My late father used to tell me that one needn’t visit a temple every day to show one’s devotional attitude. One can worship God from the confines of one’s house. My dad would say that the five minutes I spend in a temple praying, will go to waste if I emerged from the temple resumed my attitude of getting irritated and judging people. I hadn’t seen my father reading many scriptures, but I had witnessed his helpful nature, no one who came to him for help, be it a businessman, a driver or an electrician, returned empty-handed. For me that is the biggest prayer, helping everyone unconditionally. My father would always say, “that my house is like a temple,” this was obvious from the fact that everyone who came to our house would always get prasad in the form of candy, biscuits, mithai, chocolates. My father always carried a pocketful of sweets to hand out to his acquaintances. And dad never passed judgement on anyone. Isn’t that one of the best prayers? The third person who has influenced me is my mother, though she prays a lot, mention any holy text and rest assured she would have read it. Her attitude of seeing God in the less fortunate, feeding them, is one of my favourite prayers. Whenever any festival comes around, mom is quick to start doling out food to people unable to celebrate the festivals because of financial reasons. With such amazing teachers in life, no wonder my definition of prayer is unique.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/what-is-a-prayer-844476.html
01-06-2020||Right in the Middle||A midnight walk||Thirty-five years ago, during one winter trip in my sales career, I arrived Gudalur late night after a hectic coverage of Ooty and Coonoor markets. Next day morning I had a meeting with Gudalur customer and rushed to Kotagiri. The plan was to finish the Kotagiri meeting early and board an early evening bus by 6 pm to avoid the chill weather of the hills. Everything fell in place perfectly but the time! I managed to board the bus by only 8 pm!  As usual, the descending of the bus was an uncomfortable experience for me and I started counting each hairpin bend and was just about to sleep when I heard the screech of the bus braking. I woke to find that the bus was in a thickly forested area. I thought that an elephant had blocked the way or a truck might have broken down. A few of us got down and walked ahead to understand what went wrong. As I reached the site, I was awestruck to see a toppled tanker from which concentrated acid was leaking. There were dense fumes and a pungent smell had pervaded the air.  Without mobile phones, the next available landline was 15 km away. Were returned to the bus and discussed our next step. Someone on the bus offered to guide us to next town, by walk, through a 10-12 km stretch provided we were willing to take the risk. The guide was confident —if we went as a group, we may avoid the risk of wildlife encounters and reach Mettupalayam within two hours.  I decided to join him and also convinced a few fellow passengers to accompany us. The path was full of trees, bushes, thorns and the stones were slippery. Along the route, we encountered a variety of sounds — that of birds, insects and maybe those of wild or not so wild animals. Nevertheless, we all walked with 100 per cent confidence, accompanied all the way with our beating hearts. By god's grace and the great knowledge of the unassuming guide, we arrived in the village at half-past midnight.  We all assembled in a tea-shop and thanked the guide several times, who just smiled and vanished without even waiting for tea! No words can explain the help that I received that day, my heart is full of gratitude every time I remember that night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-midnight-walk-844471.html
01-06-2020||Second Edit||America’s ugly truth rears its head again||Violent protests that have erupted across the US over the death of an unarmed black man George Floyd at the hands of a police officer in Minneapolis lay bare deep frustration over continuing racial inequality in the country. A video showing a police officer pressing down his knee on Floyd’s neck until life left his body, even as he pleaded that he was unable to breathe, has evoked massive outrage. The police officer has been charged with third-degree murder and manslaughter, but protesters are demanding that he be charged with first-degree murder. However, the protests are not just about Floyd’s killing; that was just the trigger. Underlying the violent demonstrations sweeping across the US is pent up anger over systemic violence against blacks. Although affirmative action has reduced racial inequality to some extent, the situation of blacks with regard to income, housing and medical care lags far behind that of the whites. Prejudice against blacks runs deep and negative stereotypes continue to define how people relate to them whether at school, the playground or the workplace. The criminal justice system continues to be heavily biased against blacks and the police, in particular, are known to use excessive force far more against blacks. That was on full display in the video on Floyd’s killing. Demonstrations have flared across the US. In a bid to quell the protests, curfew has been imposed in at least 40 cities and the National Guard has been deployed. However, these measures have failed to calm the situation. While racial violence is the immediate trigger for the demonstrations, grievances over several issues, including the Trump administration’s insensitive handling of the Covid-19 pandemic, worsening unemployment situation and political polarisation ahead of presidential elections appear to be driving the protests, too. Once again President Donald Trump has put on display his inept and insensitive leadership. Instead of calling for calm, he is tweeting inflammatory messages from the White House. His tweet, “when the looting starts, the shooting starts” invokes the racist prejudice and language of the 1960s. By reiterating a comment made by a police chief at the height of the civil rights protests in 1967 to declare “war” against protesting blacks, Trump has underscored his own readiness to use extreme violence to stamp out the protests. He has threatened to use “ominous weapons” against the protesters. Trump could gain from the current mayhem. White nationalists and supremacists, his core support base, are reported to be out on the streets of US cities, provoking protesters with their violence. Their mobilisation will energise Trump supporters and boost his re-election chances.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/america-s-ugly-truth-rears-its-head-again-844468.html
01-06-2020||South||Vishwas Mehta takes charge as Kerala Chief Secretary||Dr Vishwas Mehta took charge as Kerala's new Chief Secretary, at a simple function at the Secretariat here on Monday. The 1986 batch Rajasthan cadre officer is the state's 46th chief secretary. Outgoing Chief Secretary Tom Jose handed over the charge to Dr Mehta. Besides being the Additional Chief Secretary (Home), Mehta had also served the state and Central governments in various capacities, including Collector of Wayanad and Idukki districts and Joint secretary in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Tourism Director in the Ministry of Tourism and Culture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vishwas-mehta-takes-charge-as-kerala-chief-secretary-844185.html
01-06-2020||South||Kerala govt gears up to tackle monsoon-related diseases||The Kerala government is gearing up its machinery to tackle monsoon-related diseases with a revised fever protocol even while as it battles the COVID-19 pandemic. The IMD has said the monsoon is likely to hit the state on Monday. The onset of monsoon over Kerala marks the commencement of the four-month rainy season in the country. The country receives 75 per cent of the rainfall from June to September. As per the latest medical report issued by the Directorate of Health Services (DHS) on its website on Sunday, at least 2,660 fever cases were reported in the state on May 30 and 65,039 fever cases in the month of May alone. The state government anticipates a rise in fever cases in the monsoon season. "As usual, there are chances of rise in fever cases during the monsoon season. Along with that, cases of dengue fever, Chikungunya, and Leptospirosis diseases are also likely to increase. The state government has to put up anew plan to tackle these diseases while battling the coronavirus pandemic," a senior Health Department official told P T I. The Directorate said there were 12 confirmed cases of Dengue on May 30 alone while 295 cases were reported in the month of May. In the month of May, at least seven confirmed cases of Chikungunya were reported in the state. Similar was the case of leptospirosis with 83 confirmed cases being reported last month.  The state government has proposed a revised fever protocol and included COVID-19 in the list of diseases having fever symptoms. As part of the revised fever protocol, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had earlier informed that those going to hospitals with complaint of fever will be segregated at the hospital entrance and would be seated separately. "During this fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, the control of rainy season epidemics has become increasingly important. Special attention and care is needed in the case of three epidemics of dengue, leptospirosis and H1N1, which have fever as its main symptom," Vijayan had said. With the onset of summer rain, vector-borne diseases such as dengue fever and leptospirosis were being increasingly reported in the state. The chief minister had asked people to take precautions against infections caused by mosquitoes during the rainy season. Health authorities also laid emphasis on keeping surroundings clean so that the immediate environment would not become breeding ground for mosquitoes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-gears-up-to-tackle-monsoon-related-diseases-844213.html
01-06-2020||South||105 new coronavirus cases reported in AP; tally goes up to 3,674||Coronavirus hit the Andhra Pradesh Secretariat here on Monday with two government staff testing positive, even as 105 fresh cases were added in the state, taking the overall count to 3,674. The COVID-19 toll mounted to 64 with two deaths reported from Kurnool district, according to the latest government bulletin. Of the 105 fresh cases reported in the last 24 hours ending 9 am on Monday, 76 were state residents, including eight in SPS Nellore district who contracted the virus from the Koyambedu market in Chennai. One more foreign returnee tested positive on Monday while 28 people who came from other states also were found to be infected with the virus. According to the bulletin, the cumulative number of COVID-19 cases within AP was 3,118, that of foreign returnees 112 and those from other states 446. Of these, 2,169 people of the state had recovered and got discharged from hospitals, including 34 in the last 24 hours, while 197 patients from other states also recovered. Meanwhile, in the state Secretariat here, Blocks 3 and 4 were completely shut on Monday as two employees working in different departments here tested positive for COVID-19 on return from Hyderabad.  AP Secretariat Association president K Venkatarami Reddy said the two blocks were being fully fumigated and other employees who moved closely with the two patients have been requested to go in for self-quarantine. In the three other blocks in the Secretariat, limited staff attended duties on Monday as coronavirus cases were detected on the campus. Visitors have been completely barred from entering the Secretariat as a precautionary measure||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/105-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-ap-tally-goes-up-to-3674-844238.html
01-06-2020||South||Amid COVID-19 pandemic, new academic year begins in Kerala; classes go online||Signaling the beginning of a new academic year, at least 45 lakh students in Kerala on Monday began attending virtual classes organised by the state education department in a bid to ensure that they do not miss out on lessons due to the COVID-19 induced lockdown. The online sessions named 'First Bell' are telecast through VICTERS Channel, under the State General Education Department, for classes 1 to 12 from 8.30 AM to 5.30 PM on weekdays. The classes were initiated by a message from Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan who said the decision on online classes was taken due to the pandemic. "I wish all the students a wonderful academic session. The teachers and the parents should ensure that the children attend the online class. We have brought out some restrictions in our daily life due to the pandemic. We need to ensure social distancing. It is not possible to start normal classes in schools as it may cause the spread of the virus. However, we need to carry forward the studies of our children," Vijayan said. The Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE)has brought out the timetable for conducting the classes. The sessions will be held from 8.30 am to 5.30 pm from Monday to Friday for all classes from 1 to 12, except class 11, on the channel. "At least 45 lakh students and their parents are in front of the channel for the classes. This is not an alternative to the classroom but the education department has been providing the maximum support to the students," state education minister C Raveendranath said. Minister for Higher Education, K T Jaleel launched the online class for the college students and took history class. The time slots for different classes vary from half-an-hour to two hours, a press release issued by KITE said. Director of Public Instruction (DPI) K Jeevan Babu said the new method of teaching and studying is a challenge for the teachers and the students. According to him, the department was worried about a section of students who lacked facilities for online classes and had identified over two lakh students in that category. "We have entrusted the class teachers and school headmasters or principals to make sure that students have access to a television or a smartphone or a computer, and Internet for the classes. If not, they should find an alternative for the students to attend the online classes either in real-time or later," Babu said. The department suggested alternatives including television or Internet facilities of neighbors, friends staying nearby, libraries or Akshaya centers. The department also informed that all the classes will be in a downloadable format and can be compiled together and shown to those who have missed the class later. The sessions on Victers channel will be available simultaneously on the KITE Victers website, mobile app, and social media pages. The department said in the first week, the classes will be telecast on a trial basis and these will be repeated in the second week.  The modules for different classes will be prepared by agencies under the General Education Department such as the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), KITE, Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK), and the State Institute of Educational Technology. KITE informed that for the first week at least 1.2 lakh laptops, over 7,000 projectors and nearly 4,545 televisions have been readied for the students. Various NGOs and local self-government institutions have set up digital classrooms in Dalit colonies and Adivasi hamlets in Kerala. The LSGs have tried to bridge the digital divide by crowd-sourcing android TVs and wi-fi devices and certain panchayats have even provided smartphones to those students who lack one.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-covid-19-pandemic-new-academic-year-begins-in-kerala-classes-go-online-844246.html
01-06-2020||South||Amid lockdown, Kerala govt boat ferries lone passenger, a girl, to enable her to take exam||In a heart-warming gesture, a 70-seater boat of the Kerala State Water Transport department was sent to ferry a lone passenger, a 17-year-old student, to enable her to appear for the plus one examination (11th standard) on two days last month in the midst of the coronavirus pandemic. The student, Sandra Babu, who stays in a remote backwater island in Kuttanad in Alappuzha district, had to appear for the examination on Friday and Saturday at Kanjiram in Kottayam district. Boats are the only means of transport in this region and due to the COVID-19 induced lockdown the services had stopped plying when the dates of the examination, postponed earlier, were announced. The Kuttanad region has the lowest altitude in India and is one of the few places in the world where farming is carried on around 1.2 metre to 3.0 metres below sea level (average levelof the surface of one or more of earth's bodies of water from which heights such as elevation may be measured). Sandra, whose parents are daily wagers, were wondering how to get her to the examination hall, when she approached the department. On hearing about her plight, the department did not think twice but decided to extend a helping hand, KSWTD Director Shaji V Nair said. However, there were two issues-- as two districts were involved. The student, from Alappuzha, had to write the examination in Kottayam district and they had to deviate from the normal route to pick and drop her. But this was the only option as it was the quesiton of a child's future, Nair told PTI. Transport minister A K Saseendran also supported the move, he said. Normally, the student has to take another boat to reach the embarkation point of the KSWTD. A five-member crew, which was entrusted the task of transporting the girl, took the boat to the nearest point from her home, and she walked about five km to reach this point, another official said. The boat dropped her, waited for the examination to be over and dropped her back home on both days, Nair, whose daughter also appeared for the plus one examination,said. "I am also a parent and my daughter was also appearing for the examination. I can understand their situation," he said. Asked if it was a free trip, Nair said the basic fare for students was only charged from her. Another girl, Sreedevi, walked seven km, took a motorcycle ride, and travelled in an Ambulance to cover about 150 km from a remote tribal hamlet to reach her examination centre at Thrissur and appeared for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination recently. The 10th standard student travelled from a tribal hamletsituated in the midst of a forest, near Malakkapara, 90 km from the Tamil Nadu-Valpara Pollachi border to appear for the examination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/amid-lockdown-kerala-govt-boat-ferries-lone-passenger-a-girl-to-enable-her-to-take-exam-844250.html
01-06-2020||South||TN CM lays foundation stone for TIDEL IT park at Pattabiram||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Monday laid the foundation stone for the construction of a TIDEL IT Park at Pattabiram, with an aim to usher in development in the northern parts of the city. Palaniswami laid the foundation stone via video conferencing for the 5.57 lakh sq.ft facility, an official release said. The estimated Rs 235 crore facility will be the second TIDEL Park in the city, with the first one being located on the busy Rajiv Gandhi Salai, also known as the city's IT Corridor for the presence of various software companies along the route. The release said that much like the first TIDEL Park ensured development in south Chennai, the upcoming facility will act as a platform to usher in social and economic growth in the northern parts. It will encourage new businesses around it, benefitting 25,000 people with direct employment opportunities, and will be completed in 24 months, the release added. The 21-floor building will have modern facilities. Meanwhile, the chief minister inaugurated 16 electricity sub-stations set up in different parts of the state at an estimated Rs 235.20 crore. The sub-stations have been established in Salem, Namakkal, Tirupur and Thanjavur districts, among others, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-cm-lays-foundation-stone-for-tidel-it-park-at-pattabiram-844257.html
01-06-2020||South||Four fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Puducherry, tally rises to 49||Director of Health and Family Welfare S Mohan Kumar appealed to people to strictly adhere to the lockdown norms such as maintaining social distancing, wearing of masks and voluntary isolation as there were fears over a rise in number of cases following easing of restrictions. He said four positive cases were reported here last night, taking the total number of positive cases to 49. There were 46 COVID-19 cases as of Sunday and one patient hailing from neighbouring Kurumbapet was discharged after recovery reducing the tally to 45. "We tested samples of 51 persons and found four of them to be positive and they were admitted to hospital for treatment and this had now led to an increase in the number of cases to 49," Mohan Kumar said.   They included a couple who had come into contact with their close relative and contracted the infection necessitating their admission to the hospital here. The Director of Health said with the easing of slew of curbs from today there would be possibility of more patients knocking at the doors of the hospital for treatment. "It is for the people to become aware of the prevailing situation. They should avoid being part of crowd, wear masks and maintain social distancing," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-puducherry-tally-rises-to-49-844267.html
01-06-2020||South||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundarararjan expresses concern over largest single day spike of 199 COVID-19 cases||With 199 COVID-19 cases reported in Telangana on Sunday, reportedly the highest single-day surge, Governor Tamilisai Soundarararjan has expressed concern over the sharp rise in positive cases, in spite of the ongoing efforts, and called for stepping up the fight against the infectious disease. She, however, said there is no need to panic over the single-day surge, but felt that it is a warning to be cautious and careful. "Worried about surge in Corona positive cases in #Telengana state in spite of efforts in existence. Single day's largest jump of 199 cases 2 PG medicos & other front line warriors including police warrants United aggressive #fightagainstcorona Stepping up #COVID fights is needed," Soundararajan tweeted.   She said relaxation in lockdown norms does not mean relaxation in safety precautions learnt in recent months. "Single day Surge No need to be panic. But warning to be cautious & careful.   #relaxation in lockdown restrictions doesn't mean a relaxation of safety precautions & practices learned recently. luckily we are moving towards #Unlock1 not lockdown 5 relaxation not 4 virus but 4 values," she said. Telangana registered its largest single-day spike of coronavirus cases with 199 fresh infections reported on Sunday, pushing the tally to 2,698 even as five fatalities due to the virus were reported in the state, taking the toll to 82.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-governor-tamilisai-soundarararjan-expresses-concern-over-largest-single-day-spike-of-199-covid-19-cases-844279.html
01-06-2020||South||Kerala HC recalls bail granted to rape & murder accused; orders arrest||The Kerala High Court on Monday recalled the bail it granted to an accused in a rape and murder case last month and directed that he be arrested. On May 12, the High Court had granted bail to Safarshah (32) on the ground that the Investigating Officer had not filed the charge sheet within the statutory period of 90 days. Safarshah, who allegedly abducted, raped and killed a 17-year-old girl from Ernakulam in January this year, was released from the jail on May 19. Later, it was found that the charge sheet had been filed and wrong submissions were made by counsel for the accused and the prosecution in the High Court when Safarshah's bail application came up for its consideration. The government on Monday filed a criminal miscellaneous application before the High Court admitting its 'inadvertent' mistake and sought to recall the bail application filed by the accused, which led to grant of bail of the accused. It also submitted that there was every chance that the accused would intimidate the witness in the case. Justice P V Kunhikrishnan, while considering the government's application, recalled the bail and directed the arrest of the accused. The matter will be considered again on June 3. In January, Safarshah, who works in an automobile service centre, was arrested for allegedly abducting, raping and killing the Plus Two student and dumping her body at Vatattuparai in Tamil Nadu.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-hc-recalls-bail-granted-to-rape-murder-accused-orders-arrest-844305.html
01-06-2020||South||Everything that is allowed during lockdown 5.0 in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu is among the states that are worst-affected by COVID-19 in India. It recorded a total of over 22,000 COVID-19 cases as of June 1. Nonetheless, the Tamil Nadu government announced significant relaxations, including resumption of limited public transport in the state. This came a day after the Centre relaxed the lockdown rules to allow malls, restaurants, and religious places to function in all areas except containment zones from June 8. Here is a list of everything that is allowed during lockdown 5.0 in Tamil Nadu: Relaxations in Chennai: Nonetheless, there will be no relaxations in any of the containment zones, where all restrictions will continue. Shopping Malls, cinema theatres, halls, gyms, bars, beaches, zoological parks, museums, sports stadiums, schools, colleges, universities, coaching centers, and places of worship have not been permitted to open all across the state as of now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/everything-that-is-allowed-during-lockdown-50-in-tamil-nadu-844352.html
01-06-2020||South||DMK MP Bharathi granted conditional bail||A city sessions court on Monday granted conditional bail to DMK organising secretary and Rajya Sabha MP RS Bharathi in connection with a SC/ST case after he surrendered before it. Bharathi was arrested on May 23 for his alleged disparaging remarks against the scheduled caste community. Within hours, a sessions judge remanded him to judicial custody till June 5 but granted him interim bail till June 1, primarily on COVID-19 apprehensions. He was further directed to surrender before the court concerned and seek bail on June 1. Granting bail today, First additional judge MN Senthilkumar directed Bharathi to cooperate with the investigation and appear before the Investigating officer as and when required. Meanwhile, the city crime branch moved the high court seeking to cancel the bail granted by the sessions court. On May 30, the high court dismissed CCB's plea and refused to cancel the bail, saying it lacked jurisdiction. As per the directions of the court, Bharathi surrendered before the jurisdictional court and moved a fresh bail application. Allowing it, the court has directed the CCB police to enlarge Bharathi on bail in case of arrest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-mp-bharathi-granted-conditional-bail-844420.html
01-06-2020||South||Coronavirus cases continue to surge in Tamil Nadu; tally crosses 23,000||For the second consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported over 1,000 cases on Monday with 1,162 persons, including 50 who returned from other states, testing positive for coronavirus as the state’s tally crossed the 23,000-mark. There is no respite at all for the state capital as it reported its highest-ever single day spike by registering 972 COVID-19 cases on Monday alone. Chennai now has 15,770 cases, including 8,181 discharges and 138 deaths. The majority of the 15,770 cases are from six zones that house some of the densely populated areas in the city with experts batting for focussed testing of symptomatic persons and vulnerable sections like the elderly. The state had on Sunday reported 1,149 cases. As on Monday, the total number of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu stood at 23,495 that includes 13,170 discharges and 184 deaths – 11 of which were reported on Monday. The Health Department said all deceased, including a 31-year-old woman, had co-morbidities that led to their death. Over 18,000 of the 23,000-odd cases belong to Chennai and its three neighbouring districts of Kanchipuram, Tiruvallur, and Chengalpattu making them the biggest hotspot in the state. Even as the number of persons testing positive witnesses an exponential increase every passing day, the testing numbers were reduced on Monday – the state tested 11,377 samples which is 1,430 samples less than Sunday’s 12,807. The testing numbers were reduced despite an expert committee constituted by the Tamil Nadu government suggested that the testing be ramped up immediately, at least in Chennai. P Kuganantham, former Chennai City Health Officer and member of the expert committee, told DH that the number of tests should be increased immediately to contain the spread of the virus. “Focussed testing is the need of the hour and we want the government to test symptomatic patients and those vulnerable to the virus first. They can start this from containment zones. Increasing the number of tests is absolutely necessary to contain the spread of the coronavirus. There is no need to panic over the numbers,” he said. Data released by the government says May has been the worst month for the state with 145 of the 173 deaths being reported in the 31-day period. Also, the month saw the state moving from a mere 2,526 positive cases on May 1 to 22,333 cases on the last day of the month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-cases-continue-to-surge-in-tamil-nadu-tally-crosses-23000-844456.html
01-06-2020||South||Six deaths, 94 fresh COVID-19 cases in Telangana||Six more people succumbed to COVID-19 in Telangana, pushing the death toll to 88, while 94 fresh cases were reported on Monday, taking the tally of infections to 2,792, even as Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan expressed concern over the spike in cases. All the 94 cases were from different districts, with Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation accounting for 79 of them, the health department said in a bulletin. The GHMC area has been the hotbed of COVID-19 cases in Telangana. No fresh positive case was found among migrants, deportees and foreign returnees on Monday, the bulletin said. As of date, 434 of them have tested positive. A total of 1,491 people have been discharged so far after recovery, while 1,213 are under treatment. The bulletin said there has been a surge of cases since lockdown restrictions were eased on May 16 as some people were not following basic preventive measures like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. It also said that the Centre has airlifted 458 deportees, who have been quarantined in government quarantine centres. Till date, 212 deportees have tested positive for COVID-19 and they are being treated, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, in the first case of a political leader from Telangana testing positive for COVID-19, a BJP leader in the state, a former MLA, was found to be infected with the virus, party sources said. The BJP leader reported to a private hospital with symptoms of the virus on Sunday and his test results showed him to be positive for the infection, they said. He is undergoing treatment in the hospital, the sources said, adding that his family members have also been quarantined. With 199 COVID-19 cases reported in Telangana on May 31, reportedly the highest single day surge, Governor Tamilisai Soundarararjan on Monday expressed worry over the sharp rise in cases, in spite of the ongoing efforts and called for stepping up the fight against the infectious disease. She, however, said there was no need to panic over the single day surge, but felt that it is a warning to be cautious and careful. "Worried about surge in Corona positive cases in #Telengana state inspite of efforts in existence. Single day's largest jump of 199 cases 2 PG medicos & other front line warriors including police warrants United aggressive #fightagainstcorona Stepping up #COVID fights is needed," Soundararajan tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/six-deaths-94-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-telangana-844480.html
01-06-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Good samaritans help Bangladeshi boy undergo heart surgery in Tamil Nadu||A 9-year-old Bangladeshi boy has got a new lease of life after a successful heart surgery in Tamil Nadu amid the COVID-19 lockdown with the help of an Indian who was friends with his uncle in Oman where they worked together. Not only did N Rajasekar help in arranging funds for the surgery for Mohammed Arif, son of poor farm labourers from Chattogram, he also gave shelter and food to the family members for nearly three months in view of COVID-19 lockdown after they were stranded in Vedaranyam near here. During Ramzan month, he made arrangements for their fasting, with his gesture drawing praise on the social media. "Earlier, my son couldn't even walk for a few meters. Now, he has become normal like other children. We enjoyed the hospitality of Rajasekar's family," Mohsina Begum, mother of Arif, told reporters. The boy underwent the surgery at a hospital in Coimbatore on May 16 and has since then recovered well and would be returning to Bangladesh once flight services resume to the neighbouring country, she said. Arif had been suffering from a congenital heart defect and required a surgery. Since his parents were poor agricultural labourers, his maternal uncle Abdul Raheem, working in Oman, had sought the help of Rajasekar and he readily agreed to mobilise resources and arrange for the surgery. Rajasekar, who had also worked in Oman, approached local industrialist Sultanul Arifa, who extended financial assistance for the surgery while others including social activist Rahmatullah and Deputy Superintendent of Police A. Safiyullah also chipped in. The DSP helped in arranging logistics, including e-pass for travel to Coimbatore during the lockdown. "We can never forget the timely help of Rajasekar, Sultanul Arifa and others," Begum said. Rajasekar's humanitarian gesture has gone viral on social media with many appreciating him for the timely help to a family belonging to a different religion and from another country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-good-samaritans-help-bangladeshi-boy-undergo-heart-surgery-in-tamil-nadu-844513.html
01-06-2020||South||Kerala govt extends lockdown in containment zones till June 30||In line with Central guidelines, the Kerala government on Monday extended the lockdownin containment zones till June 30, but eased curbs in many sectors including allowing indoor film and television shoots and inter-district bus services connecting neighbouring districts, even as it made it clear schools will not reopen till July end. No outdoor shooting will be allowed. Indoor shooting of films will be allowed with a maximum participation of 50 people and following strict health precautionary measures, while for television shoots only upto 25 people would be allowed, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Giving details of easing lockdown restrictions, Vijayan said those coming from outside the state will have to register with the government's 'COVID Jagratha portal' and travel after taking pass. The containment zones will remain under a curfew-like situation and people will be allowed only for attending funeral of close relatives and they should approach police station for passes, he said. For train journey, passengers coming with return tickets from other states, need not undergo quarantine. The government also decided to allow conduct of marriages at the Lord Krishna temple at Guruvayoor, but with limited participation of not more than 50 people. In other temples in the state, permission had been given earlier itself for conducting weddings, he said. Inter-district bus service can be allowed in a limited manner connecting neighbouring districts, Vijayan said, adding, no standing passengers would be allowed. All passengers would have to wear masks and sanitisersshould be provided in the bus. Besides the car driver, three passengers can travel in a four-wheeler, while in autorickshaws, only two passengers would be allowed, he said. The Chief Minister said the academic session in the state began on Monday through an online facility and made it clear that the schools will not open until July end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-govt-extends-lockdown-in-containment-zones-till-june-30-844526.html
01-06-2020||State||Chikkamagaluru: Fire breaks out at Malnad Tyres outlet||The fire broke out at Malnad Tyres outlet in the wee hours of Monday, at NMC Circle on I G Road in Chikkamagaluru. The majority of the items including tyres, tubes, furniture, and others in the shop has been gutted in the fire. No casualty was reported in the accident. On information, fire tenders rushed to the spot and extinguished the flames after three hours. Thick smoke billowed from flames, creating panic in the surrounding areas. A few items in the ICICI insurance office functioning from the third floor of the building has been gutted in the fire.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/chikkamagaluru-fire-breaks-out-at-malnad-tyres-outlet-844146.html
01-06-2020||State||Shivakumar alleges political conspiracy as official takeover as KPCC head postponed again||Karnataka Congress head D K Shivakumar on Monday alleged "political conspiracy" as his official takeover of the party's reigns was postponed for the second time, with the government imposing restrictions on political events temporarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The official take over event of KPCC President "Pratigna" was scheduled to take place on June 7. "...we had requested for permission from the Chief Minister, DG of Police and city Police Commissioner to organise the event on June 7, but as per the recent central and state guidelines, political events have been banned," Shivakumar said. Speaking to reporters here, he said the event cannot be held on June 7 as planned, for which preparations were on. "Despite requesting permission for about 150 people here and people at different places like pancayats and wards, they did not give us permission. There is a clear political conspiracy behind it...still respecting the centre and the state government, we will not violate the rules, as we are also law makers," he said. Shivakumar, however, appealed to party karyakartas to continue with the preparations, stating that date may change, but the event would be held. "After the government gives permission...maybe after June 8 once the government takes a decision after assessing the situation, it will be held," he added. Over two months after his appointment as Karnataka Congress president, Shivakumar was to take-over the reigns of the party officially on May 31, but it was postponed as the government had announced a complete lockdown on Sundays, till the end of the month. After remaining in a virtual vacuum for nearly three months, the party high command on March 11 appointed the six- time MLA, known to be the Congress' chief troubleshooter in crisis situations, replacing Dinesh Gundu Rao as the KPCC chief. Rao had quit the post in December after the party''s dismal show when it won only two of the 15 seats in the bypolls, yielding 12. Noting that he has been discharging his duties as KPCC chief from the date of his appointment, Shivakumar said he has been guiding the Congress workers in COVID-19 related work with the cooperation from all party leaders. "We had planned a symbolic (official takeover) event in the presence of about 150 people here (at party office), and at about 7,800 places- at all panchayats and wards by singing Vande Mataram, reading the preamble of the Constitution and hoisting the national and party flag, and to relay it on TV so that people don't gather," he added. Shivakumar has already announced that in the days to come he will travel across the state to meet people in distress and 'become their voice'. To a question about senior Congress leader and Public Accounts Committee (PAC) Chief H K Patil considering moving a privilege motion against Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri for stalling an inquiry into alleged corruption in the procurement of COVID-19 equipment, he said the matter would be discussed at the CLP meeting and along with state leaders. He also sought to know why an inquiry was being stalled by the Speaker.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/shivakumar-alleges-political-conspiracy-as-official-takeover-as-kpcc-head-postponed-again-844371.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka may restrict entry of people from high-risk states||The Karnataka government on Sunday made provisions for the Health and Family Welfare Department to prohibit the entry of people from high-risk states, as it issued guidelines for the three-phased lifting of lockdown based on the directions by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). "Based on reasons of public health and assessment of prevalence of Covid-19 in various states, separate orders will be issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department regarding inter-state movement of persons to Karnataka," the state guidelines read. Karnataka had expressed reservations about the movement of people from states with high caseload such as Maharashtra, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, and barred their entry during the fourth phase of lockdown. After domestic air services resumed, the state had requested the Centre to reduce the number of flights from five states, including the above three and Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. Several ministers were also in favour of curbs on entry of people from some states at the recent Cabinet meeting.  Karnataka will follow the Centre's directions on opening religious places of worship, shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services — all of which will resume on June 8. Earlier, the state was keen on opening hotels and religious places from June 1, and several malls had already made preparations in this reagard. Meanwhile, hotels are hopeful that the state will relax rules before June. B Chandrashekar Hebbar, president of the Karnataka Pradesh Hotels and Restaurants Association, said the government could ease norms for them to resume businesses early.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-may-restrict-entry-of-people-from-high-risk-states-844099.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Mandatory health screening, home quarantine for those entering Karnataka from June 1||All inter-state travellers coming to Karnataka from June 1 would be subjected to mandatory health screening upon their entry and home quarantined for 14 days, the health department said on Sunday. The announcement comes hours after the state government passed an order lifting curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of persons and goods as part of relaxing COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. The order clarified that no separate permission, approval or e-permit would be required for such movements. However, the Health Department made another set of protocols for inter-state travellers arriving in Karnataka during 'Unlock 1.0' period from June 1. Those coming to the state would have to mandatorily register themselves on state government's Seva Sindhu portal, while people at border check-posts, airports, railway stations and bus stands would be screened. People coming from Maharashtra, even if they are asymptomatic would have to be under seven days of institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home quarantine, the order read. Tests would be conducted on people displaying symptoms. However, these would not be applicable to the special category asymptomatic persons such as those visiting the state in the event of death in the family, pregnant women, children aged below 10 years, elderly aged above 60 years and those with serious illness and human distress. Business travellers from Maharashtra would have to establish that they are on a business trip. In case the visitors are coming by road, they would have to provide the address proof of the person in Karnataka they intend to meet, it said. They would also have to produce COVID-19 negative test certificate, which is not more than two days old. Those without a COVID-19 test certificate would be sent to institutional quarantine centre for two days. During this period, coronavirus test would be conducted at their own cost and would be exempted from quarantine if they test negative. There will be a three-member team to monitor the home quarantined persons. Violation of home quarantine norm will attract a police case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-mandatory-health-screening-home-quarantine-for-those-entering-karnataka-from-june-1-844103.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PM Modi praises Karnataka's handling of coronavirus battle, calls for respect for front-line workers||Addressing the silver jubilee celebrations of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) via a digital platform, he spoke about the Karnataka government's efforts. He appreciated the work of front-line warriors who are fighting every day in the war against COVID-19 and stressed the need to respect them.  "Doctors and other medical workers are soldiers without wearing the uniform of soldiers. Any kind of attack or violence against them is not acceptable," said Modi. "There are incidents of violence against the front-line warriors. Any kind of abuse, violence or rude behaviour is not acceptable. The world is looking at doctors and medical staff with gratitude," he said. "This is the biggest crisis since the two World Wars," the prime minister said. "Pre- and post-COVID-19, the world will be different. The discussions now at a global level are humanity-centric." Stressing the importance of medical infrastructure, the prime minister spoke about the decision taken by the Union Government to set up a medical college in every district. "A nation like ours has to have the medical infrastructure and medical education. Now, every district is going to have a medical college," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pm-modi-praises-karnatakas-handling-of-coronavirus-battle-calls-for-respect-for-front-line-workers-844200.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Swarm has diverted to other states; no need to be afraid of locust attack, says Karnataka minister||Karnataka agriculture minister B C Patil on Monday sought to allay apprehensions among farmers about locust attack, saying there was no need to be afraid as the swarm had "diverted" to other states. In the wake of locust attacks in many northern states, the Karnataka farmers were also worried, especially those from North Karnataka region such as Bidar and Kalaburagi. The minister, however, said there was no need to be afraid. "There is no need to be afraid of locusts.It was never a problem in Karnataka," Patil told reporters in Tumakuru. He said that he was also worried when the news broke that a large swarm of locusts had entered the country. "We were also afraid that it may reach Bidar, Kalaburagi or Yadagiri and we had made preparations accordingly but luckily it diverted to other states," Patil said. Patil also cited the state government's various welfare schemes for the benefit of farmers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/swarm-has-diverted-to-other-states-no-need-to-be-afraid-of-locust-attack-says-karnataka-minister-844284.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||187 fresh COVID-19 cases, 1 death reported in Karnataka||As many as 187 new coronavirus cases were reported from Karnataka on Monday along with one death. The death toll is now 52 apart from two suicides. A 90-year-old man from Bengaluru Urban who had spent over a month in hospital after testing positive for COVID-19 died due to multi-organ failure. Of the new cases, 115 new patients had a travel history to Maharashtra. The source of transmission is yet to be determined for 45 of these new cases. Udupi reported 73 new cases. The source of transmission hasn’t been determined for 37 cases, the highest in the state. 33 of the 73 new cases have a travel history to Maharashtra and three have returned from the UAE. Bengaluru Urban reported 28 new cases of which 22 have returned from Maharashtra. All of Kalaburagi’s 24 cases have a travel history to Maharashtra, the youngest is a 4-month-old. Also, 15 of Hassan’s 16 cases have returned from Maharashtra and Mandya has reported 15 cases All other districts have reported cases in single digits. With this, Karnataka’s COVID-19 tally has increased to 3408 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/187-fresh-covid-19-cases-1-death-reported-in-karnataka-844394.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Monsoon in Karnataka in a day or two||The southwest monsoon will set over coastal areas of Karnataka in a day or two as conditions favour the normal progress of seasonal wind. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre director GS Srinivasa Reddy said Monday that the depression in the Arabian Sea would help in the normal onset of monsoon this year. While rainfall in the state will be normal in the first two weeks, extended forecast models indicate a dry spell in the last two weeks of June. "There are encouraging signs for a good monsoon this year. Compared to low probabilities of normal rainfall in the last few years, this year there is high probability of 80 per cent. Forecasts indicate good rainfall in the month of July and August, too," Reddy said. According to the Indian Meteorological Department, monsoon enters Karnataka in the first week of June and covers the entire state by June 10. In 2019, the onset of monsoon was delayed by around two weeks as it entered coastal Karnataka on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/monsoon-in-karnataka-in-a-day-or-two-844398.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||7-days institutional quarantine for people travelling from Maharashtra to Karnataka||Inter-state travel restrictions were lifted from Monday, but people coming from Maharashtra to Karnataka would be subjected to several conditions, including seven days institutional quarantine, in view of high prevalence of COVID-19 cases in the western state. As per the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the department of health, all inter-state travellers entering Karnataka would be subjected to mandatory health screening and placed in home quarantine for 14 days. However, for those from Maharashtra it specified seven days of institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home quarantine even if they were asymptomatic, it said. Tests will be conducted for people having symptoms. "These measures were necessary as maximum cases are of those who returned from Maharashtra," a health official said adding migrant labourers with travel history to the neighbouring state contributed to the recent spike in cases in Karnataka. According to the latest COVID-19 bulletin issued by Karnataka health department, as many as 187 new cases were reported on Monday of which 117 were interstate passengers with a majority of them from Maharashtra. Maharashtra on Monday reported 2,361 new COVID-19 cases and 76 more deaths, taking the overall case count in the state to 70,013 and the number of fatalities to 2,362. However, the SOP will not be applicable to the special category asymptomatic persons such as those visiting the state in the event of death in the family, pregnant women, children aged below 10 years, those above 60 years and serious illness and human distress.  The business travellers from Maharashtra will have to show confirmed return flight or train ticket which should not be more than seven days later from the date of arrival. In case the visitors are coming by road, they will have to provide the address proof of person in Karnataka they intend to meet, the SOP said. They will also have to produce COVID-19 negative test certificate not more than two days old and in the absence of it they will be kept in institutional quarantine for two days. Those home quarantined will have to put up a poster on the door of the house. Violation of home quarantine norms will attract a police case, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/7-days-institutional-quarantine-for-people-travelling-from-maharashtra-to-karnataka-844458.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: With single-day leap of 73 cases, Udupi goes past 200-mark||The coastal district witnessed its biggest single-day spike of 73 infections as its case count jumped to 260 on Monday.  Among those who tested positive for novel coronavirus in the last 24 hours (ending 5 pm on Monday) are four DAR personnel. Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesh told reporters, “Out of the 73 new cases, contacts of 68 have been traced while the contact-tracing the remaining five patients are underway. Among the 68 patients, as many as 61 are Maharashtra returnees while three have a travel history to Dubai, UAE.”  All 68 patients had been shifted to the designated Covid-19 hospitals. Elderly, pregnant women and children were admitted to TMA Pai Hospital and the others had been shifted to the nearby government hospitals, he said. Fears of Community transmission of coronavirus have gripped Udupi as many people, with no travel history, are contracting the virus. And it is not a misplaced fear for many interstate travellers have returned home after completing a reduced seven-day institutional quarantine. Add to it the reports of over 7000 samples in the district are still pending.  The DC added, the district has 195 active cases. As many as 64 patients have been discharged, post recovery while one patient lost battle against the virus. Police quarters at Heroor, Kiri Manjeshwara, Paduvare, Yadtare, Nada, Bejooru and Harathooru have been sealed after four DAR personnel tested positive for Covid-19. Superintendent of Police Vishnuvardhan told reporters that the police stations, where the infected cops worked, would be sanitised. The primary and secondary contacts of the cops were being traced, he added. Dakshina Kannada reported four fresh cases on Monday. Of the four cases, a 45-year-old woman was presented with SARI while one person was a Gujarat returnee. The contact-tracing for the remaining two cases is underway. Meanwhile, Maharashtra returnees continued to bother Kalaburagi and Hassan districts. Kalaburagi recorded 24 fresh cases while Hassan saw 16 fresh cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-with-single-day-leap-of-73-cases-udupi-goes-past-200-mark-844485.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Monsoon to enter Karnataka in a day or two||The Southwest Monsoon will set over coastal areas of Karnataka in a day or two, as conditions favour the normal progress of seasonal wind. Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre director G S Srinivasa Reddy said on Monday that the depression in the Arabian Sea will help in the normal onset of monsoon this year. While rainfall in the state will be normal in the first two weeks, extended forecast models indicate a dry spell in the last two weeks of June. “There are encouraging signs for a good monsoon this year. Compared to low probabilities of normal rainfall in the last few years, this year there is a high probability of 80%. Forecasts indicate good rainfall in July and August, too,” Reddy said. According to the India Meteorological Department, monsoon enters Karnataka in the first week of June and covers the entire state by June 10. In 2019, the onset of monsoon was delayed by around two weeks as it entered coastal Karnataka on June 14.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/monsoon-to-enter-karnataka-in-a-day-or-two-844486.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Modi lauds Karnataka's handling of Covid-19 crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday praised the Karnataka government for its deft handling of the Covid-19 pandemic. Addressing the silver jubilee celebrations of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) via digital platform he made a special mention of Karnataka government’s efforts in dealing with pandemic. Lauding the efforts of health professionals in the fight against the virus, the prime minister called on everyone to respect the frontline warriors. “Doctors and other medical workers are soldiers, but without the soldiers’ uniform. The world is looking Doctors and medical staff with gratitude. Any kind of abuse, violence or rude behaviour towards them are not acceptable,” he said. “This is the biggest crisis since two World Wars. Pre-and Post-Covid19, the world will be different. The discussions earlier at global level were centered around economics, and it’s humanity centric,”Modi said. Stressing about the importance of medical infrastructure, the prime minister spoke about the decision taken by Union government to set up a medical college at every district. “Nation like ours has to have proper medical infrastructure and medical education. Now every district is going to have a medical college,” he added. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, Governor Vajubhai Vala, Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, Medical Education Minister Dr Sudhakar were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/modi-lauds-karnatakas-handling-of-covid-19-crisis-844490.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Investors' meet, planned in November to be deferred||The 'Invest Karnataka' global investors' meet (GIM) proposed to be held at Palace Grounds in Bengaluru from November 3 to 5 will be postponed due to the crisis caused by Covid-19. "Organisning GIM requires a lot of preparations, including holding roadshows, meeting major industrialists and convincing them about the benefits of investing in the State, even amidst economic slowdown. Such activities were delayed due to the Covid-19 situation. This process is going to begin now and the GIM will be postponed for two-three months," Large & Medium Scale Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar told DH. During the 'Invest Karnataka-Hubballi' conference held in Hubballi on February 24, as many as 51 companies had expressed interest to invest Rs 71,000 crore in the North Karnataka region over the years. However, that process suffered a setback due to the Covid-19 situation and the lockdown. Now, follow-up procedures have begun to implement those MoUs, the minister said.  Rajesh Exports Private Limited (REPL) alone had promised an investment of Rs 50,000 crore and the creation of 10,000 jobs, by setting up electrical vehicles and lithium battery manufacturing units. Shettar said he had spoken to REPL chief Rajesh Mehta and he had given a positive response. "Our officials have started a correspondence with industrialists who have promised investment in the region and their requirements, including tax concession and land, will be looked into. Though there was some hesitation earlier, the situation is changing now. It is expected that the process of actual investment in the region will begin soon," Shettar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/investors-meet-planned-in-november-to-be-deferred-844493.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State records 187 cases, death toll goes up to 52||As many as 187 new Covid-19 cases were reported from Karnataka on Monday along with one death. The death toll is now 52 apart from two suicides. A 90-year-old man from Bengaluru Urban who had spent over a month in hospital after testing positive for Covid-19, died due to multi-organ failure. Of the new cases, 115 new patients had a travel history to Maharashtra. The source of transmission is yet to be determined for 45 of these new cases. Udupi reported 73 new cases. The source of transmission hasn’t been determined for 37 cases, the highest in the state. 33 of the 73 new cases have a travel history to Maharashtra and three have returned from the UAE. Bengaluru Urban reported 28 new cases of which 22 have returned from Maharashtra. All of Kalaburagi’s 24 cases have a travel history to Maharashtra, the youngest is a 4-month-old. Also, 15 of Hassan’s 16 cases have returned from Maharashtra and Mandya has reported 15 cases All other districts have reported cases in single digits. With this, Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally has increased to 3408 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-records-187-cases-death-toll-goes-up-to-52-844495.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Finance department mulls half salaries for transport staff||A proposal by the B S Yediyurappa-led Finance department to cut costs in the state-run road transport corporations has irked not only the unions, but also Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi.  The Finance department has suggested employing half the staffers for 15 days of a month and the other half for the next 15 months - over the next four months. While only half salaries will be paid in the four-month period, the rest will be paid after all fleets of various transport utilities resume full-fledgedoperations. Sources say that the proposal by Finance department came as losses piled up for Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), Bengaluru Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) and others. In May, the RTCs were forced to approach the government for Rs 363 crore, which is the monthly wage bill for 1.32 lakh employees. Before the lockdown choked the RTCs of funds causing losses worth hundreds of crores, revenue generated by them footed the wage bill. Speaking to DH, Transport Minister Savadi said that the Finance department has sought an opinion on whether it was possible to do so. “The proposal is recent. In the review meeting of the department chaired by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa scheduled this week, we will convince the CM that this cannot be done,” he said. The government should follow the same parameters it has used to pay government employees from other departments and ensure that salaries of RTC staffers, too, are paid in full, Savadi added. H V Ananth Subbarao of KSRTC staff and workers federation said that they were “totally opposed” to the proposal. “Savadi has noted that the state government owes around Rs 2,900 crore to KSRTC and other RTCs. There will be sufficient funds to pay the salaries if the amount is paid by the government,” he said. A KSRTC employee from Mangaluru depot said that though the proposal assured payment of the salaries due over a four-month period, it was not acceptable to the employees. “There is a trust deficit,” he said, adding that employees feared that the dues will not be paid at all.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/finance-department-mulls-half-salaries-for-transport-staff-844497.html
01-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa ignores ‘dissidence,’ says he’s too busy with work||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa appeared to remain indifferent to the dissident activity by a faction of BJP legislators, saying that he was not worried about such developments. "I am busy working for the development of the state and controlling the Covid-19 pandemic. As a result, I have decided not to worry about such developments and will not issue any statement regarding the same," Yediyurappa told a news conference he addressed to mark the first anniversary of the second term of the Modi administration. Yediyurappa's remarks came in the wake of meetings held by a faction of 'disgruntled' legislators from north Karnataka last week, such as former ministers Umesh Katti and Basanagouda Patil Yatnal. While Katti has rubbished dissidence, Yatnal dropped enough hints of being unhappy with Yediyurappa's leadership. Giving the Covid-19 pandemic precedence over party affairs is seen as Yediyurappa's attempt to not only play down disgruntlement among senior MLAs, but also a way of telling them that this was not the time to frown over expanding the Cabinet and other matters.  Yediyurappa also rejected claims that the state faced a shortage of Covid-19 testing kits. He said this when asked if it was the shortage of the kits that made the government send people home from quarantine without any tests.  Yediyurappa's deputy Laxman Savadi, whose induction into the Cabinet has caused much heartburn within the party, said expressing aspirations and discussing political changes would not amount to dissidence. Cooperation minister S T Somashekar also dismissed talk of factionalism and disgruntlement within the state BJP unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-ignores-dissidence-says-he-s-too-busy-with-work-844499.html
01-06-2020||West||Gujarat's coronavirus death toll jumps to 1,038||Gujarat on Sunday reported 438 new coronavirus cases and 31 deaths, including 20 in worst-hit Ahmedabad, taking the total case count to 16,794 and the number of fatalities to 1,038, a Health official said. A total of 689 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of the recovered patients to 9,919, the official said. The number of the active cases in the state now stands at 5,837 of which 61 patients are on ventilators. Of the 31, 20 deaths were reported from Ahmedabad district, 3 from Panchmahal, two each from Porbandar and Surat, and one each from Amreli, Aravalli, Jamnagar and Rajkot, the official said. With 299 new cases and 20 deaths, Ahmedabad district now accounts for 12,180 of the total 16,794 cases in the state. The number of COVID-19 fatalities in Ahmedabad district stands at 842. Surat and Vadodara reported 55 cases and 34 cases, respectively. The total number of cases in Surat district now stands at 1,620 and in Vadodara district at 1,043. "Of the 689 patients discharged Sunday, a majority of 601 were discharged from Ahmedabad, 30 from Surat and 18 from Vadodara, among others," the official said. Gujarat has so far tested 2,11,930 samples. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 16,794, new cases 438, deaths 1,038, discharged 9,919, active cases 5,837 and people tested so far 2,11,930.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarats-coronavirus-death-toll-jumps-to-1038-844101.html
01-06-2020||West||Maharashtra govt prepares for cyclone Nisarga likely to hit on June 3||The Maharashtra government has beefed up measures along the coastal Konkan belt in wake of an approaching cyclone.  According to the IMD forecast, the cyclone, currently deep in the Arabian Sea, is expected to hit the North Maharashtra and Gujarat coast on June 3.  Meanwhile, on Monday, drizzles were reported from various parts of the Mumbai metropolitan region.  "We have taken all measures. I appeal to fishermen not to venture into the sea," Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said.  The Maharashtra coastal districts are Sindhudurg, Ratnagiri, Raigad, Thane,  Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban and Palghar.  Thackeray said that a few days ago he had chaired a meeting on monsoon preparedness in which officials of the state government,  Mumbai civic body, IMD,  Army, Navy and Air Force were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-prepares-for-cyclone-nisarga-likely-to-hit-on-june-3-844133.html
01-06-2020||West||Heavy rainfall alert in Maharashtra's Palghar district||A heavy rainfall warning has been issued in the Palghar district near Mumbai.  According to IMD's Mumbai-based Regional Meteorological Centre, on June 3 and 4 "extremely heavy rainfall is expected in isolated places"  in the Palghar district.  A largely tribal district, Palghar comprises of the Vasai-Virar township, located 70 to 80 km off downtown Mumbai.  The Vasai Road station on the Western Railway is also a major junction from where Shramik Special trains are originating.  Meanwhile, the Palghar district-VVCMC administration is covering part of the SunCity mudflats where migrants are screened and then taken to the station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rainfall-alert-in-maharashtras-palghar-district-844158.html
01-06-2020||West||Depression over Arabian Sea to intensify into severe cyclonic storm; will impact Mumbai||The depression in the Arabian Sea is likely to intensify into a severe cyclone and cross the north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts on June 3, and will have an impact on Mumbai, the India Meteorological Department said on Monday. The depression will intensify into a deep depression --- the third and fourth stage of any cyclone formation --- by this evening. It will intensify into a cyclonic storm by June 2, the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said.  "It (the storm) is very likely to move nearly northwards initially till June 2 morning and then recurve north-northeastwards and cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts between Harihareshwar (Raigad, Maharashtra) and Daman during evening/night of June 3," the Cyclone Warning Division said. The nearly 260 km patch between Raigad and Daman has one of the highest population densities in the country. Apart from Mumbai, it also has satellites cities like Thane, Navi-Mumbai, Panvel, Kalyan-Dombivli, Mira-Bhayander, Vasai-Virar, Ulhasnagar, Badlapur and Ambernath.  "It will have an impact on Mumbai," IMD director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra told PTI. When it crosses the coast on the evening of June 3, it will have a speed of 105-110 kmph, the IMD said. Heavy rains are also expected in south Gujarat and coastal Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/depression-over-arabian-sea-to-intensify-into-severe-cyclonic-storm-will-impact-mumbai-844167.html
01-06-2020||West||Coronavirus Unlock 1.0: List of activities allowed in Gujarat from June 1||Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani announced further relaxations in the state starting June 1 keeping in view the latest guidelines announced by the Centre.  Rupani said that in most areas, except parts of Ahemdabad and Surat, the government has offered massive relaxations in the last 10 days. “In this new unlocking effort, we have to continue to work with coronavirus without any economic blockade so that no work is hampered,” he added. Gujarat on Sunday reported 438 new coronavirus cases and 31 deaths, including 20 in worst-hit Ahmedabad, taking the total case count to 16,794 and the number of fatalities to 1,038, a Health official said. A total of 689 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of the recovered patients to 9,919, the official said. The number of the active cases in the state now stands at 5,837 of which 61 patients are on ventilators.  Here’s a list of what activities are allowed in the state outside containment zones: 1. State buses and city transport have been permitted to operate without regional limitation. The condition being that state transport buses cannot ferry above 60 percent of their passenger limit and city buses, above 50 percent. 2. Two persons are now allowed on a scooter, on the condition that both of them are family members and are wearing masks. Small four-wheelers will continue to have a maximum limit of two passengers and a driver while the passenger limit of large four-wheelers like SUVs is now set at four including a driver. 3.  All government offices are scheduled to function with 100 percent capacity from June 1. 4. Curfew timings have been changed from 7 pm-7 am to 9 pm-5 am. 5. Removing the odd-even rule, all shops and markets in the state have been allowed to open, given that everyone maintains social distancing and wears face masks.  6. As per the Centre’s guidelines, all hotels, restaurants, religious places are to start operating by June 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-unlock-10-list-of-activities-allowed-in-gujarat-from-june-1-844173.html
01-06-2020||West||ABVP slams Maharashtra govt over not holding final year university exams||The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad, students' wing affiliated to the RSS, has demanded the Maharashtra government to withdraw its decision of not holding the final year university exams in the state. The decision is not in accordance with the Maharashtra Universities Act, the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) said in a statement issued late Sunday night. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said the prevailing COVID-19 situation in the state is not conducive to allow holding of the final year university exams. "Aggregate marks of semester exams will be taken and students will be given marks," Thackeray said. "I held talks with vice-chancellors. I may be the CM and they may be vice-chancellors but we all are also parents. We cannot let our children suffer. Those students who feel they could have done better if they had appeared for the final year exams, they will be given a chance when the situation normalises," the chief minister said. Reacting to it, the ABVP said the government has "double standards" over such an important issue, as it has allowed students to appear for grade improvement exams "in next semester". Therefore, this is an injustice with students and it will harm their future prospects, it said. Thackeray on Sunday also said the state government is more keen to ensure the academic year starts on time in June than re-opening schools. "Schools in rural areas where there is no pandemic spread can start whereas in cities online education can be given priority," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/abvp-slams-maharashtra-govt-over-not-holding-final-year-university-exams-844187.html
01-06-2020||West||Lockdown: More relaxations may be announced in Goa, says CM Pramod Sawant||All relaxations given by the Centre in the fifth phase of lockdown will be implemented in Goa and further easing of norms would be decided upon gradually, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said on Monday. Sawant told reporters some more relaxations may be announced in the evening. He said the state had controlled the virus outbreak effectively and all cases now were of people who had come from outside. The state has 27 active cases. "They tested positive after arriving here. There is no community transmission of the virus in Goa," he said. In reply to a query, Sawant said 87,000 migrant labourers leaving the state amid the lockdown would affect some sectors, like real estate, adding that Goans must "take some works that are feasible for them".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-more-relaxations-may-be-announced-in-goa-says-cm-pramod-sawant-844265.html
01-06-2020||West||Gujarat Rath Yatra to be simple affair due to coronavirus outbreak||The world-renowned annual Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra in Gujarat's Ahmedabad will be held for the first time in 143 years without the accompaniment of troupes, tableau trucks, and massive crowds in view of novel coronavirus outbreak. Only three chariots, each to be pulled by 30 persons, will be taken out in the presence of temple trustees and priests as part of the 143rd edition of the yatra on June 23, coinciding with "Ashadhi Beej", said temple trustee Mahendra Jha.   "This will be the first time in 143 years that only three chariots will take part. Due to coronavirus pandemic, there will be no trucks carrying devotees, akhadas, singing troupes, tableaux. It will be a simple affair and we want people to catch it live on television this time," he told PTI.   Traditionally, the procession, led by chariots of Lord Jagannath, brother Balbhadra and sister Subhadra, starts early morning from the 400-year-old temple and returns by late evening, the route full of people running into several hundred thousand, decorated elephants, some 100 trucks with tableaux, singers, akhadas etc. The procession comes back to the Lord Jagannath Temple after covering a distance of 18 kilometres in 12 hours. "We will try to return to the temple as early as possible. All guidelines in place like social distancing etc will be followed strictly," Jha added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-rath-yatra-to-be-simple-affair-due-to-coronavirus-outbreak-844276.html
01-06-2020||West||Pune village uses umbrella as social distancing tool||A village in Pune district has decided to use an umbrella as a social distancing tool amid the coronavirus outbreak, taking a cue from a much-feted idea implemented in Thanneermukkom in Kerala's Alappuzha. An official said the umbrella as a social distancing tool in Manchar gram panchayat on Pune-Nashik Highway, with a population of 50,000, was producing results as not a single COVID-19 case has been reported here so far. "With lockdown norms being eased gradually, and a lot of people traveling to these parts from Mumbai, the danger of transmission also increased. Therefore, it became important to ensure the village was safe from the outbreak. Since the Kerala model of using umbrellas for social distancing was effective, we too adopted it here," said Datta Ganjale, sarpanch of Manchar village. He said the use of social media, powered by hashtags, selfies with umbrella etc encouraged people and went a long way in making the idea a success.  Ambegaon tehsil Block Development Officer Jalinder Pathare said the umbrella idea has been effective so far. "More and more people should adopt the concept and it is going to be a new normal in the coming days," said Pathare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-village-uses-umbrella-as-social-distancing-tool-844277.html
01-06-2020||West||Everything that is allowed in Maharashtra during Lockdown 5.0||In Maharashtra, the worst affected state from coronavirus in India, the lockdown has been extended till June 30 with easing of restrictions and phase-wise resumption of activities. Calling it “Mission Begin Again”, the government has permitted certain activities in the state. However, containment zones will not have any relaxation. The directive from the state government came a day after the Centre issued ‘Unlock 1’ guidelines, allowing reopening of malls, hotels, restaurants and places of worship from June 8. The Centre has also allowed unfettered movement of goods and persons between states and within states. States have, however, been given the authority to prohibit certain activities or put suitable restrictions as necessary for containment of the COVID-19 pandemic. Here is a list of everything that is allowed during the Phase I, beginning June 3, of lockdown 5.0 in Maharashtra: 1. Individual physical exercises like cycling, jogging, running, walking shall be permitted on public open spaces including beaches, public or private playgrounds, grounds belonging to societies or institutions, gardens and promenades with following conditions. No indoor areas like gyms, swimming pools, stadiums, etc. are to be used. This will be allowed between 5 am to 7 pm. No group activity will be permitted. However, children should be accompanied by an adult. People are advised to stay outdoors only for a limited time and solely for the purposes of physical activities. 2. All government offices, excluding emergency, health & medical, treasuries, disaster management, police, NIC, food & civil supply, FCI, N.Y.K., municipal services, can operate with 15% staff, or a minimum 15 employees whichever is more. 3. Activities related to self-employed people like plumbers, electricians, pest-control and technicians with social distancing norms and usage of masks and sanitisation. Garages to mend vehicles and workshops with prior appointments.    Here is a list of everything that is allowed during the Phase II, beginning from June 5, of lockdown 5.0 in Maharashtra: 1.  All markets, market areas and shops, except malls and market complexes, are allowed to function on PI-P2 basis in which shops on one side of the road/lane/passage to be opened on odd dates while shops on the other side on even dates. These can function only from 9 am to 5 pm while following all conditions. 2. However, trial rooms in shops will not be permitted. People are advised to walk or use cycles for shopping. If any crowding or failure of social distancing norms is seen, then authorities will immediately close down such shops or markets. 3. Shopkeepers have been encouraged to take measures such as foot markings on the floor, token system, home delivery etc. 4.  For transport purposes, two wheelers can have one rider. Three and four wheelers can have 1 + 2 passengers. Taxis, auto-rickshaws will only ply for essential services permitted with a driver and a maximum of two passengers. Intra-district bus service will be allowed with maximum 50 per cent capacity per bus, with physical distancing and sanitation measures. 5. Inter-state and intra-state movement of medical professionals, nurses and para medical staff, sanitation personnel and ambulances, will be allowed without any restriction. 6. The movement of stranded labour, migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, movement of persons by Shramik Special trains and seafarers, movement of Indian nationals stranded outside the country and of specified persons to travel abroad; evacuation of foreign nationals; sign-on and sign-off of Indian seafarers will continue to be regulated as per their respective SOPs issued. 7.  All authorities will allow inter-state movement of all types of goods/ cargo, including empty trucks. No authorities will stop the movement of any type of goods/cargo. Here is a list of everything that will be allowed during the Phase III, beginning from June 8 of lockdown 5.0 in Maharashtra: 1.  All private offices can operate with up to 10 per cent strength as per requirement, with remaining persons working from home. Several activities will remain prohibited across the state. Institutions such as: schools, colleges, educational training and coaching institutions, metro rail, cinema halls, gymnasiums, swimming pools, theatres, auditorium, spas, salons, barber shops, hotels and restaurants have not be allowed to resume services for now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/everything-that-is-allowed-in-maharashtra-during-lockdown-50-844314.html
01-06-2020||West||Centre, states must present revised budget estimates: Chavan||The Centre and states must come up with revised budget estimates on expenditure in view of the coronavirus outbreak and the resultant lockdown which had changed economic conditions, senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan said here on Monday. Interacting with journalists online, Chavan said states had limited sources of income and a huge part was being used up for paying salaries of government employees. "The states must look for new sources of income to balance their expenses. Therefore, the Centre and states must present revised estimates of expenditure," Chavan said. He criticised the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said only Rs 2 lakh would be spent directly from the Central government's treasury. He also pulled up industry bodies for "keeping quiet" on this package.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/centre-states-must-present-revised-budget-estimates-chavan-844328.html
01-06-2020||West||As 5th phase of lockdown begins, Gujarat cities start 'unlocking'||Life returned to near normal in many parts of Gujarat, notably in Ahmedabad, the state's worst coronavirus-hit district, as several restrictions were eased in the fifth phase of the lockdown that began on Monday. Roads bustled with traffic as people came out in large numbers to visit markets, which are now open till 7pm in all areas except in containment and micro-containment zones. In Ahmedabad, a limited number of city buses began plying with 50 per cent seating capacity to maintain social distancing, while autorickshaws hit the roads for the first time in ten weeks, though the reduced number of passengers they have been permitted to ferry was a dampener. "We stayed home for 70 days. We are thankful to the government for allowing us to operate our autorickshaws, but we have, unfortunately, not got any kind of financial support from the government. We are hardly getting any passengers now as we cannot carry people in shuttle system because only a limited number is allowed," said an autorikshaw driver. A bus station in Ranip area of Ahmedabad saw people gathering since early morning to catch intra-state transport buses, though the capacity was restricted and those boarding were first checked by conductors holding temperature guns. The textile market in Surat, among the largest in the country, resumed business after it was sanitised earlier by civic authorities, with shops opening under an odd-even mechanism from 9am to 4pm. "Work will begin only after transportation starts as a majority of materials go out of the market. We came here to check stock that had been lying unused for such a long time. The losses due to the lockdown has been very heavy, but we hope things pick up from here," said a shop owner. Government offices opened on Monday with full staff strength, while the sizable numbers that came to the Assembly complex in Gandhinagar were allowed to enter only after being screened with thermal guns. Face masks continued to be mandatory and police as well as civic officials were seen in large numbers to check if people were adhering to norms laid down to contain the novel coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/as-5th-phase-of-lockdown-begins-gujarat-cities-start-unlocking-844361.html
01-06-2020||West||Coronavirus outbreak: Mumbai's suburbs have over 10,000-plus cases now||||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-outbreak-mumbais-suburbs-have-over-10000-plus-cases-now-844366.html
01-06-2020||West||Coronavirus lockdown: Nearly 17 lakh migrants left Maharashtra in one month||Nearly 17 lakh migrants have moved out of Maharashtra in trains and buses in about a month's time. "More than 16.5 lakh migrant population has already gone in trains and buses and even more are still going," Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday evening. Of these 16.5 lakh,  more than 11.5 lakh have gone in Shramik Special trains being run by Indian Railways and the rest in buses of Maharashtra State Road Transport  Corporation (MSRTC). Sharing details, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said that from May 1-June 1, 822 Shramik Special trains have taken 11,86,212 migrant workers back to their home states. Among the 822 trains, the most have been sent to Uttar Pradesh (450) followed by Bihar (177), West Bengal (47), Madhya Pradesh (34), Jharkhand (32), Rajasathan (20), Odisha (17), Karnataka (6), Chhatisgarh (6) among other states. These special Shramik trains are being deployed from almost all major railway stations across Maharashtra, Deshmukh informed. These include Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (136), Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (154), Panvel (45), Bhiwandi (11), Borivali (71), Kalyan (14), Thane (37), Bandra Terminus (64), Pune (78), Kolhapur (25), Satara (14), Aurangabad (12), Nagpur (14) among others. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Transport Minister Anil Parab said that more than 5 lakh migrants have been dropped along the state's borders in ST buses.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-nearly-17-lakh-migrants-left-maharashtra-in-one-month-844388.html
01-06-2020||West||Gap between Maharashtra's coronavirus cases and recovered patients narrows down||The gap between the compounding COVID-19 cases and the discharge of patients seems to be narrowing in Maharashtra.  The daily update of the state's Public Health department reflects so - while the total positive cases crossed 70,000, the cumulative discharge of patients surpassed 30,000-mark.  The total COVID-19  positive cases on Monday night stands at 70,013 while the cumulative discharge at 30,108 - leaving 37,534 as active cases.  "In few days, it would be a sort of 50:50 ratio. There are various factors that has contributed to it," said Mumbai-based general practitioners and epidemiologists.  On Monday,  a total of 76 deaths anD 2,361 new cases were reported - pushing the cumulative total to 2,362 and 70,013, respectively. Of the 76 deaths, Mumbai and larger Mumbai metropolitan region accounted for 60. So far,  4,71,573 tests have been conducted of which 70,013 have tested positive. Public Health department officials said that the recovery rate has increased.  On 31 March,  it was 12.91 per cent,  while on 30 April, it was 16.88 per cent but on May 31, it stood at 43.35 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gap-between-maharashtras-coronavirus-cases-and-recovered-patients-narrows-down-844422.html
01-06-2020||West||12 test COVID-19 +ve in Maha's Amravati, tally at 230||The number of COVID-19 cases in Amravati in Maharashtra reached 230 on Monday after 12 people tested positive for novel coronavirus, including ten from the city's containment zones, an official said. The two other cases were from Shikshak Colony and Kakda village, both new areas on the COVID-19 map here, he added. "Of the 12 cases, three were from local hotspot Masanganj, which now has 35 cases, the highest for a single area in the district," the official informed. The number of active cases in Amravati stands at 87.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/12-test-covid-19-ve-in-mahas-amravati-tally-at-230-844424.html
01-06-2020||West||Coronavirus in Gujarat: Dead nearly two weeks back, family gets SMS 'patient moved to different hospital'||A 30-year-old, Sagar Shah, was still grieving his father's death from COVID-19 when his phone buzzed with text messages saying that his father "Kishorebhai Heeralal Shah has been transferred to COVID hospital, Asarwa, Ahmedabad on May 30 at 6:38 pm." His father Kishorebhai had passed away on May 16. "I was shocked and equally pained. I realised it was another example of sheer negligence on part of the hospitals. I myself cremated my father on May 16, took photographs," says Sagar, a bit angrily. These messages only reminded of his struggle to claim the dead body of his 64-year-old father from the civil hospital and visiting the police station to file an FIR for the jewellery his father was wearing were stolen along with Rs10,000 cash from his wallet. He said that it was following the intervention of Congress MLA Imran Khedawala that he could get information that his father had died and eventually the dead body was handed over after hours of wait.  Sagar, who works as a tuition teacher with his brother in Dariapur, filmed his anguish in a short video message and circulated it which has gone viral on social media. He alleged that his case is yet another example of "gross negligence" that keeps coming out in public domain explaining the plight of people whose relatives were admitted to civil hospital and Gujarat Cancer and Research Institute (GCRI), which, too, is located in the same campus. It is the same hospital, the Gujarat high court last week termed as "dungeon." Resident Medical Officer, Dr Sanjay Kapadia, COVID-19 Hospital, responded that "There were two patients with similar names which created the confusion." He also said that "There was an error in data entry after the server went down which has been rectified." A day before, a similar incident was reported in the city when Nilesh Nikte, a resident of Nikol, received calls that his father-in-law Devram Bhisiker's covid report came back negative and he would be shifted to a non-covid ward. Nilesh was, too, shocked since Devram had passed away on May 29 afternoon and was cremated by Nilesh himself. "I was so taken aback. For a moment, it occurred to me that I might have cremated someone else. But, the subsequent inquiry revealed that the hospital authority had not updated its report which led to this shocking confusion," Nilesh told this paper while adding, "I approached media since my community members had started raising questions on me for mishandling my wife's family's matter." The state government later issued a release stating that the person from the call centre informed the family members about negative report without knowing that Devram had already passed away. The government also denied that there was "irresponsibility or carelessness" behind the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-in-gujarat-dead-nearly-two-weeks-back-family-gets-sms-patient-moved-to-different-hospital-844460.html
01-06-2020||West||Coronavirus: Confusion over status of community transmission in Goa||Confusion reigned in Goa over whether the state had recorded its first instance of community transmission of coronavirus in the state, with Health Minister Vishwajit Rane insisting it was the case, even as State Health Secretary Nila Mohanan late on Monday, denied triggering of community transmission. Earlier in the day, Rane while speaking to reporters had confirmed that five persons of a family had been diagnosed as positive for COVID-19 along with their family doctor and had said that the area where the family lived in South Goa's Vasco da Gama town would be declared a containment zone. "Today for the first time symptomatic patient came to our hospital and was positive. His confirmatory test and that of his wife was also positive. Out of their three children, two tested positive so did his daughter-in-law. Their family doctor also tested positive," Rane said, adding that the head of the family had travelled outside the state on business and could have returned with the infection. "There is local transmission in Goa," Rane said. Hours later, state Health Secretary Nila Mohanan painted a different picture of the incident. The official said, that only two persons from the family had tested positive and that there were no grounds to say that community transmission had begun in the state. "We have two more confirmed cases today. These are two residents members of a family from Mangor Hill in Vasco. They have confirmed positive in our RT-PCR test as well, so we are now doing very concentrated contact tracing and taking all efforts to see what are the links and what are the possible contacts that is being done by the health department," Mohanan said at a press conference held at the Chief Minister's official residence in Panaji. When asked whether the fresh batch of cases indicated the beginning of community transmission in the state, the official said: "Not at all, we are still doing contact tracing. All that is going on, so it would be very premature at this stage". With the reporting of two new positive cases, Goa currently has 29 active coronavirus cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-confusion-over-status-of-community-transmission-in-goa-844470.html
01-06-2020||West||Gujarat records 423 new COVID-19 cases; 25 more patients die||The count of coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 17,217 on Monday after addition of 423 new infections, while the toll increased to 1,063 with 25 fresh fatalities, the state health department said. As many as 861 COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospitals in Gujarat on Monday, taking the number of recoveries to 10,780, it said. The state has now 5,374 active cases, of which 65 patients are on ventilator, the health department said. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 17,217, new cases 423, deaths 1,063, discharged 10,780, active cases, 5,374 and people tested so far 2,16,258.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-records-423-new-covid-19-cases-25-more-patients-die-844516.html
