02-06-2020||Davangere||Police constable tests positive for COVID-19||A head police constable who served in district Covid hospital at Davangere has been tested positive for COVID-19 in the city on Tuesday.  Speaking to media persons, Superintdent of Police Hanumantaraya said the throat swab of the head police constable was sent to lab for test. The reports confirmed that he was tested positive for COVID-19. The throat samples of his family members have been sent for the test.  It may be mentioned that police constable who served in containment zone was also tested positive for COVID-19. He has recovered from it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/police-constable-tests-positive-for-covid-19-844740.html
02-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||COVID-19 patient at KIMS recovers after plasma therapy||For the first time in North Karnataka, plasma therapy has resulted in considerable recovery in a COVID-19 patient admitted in a coronavirus hospital at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi. 65-year-old P-2710, a lorry driver returned from Maharashtra, who was admitted at the KIMS COVID-19 hospital on May 27, underwent convalscent plasma therapy as part of 'A Phase II, Open Label, Randomised Controlled Trial to Assess the Safety & Efficacy of Convalescent Plasma to Limit COVID-19 associated complications in Moderate Disease' (PLACID trial) approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (IMCR), on May 28 and 29. Now, doctors have found his symptoms like pneumonia and cough coming down drastically. 64-year-old graveyard guard (P-363), who tested positive for COVID-19 on April 18 and was discharged on May 8, has donated blood to extract plasma to be infused on P-2710. "200 ml plasma was given for two consecutive days each, and the patient has shown promising improvements in his health indicators. Plasma therapy has reduced development of severe respiratory insufficiency. He is expected to recover fully in a few days. He will be discharged after testing negative for COVID-19 after 14 days of hospitalisation," said KIMS Director Ramalingappa Antaratnai. This is the first plasma therapy conducted on a COVID-19 patient at KIMS, which was the first institute in Karnataka to get PLACID trial approval from the ICMR, has been fruitful. "For future use on other patients, we are contacting other district administrations to make arrangements to get plasma from COVID-19 recovered patients. Plasma can be stored for one year, "he said. Dr Ram Kaulgud, Dr Eshwar Hasabi, Dr Sachin Hosakatti, Dr Shailendra, Dr Kavita, Dr Uday Bande and others were in the team of doctors which conducted plasma therapy. "We have to counsel the recovered patient and his relatives to convince them to donate blood. People (recovered symptomatic patients) in the age group of 18 to 65 years can donate plasma, while patients above 18 years of age can receive. In this case, plasma was collected at Navanagar cancer hospital, and such a centre is now established at the KIMS itself,' Dr Sachin Hosakatti said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/covid-19-patient-at-kims-recovers-after-plasma-therapy-844701.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Centre's MSP won't help majority of farmers'||The minimum support price (MSP) for 14 crops announced by the central government is less than the input cost for all except four crops, former chairman of the Karnataka Agricultural Price Commission (KAPC) Prakash Kammardi said. His reaction came hours after the Union government announced support price for 14 Kharif crops. Kammardi said the government's assertion that the MSP will bring profit ranging from 50% to 83% was wrong as except for paddy, maize, urad and cotton, the support price for other crops was much lower than the input cost. "Farmers will suffer the lass. As per the KAPC calculation, farmers spend Rs 3482 to grow a quintal of ragi but the MSP was Rs 3295...Similarly, the input cost for groundnut is Rs 6509 but the MSP announced is Rs 5275," he said, adding that the MSP was nowhere near the recommendations of M S Swaminathan. "The Union government should have announced a pro-farmer MSP at least during the Covid-19 crisis. Only farmers in the water-rich, fertile region with ample electricity may benefit from the announcement. One nation-one MSP is not the right answer to the crisis," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/centres-msp-wont-help-majority-of-farmers-844561.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mandya doctor tests positive for COVID-19||This is the third such case of a corona warrior testing positive for the virus, in the recent past in the district. He is being treated at the COVID hospital.  All his primary contacts have been traced and quarantined. The number of COVID-19 cases continues to surge in the district, with the majority of them having a travel history of Maharashtra. The COVID-19 tally as on June 1 was 285.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mandya-doctor-tests-positive-for-covid-19-844694.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Leopard dies in road mishap||A three-year old female leopard died after it was hit by a goods carrier on Shiralakoppa-Hirekerur road in Shikaripur taluk on Monday night.  According to forest department, the incident took place when the leopard was crossing the road at night. A team of forest officials led by veterinarian visited the spot and attempted to rescue the big cat. But their efforts failed to produce desirable results. The carcass of the leopard will be burnt in forest area in the evening.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-dies-in-road-mishap-844736.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Gokak administration 'leaks' details of COVID-19 patient||In a major goof-up, the taluk administration of Gokak in Belagavi district has revealed the name of a COVID-19 patient. The document has now gone viral with several residents of the town making it their status message on WhatsApp and have posted it on their Facebook page. The 23-year-old resident of Gokak, who worked at a BPO in Delhi, had returned to his home town via the Shramik Express on May 16. He was institutionally quarantined at BCM Hostel, Gokak since then. His swab samples were collected on May 25 and was discharged from ‘institutional quarantine’ on May 29 without giving his medical report. He was instructed to complete 14-days of home quarantine. And after four days of returning home his medical report has come positive now. With him turning positive, the administration has now sent him to hospital quarantine at Belagavi Civil hospital, while his family of six are quarantined at an institute in Gokak by the taluk administration. Speaking to DH, the 23-year-old youth (P-3670) said “My worst fear has come true. 25 of us were institutionally quarantined at BCM Hostel, Gokak. While five of us, who returned from Delhi, were tested on May 25, the remaining 20, who returned from Maharashtra were tested on May 26. Of them, results of only two have be released so far and I have turned positive for the virus.” “We repeatedly requested the Gokak tahsildar not to send us home as we feared of spreading the disease to others. One of our co-passengers in a bus from Hubballi to Belagavi had turned positive to the virus. Yet, the officials did not heed our request and discharged us from the hostel citing the new guidlines,” he said. Another person, who travelled along with P-3670 and who is waiting for his medical report also, said administration's carelessness has put not just my family in hardship but also others in the town. “Ours is an agriculture family, if all my family members are quarantined, who will look after our cattle and field, during this peek agriculture season”. He also said that few of the returnees, who were released from institutional quarantine without reports, have attended marriages and other social gatherings. “Who will take responsibility if they turn positive now?” he said. P-3670 also claimed that he and his family is facing hardship in town as people have started sharing his details on social networking sites. Jothi Angadi, co-ordinating officer of Gokak has switched off her mobile, while Belagavi Deputy Commissioner S B Bommanahalli did not receive the call.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/gokak-administration-leaks-details-of-covid-19-patient-844862.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Doctor on quarantine duty tests positive for coronavirus||A few frontline workers treating coronavirus patients are contracting the virus. A 64-year-old doctor tested positive in KR Pet taluk, Mandya district, recently. The doctor was on COVID-19 duty at a quarantine centre in KR Pet taluk. The centre houses migrants from Mumbai, Maharashtra. The doctor, who was treating them since the past two weeks has contracted the infection. He is now being treated at the COVID-19 Hospital in Mandya. All primary contacts of the doctor have been traced and quarantined. This is the third incident in the district, of a corona warrior getting infected by the virus, while on duty. Earlier, a head constable at a quarantine centre and a Child Development Protection Officer, in-charge of a containment zone in Malavali taluk, too were infected by the virus and are under treatment.  COVID-19 tests are conducted for migrants coming from Mumbai to the district after 14 days of the quarantine period. Though the initial tests conducted on them are negative, simultaneous tests confirm them as positive, which has left the authorities confused. The results of around 610 people are awaited and there are possibilities of a rise in the COVID-19 tally.  Mandya district, which was in the second place in the state’s COVID-19 tally, witnessed a decline in cases last week. It has again picked up, with around 15 positive cases reported every day. It is now in the fourth place, after Bengaluru, Kalaburagi and Yadgir. But, it is still in the second place, on the basis of active cases. Five cops tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan district also. While a sub-inspector, deputed at a check post at Nippani in Belagavi district, and his three colleagues tested positive last week, another police personnel from Nuggehalli tested positive during random testing, on Monday. However, all are recovering, according to the police department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/doctor-on-quarantine-duty-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-844873.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||‘Hampi Zoo has potential to grow’||At a time when most of the human activities seem to resume or even begin from scratch, after lockdown, Hampi Zoo at Kamalapura of Hosapet taluk has all the potential to accommodate as many number of species and also visitors like its counterparts in Mysuru and Bengaluru. After the establishment of Central Zoo Authority of India (CZA), the purpose, establishment and maintenance of zoos have got new definitions. All zoos, across India, have adopted the masterplan of CZA. Following the masterplan, Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK) has effected the revamping of the older zoos, like Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens in Mysuru, and Bannerghatta Biological Park in Bengaluru. Atal Bihari Vajpayee Zoological Park near Hampi, Ballari district is a relatively new menagerie, but it is the largest, area-wise. Thus, it is laid out as per the masterplan of CZA. Hampi Zoo is situated in a natural, strategic location of the West Reserve Forests Area. Initially, when it was setup in 1981, it was just 0.94 hectare. Now, it is spread over 141.59 hectares of land, and comprises a herbivore safari of 30 acres. Hampi, being a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is one among the most preferred tourist destinations of India. Thus, tourist footfall in the town, and also surroundings, is an advantage for the zoo. Hampi Zoo has a lion and tiger safari (captive) and it is the first of its kind in north Karnataka. “Any zoo, across Karnataka, is younger compared to Mysuru Zoo. They take some time for development and to become popular. Lakhs of tourists visit Hampi every year. The zoo in Hampi has enormous scope for development. As it lacked connectivity, ZAK requested the state government to provide local buses. The bus services were provided on weekends, just before the imposition of the lockdown,” said ZAK Member Secretary B P Ravi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hampi-zoo-has-potential-to-grow-844875.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government mulls free internet to 1.10 lakh students||The higher education department is planning to provide free Internet facility to over 1.10 lakh students who have received laptops from the government under the free laptop scheme. After having a discussion with internet service providers on Tuesday Higher Education Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan said that the free laptops provided by the government were not being utilised properly due to lack of Internet facility. "Considering the problem, we have requested service providers to give internet facility and the companies too have agreed." The department distributed laptops for first-year undergraduate students. "As we have started online classes several students are unable to connect due to non-availability of internet service," the minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-mulls-free-internet-to-110-lakh-students-844877.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Zoos to issue digital certs for animal adoption'||All zoos, under Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK), including Sri Chamarajendra Zoological Gardens (Mysuru Zoo), would shortly issue digital certificates for animal adoption. To make the online platform user-friendly, ZAK has plans to launch its app, soon. It is also an eco-friendly initiative, as it will reduce the use of paper and also printing. Member Secretary of ZAK B P Ravi said that either donation or adoption fee can be paid online, on ZAK website or the website of Mysuru Zoo. “At present, hard copies of the certificates are issued to donors. The integrated system on the website and also app would facilitate immediate transfer of money to ZAK account and the process to issue the digital certificate and donor passes will be initiated,” he said. “Visitors or donors can log on to either the website or app, to buy tickets and also to adopt animals across the zoos of Karnataka. The digital platform has made the adoption process easy for both employees of ZAK and donors. Adoptions will be certified on the basis of the amount paid by the donor, which may range from one day to one year,” Ravi said. He said, “Besides being eco-friendly, the digital certificates are instant and can be shared on social media and other platforms, readily.” Atal Bihari Vajpayee Zoological Park, Hampi; Children Park-Mini Zoo, Kalaburagi; Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP), Bengaluru; Kittur Rani Chennamma Nisargadhama, Belagavi; Children Park-Small Zoo, Binkadakatti, Gadag; Tiger and Lion Safari, Tyavarekoppa Shivmogga; Indira Priyadarshini Prani Sangrahalaya, Davanagere; Adumalleshwara Mini Zoo, Chitradurga; and Mysuru Zoo function under ZAK. “Mysuru Zoo and BBP, which are self-sustained, attract more number of both visitors as well as donors. Our objective is to popularise all other zoos and make them also self-sustained,” Ravi said. Rajkumar, wildlife enthusiast, opines, “Adoption is mostly concentrated on Mysuru Zoo, as it is the oldest of the state. Moreover, top donors like ministers, pontiffs, Sudha Murty, Darshan and Anil Kumble focus on Mysuru zoo. Such star adopters can create interest among the citizens, about other zoos, by showing interest towards them.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/zoos-to-issue-digital-certs-for-animal-adoption-844881.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||State offers soaps to electronic system firms||Karnataka government will give additional incentives, over and beyond the schemes and facilities provided by the central government, to Electronic System and Design Manufacturing (ESDM) companies who wish to invest in the state, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, said on Tuesday.  The minister was speaking at a video conference organised by Invest India, involving select state governments and companies in the ESDM sector. Karnataka contributes 64% to the nation's ESDM exports. "We are the largest chip design hub and home to 70% of India’s chip designers," the minister told the investors. Speaking about the Karnataka ESDM policy 2017-2022, the deputy chief minister said the state government aimed to stimulate the growth of 2,000 ESDM start-ups in this period and wanted to create 20 lakh new jobs by 2025." He said that the government was in consultation with the private sector on rejig of business post the lockdown. They had also initiated dialogue with different countries to get a better understanding of the global market situation, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/state-offers-soaps-to-electronic-system-firms-844882.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Ramesh Jarkiholi is Belagavi district in-charge minister||Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has appointed Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi as the minister in charge of Belagavi whereas Food & Civil Supplies Minister K Gopalaiah has been tasked with Hassan. Mahesh Kumathalli, who was earlier made Mysore Sales International Limited chairperson, will now head the Karnataka Slum Development Board (KSDB). In an order issued Tuesday, Jarkiholi replaced Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar as Belagavi district in-charge minister. Shetter was earlier tasked with Belagavi and Dharwad districts. Gopalaiah replaced Law and Parliamentary Affairs minister JC Madhuswamy - who was handling Hassan apart from his native Tumakuru district. Kumathalli was given a Cabinet rank in the appointment order for KSDB. He was the only one among the 11 defectors from Congress and JD(S) who won bypolls in December last, not made a minister. He had earlier expressed his reservations over being appointed MSIL and sought to take charge of Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Limited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/ramesh-jarkiholi-is-belagavi-district-in-charge-minister-844886.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||NHM contract staff strike work from Thursday as state battles coronavirus||As many as 24,000 National Health Mission staffers in the state will strike work from Thursday as the government that had promised to establish a committee to look into their grievances hasn't issued an order yet for its formation. The Karnataka State Health and Medical Education Department Contractual and Outsource Employees Association (KSHCOEA) has issued a press release in this regard.  The timing of the strike could not have been worse, in the midst of a pandemic.  Vishwaradhya H Y, President, KSHCOEA, said, "The government held a meeting a few days ago, where we were promised that a committee will be formed in two days. But even a GO for its formation has not been issued. So, we have decided to go on strike. Only 50% of the employees have been paid for April and May." Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said, "At a time when the health department is required to rise to the challenge, they are going on a strike. If they do go on strike, we have to manage with our permanent employees. We did have a meeting with them and agreed to demands that were legal. We cannot regularise their services as the National Health Mission is a central government programme."  The contractual employees include doctors and nurses working in COVID-19 wards of taluk hospitals and urban primary health centres acting as fever clinics and in surveillance programmes. They also include lab technicians and group 'D' staff. They worked long hours at checkposts before health screening was suspended at checkpoints. It is said that Ramachandran R, Mission Director of NHM, Karnataka, had promised them salaries by May 31, but they haven't been paid yet. He did not respond to repeated calls from DH.  Dr Soumya T S, an AYUSH medical officer from Karwar, told DH, "I have neither received my April salary nor for May. We have loan instalments to pay. We worked long hours at checkpoints screening interstate passengers for Covid symptoms." Some of the association's demands include ending the practice of outsourcing staff through agencies and giving them all facilities on par with permanent employees. They also want a special COVID-19 package. Life, accident and health insurances are the other demands.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nhm-contract-staff-strike-work-from-thursday-as-state-battles-coronavirus-844891.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Sahitya Parishat seeks GST exemption for royalties||Pointing out that the Kannada publishing industry is in doldrums with not more than 1000 copies being printed of even the most popular books, Kannada Sahitya Parishat has written to Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, seeking exemption on GST levied on royalties given to authors. In a letter to the finance minister, Sahitya Parishat president Manu Baligar said the advent of digitisation has already adversely affected the publishing industry. The imposition of GST on royalties given to authors has come as a huge blow to the Kannada book publishing industry, he said. "Earlier, publishers had to send one bill to the distributor. As a result of GST, they have to send hundreds of bills based on GST number allotted to each destination," he stated, elaborating on the taxation system was resulting in huge paperwork for publishers.  Meanwhile, the Karnataka Book Publishers' Association too has urged the government to revoke the GST on royalty. Speaking to DH, Prakash Kambathalli, president of the association said the current circumstances had forced them to seek this exemption. "We are paying 12% GST on royalty given to authors, ever since this new taxation system was introduced. In the pre-GST times, publishers used to pay tax only for printing. This new system has led to not only increase in paperwork but has also posed a burden on both authors and publishers. Citing GST as a reason, some publishers tend to cut the amount from the royalty they owe to the authors. It has made the whole system complicated," he explained. Considering that all regional languages suffered a similar plight, the association has sought revoking of GST on royalties for publishing in all regional languages, Kambathalli added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/sahitya-parishat-seeks-gst-exemption-for-royalties-844893.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: Biggest single day spike of 388 cases in Karnataka; Maharashtra continues to add to tally||Karnataka recorded a biggest single day spike of 388 COVID-19 cases, with returnees from neighboring Maharashtra continuing to add to the state's tally, taking the total number of infections in the state to 3,796, the health department said on Tuesday. With 367 out of 388 new cases being returnees from other states, mostly from neighboring Maharashtra (357), the Karnataka government said it was mulling over increasing institutional quarantine for those returning from the western state. Meanwhile, achieving a milestone in the battle against the coronavirus,the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences at Hubballi has successfully treated a COVID-19 patient through plasma therapy. "Maharashtra (returnees) is a major worry for us, already 15,000-20,000 people have come from Maharashtra, still 2000 odd people may come to each district, as we have allowed so many people already, we have decided to allow them also, Revenue Minister R Ahoka said. Speaking to reporters here, he said ".....cases coming from Bombay and Pune are turning out to be positive, we have to take extra caution, seven days quarantine (institutional) is of no use, we want to increase it specifically for those returning from Maharashtra. We will take a decision soon and issue order." Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa earlier directed district authorities including the Deputy Commissioners and Superintendents of Police to camp at taluk centres and work towards curbing the spread of COVID-19. Pointing out that COVID-19 cases were increasing in the state because of returnees from Maharashtra, he asked officials to take all necessary measures to check it, his office said in a release. The previous biggest single-day spike was recorded on May 31 with 299 cases. As of June 2 evening, cumulatively 3,796 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 52 deaths and 1,403 discharges, the health department said in its bulletin. It said out of 2,339 active cases, 2,325 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 14 are in ICU. According to the bulletin,75 patients have been discharged today. Medical Education Minister K Sudhakar said Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences in Hubballi has successfully treated a COVID-19 patient through Plasma Therapy. "Karnataka achieves yet another milestone in battle against #COVID19. KIMS Hubli has successfully treated a Covid19 patient through Plasma Therapy & is the first institute in the state to accomplish this. Congrats to KIMS doctors & staff for this feat!" the Minister tweeted. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Udupi accounted for 150 cases, followed by Kalaburagi 100, Belagavi 51, Raichur 16, Bengaluru urban 12, Bidar 10, nine each from Bagalkote and Hassan, Davangere seven, Yadgiri five, four each from Mandya and Vijayapura, Bengaluru rural three, two each from Chikkaballapura, Dharwad and Tumakuru, and one each from Kolar and Haveri. Udupi district tops the list of positive cases with 410 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 405 and Bengaluru urban 397. Among discharges too Bengaluru urban tops the list with 237 discharges, followed by Kalaburagi 128 and Davangere 121. A total of 3,19,628 samples have been tested so far, out of which 14,812 were tested on Tuesday alone. According to the bulletin, 3,10,967 samples have reported as negative, 13,915 on Tuesday alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-biggest-single-day-spike-of-388-cases-in-karnataka-maharashtra-continues-to-add-to-tally-844942.html
02-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||CM B S Yediyurappa will not break promise, says cooperation minister S T Somashekar||Cooperation Minister S T Somashekar said that the elections to the upper house of the state legislature will be held shortly. M T B Nagaraj, H Vishwanath and R Shankar are ticket aspirants. "Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has inducted us into the cabinet. He will not break the promise he made." “It is common for ticket aspirants to mount pressure through MLAs and MPs. The CM has acted according to his promise. He will ensure that all are given an opportunity,” the minister told reporters in Chikkamagaluru.  “BJP will get nine seats in the upper house. Further, there are two seats in the Rajya Sabha. It is a tradition to select those who have worked for the party and community by looking at the caste factor. There is no need to give any special meaning to it,” said Somashekar.  The minister said that measures will be taken to lend loans for Asha workers on the model of Sthree Shakti groups and self-help groups getting loan up to Rs 5 lakh through cooperative banks.  The issue will be raised in the meeting of the cooperative department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-will-not-break-promise-says-cooperation-minister-s-t-somashekar-844927.html
02-06-2020||National||Naval ship carrying 685 stranded Indians leaves Sri Lanka||A total of 685 Indian nationals stranded in Sri Lanka due to the COVID-19 linked international travel restrictions were evacuated on Monday from the island nation onboard an Indian Navy warship. INS Jalashwa, carrying 685 people, including 125 women and seven children, started sailing back home from Colombo port in Sri Lanka on Monday night, Defence sources said here. The ship is expected to arrive in Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu before noon on Tuesday, they said. Participating in the third phase of Navy's mission to bring back Indian citizens stranded abroad, it had reached Colombo on Monday morning. The Indian Navy under its ambitious "Operation Samudra Setu" programme had safely repatriated nearly 1,500 Indian nationals from the Maldives in first two phases in its two vessels--INS Jalashwa and INS Magar on May 10, May 12 and May 17. This was part of the Vande Bharat mission to repatriate stranded Indians in foreign countries through air and sea routes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naval-ship-carrying-685-stranded-indians-leaves-sri-lanka-844546.html
02-06-2020||National||Pakistan High Commission officials wanted to extract details of army movements via trains: Delhi Police||The motive of the two officials of Pakistan High Commission, who were declared 'persona non grata' by India on charges of espionage, was to extract details of movement of Army units through trains by befriending railway staffers, police said on Monday. The two officials, Abid Hussain and Muhammad Tahir, were caught by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police from central Delhi's Karol Bagh while they were obtaining sensitive documents relating to India's security installations from an Indian national in exchange of money, official sources had said on Sunday. According to the police, during investigation, it has emerged that Hussain operated under several fake identities to lure people working in organisations and departments of his interest. He posed as Gautam, brother of a media person, to establish contact with an individual working in the Indian Railways. He tried to gain his confidence by pretending that he needed information about rail movements for his brother who was supposedly doing a story on the Indian Railways and for which he was willing to pay, said Anil Mittal, Additional PRO (Delhi Police). However, police said the real motive was to lure and trap the railway staff and then acquire information about movement of Army units and hardware via trains. In a statement released on Sunday, the Ministry of External Affairs had said, "The government has declared both these officials persona non grata for indulging in activities incompatible with their status as members of a diplomatic mission and asked them to leave the country within 24 four hours." Sources had said the officials were working at the visa section of the Pakistan High Commission and confessed during the interrogation that they worked for Pakistani spy agency ISI. The sources had also said that the two officials were handing over Indian currency and an iPhone for providing them the documents. They had initially claimed that they were Indian nationals and even produced fake Aadhaar cards, the sources had said. In 2016, Delhi Police had busted an espionage racket, involving a Pakistan High Commission staffer, Mehmood Akhtar, who was allegedly involved in getting information about BSF deployments along the Indo-Pak border. He was expelled by India for spying.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-high-commission-officials-wanted-to-extract-details-of-army-movements-via-trains-delhi-police-844549.html
02-06-2020||National||India may operate special flight from South Africa to bring home stranded citizens||Indian nationals, who have been stranded in South Africa and the neighbouring Kingdom of Lesotho due to the COVID-19 pandemic, will have the opportunity to get back home as India on Monday announced plans to operate a special flight later this month. The Indian High Commission announced that as part of the Vande Bharat Mission's Phase 3, Air India is planning a flight from Johannesburg to Delhi and Mumbai on June 18, subject to approval from the government or South Africa. Thousands of Indian nationals have already been evacuated from across the globe under the mission. Strict conditions have been laid down for those wanting to return, including paying for the costs of the flight themselves. The fare has not yet been determined. “Priority will be given to compelling cases, including migrant workers or labourers, who have been laid off; short term visa holders with expired/expiring visas, persons with medical emergencies, pregnant women, the elderly, those required to return to India due to death of a family member, and students," the High Commission said in a statement. Only asymptomatic travellers will be allowed onto the flight, with all travellers having to sign an undertaking to undergo a seven-day quarantine period in Delhi, Delhi NCR, Haryana, Bhiwadi or Chandigarh at their own cost, followed by seven days of self-isolation at home with self-monitoring of their health. "Domestic operations have started in India from May 25. However, international passengers cannot take domestic flights without completing the mandatory period of quarantine in Delhi or Mumbai," the statement said. Installing the Aarogya Setu mobile app on arrival in India is also mandatory. About 150 Indian nationals returned home last month on a South African Airways flight after approval from the High Commission as it headed to Mumbai and Delhi to bring home South Africans who had been stranded there during the lockdown. The Indian nationals each had to pay around 15,000 rands (about USD 1,000) for their seats, about three times the normal one-way airfare.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-operate-special-flight-from-south-africa-to-bring-home-stranded-citizens-844566.html
02-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 2, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-2-2020-edition-844577.html
02-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 2||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,05,359 as of June 2. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 6,211 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 95,526 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-2-844578.html
02-06-2020||National||The Lead: One stop solution to access information to help COVID-19 affected||The Lead from Deccan Herald podcasts brings to you voices from across the spectrum and various spheres of life. In this episode, you will hear DH's L Subramani speak to three college students— Harini, Tara and Pallavi— who are contributing to the fight against COVID-19 by collating information on services scattered around social media and let people access them from one reliable source. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-day-1-of-unlock-india-10-844348.html  Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-day-1-of-unlock-india-10-844348.html Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-day-1-of-unlock-india-10-844348.html||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-one-stop-solution-to-access-information-to-help-covid-19-affected-844580.html
02-06-2020||National||Vice President, Prime Minister greet people on Telangana statehood day||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday extended greetings on Telangana's statehood day, saying the state is making valuable contribution to the country's growth trajectory. The prime minister also extended best wishes to the people of Andhra Pradesh, saying their hardwork and courage are synonymous with the culture of the land. "The state's role in India's growth is deeply valued. Wishing the citizens of the state the very best for their future endeavours," Modi wrote on Twitter. Telangana was carved out of Andhra Pradesh in 2014 under the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act. On Telangana's statehood day, the prime minister said people from the state are excelling in a wide range of sectors. "This state is making valuable contributions to the growth trajectory of India. I pray for the progress and prosperity of the people of Telangana," Modi said. Greetings to the people of Telangana on their Statehood Day. People from this state are excelling in a wide range of sectors. This state is making valuable contributions to the growth trajectory of India. I pray for the progress and prosperity of the people of Telangana. In his message, Vice President Naidu said Telangana  has long been a meeting place for diverse languages and cultures. "Representing India's composite culture & pluralism, the state has been making immense contribution to development of the country in different spheres," Naidu wrote on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-prime-minister-greet-people-on-telangana-statehood-day-844622.html
02-06-2020||National||Moody's has rated Modi's handling of India's economy step above junk: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday voiced concern over the state of India's economy, saying global rating agency Moody's has termed its handling by Prime Minister Narendra Modi "a step above junk". He said lack of support to the poor and small and medium industry indicates that the worst is yet to come. "Moody's has rated Modi's handling of India's economy a step above JUNK. Lack of support to the poor and the MSME sector means the worst is yet to come," he said on Twitter.  Moody's Investors Service has downgraded India's sovereign credit rating for the first time in more than two decades, saying policymakers will be challenged to mitigate risks of low growth, deteriorating fiscal position and financial sector stress. Downgrading India's rating by a notch to 'Baa3' from 'Baa2' assigned in November 2018, Moody's on Monday estimated India GDP shrinking by 4 per cent -- first full fiscal contraction in more than four decades, as the country faces a prolonged period of slower growth. 'Baa3' rating is the lowest investment grade -- just a notch above 'junk' status. Moody's had last downgraded India's rating in 1998.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/moodys-has-rated-modis-handling-of-indias-economy-step-above-junk-rahul-844643.html
02-06-2020||National||India will definitely get its economic growth back, says Prime Minister Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said India will definitely get its economic growth back as the government continues to pursue various reforms. Speaking at industry association CII's annual session, he said the government has taken tough steps to fight the coronavirus pandemic and has also taken care of the economy. "On the one hand we have to safe lives of our people and on the other hand we have to stabilise the economy and speed up the economy," he said.  He said he gets the confidence from farmers, small businesses and entrepreneurs for getting the economic growth back. "Corona may have slowed our speed (of growth) but India has now moved ahead from lockdown with the phase one of unlock. Unlock Phase-1 has reopened a large part of the economy," he said. He said intent, inclusion, investment, infrastructure and innovation are crucial for India to revert back to a high-growth trajectory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-will-definitely-get-its-economic-growth-back-says-prime-minister-modi-844650.html
02-06-2020||National||COVID-19: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee’s balancing act between pandemic and politics||The maverick politician is having a tough time in juggling between her roles as a Chief Minister and a firebrand opposition leader. Her dilemma became evident over the issues of Inter Ministerial Central Teams (IMCTs) visiting the state for evaluating lockdown measures.  As a chief minister, she could not outright refuse to cooperate with the Centre in this regard but being too pliant may have an adverse effect on her anti-BJP image. This becomes significant in view of the fact that BJP will be her principal rival in the 2021 Assembly elections. So, Banerjee said that she had no issues in cooperating with the visiting IMCTs but alleged that there was “breach of protocol” on part of the Centre as the teams were sent without prior intimation to the state government. Her balancing act became evident in issues such as the Shramik special trains, meetings with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Centre’s special economic package. She lashed out at the Railways for sending several Shramik special trains to the state in a short duration. Alleging that this may result into a spike in COVID-19 cases in Bengal, Banerjee asked whether in the name of running “Shramik Express they (Railways) want to run Corona Express.” She repeatedly accused the Centre of politically targeting Bengal over the COVID-19 issue. She also said she didn’t gain anything from meetings with the prime minister. Banerjee dubbed Centre’s special economic package as a “big zero.”  The Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo has carefully kept up her anti-BJP stand while responding to Home Ministry’s letter claiming that lockdown measures were being violated in certain areas of the state, which were incidentally minority-dominated areas. Banerjee said that the “communal virus” is not the priority for her government. “The COVID-19 situation will definitely dominate the 2021 Assembly elections. We are doing everything in our power to increase the people’s faith on us,” said a senior TMC leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-west-bengal-cm-mamata-banerjee-s-balancing-act-between-pandemic-and-politics-844652.html
02-06-2020||National||Naxal killed in encounter with police in Chhattisgarh||A Naxal, carrying a reward of Rs 8 lakh on his head, was gunned down in an encounter with security forces in Chhattisgarh's Dantewada district on Tuesday, police said. The gun-battle took place in a forest between Hurrepal and Bechapal hills early morning when a joint team of the District Reserve Guard and the Special Task Force was out on a counter-insurgency operation, Dantewada Superintendent of Police Abhishek Pallava told PTI. After a brief exchange of fire, when the security personnel tried to zero-in on the ultras, they escaped into the dense forest, located about 400 km from here, he said. During a search of the encounter spot, the body of a male rebel clad in 'uniform' was found, Pallava said. The deceased was identified as Dasru Punem, member of the military platoon no.2 of Maoists, the official said, adding that he was carrying Rs 8 lakh reward on his head. Search operation is still underway in the area, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/naxal-killed-in-encounter-with-police-in-chhattisgarh-844657.html
02-06-2020||National||8171 more COVID-19 cases, 204 deaths in India||The novel coronavirus death toll rose to 5,598 in India on Tuesday with 204 more fatalities, while 8,171 new cases took the number of infections to over 1.98 lakh, the Health Ministry said. The active cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) climbed to 97,581 and as many as 95,526 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, according to the data. Around 48.07 per cent patients have recovered so far, a ministry official said. With a total of 1,98,706 cases, India is now seventh among the worst-hit nations by the COVID-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil, Russia, the UK, Spain and Italy. Out of the 204 more deaths since Monday morning, 76 were in Maharashtra, 50 in Delhi, 25 in Gujarat and 11 in Tamil Nadu.  Eight people each died of COVID-19 in West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, followed by six in Telangana, and four each in Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. There were three more fatalities each in Bihar and Jammu and Kashmir, two in Andhra Pradesh, and one each in Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala and Uttarakhand. Maharashtra tops the list with 2,362 out of the total 5,598 deaths, followed by 1,063 in Gujarat, 523 in Delhi, 358 in Madhya Pradesh and 335 in West Bengal. There have been 217 coronavirus deaths so far in Uttar Pradesh, while 198 succumbed to the infection in Rajasthan, 184 in Tamil Nadu, 88 in Telangana and 64 in Andhra Pradesh. The toll reached 52 in Karnataka and 45 in Punjab, while 31 people died in Jammu and Kashmir and 24 in Bihar. Twenty-one people died from the pathogen in Haryana, followed by 10 in Kerala and seven in Odisha. There have been six COVID-19 fatalities in Uttarakhand, while five people each died in Himachal Pradesh and Jharkhand. Chandigarh and Assam registered four deaths each so far, while there has been a fatality each in Meghalaya and Chhattisgarh, according to the ministry data. More than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, it said. The highest number of confirmed cases are 70,013 from Maharashtra, followed 23,495 in by Tamil Nadu, 20,834 in Delhi and 17,200 in Gujarat. There are 8,980 cases of the contagion in Rajasthan, 8,283 in Madhya Pradesh and 8,075 in Uttar Pradesh.  The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 5,772 in West Bengal, 3,926 in Bihar and 3,783 in Andhra Pradesh. A total of 3,408 people contracted the disease in Karnataka, followed by 2,792 in Telangana, 2,601 in Jammu and Kashmir, 2,356 in Haryana and 2,301 in Punjab. Odisha has registered 2,104 infections so far, while Assam has 1,390 and Kerala 1,326 cases. In Uttarakhand, 958 people have been infected so far, while there are 659 cases in Jharkhand, 547 in Chhattisgarh and 420 in Tripura. As many as 340 people have been afflicted with COVID-19 in Himachal Pradesh, followed by 294 in Chandigarh and 83 in Manipur. Ladakh has 77 cases of the deadly virus, while Puducherry has 74 and Goa 71 infections. Forty-three people have been infected with the coronavirus in Nagaland so far, followed by 33 in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 27 in Meghalaya and 22 in Arunachal Pradesh. Dadar and Nagar Haveli has three cases, while Mizoram and Sikkim have registered a case each till now. The ministry said 6,414 COVID-19 cases were being reassigned to states, adding that the figures were being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research. "State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/8171-more-covid-19-cases-204-deaths-in-india-844660.html
02-06-2020||National||India's coronavirus cases cross 2 lakh mark||India’s COVID-19 count on Tuesday crossed the grim milestone of two lakh cases after more than 8,000 new infections were reported for the third consecutive day. According to the Health Ministry, the total confirmed cases increased by 8,171 to touch 1,98,706 on Tuesday morning. The total number of confirmed cases was 2,00,403 at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday as per the DH COVID-19 Tracker. India had crossed the one lakh cases mark on May 19 and it has taken another fortnight to double the total infections of the Sars-Cov-2 virus. The total fatalities due to the infectious disease witnessed a sharp spike of 204 to touch 5,598, the health ministry said adding the 50 per cent of the total deaths were in the age group of 60 years and above, which account for 10 per cent of the country’s population. As many as 95,527 persons have recovered from the disease with 3,708 patients being discharged from the hospitals as of Tuesday. The number of active cases was 97,581. According to an analysis presented by the government, 38 per cent of the total deaths were reported in the age group between 60-74 years, which comprises 8 per cent of the country’s population. The 75 years and above age group which makes up 2 per cent of the country’s population has accounted for 12 per cent of the total COVID-19 deaths.  “The 60 plus population group remains at high risk and needs special care. We have again found that in 73 per cent deaths there were co-morbid conditions and pre-existing burden of diabetes, hypertension, respiratory illness and heart conditions,” Lav Agarwal, Joint Secretary, Health Ministry, told reporters here. India currently ranks seventh in the list of countries worst-hit by COVID-19. However, the government contended that the total infections in the country should be seen in terms of its population. The three worst-hit states – Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi accounted for 55% of the new infections with 2,358, 1,162 and 990 new cases on Tuesday morning. Maharashtra also reported the highest deaths on Tuesday at 76, followed by Delhi (50), Gujarat (25) and Tamil Nadu (11). Maharashtra continues to remain the most-affected state with over 70,000 COVID-19 cases being reported so far, followed by Tamil Nadu with 23,495 and Delhi with 20,834 cases. On the testing front, the Indian Council of Medical Research has tested nearly 40 lakh samples till date for Covid-19 that included 1,28,868 tests carried out on Monday through a network of 681 laboratories – 476 state-run and 205 private labs. Several state-run laboratories were working round-the-clock in three shifts to maximise the testing capabilities. India is in the fifth phase of the nationwide lockdown with substantial relaxations in restrictions, including resumption of domestic flights and inter-state travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-coronavirus-cases-cross-2-lakh-mark-844668.html
02-06-2020||National||Centre opposes in HC plea on declaration of PM CARES funds||The Centre on Tuesday opposed and sought dismissal of a petition seeking declaration of funds received by the Prime Ministers Citizens Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situation (PM CARES), a public charitable trust created by the government amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh told the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court that the petition, filed by advocate Arvind Waghmare, should be dismissed. A similar petition against setting up of the PM CARES fund was dismissed by the Supreme Court in April, he informed a division bench of Justices S B Shukre and A S Kilor.  The bench, however, noted that the petition before it was seeking different reliefs, and directed the Union government to file an affidavit in response to the plea within two weeks. "File an affidavit stating whatever is your (Union government's) stand, the court said. Waghmare in his petition sought a direction to the government to declare funds received and expenditure of the same on the governments website periodically. As per the plea, the PM CARES trust, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi as its chairperson and ministers from departments of Defence, Home and Finance as its members, was created with the prime objective of dealing with the emergency or distress caused by the coronavirus. The trust was created in order to have financial assistance from people in the country and also from overseas to provide relief and assistance to those affected by COVID-19 pandemic, it said.  As per the guidelines of the PM CARES Fund, apart from the chairperson and three other trustees, the chairperson had to appoint or nominate three more trustees. However, from the formation of the trust on March 28, 2020 till date no appointment has been made, the petition claimed. The petition has sought a direction to the government and the trust to appoint or nominate at least two members from opposition parties to have proper check and transparency. "In order to fortify and strengthen general publics faith and confidence, it is necessary to issue a direction to the government to declare the funds collected by PM CARES trust till date, and how the same have been used for the benefits of citizens affected by coronavirus, the plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-opposes-in-hc-plea-on-declaration-of-pm-cares-funds-844670.html
02-06-2020||National||Protests after George Floyd's death shows that common man's life valued, says BSP Supremo Mayawati||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Tuesday said protests in the US after the death of George Floyd, an African-American man, is a clear message to the world that a common man's life has value. She said this is also guaranteed by the India Constitution, but the governments don't follow it, resulting in the current plight of migrants workers. Floyd, a 46-year-old restaurant worker from Houston, died in Minneapolis on Monday after a white police officer pinned him to the ground. Video footage showed the officer kneeling on Floyd's neck as he gasped for breath, sparking widespread protests across the US. "Floyd's killing by police and the 'Black lives matter' agitation in the US have given a clear message to the world that a common man's life has value and it should not be taken for granted," Mayawati said in a tweet in Hindi. "India's constitution guarantees independence, security, self-respect and pride and governments should give special attention to it. If it was followed, crores of migrants labourers would not have to witness such bad days," she added. She also demanded better coordination between states to check the spread of coronavirus and said Centre should intervene. "While coronavirus patients are rising, there is lack of coordination between states and with the Centre, and allegation and counter allegations are going on and sealing of state borders is unjustified and it is weakening the fight against the virus.  The Centre should intervene," she said in separate tweet.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/protests-after-george-floyds-death-shows-that-common-mans-life-valued-says-bsp-supremo-mayawati-844682.html
02-06-2020||National||Bhima Koregaon case: SC stays Delhi HC proceedings; issues notice to activist Navlakha on NIA's plea||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the Delhi High Court proceedings wherein it had questioned shifting of activist Gautam Navlakha from Delhi to a Mumbai jail. The HC had ticked off the NIA for "inexplicable frantic hurry" as well as "unseemly haste" in taking Navlakha away from jurisdiction after his arrest, as his interim bail was pending consideration. The top court issued notice to Navlakha on a plea by the National Investigation Agency challenging the Delhi High Court's order of May 27, calling for all records in the case. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra, S Abdul Nazeer and Indira Banerjee decided to consider the matter after 15 days. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the NIA, contended that the order by the Delhi High Court was patently without jurisdiction. The NIA has approached the top court against the High Court's order for production of all record of proceedings from Mumbai and Delhi in the matter. Following his arrest under the stringent Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, Navlakha had last month moved the High Court for interim bail in view of public health emergency due to COVID-19. On March 16, the top court had declined anticipatory bail plea by activist Navlakha in the Bhima Koregaon case and told him to surrender within three weeks before the NIA. On April 8, it gave him one more week to surrender in the case of their alleged link to banned Maoist outfit, allegedly emerged after the Bhima Koregaon violence. An event 'Elgar Parishad' was held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which allegedly led to caste violence on January 1, 2018. Several prominent activists have already been arrested in the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bhima-koregaon-case-sc-stays-delhi-hc-proceedings-issues-notice-to-activist-navlakha-on-nias-plea-844693.html
02-06-2020||National||Maharashtra: CM Thackeray stood his ground on university exams issue: Sena||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari insisted on holding the final year exams of degree students in the current situation, but Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray rejected the demand showing "the spine Thackerays are known for", the Shiv Sena said on Tuesday. The ruling Shiv Sena also said it is not possible to hold examinations in the current situation, triggered by the COVID-19 crisis.  Referring to the lockdown, imposed in March to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus, an editorial in Shiv Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said people faced strict imprisonment (due to movement restrictions) for two-odd months. The Thackeray government in the state has eased lockdown to a certain extent, but asked people to observe restraint to ensure the disease is contained, it said. The direction of life stands completely altered now and there will be restrictions on the undisciplined behaviour of many, the Marathi daily said, adding that not observing discipline can cost life. Governor Koshyari insisted on holding the final year examinations of degree courses. The chief minister rejected the demand showing the spine Thackerays are known for. It is not possible to hold the final year examinations of universities in the current situation, the Shiv Sena said. Students can be considered as having passed on the basis of semester examinations held in colleges, it said. The chief minister has made it clear that the academic year will begin from June itself. "This means schools will reopen in districts where there is no transmission of coronavirus, the Thackeray-led party said. Shops will be reopened in phases, while temples will remain closed, it said. The Shiv Sena also suggested the people to use bicycles while going to markets or shops.  The coronavirus crisis is not yet over. Therefore, Prime Minister (Narendra) Modi too has said that (people) cannot afford to behave irresponsibly, the Sena said, citing a spike in COVID-19 deaths in countries like the US. It said the US government had eased restrictions to boost economic activities there and people moved out, but the step proved detrimental (with rise in COVID-19 cases). The Thackeray government has supplied limited oxygen to begin certain business activities, but people will have to move out in a fettered manner, the Marathi publication said. It noted that late freedom fighter and social reformer Lokmanya Tilak had given a call of 'Punashch Hari Om' (bugled resumption of his activities) when he restarted work at Kesari newspaper in 1899 after being released from jail during the British era. Now, to revive public life, the Thackeray government has given the call of 'Punashch Hari Om' (by easing lockdown to some extent), when the country is independent and people are fettered by the lockdown, the Sena said. People should not run amok (after easing of restrictions). People should not cause one to chant Hey Ram instead of Hari Om. For now, lets welcome the Punashch Hari Om', it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-cm-thackeray-stood-his-ground-on-university-exams-issue-sena-844699.html
02-06-2020||National||10 NDRF teams deployed as cyclonic storm approaches: Maharashtra CM||Ten teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed for rescue operations in view of the 'Nisarga' cyclone, which is likely to hit the west coast of Maharashtra on Wednesday, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Tuesday. Elaborating about the government's preparedness for the approaching cyclonic storm, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) tweeted that an alert has been issued for Mumbai city and suburbs, Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts. It also said precautions will be taken during relief work given the prevalence of COVID-19. "Out of the 16 NDRF units, 10 have been deployed for rescue operation during the cyclone, and 6 SDRF units are in reserve," the CMO said in a graphic shared on Twitter. Thackerays office said those staying in kuccha houses are being moved to safer places. It said non-COVID hospitals are being made available.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-ndrf-teams-deployed-as-cyclonic-storm-approaches-maharashtra-cm-844711.html
02-06-2020||National||Indian Navy gears up for Nisarga cyclone response||The Indian Navy has geared up to provide any relief in the wake of approaching Cyclone Nisarga. The Western Naval Command has mobilised adequate resources for flood relief, rescue and diving assistance in the event of excessive rainfall and flooding of both, urban and rural areas in coordination with the respective State Governments on the Western seaboard. In Mumbai, the Maharashtra Naval Area will be on standby with five Flood Rescue Teams and three Diving Teams throughout the monsoon season. These teams are stationed at various naval areas across the city to enable early response over a larger area. These teams are fully equipped and have been trained for rescue operations. Recce of known flood-prone areas has been undertaken and all necessary preparations are in place. Similar arrangements have been set up within the Karwar Naval Area, the Goa Naval Area as well as Gujarat Daman and Diu Naval Areas. The respective Area and Station Commanders are in touch with the State authorities, NDRF and SDRF to be able to respond to a crisis situation in the shortest possible time. With the cyclonic storm Nisarga brewing in the Arabian Sea, all teams have been put on alert and are in readiness to respond to any requirement of HADR during the storm period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-navy-gears-up-for-nisarga-cyclone-response-844712.html
02-06-2020||National||Deep depression in Arabian Sea intensifies into cyclone, likely to turn into severe cyclonic storm: IMD||The deep depression in the Arabian Sea has intensified into a cyclonic storm and will cross the north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts on June 3, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Tuesday. "Deep depression intensified into a cyclonic storm around noon today," IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra said. The cyclone has been named 'Nisarga'. The name has been proposed by Bangladesh, Mohapatra said. It is likely to turn into a 'severe cyclonic storm' by Tuesday night, the Cyclone Warning Division of the IMD said The IMD on Monday said that the cyclone will have an impact on Mumbai. Depression and deep depression are two stages before a storm takes form of a cyclone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deep-depression-in-arabian-sea-intensifies-into-cyclone-likely-to-turn-into-severe-cyclonic-storm-imd-844716.html
02-06-2020||National||COVID-19: INS Jalashwa repatriates nearly 700 Indians stranded in Sri Lanka||Nearly 700 Indian nationals stranded in Sri Lanka due to the international travel restrictions sailed back home from the country on an Indian Navy warship, the Indian High Commission here said. The voyage of the Indian Navy Ship INS Jalashwa is in the series of Operation Samudra Setu, an exercise in which Indian Naval Ships have been deployed to bring back stranded Indians abroad under the Vande Bharat Mission. The Indian Naval Ship made the voyage from Colombo Port to Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu on June 1, it said. "The ship has sailed to Tuticorin in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu with nearly 700 stranded Indian nations from Sri Lanka," the commission said. The Indian High Commission on May 29 arranged the first flight repatriating 176 Indians stranded in Sri Lanka during the COVID-19 lockdown. The flight took off for Mumbai, Bhubaneswar and Kolkata. Under "Operation Samudra Setu", the Indian Navy had repatriated nearly 1,500 Indian nationals from the Maldives in two phases in its vessels--INS Jalashwa and INS Magar on May 10, May 12 and May 17. Sri Lanka has so far recorded 1,643 coronavirus cases, out of which 10 lives have been lost. The lockdown restrictions have been eased considerably and businesses are functioning under health guidelines. This is INS Jalashwa's second voyage to Sri Lanka. On May 30, 2017 the Navy warship was rushed to Sri Lanka with rescue teams and relief material to assist the Sri Lanka Navy in flood relief operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ins-jalashwa-repatriates-nearly-700-indians-stranded-in-sri-lanka-844718.html
02-06-2020||National||Special train with over 1,200 workers leaves Indore for West Bengal||A 'Shramik' special train carrying 1,250 stranded migrant workers left Indore in Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday for Bardhaman in West Bengal, a Western Railway (WR) official said. The train is scheduled to halt at Bhopal to pick up nearly 350 more labourers during its journey via Durgapur and Asansol, he said. The Madhya Pradesh government has made arrangements to send back migrant workers from WB stranded in different parts of the central Indian state due to the coronavirus-driven lockdown since March 25. These workers were hired primarily by cosmetic industry in Indore, the commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh. MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on May 17 had written a letter to his West Bengal counterpart Mamata Banerjee, asking her to request the Railway Ministry to run special trains to ferry stranded migrant workers from his state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/special-train-with-over-1200-workers-leaves-indore-for-west-bengal-844723.html
02-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi reviews cyclonic conditions in western coast||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday took stock of the situation in the wake of cyclonic conditions in western India. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said the low-pressure area formed over the Arabian Sea has intensified into a depression and it will further intensify into a cyclonic storm. Cyclone Nisarga will cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts late in the evening on June 3. "Took stock of the situation in the wake of cyclone conditions in parts of India's western coast," the prime minister tweeted. "Praying for everyone's well-being. I urge people to take all possible precautions and safety measures," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-reviews-cyclonic-conditions-in-western-coast-844726.html
02-06-2020||National||Amit Shah assures Atma Nirbhar Bharat won’t reduce foreign investments, lauds COVID-19 management: Report||Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday emphasised that India is in a better position to fight coronavirus than other countries, and assured that once every Indian starts using only domestically made products, it will only boost the economy and not bring about a fall in investments in the country. "We are confident that this will give a new impetus to our economy. God also supports those who work with hope and strategy," Shah said in an interview with Network 18. Shah told Network 18’s Editor-in-Chief, “I want to urge every Indian to take a pledge to use only those products that are manufactured in India. This is our right. I believe that if every Indian uses only domestically made products, our economy will receive a big jump." The World Health Organisation on Sunday said that India has now become the world's seventh worst-hit country in terms of coronavirus cases with a tally of 1,82,143. Lauding the state governments and their efforts of battling the pandemic, Shah said that irrespective of political party, every state government has fought against coronavirus outbreak promptly. Commenting on the situation of the migrant workers, Shah made the point that the decision of sending all migrant workers home right in the beginning would have posed a huge stress on the state governments since the states did not have quarantining facilities initially. He said, "The Modi government has arranged buses and trains for the migrants and till now, 55 lakh migrants have been sent to their native states. The Railways has helped migrants in returning home, most of whom have now completed their quarantine period and started living with their families.” Shah also made his views clear on the Indo-China border military stand-off along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. The Home Minister said, "We can't take the issue of LAC lightly. The government will not compromise one bit on this issue. We are dealing with this both militarily and diplomatically." Shah mentioned the abrogation of Article 370, the rise in Ease of Doing Business rankings and the surgical strikes, economic reforms like the Rs 20 lakh package as a great example of the strength of Modi's leadership and the efficiency of his government in the past six years. He further termed the rebellion wherein senior Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the subsequent formation of government in Madhya Pradesh as "lack of respect for leadership" within Congress.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-assures-atma-nirbhar-bharat-won-t-reduce-foreign-investments-lauds-covid-19-management-report-844733.html
02-06-2020||National||Jessica Lal murder convict Manu Sharma released from Jail||Manu Sharma, who shot dead model Jessica Lal in April 1999 after she refused to serve him a drink in a bar, walked out free from Tihar Jail after Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal signed the order to release him on a recommendation from the Sentence Review Board (SRB). Sharma (43), a life convict who is the son of former Union Minister Venod Sharma, was out on parole as part of Tihar Jail's decongestion plan during the COVID-19 season and authorities cleared his release on Monday. Along with Sharma, Baijal has also accepted the recommendation of the SRB to release 18 other prisoners. Baijal's decision came after the SRB headed by Delhi Home Minister Satyender Jain last month cleared the proposal taking into account the conduct of the convicts in prison. Sharma has been in an open jail for the past two years on account of "good conduct" and was working with a non-profit organisation for the rehabilitation of prisoners. According to law, any convict barring those found guilty of rape and murder, murder and robbery, murder in terrorism cases and murder while out on parole and those who have completed 14 years in prison without remission are eligible for early release. The Jessica Lal murder case had hit headlines after a lower court first acquitted him in 2006, prompting protests and even a film Rani Mukherjee-starrer 'No One Killed Jessica'. However within months, Delhi High Court had overturned the local court verdict, which was upheld by Supreme Court in 2010. Lal was murdered in the wee hours of April 30, 1999 at a party in Tamarind Court restaurant in Delhi owned by socialite Bina Ramani. She had refused to serve him drink as the bar had closed. He had first fired in air and when she continued to refuse to serve him, he opened fire at her. Earlier in 2018, her younger sister Sabrina Lal had said she had forgiven Sharma and would not object to freeing him from jail and repeated it last month when the news of the SRB recommendation became public. "I truly believe he has been doing good work in jail...it's a load off my chest and I feel at peace with myself," Sabrina told NDTV in 2018. Sharma's earlier attempt for release had not met with success as the SRB had rejected it several times till 2017. In 2009, Sharma was out on parole on the pretext of taking of his sick mother but landed in a controversy after he was spotted in a night club in Delhi and entered into a brawl along with his friend. While his friend was detained, Sharma had managed to give police a slip following which his parole was cancelled two weeks before it expired.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jessica-lal-murder-convict-manu-sharma-released-from-jail-844742.html
02-06-2020||National||Two COVID-19 patients test positive day after their death, J&K toll 33||A day after their death, two patients from northern districts of Kashmir were tested positive for deadly COVID-19 on Tuesday (June 2), taking the overall death toll in Jammu and Kashmir to 33. Officials said that an elderly woman from Baramulla district and a young man from neighboring Kupwara district died on Monday (June 1). “Their swab samples of the deceased turned positive a day after their death,” they said. Principal Government Medical College (GMC), Baramulla, Dr. Abdul Hamid said the elderly lady was brought dead to the hospital on Monday. “The swab sample of the deceased woman was taken. The sample came positive today,” he said, adding that her body was kept in the mortuary of the hospital. “The elderly woman was having many underlying problems as well,” he said, adding that her dead body is being handed over to family as per protocol. Medical Superintendent, SMHS hospital in Srinagar, Dr. Nazir Choudhary said a 29-year-old man from Kupwara, who died at the hospital on Monday was tested positive on Tuesday.  He said that the patient was suffering from B/L cap with fever and his swab samples were taken after his death. With the fresh deaths, the death toll due to COVID-19 has mounted to 33 in J&K including 29 from Kashmir and four from Jammu division.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-covid-19-patients-test-positive-day-after-their-death-jk-toll-33-844749.html
02-06-2020||National||PM Modi hails TN BJP veteran K N Lakshmanan's role in anti-emergency movement||Prime Minister Narendra Modi condoled the death of K N Lakshmanan, a former president of BJP's Tamil Nadu unit, and recalled the veteran leader's role in the anti-emergency movement. "Anguished by the demise of Shri K N Lakshmanan ji. Anguished by the demise of Shri KN Lakshmanan Ji. He was at the forefront of serving the people of Tamil Nadu and expanding the BJP organisation there. His role in the anti-Emergency movement and participation in socio-cultural activities will always be remembered. Om Shanti. He was at the forefront of serving the people of Tamil Nadu and expanding the BJP organisation there. "His role in the anti-emergency movement and participation in socio-cultural activities will always be remembered. Om Shanti," Modi tweeted. Lakshmanan died due to age related problems at his residence in Sevvaipettai in Salem on Monday night. He was 92. The then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had clamped Emergency and it lasted for 21 months between 1975 and 1977. Seen as a dark phase in the history of independent India, the period witnessed imprisonment of a host of opposition leaders and censorship was imposed on the press. Lakshmanan, who had represented the Mylapore assembly constituency in Chennai from 2001-06, is survived by his wife Ranganayaki Ammal, daughter Bhuvaneshwari and son Sekhar. He had been the President of the Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP twice. Party president J P Nadda, too paid rich tributes to the leader and said, "Lakshmanan's remarkable journey from Jan Sangh to BJP and his dedication to serve the people will always inspire us." Nadda expressed his sympathies to the bereaved family members and followers of Lakshmanan. BJP national secretary P Muralidhar Rao said: "He was very simple but deeply committed to the ideology of nationalism and public service, unassuming but unswerving from the path of empowering people and nation." Starting that the former state unit president excelled in all spheres from politics to religion and education, state president L Murugan said Lakshmanan was a nationalist. "His contribution in the field of education was remarkable. In 1970, along with N P Vasudevan, he started the Sri Vidhya Mandir school in a modest manner with mere 35 students. Now the institution has grown in stature accommodating over 1,000 students," Murugan said. Senior BJP leaders Pon Radhakrishnan, C P Radhakrishnan, state general secretaries Vanathi Srinivasan and K T Raghavan wereamong those who paid rich tributes to the departed leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-hails-tn-bjp-veteran-k-n-lakshmanans-role-in-anti-emergency-movement-844753.html
02-06-2020||National||SC lawyers body urges for resuming physical court hearings||A Supreme Court lawyers' body on Tuesday (June 2) asked the Chief Justice of India to resume physical court hearings upon re-opening in July 2020 after summer vacations, saying almost 95% advocates were not comfortable with the virtual court hearings. In a representation, SC Advocates-on-Record Association President Shivaji M Jadhav suggested a slew of measures such as allowing only the limited number of lawyers per matter, restricted entry of litigants, interns and law students, mandatory sanitisation of hands of every entrant, compulsory wearing of masks by all lawyers, separate entry-exit doors and splitting of matters in two slots of pre and post-lunch for the purpose. Appreciating e-filing module including allowing online filing of matters, scrutiny, curing of defects, etc 24x7, he said the common feedback seemed to be that the lawyers were unable to present their cases effectively in the virtual medium, which was acting as a major deterrent for lawyers to consent for such virtual hearings.  In a matter involving several parties and appearances by many lawyers, not all lawyers are given a chance to speak and sometimes, their mics were put on mute by the coordinator as a result of which, their matters got heard in their absence, his letter to the CJI and other judges said. Maintaining that many lawyers were not well equipped with knowledge on the use of computers, Jadhav pointed out most lawyers were facing severe financial problems during this pandemic, due to staggered working of Courts for the past three months.  "Several lawyers have expressed their concern over to the Executive Committee of SCAORA over the loss of livelihood during the past few months. Unless the normal functioning of courts is resumed, the said concern will not abate," he added.  He said the measures were to be undertaken to resume normalcy in a phased manner, in light of the announcement of the Unlock 1.0. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Supreme Court on April 6 Suo Motu authorised all the courts to adopt measures required to ensure the robust functioning of the judicial system through the use of video conferencing technologies.  It said court hearings in the congregation must necessarily become an exception during this period of lockdown imposed since March 25 to contain the spread of Coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-lawyers-body-urges-for-resuming-physical-court-hearings-844754.html
02-06-2020||National||Pakistan violates ceasefire along International Border in J&K's Kathua||Pakistani Rangers violated ceasefire by resorting to firing on forward posts and villages along the International Border (IB) in Hiranagar sector of Kathua district, police said on Tuesday. The firing from across the border started in Karol border outpost area around 10.50 am, drawing a strong retaliation by the Border Security Force (BSF), a police officer said. He said the cross-border firing between the two sides continued throughout the night and ended at around 4.30 am. There was no report of any casualty in the Pakistani firing, the official said. Meanwhile, the official said Indian army defused an unexploded mortar shell fired by Pakistan during ceasefire violations near the Line of Control (LoC) in Kalal area of Rajouri district. The shell was noticed lying in an open area and was subsequently defused by the experts of the army's bomb disposal squad, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-international-border-in-jks-kathua-844764.html
02-06-2020||National||Lover burnt alive in Uttar Pradesh; enraged mob attacks cops||In a shocking incident, a youth was allegedly burnt alive after being tied to a tree in Uttar Pradesh's Pratapgarh district, over a love affair. According to the police sources, the youth, identified as Ambika Patel, a resident of Bhujaini village in the district, was dragged out of his house late on Monday night, allegedly by the members of the girl's family, who tied him to a tree after thrashing him and then set ablaze after dousing him with petrol. The charred remains of his body were recovered by the police on Tuesday morning. Sources said that Ambika had been having an affair with a girl of his own village for the past few years. The girl had recently been selected for the post of constable in the UP police and was currently posted at Kanpur. The girl's family, which was opposed to the relationship, had got a complaint registered against Ambika after the latter had posted an intimate picture of himself and the girl on the social media. He was arrested and had recently been released on parole along with hundreds of other prisoners following COVID-19 outbreak.  Enraged over the killing, the residents of the village went on the rampage and torched several police vehicles and pelted stones at the cops. Seven persons have been arrested in this connection, police officials said adding that the situation in the village is tense but under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lover-burnt-alive-in-uttar-pradesh-enraged-mob-attacks-cops-844766.html
02-06-2020||National||692 domestic flights flew on June 1, operations picking up pace: Puri||Domestic air travel in the country is picking up the pace as 692 flights carrying 64,651 passengers operated on June 1 against 501 flights with 44,593 flyers the day before, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday. Domestic services in India were suspended in March due to the coronavirus lockdown and resumed on May 25. "Jump in the number of flyers from 44,593 on 31 May to 64,651 on 1st June is a welcome sign that our domestic operations are picking pace. Departures 692," Puri said on Twitter. Jump in the number of flyers from 44,593 on 31 May to 64,651 on 1st June is a welcome sign that our domestic operations are picking pace. Departures 692Arrivals 689 Indian carriers operated a total of 4,062 flights till June 1 -- 428 on May 25, 445 on May 26, 460 on May 27, 494 on May 28, 513 on May 29, 529 on May 30, 501 on May 31 and 692 on June 1. During the pre-lockdown period, Indian airports handled around 3,000 daily domestic flights, aviation industry sources said. In February, around 4.12 lakh passengers travelled daily through domestic flights in India, according to Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) data. Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases. While domestic services resumed in Andhra Pradesh on May 26, they restarted in West Bengal two days later. International passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/692-domestic-flights-flew-on-june-1-operations-picking-up-pace-puri-844773.html
02-06-2020||National||Chardham yatra to begin on limited scale from June 8||The Chardham yatra will begin for devotees on a limited scale from June 8, the Uttarakhand government said on Tuesday. "We are preparing to start the yatra from June 8," Cabinet Minister and state government's official spokesman Madan Kaushik said. The yatra will begin for devotees on a limited scale initially and after talking to governments of other states, it will be opened for pilgrims from other states as well, he said. The four famous Himalayan shrines in Uttarakhand, including Badrinath, Kedarnath, Gangotri and Yamunotri, were opened about one and a half months back but devotees have not been allowed to visit the temples yet because of the coronavirus pandemic. It is for the first time in the history of these temples that devotees have been deprived of an opportunity to visit them due to a pandemic. The portals of Gangotri and Yamunotri were opened on the occasion of Akshay Tritiya on April 24, those of Kedarnath on April 29 and Badrinath on May 15 in the presence of only priests and devasthanam board officials during the countrywide lockdown. "We will consider the option of running buses for pilgrims in consultation with other state governments. That way alone pilgrims and tourists from other states can come to Uttarakhand," Kaushik said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chardham-yatra-to-begin-on-limited-scale-from-june-8-844777.html
02-06-2020||National||India far away from peak, much better positioned in COVID-19 fight than other nations: Govt||India is far away from the peak of COVID-19 spread and its preventive measures have been "very effective", putting it in a much better position in comparison with other countries, the government said on Tuesday, even as the case count and death toll continued to mount. Asked about India's status in the fight against COVID-19 and if certain areas have entered the community transmission phase, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scientist Nivedita Gupta at a media briefing said, "Instead of using the word community transmission, it is important to understand the extent of spread of the disease and where do we stand in comparison with other countries." ICMR is conducting a sero-survey to assess the extent of spread of COVID-19 and almost 34,000 people are being tested as a part of it, she said, adding that its results will be out in the public domain by the end of this week or early next week. Asked when the peak in COVID-19 outbreak will arrive, Gupta said, "We are very far away from the peak. Our preventive measures to curtail the disease are very effective and we are better positioned in comparison with other countries. You will get to see the data in a week." Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal, at the briefing, said it is wrong to just look at the total number of cases and state that India has the seventh highest number of cases as the population of countries also should be taken into account. About 14 most affected countries with a cumulative population almost equal to that of India have reported 55.2 times more COVID-19 deaths and 22.5 times more cases, he said. "Our COVID-19 fatality rate is 2.82 per cent as against 6.13 per cent globally. Our COVID-19 fatality rate is amongst the lowest in the world. We have been able to achieve this due to timely identification of cases and proper clinical management," Agarwal said. He also said that India's COVID-19 case fatality rate per lakh population is 0.41 per cent as against 4.9 per cent globally which is also amongst the lowest in the world.  There are countries with a figure as high as 62 (Spain) and 82 (Belgium), he added. Presenting an age profile analysis of COVID-19 deaths, Agarwal said one in every two COVID-19 deaths in India has been of senior citizens who constitute 10 per cent of the total population. This ten per cent of India's population accounts for 50 per cent of India's COVID-19 linked deaths, while 73 per cent of COVID-19 deaths in the country are of people with comorbidities. "Our analysis shows that people at high risk from COVID-19 are elderly people and those with comorbidities," he said, highlighting that it was imperative that high-risk people take required preventive measures and timely action based on medical advice in case they experience COVID-19 symptoms. He also urged the high risk population to stay at home and adopt various activities like yoga, reading books or developing indoor hobbies among others to utilise their time productively at home and stay fit. Precautions and laid down do's and dont's have to be followed with same vigour and momentum as India is opening up gradually, Agarwal said. "As India fights coronavirus, it is necessary to keep up the momentum in the fight against COVID-19, let us take a pledge and declare it on social media as well. Use 'IndiaWillWin' hashtag to create awareness," he said. "As we are in 'Unlock 1' situation, the challenge before us is how to follow COVID-appropriate behaviour, be it in terms of travel or office functioning. We have to think in terms of a new normal on how to live with the virus by taking adequate precautions so as to protect ourselves from it," he said. The ICMR scientist said 1.20 lakh samples are being tested for COVID-19 on an average per day and at present there are 476 government and 205 private labs testing for the virus. Responding to a question on whether there is some amount of under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths with several states not testing bodies for the infection, Gupta said there was no under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths in India and states were doing causality assessment and attributing cause of death accordingly. Agarwal also asserted that there is "no under reporting of COVID-19 When asked that the country is approaching 2 lakh cases and if there has been any change in the protocol for contact tracing, Agarwal said the primary focus remains on COVID-19 containment zones, identifying cases and active search for cases. "With additional cases getting reported the size of zones may need to increase and active search may need to be strengthened depending on the number of cases," he said. "After doing this active search, whichever cases including asymptomatic high risk contacts need to be tested as part of the testing criteria and anybody who is found positive should be treated as per protocol," Agarwal said. The novel coronavirus death toll rose to 5,598 in India on Tuesday with 204 more fatalities, while 8,171 new cases reported in the last 24 hours took the number of infections to over 1.98 lakh till Tuesday 8 AM, according to the Health Ministry. The recovery rate has improved from 11.42 per cent on April 15 to 26.59 per cent on May 3 and to 38.29 per cent on May 18, the ministry said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-far-away-from-peak-much-better-positioned-in-covid-19-fight-than-other-nations-govt-844778.html
02-06-2020||National||Rabi crops hit by unseasonal rains, coronavirus lockdown: Report||Unseasonal rains along with other adverse weather conditions in February and March, coupled with lack of manpower to harvest crops during the coronavirus lockdown, will hit the output of rabi crops like cereals, pulses and oil seeds, according to a report. The production of cereals, pulses and oilseeds is estimated to decline by 1.95 per cent, 2.22 per cent and 13.48 per cent, respectively, in 2019-20 compared to last year, according to the report by the National Bulk Handling Corporation (NBHC). In India, rabi harvesting starts in March in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, and in April in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The government announcement of the lockdown came right in the middle of this rabi harvesting season, it said adding that even as farm activities were exempt from the lockdown, the shortage of labour and lack of transport facilities are expected to impact the rabi crop adversely. Wheat production is expected to fall further by 3.12 per cent over last estimate as delayed harvesting has led to a fall in yield and further delays in procurement exposes the crop to untimely rains but would be still higher by 5.61 per cent over last year mainly because of increased MSP coupled with the surplus monsoon and post-monsoon rains in October boosted soil moisture levels, it said. However, rice production is expected to increase marginally by 3.17 per cent over last estimate amidst reports of higher yield in Telangana but would still be lower by 25.67 per cent over last year owing to marginal shift in farmer's focus to pulses and wheat. Maize is expected to decline further by 2.17 per cent over last estimate leading to overall fall in production by 0.99 per cent over last year. Jowar production is expected to improve further by 2.62 per cent over last estimate leading to overall increase in production by about 23.57 per cent over last year. Meanwhile, pulses production is projected to drop further by 4.58 per cent over last estimate, which is 2.22 per cent lower than last year's production mainly due to 10.85 per cent drop in the gram production, which constitutes about 70 per cent of the total rabi pulses. Gram production is expected to decline further 4.87 per cent over the last estimate mainly due to fall in Madhya Pradesh as a lot of area under gram was diverted for wheat cultivation. Urad, masoor and field pea are also expected to decline by 2 per cent, 2.17 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively over the last estimate. Total oilseeds production is estimated to be 9.50 million tonnes, which is about 6.58 per cent lower than the last estimate mainly because of fall in mustard or rape seed and groundnut production, leading to overall fall in production by 13.48 per cent over last year. Mustard and groundnut production is expected to decline 7 per cent and 5 per cent, respectively over last estimate.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rabi-crops-hit-by-unseasonal-rains-coronavirus-lockdown-report-844788.html
02-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Maharashtra prepares for Cyclone Nisarga; PM Modi assures industry over economic growth||PM Narendra Modi assures industry that the government will support them in bringing the economy back to growth territory. Landslides in South Assam kill over 20 following more than 24 hours of heavy rain.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-maharashtra-prepares-for-cyclone-nisarga-pm-modi-assures-industry-over-economic-growth-844789.html
02-06-2020||National||NCB seizes 355 kg opium from trucks plying under essential services cover, 11 held||Eleven people were arrested and 355 kg of opium was seized in May by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) from trucks plying under essential services cover amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, officials said on Tuesday. Narcotics Control Bureau Deputy Director (operations) K P S Malhotra said three cases each were registered in Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. "Intensive enforcement efforts were carried out by the agency throughout the country during the lockdown period and that resulted in a crackdown on multiple opium trafficking networks operating between Jharkhand and various north Indian states," Malhotra said in a statement. All the trafficking groups were using the modus operandi of using essential commodity trucks to send the contraband across state borders, he said. He said the source of this opium trafficking network has links with the Naxal-affected areas of Jharkhand. Talking about trends, another official said Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh are considered the major hubs for illegal opium trade. Jharkhand has recently emerged as the "hub" for illicit opium trade as all seizures made by the NCB last month have their source in the state, the official said. "The hilly tracts of the state provide safe havens for opium poppy cultivators," he added. As per latest data, the NCB in assistance with state agencies destroyed a total of 10,401 acres of poppy cultivation in the country during 2019-20 with 1,002 acres being in Jharkhand. Opium is a dried latex obtained from the poppy seed and another chemical called morphine present inside it is used to prepare heroin, a highly addictive drug, and other synthetic opioids.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ncb-seizes-355-kg-opium-from-trucks-plying-under-essential-services-cover-11-held-844791.html
02-06-2020||National||UP medical college principal calls Jamaatis 'terrorists'; later claims video to be morphed||The principal of a prestigious government medical college in Uttar Pradesh triggered a huge controversy after she allegedly termed the coronaviru infected members of 'Tableegh-e-Jamat' as 'terrorists', who according to her should either be sent to jail or thrown into forests instead of giving them 'VIP' treatment in hospitals. Dr Arti Lalchandani, the principal of Kanpur Medical College, was heard purportedly saying in a video that the 'jamatis' were ''draining the government resources''. The remarks were made by the principal in an informal chat with the local reporters a few days back. ''Though I should not be saying that but these people (jamatis) are terrorists....we are giving them VIP treatment...we are exhausting our resources on them...they should be sent to jail or thrown into the forests,'' she was heard saying in the video. She also said that the 'jamatis' were misbehaving with the doctors and paramedical staff, spitting everywhere and demanding biryani. As the leaked video triggered a controversy, the doctor claimed on Tuesday that it had been 'doctored'. ''We served them (jamatis) to the best of our ability...we have very good relations with them...the video is a conspiracy hatched by my opponents,'' she said. Samajwadi Party (SP) legislator from Kanpur Irfan Solanki and other senior Muslim leaders demanded stern action against the principal. Last month, a private hospital in UP's Meerut town had banned admission of Muslim patients unless they furnished COVID-19 negative test reports for them and their attendants. The hospital, which specialised in treatment of cancer, had put out an advertisement in a leading Hindi daily explaining in detail about the reasons that prompted it to do so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-medical-college-principal-calls-jamaatis-terrorists-later-claims-video-to-be-morphed-844794.html
02-06-2020||National||It is criminal not give cash support to MSMEs: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said it is criminal on the part of the government not to give immediate cash support to the MSMEs, which are closing down. "11 crore Indians are employed by MSMEs. 1/3rd of them are closing down permanently. It's criminal for GOI not to give them cash support immediately," he said on Twitter. Gandhi has been calling for immediate financial support to the micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the country, which employ a large number of people, saying it has been the hardest hit sector by the coronavirus-induced nationwide lockdown. He has also called for a financial package for the MSMEs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/it-is-criminal-not-give-cash-support-to-msmes-rahul-gandhi-844799.html
02-06-2020||National||13 more COVID-19 deaths in TN, toll at 197; 1091 fresh cases, tally breaches 24,000 mark||Thirteen more people succumbed to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu which reported 1,091 fresh cases on Tuesday pushing the infection count past the 24,000 mark, the health department said. The death toll has risen to 197 while the infection tally surged to 24,586. This is the third straight day the state is witnessing more than 1000 cases. The state reported 1,162 cases yesterday and on Sunday the number was 1,149, according to a bulletin issued by the health department. Chennai with 809 COVID-19 cases today continued to witness the maximum number of cases among,totalling 16,585 cases till date. According to the bulletin, 536 people got cured today, totalling 13,706 so far. The number of active cases, including those in isolation wards, stood at 10,680, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/13-more-covid-19-deaths-in-tn-toll-at-197-1091-fresh-cases-tally-breaches-24000-mark-844803.html
02-06-2020||National||CPI(M) moves SC against denial of reservation in all India quota seats in medical courses||The CPI(M) on Tuesday filed a petition in the Supreme Court against alleged denial of the reservation to OBC, Most Backward Classes and SC/STs in all India quota seats in National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) for undergraduate and postgraduate courses in Tamil Nadu as per the statute. In a plea by the party's state secretary, Balakrishnan sought a direction to the Centre to fill up 15% of all India quota in MBBS/BDS and 50% in MD/MS courses in accordance with the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of Appointments or Posts in the Services under the State) Act,1993 in Tamil Nadu. He claimed that as per the Act, the OBC reservation of 50% has to be implemented in the state of Tamil Nadu for the all India quota state surrendered seats(other than the central government Institutions). "During this current admission year 2020-21 also, the OBCs are not given any reservation for the seats pooled from the States," he said, adding that this was unconstitutional and violative of the basic feature of the Constitution. According to the 'Regulations on Graduate Medical Education,1997 & Post Graduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000', the state surrendered seats to the all India quota shall be filled up as per the statutory reservation policy of the concerned states.  However, the Medical Counselling Committee and Dental Counselling Committee through which the admissions were done for the medical undergraduate and postgraduate courses do not apply the policy of OBC reservation of respective state to the ‘State surrendered seats to the all India quota’ in government and private medical and dental colleges.  They are not providing even 27% reservation for filling up state surrendered seats to the All India Quota in government and private medical and dental colleges in Tamil Nadu and other states, the petition drafted by advocate Subhash Chandran K R and filed Biju P Raman contended. The petitioner claimed denial of the reservation to SC-STs as per the Tamil Nadu Act was violative of Articles 14, 15(4),15(5), and 21 of the Constitution and 1997 and 2000 regulations. In the year 2018-19, only 220 OBC candidates were admitted to postgraduate courses while they had claimed over 3,991 of the 7,982 seats. Similarly, only 66 OBC students were admitted under all India quota to the undergraduate course (MBBS). There are 4,061 all India quota MBBS seats, of which 50% i.e. 2030 should have been filled with OBC candidates, the petitioner pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-moves-sc-against-denial-of-reservation-in-all-india-quota-seats-in-medical-courses-844811.html
02-06-2020||National||Sajid-Wajid's mother tests positive for COVID-19||A day after the demise of singer-music director Wajid Khan of composer duo Sajid-Wajid, their mother Razina Khan tested positive for the coronavirus, a family source said on Tuesday. Razina Khan is admitted to Surana Hospital in Chembur, where Wajid Khan was also undergoing treatment. "She has tested positive. She is doing fine and will remain in the hospital for few more days till her test comes out negative," the insider said. Wajid Khan, 42, tested positive for COVID-19 and died of a cardiac arrest. Popular for collaborating with brother Sajid Khan, on superstar Salman Khan's films like "Wanted", "Dabangg" series and "Ek Tha Tiger", the music composer died early Monday morning in a city hospital here. Sajid-Wajid made their Bollywood debut with Salman's 1998 movie "Pyaar Kiya Toh Darna Kya" and went on to create chartbusters for actor's various films including "Garv", "Tere Naam", "Tumko Na Bhool Payenge", "Partner".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sajid-wajids-mother-tests-positive-for-covid-19-844815.html
02-06-2020||National||K Chandrashekar Rao lauds farmer who cultivated apples for 1st time in state||A farmer who cultivated apples for the first time in Telangana and presented a box of the fruit to Chief Minister K Chandrashekar Rao on Tuesday on the occasion of state formation day came in for praise from him. Kendre Balaji, the farmer from Komram Bheem Asifabad district, told reporters that Rao lauded him and assured him all help. An official release quoted Rao as saying that cultivation of apples in the state showed that Telangana has a variety of soils. Rao gave some apples to those who participated in the formation day celebrations at Pragati Bhavan, the Chief Minister's camp office-cum-official residence, it said. Apple is mainly cultivated in Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, the hills of Uttar Pradesh and Uttaranchal. It is also cultivated to a lesser extent in Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Punjab and Sikkim. Balaji said he cultivated HR 99 Apple (variety) in two acres at Dhanora village in Kerameri Mandal in the district and that the state horticulture department gave him a lot of support and help. He said cultivation of apple can be expanded in the mandal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/k-chandrashekar-rao-lauds-farmer-who-cultivated-apples-for-1st-time-in-state-844831.html
02-06-2020||National||PIL filed in SC for China to share information on COVID-19||A PIL has been filed by an organisation, 'Doctors For You' in the Supreme Court seeking a direction to the Union Government to make a representation to China and procure necessary information on COVID-19 to facilitate the development of an effective antidote for it. The petitioner also sought a direction to the Centre to call upon the World Health Organisation to initiate a probe immediately for its delay in notifying to the world community of the pandemic. "The Chinese govemment has deliberately hidden and censored information relating to the novel Corona Virus and its COVID-19 strain and silenced the doctors who tried to raise an alarm," it claimed. The Mumbai-based organisation also wanted the Union government to use diplomatic channels to ask China to share various strains and mutations that have been found in the vicinity of Wuhan, to assist and collaborate in ongoing research to the potential line of treatments to cure the affected persons and provide with details of vaccines in the process to abate its effects. It said the People's Republic of China should share the epidemiology, evolution, clinical data and full extent of data on the novel Corona Virus which has put at stake the Right to Life guaranteed by the Constitution and to share the statistics and other  indicators based upon which the Chinese Govemment directed the reopening of Wuhan wet markets and controlled the virus only to areas of the central city of Wuhan. "It will further help the Indian medical scientists and doctors to research and have better chances of developing of antidote," the PIL said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pil-filed-in-sc-for-china-to-share-information-on-covid-19-844844.html
02-06-2020||National||About 200 migrant workers lost lives in road accidents during lockdown: SaveLIFE Foundation||Around 200 migrant workers lost their lives in road accidents during the lockdown period, with over-speeding of vehicles being one of the main reasons, according to non-profit body SaveLIFE Foundation. Five states Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Telangana and Maharashtra accounted for the maximum deaths of migrant workers, the non-governmental organisation, which is working towards curbing road accidents in the country, said in a statement. "Since the lockdown began, nearly 200 migrant workers have lost their lives, while walking, cycling back home, travelling in HMVs (heavy motor vehicles) and LMVs (light motor vehicles)..., and in mass fatality crashes involving state-organised buses. One of the recurring reasons for mass casualties in most of the incidents was speeding and driver fatigue due to continuous driving on tenuous routes," the foundation said. The non-profit body said it compiled data based on various print and online media reports published during the lockdown period and cross-verified them from sources. The top 5 states that reported road crash deaths of migrant workers are Uttar Pradesh (94), Madhya Pradesh (38), Bihar (16), Telangana (11) and Maharashtra (9), it said. Out of the four phases of lockdown, the fourth phase was the deadliest overall, whereas the third phase was the deadliest in particular for migrant workers, the statement said. The third phase reported 60 per cent of all migrant deaths in road crashes during the lockdown followed by the fourth phase with 19 per cent of total migrant deaths reported in the media. "There were at least 1,461 road crashes over the course of the nationwide lockdown between March 25 and May 31, 2020. At least 750 people were killed including 198 migrant workers headed home. 1,390 persons were reported injured in the crashes. The data has been compiled using media-tracking and multi-source verification," it said. The NGO said Uttar Pradesh accounted for over 30 per cent (245) of the total deaths followed by Telangana (56), Madhya Pradesh (56), Bihar (43), Punjab (38) and Maharashtra (36). Further analysis revealed that around 27 per cent of the victims were migrant workers whereas 5 per cent were essential workers like police, doctors and others, it added. The body said 68 per cent of the overall deaths involved pedestrians, two-wheelers and three-wheelers – categorised as Vulnerable Road Users (VRUs).  Commenting on the same, Piyush Tewari, founder and CEO, SaveLIFE Foundation, said, "It is critical that states enhance enforcement to prevent road crashes and the citizens inculcate essential safety habits for the road like they did for personal hygiene during the lockdown." The NGO said that as per media reports tracked, vehicle-on-vehicle collisions constituted the highest crash configuration with 43 per cent of all road crash deaths. In 15 per cent cases, speeding was highlighted as a factor, though it is likely that speeding was involved in most fatal crashes though not highlighted in the media reports tracked. Pedestrian rundowns constituted 9 per cent of the total death toll, indicating the urgent need for design changes to segregate pedestrian traffic from fast moving vehicles. India accounts for about 5 lakh road crashes per annum in which about 1.5 lakh people are killed and another 3 lakh are crippled. This is one of the highest globally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/about-200-migrant-workers-lost-lives-in-road-accidents-during-lockdown-savelife-foundation-844851.html
02-06-2020||National||Congress questions govt's intent of helping farmers, wants MSP to be 'legally-binding'||Questioning the government's intention of helping farmers, the Congress Tuesday said if they don't get the promised Minimum Support Price (MSP) for their produce, Prime Minister Narendra Modi's aim of doubling their income by 2022 will remain a "pipe dream". The party also termed "too little" the increase in MSP for various crops, announced by the government on Monday, claiming it will not help farmers tide over the crisis inflicted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Congress leader Sunil Jakhar claimed a majority of farm produce is purchased in the open market at rates much lower than the Minimum Support Price (MSP) declared by the government. He urged the prime minister to make MSP a "legally-binding right" of farmers to ensure that they get the right and remunerative prices for their produce. The Congress leader also said that farmers have been left to fend for themselves as the government has done "too little" for them so far and even the stimulus package of Rs 20-lakh crore has "nothing for them" in it. "The intention of the government is doubtful. If it wants to help the farmer, it should give him the due price for his farm produce. The increase in MSP by the government from time to time is just a fraud on the farmers," he said. "If the MSP is declared and the farmer does not get it, the prime minister's promise of doubling farmers' income will remain a pipe dream," he told reporters at a virtual press conference. The government on Monday raised the MSP of paddy by a marginal Rs 53 per quintal to Rs 1,868 per quintal for the 2020-21 crop year, while the rates for oilseeds, pulses and cereals were hiked substantially. Among commercial crops, the MSP of cotton was increased by Rs 260 per quintal to Rs 5,515 for the medium staple variety and by Rs 275 per quintal to Rs 5,825 for the long staple variety for the current crop year (July-June). Jakhar also said on Tuesday that the current exodus of migrant workers to their home states will have an adverse impact on the country's economy, which, he claimed, is already in a bad shape. He, however, lauded the farmers for a bumber crop this season and said despite the coronavirus pandemic gripping the country, the food basket is full and the prime minister was able to provide free foodgrains to the poor only because of that. The Punjab Congress chief also accused the government of "betraying" farmers as it is yet to come out with the CACP (Commission for Agricultural Costs & Prices) report on fixing MSPs of various crops. He said that except for wheat and paddy, which are picked up by government agencies at MSP rates to some extent, a majority of other crops is sold at prices much below the MSP as agencies do not buy them at government rates. The farmers lose out in the bargain, he said. Asked if the MSP is a futile exercise, he said, "Without a proper mechanism to purchase the crops at the MSP by the government, it becomes a futile exercise." "The prime minister wants to revive the economy, but what has the farmer got in the Rs 20-lakh crore package announced by him?," he asked. "To kickstart the economy," he said, "we need money. When you talk about rebooting the economy, you cannot reboot the economy by booting the farmer. You are giving a boot to the farmer and that is what hurts." Instead of any cash benefit, the prime minister has only given advice to take more credit, he claimed. "Farmers are already reeling under debt and are committing suicides due to heavy debts." He urged the prime minister to grant fiscal incentives to farmers and waive their loans. The Congress leader said cash should be given to farmers to help them come out of the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic. He called for an immediate grant of Rs 10,000 to each poor family and Rs 7,500 to them for next six months to help them tide over the crisis and help revive demand. Jakhar claimed that input cost of farmers have risen further during this pandemic as the labour is difficult to find after migrant workers left for their homes. There is no clarity with this government and it is only doing lip service, he claimed. Jakhar said he has suggested to his party leadership for organising a march of opposition leaders from Delhi to Bihar's Darbhanga, reminding the people of a young girl who cycled along with her father for 1,200 km to reach home from Gurgaon during the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/congress-questions-govts-intent-of-helping-farmers-wants-msp-to-be-legally-binding-844855.html
02-06-2020||National||30 forms of physical, verbal abuse part of disciplining efforts by Indian households: UNICEF||At least 30 different forms of physical and verbal abuse are reported as part of disciplining efforts by Indian households, according to a new study by UNICEF conducted in five states. The study 'Parenting Matters: Examining Parenting Approaches and Practices' was conducted in two districts each in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Odisha, three districts in Rajasthan and four districts in Maharashtra. The study outlines the various forms of violence against children resorted to in the household – physical violence (burning; pinching; slapping; beating with implements like stick, belts, rods) verbal abuse (blaming; criticizing; shouting; use of foul language); witnessing physical violence (towards one parent; towards siblings; outside the family) and emotional abuse (restricting movement; denying food; discrimination; instilling fear). "At least 30 different forms of physical and verbal abuse are reported as part of disciplining efforts. The punishment is a widely accepted method to discipline children for both boys and girls in families, schools and at the community level for both girls and boys," the study said. The study also underlined that girls and boys are raised very differently from a very early age – with the burden of household chores, day to day restrictions, being imposed more on girls by fathers. "Mothers are the main caregivers for children while fathers are much less involved. While male caregivers took children outdoors, mothers are more involved in enabling indoor stimulation through storytelling and singing, among others," the study said. Speaking on the release of the report, Yasmin Ali Haque, UNICEF Representative in India said, "Our experience in Ebola crisis shows us that young children are more likely to experience violence, abuse and neglect as families struggle to cope, that could have a lifelong impact on them." "Awareness on positive parenting practices are relevant now more than ever to promote both mental and physical well-being of children. Supporting parents and caregivers to provide young children with nurturing care in times of crisis is essential," she said. The study recommended building skills of frontline workers to better engage with caregivers. It also highlights the need for quality engagement of fathers in caregiving to support their child's development.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/30-forms-of-physical-verbal-abuse-part-of-disciplining-efforts-by-indian-households-unicef-844858.html
02-06-2020||National||Gujarat HC seeks response from govt on PIL challenging constitutional validity of lockdown||The Gujarat High Court on Tuesday asked the center and the state governments to respond to a public interest litigation (PIL) challenging constitutional validity of imposing lockdown following coronavirus pandemic and file a report by June 19. The petition has been filed by an activist alleging that restrictions were placed across the country without "application of mind" which led to miseries of a large section of society. The division bench of justices R M Chhaya and Ilesh Vora ordered the government lawyers to take instruction and file a report on June 19, when the bench will be hearing set of petitions including suo motu PILs related to coronavirus pandemic and state government's actions. The fresh PIL has been filed by an activist Vishwas S Bhamburkar through advocate K R Koshti. The petitioner has said that the lockdown was imposed by invoking Epidemic Disaster Act, 1897 and National Disaster Management Act, 2005 since March 24 in wake of rising cases of covid-19. The lockdown shut all non-essential government establishments, commercial and private establishments, industries, transport,, hospitality services, educational institutions, places of worship, political gatherings among others. "The lockdown resulted in the people of the country being put under house arrest without being accused of any offence. It also caused untold hardships to the people of the country - food crises and hunger, migrant crises, medical crises and various other issues. It is pertinent to point out that the word lockdown, or its synonyms or equivalent does not find mention in either the EDA, DMA or the Constitution of India," the petitioner argued. It says that before taking such decision, the government didn't provide any safeguards. "The provisions of DMA, more particularly sections 12 and 13 which ensured the welfare of the persons and protected their livelihoods (Article 21) and other reasonable interests were not invoked; therefore, the lockdown was neither imposed constitutionally nor has it been implemented legally, logically nor scientifically," the petitioner has stated. The petition mentions that due to unplanned lockdown, livelihood of the migrant labourers was snatched away, they were rendered shelterless at their place of work, due to non-availability of transportation, they were forced to walk hundreds of kilometres away to reach home. The petition also claims that over 40 persons died on their way home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-hc-seeks-response-from-govt-on-pil-challenging-constitutional-validity-of-lockdown-844894.html
02-06-2020||National||2 arrested for distasteful comments against Union minister Pratap Sarangi on social media||Two persons were arrested in Odisha’s Balasore district on Tuesday for allegedly making unsavoury remarks against Union minister Pratap Chandra Sarangi on social media, police said. The two were arrested on the basis of a complaint lodged by the district unit of the BJP's youth wing on Sunday against the distasteful remarks about Sarangi, who is also the Lok Sabha member from Balasore, Inspector in-Charge of Sahadevkhunta Police station K C Palei said. Sahadevkhunta police registered a case the same day and launched an investigation, he said, adding the accused were identified and arrested after a thorough probe. The arrested persons, Gautam Sahu and Gyanendra Mohanty, both aged around 25 years, posted the remarks against the minister on Facebook, Palei said. Posters carrying a screenshot of the social media post also appeared at some places in Balasore town on Sunday. The posters read “Help! Our MP is Missing’ with a photograph of Sarangi, the Union Minister of State for MSME, Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, police said. The accused have been booked under sections 469 (forgery for purpose of harming reputation), 500 (defamation) and 34 A (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2-arrested-for-distasteful-comments-against-union-minister-pratap-sarangi-on-social-media-844902.html
02-06-2020||National||Gujarat braces up for cyclone Nisarga; 78,000 being evacuated||As cyclone Nisarga approaches south Gujarat's coastal town, the state government on Tuesday said that it has started evacuating over 78,000 persons living in kutcha houses in Surat, Valsad, Navsari and Bharuch districts. By Tuesday evening, over 20,000 persons have already been evacuated. Officials said that evacuees will be accommodated in 140 shelter homes created for them.   While the state government said that 13 teams of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and seven from State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed and five more teams will be airlifted, the weather department has predicted that the cyclone may not make a landfall on Gujarat coast. However, gutsy winds coupled with heavy rains will have an impact on the coastal towns. In a release India Meteorological Department (IMD) stated that deep depression over east-central Arabian Sea was about 670 km away from Surat which is likely to turn into a cyclonic storm. The storm may hit the south Gujarat coast by tomorrow. The release stated that by tomorrow, it will turn into a severe cyclonic storm and cross north Maharashtra and adjoining south Gujarat coast between Harihareshwar and Daman, close to Alibaug of Maharashtra during the afternoon of June 3, with a maximum sustained wind speed of 100 to 110 kmph. Director, MeT, Jayanta Sarkar told reporters, "Our prediction says that the cyclone may make a landfall near Alibaug that is located between north Maharashtra and south Gujarat. Although the cyclone will not cross south Gujarat, it will leave its impact due to strong winds and heavy rains in the coastal areas."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-braces-up-for-cyclone-nisarga-78000-being-evacuated-844903.html
02-06-2020||National||SC seeks consent from lawyers for physical appearance in courts||The Supreme Court on Tuesday decided to explore feasibility of physical appearance of advocates in courts, more than two months after holding virtual courts due to COVID-19 pandemic.  Following requests from lawyers bodies and others, the court decided to seek consent from lawyers and parties for physical appearance while adhering to social distancing norms. "In view of the request received from various quarters and in order to explore the feasibility of physical appearance of the advocates in the court, while adhering to social distancing norms, it is notified to all the advocates and parties in person to give their joint consent with regard to willingness for physically appearing and arguing in the court," a circular issued on Tuesday stated. The administration decided to create an email ID for sending consent in this regard. "Only on receipt of consent of all the parties to that effect, the matter would be considered for listing before the court, subject to availability of the bench, order of the competent authority and social distancing norms," it said. The top court has been holding virtual courts after lockdown was imposed since March 25 due to COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-consent-from-lawyers-for-physical-appearance-in-courts-844908.html
02-06-2020||National||PLA’s actions along disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh not in sync with Modi-Xi consensus, India tells China||The recent actions of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh was contrary to the consensus Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the communist country’s President Xi Jinping had reached during the two “informal summits” they held over the past two years, New Delhi has conveyed to Beijing. As diplomats and military officials of the two sides are in talks to defuse tension along the disputed boundary between India and China on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh, New Delhi has stressed that Beijing must ensure that the Chinese PLA strictly adhere to the “strategic guidance” the leaders of the two nations had agreed to issue to their militaries in April 2018 and October 2019. A source in New Delhi told the DH that the senior Indian Army officers regularly monitoring the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto border between the two nations – had noticed “a lack of interest” by the local commanders of the Chinese PLA to effectively implement on the ground the consensus arrived at the highest level. “The actions by the overzealous PLA commanders along the LAC, not only in western sector (Ladakh), but also elsewhere (along the disputed boundary between India and China) have often not been in sync with the strategic guidance the leaders of the two nations issued to their militaries in 2018 and reaffirmed in 2019,” said the source, adding: “It is for the Chinese Government to find out why the PLA commanders were not adhering to the guidance that was issued from the top.” He said that the soldiers of the Indian Army and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) were strictly going by the consensus reached at the level of the Prime Minister and the Chinese President, unlike their counterparts on the other side. Modi and Xi had the first “informal summit” at Wuhan in central China on April 27 and 28 in 2018. It brought about a thaw in the bilateral relations, which had hit a new low over the 72-day-long face-off between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA on the Doklam Plateau in western Bhutan in June-August, 2017. The Prime Minister and the Chinese President had issued “strategic guidance” to their respective militaries “to strengthen communication to build trust and mutual understanding and enhance predictability and effectiveness in the management of border affairs”. They directed the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA “to earnestly implement various confidence-building measures agreed upon between the two sides, including the principle of mutual and equal security, and strengthen existing institutional arrangements and information sharing mechanisms to prevent incidents in border regions”. The two leaders had the second “informal summit” at a seaside resort near Chennai on October 11 and 12 last year, when they reaffirmed the understanding reached in April 2018 and agreed that efforts would “continue to be made to ensure peace and tranquility in the border areas”. They agreed that both sides “would continue to work on additional Confidence Building Measures in pursuit of this objective”. What of late rattled the Chinese PLA was a road Indian Army had built a few months ago linking its military airbase at Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO) with one of its forward camps close to the Pangong Tso lake along with a bridge over a rivulet. The new road in fact branched out from another 255-kilometer-long one from Darbuk and Shyok to the DBO, which was completed by the Border Roads Organization (BRO) of India last year. The construction of the road and the bridge, as well as other such infrastructure closer to the LAC in eastern Ladakh, was perceived by the Chinese PLA as preparations by the Indian Army for a military move towards Aksai Chin – a territory which India claims as its own and accuses China of illegally occupying. Tension on the north bank of the Pangong Tso lake escalated on May 5 when the Chinese PLA attacked Indian Army soldiers with sticks and stones in an area perceived in New Delhi to be well within the LAC’s Indian side. They also demolished on May 6 some makeshift structures built by Indian Army soldiers. The Chinese PLA followed up by building a bunker in order to restrict the access to an area where Indian Army soldiers regularly patrolled. The PLA soldiers also blacktopped a road to the newly-constructed bunker. The PLA deployed at least 5000 soldiers in a large camp set up recently at Galwan Valley within the territory claimed by China – in order to support the smaller number of troops, who transgressed the LAC in several locations and entered into the areas claimed by India. The Indian Army too had to rush additional troops “in adequate numbers” in response to the deployment by the Chinese PLA. The two sides also moved heavy vehicles and weaponry closer to the scene of the build-ups. Beijing and New Delhi echoed each other last week to reaffirm commitment to the “consensus” reached between the two leaders. “We follow in real earnest the important consensus reached between leaders of the two sides (China and India),” Zhao Lijian, the spokesperson of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, said in Beijing. “India is committed to the objective of maintenance of peace and tranquility in the border areas with China and our armed forces scrupulously follow the consensus reached by our leaders and the guidance provided,” Anurag Srivastava, the MEA spokesperson, said in New Delhi. China’s conciliatory words however have not yet translated into any move by its military to defuse tension along its disputed boundary with India. “There is undoubtedly a certain degree of disconnect between what China’s diplomats say in Beijing and what its military commanders do along its LAC with India,” said another source in New Delhi, adding: “Whether this disconnect is inadvertent or intentional is anyone’s guess”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pla-s-actions-along-disputed-boundary-in-eastern-ladakh-not-in-sync-with-modi-xi-consensus-india-tells-china-844909.html
02-06-2020||National||Women activists call release of Jessica Lal murder case convict Manu Sharma ‘unfortunate’, ‘bizarre’, ‘shocking’||Women rights activists called "unfortunate" the decision to prematurely release Jessica Lal murder case convict Manu Sharma, saying it sets a wrong precedent. Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal approved the premature release of Sharma, who is serving a life sentence in the case, according to an official order. The Delhi Sentence Review Board (SRB) which comes under the Delhi government had recommended Sharma's release from the Tihar Jail last month. Activist-politician Brinda Karat said there is absolutely no ground for giving Sharma a lenient release and that it is surprising that a board headed by a Delhi minister should come forth with such a recommendation. "On what basis did the Delhi Sentence Review Board take a decision to recommend a criminal, who is convicted of the murder of a young woman, to be released three years earlier? It sets a very wrong precedent," she said. "Good behaviour is subjective… When somebody is convicted, unless he is proved to be not guilty, but he is proven guilty. He has a 20-year sentence… he should complete those 20 years and particularly in such a case in which a young girl was so brutally murdered. So it sets a wrong precedent," Karat added. Women rights activist Shamina Shafiq said the decision to release Sharma is "shocking” and “bizarre". "Already the country has been dealing with so much as far as crime against women is concerned. For ‘Nirbhaya’, it took so many years of turmoil to get justice for the family. Now, we see one more person walking scot-free and in the name of what? In the pretext of what?" she said. "I hope better sense prevails and the government thinks about giving stringent punishment and send a strong message to society instead of actually going so soft on the criminals, especially those with serious charges. It is not something to rejoice… it is something to really think and ponder as to whether the government is actually serious about ‘Beti Bachao’ or is it only sloganeering," Shafiq, a former member of the National Commission for Women, said. Chhavi Methi from the Bharatiya Samajik Jagritik Sanghatan called the development "unfortunate". "The decision is unfortunate. It is very subjective what good behaviour is and what work he has actually done to show ‘good behaviour’. It should not be a ground for basing early release," she noted. Yogita Bhayana, who heads the People Against Rape in India (PARI), however, said Sharma should be given the "benefit of doubt". "… if he has reformed and if he is going early because of his good behaviour, it should be fine. I heard his stories about regret. What happened is unfortunate, but if he regrets it, then he should be given the benefit of doubt. And it isn't that he is coming out very early, he is coming out two-three years early. A murderer can be reformed not a rapist," she said. PARI seeks to support rape survivors and help them in their fight for justice. Manu Sharma, son of former Union minister Venod Sharma, was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment by the Delhi High Court in December 2006 for killing Jessica Lal in 1999. A trial court had acquitted him, but the high court reversed the order. The Supreme Court later upheld his life sentence in April 2010. Lal was shot dead by Sharma after she refused to serve him liquor at the Tamarind Court restaurant owned by socialite Bina Ramani at Qutub Colonnade in south Delhi's Mehrauli area on the night of April 30, 1999.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-activists-call-release-of-jessica-lal-murder-case-convict-manu-sharma-unfortunate-bizarre-shocking-844910.html
02-06-2020||National||India's COVID-19 tally crosses 2-lakh mark; 1 lakh new cases detected in 15 days||The nationwide tally of confirmed COVID-19 cases crossed the 2-lakh mark on Tuesday with almost one lakh people testing positive for the dreaded virus infection in the last 15 days. The government, however, said its preventive measures to contain the disease have been very effective, as shown by a much lower fatality rate than several other countries. Authorities also said the recovery rate of COVID-19 patients was improving consistently in India and it was in a much better position in handling the pandemic, which has seen more than 63 lakh people testing positive for this virus since its emergence in China last December and over 3.7 lakh having lost their lives. In its morning update, the Union Health Ministry said the novel coronavirus death toll has risen to 5,598 in India with 204 more fatalities in 24 hours since Monday 8 AM, while 8,171 new cases were detected during this period to take the overall tally to 1,98, 706. This included more than 97,500 active cases, while more than 95,000 have recovered. However, a PTI tally of figures announced by different states and union territories as of 10.05 PM showed the cumulative count of confirmed COVID-19 cases having risen to 2,00,321 and the death toll of 5,739. It also showed a higher count of recoveries at 99,613, leaving nearly 95,000 active cases across the country. A real-time global coronavirus tracker of Johns Hopkins University & Medicine showed India's tally of positive cases at 2,01,997 as of 10.15 PM. India's first COVID-19 case was detected in Kerala on January 30, while the tally took 110 days to reach the one-lakh mark on May 18. However, close to one lakh new cases have been detected in 15 days since then. On the positive side, this is the first time in seven days that the count of new cases has come down, while the 24-hour death toll also came down considerably from 230 recorded by the Union Health Ministry on Monday morning -- the second-highest after an all-time high of 265 deaths recorded on May 30th morning. Testing infrastructure has also been ramped up considerably in India in the recent months with an average of 1.2 lakh tests being conducted every day now. So far, close to 40 lakh tests have been conducted in India, putting it among the top-five nations globally on this parameter alongside the US, Russia, UK and Spain. However, India does not figure even among the top-100 countries when it comes to tests per one lakh population. At present, India is the world's seventh worst hit nation in terms of overall case count, after the US, Brazil, Russia, the UK, Spain and Italy. While more than 18 lakh cases have been detected in the US so far, Brazil has over 5 lakh cases and Russia has over 4 lakh. The UK tally is nearly 2,8 lakh cases, followed by close to 2.4 lakh in Spain and about 2.3 lakh in Italy.  In terms of the death toll, the US tops the global tally with more than 1.05 lakh fatalities, while India does not figure among the top-ten countries on this parameter. More than 27 lakh have recovered so far across the world, with the US again topping this chart with nearly 4.6 lakh recoveries, followed by Brazil, Russia, Germany, Italy, Spain, Turkey, Iran, India and China in the top-ten. In terms of active cases, India figures among the top-five nations, while the US again is on the top with more than 11 lakh active cases. The government said India is far away from the peak of COVID-19 spread and its preventive measures have been "very effective", putting it in a much better position in comparison with other countries. Addressing a press conference on the COVID-19 situation, Joint Secretary in the Health Ministry Lav Agarwal said it is wrong to just look at the total number of cases and state that India has the seventh highest number of cases as the population of countries also should be taken into account. About 14 countries with a cumulative population almost equal to that of India have reported 55.2 times more COVID-19 deaths, he said. "Our COVID-19 fatality rate of 2.82 per cent and amongst the lowest in the world, compared to a global fatality rate of 6.13 per cent. We have been able to achieve this due to timely identification of cases and proper clinical management," Agarwal said. He also said that India's COVID-19 case fatality rate per lakh population is 0.41 per cent as against 4.9 per cent globally which is also amongst the lowest in the world. Agarwal said one in every two COVID-19 deaths in India has been of senior citizens who constitute 10 per cent of the total population, while 73 per cent of COVID-19 deaths in the country are of people with comorbidities. Asked if India has entered the community transmission phase, Indian Council of Medical Research scientist Nivedita Gupta, who was also present at the briefing, said, "Instead of using the word community transmission, it is important to understand the extent of spread of the disease and where do we stand in comparison with other countries." When asked when the peak will arrive, Gupta said, "We are very far away from the peak. Our preventive measures to curtail the disease are very effective and we are better positioned in comparison with other countries. You will get to see the data in a week." She also said there was no under-reporting of COVID-19 deaths in India.     Several states and UTs, including Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Ladakh and Puducherry reported rising number of cases on Tuesday. Many of the states, including those in the North-East, reported new cases linked to people having returned from outside. In Tripura, a 50-year-old woman allegedly committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling of a toilet in an Agartala hospital, a day after her swab sample was tested for COVID-19. The police suspects she had developed a fear of contracting the disease and may have committed suicide out of panic. Her test came positive for the novel coronavirus, hours after she had already died. In Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, a four-month-old baby girl also tested positive for COVID-19 in Amravati district. The state reported 2,287 new cases, taking its overall tally to 72,300, while fatalities rose to 2,465 after 103 more patients succumbed to the infection, the state health department said. On the positive side, as many as 1,225 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the state's count of recovered cases to 31,333. Gujarat, another badly hit state, reported 415 new cases and 29 deaths, taking the overall case count to 17,632 and fatalities to 1,092, the state health department said. A total of 1,114 COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the tally of the recovered cases to 11,894, it said. In the national capital, at least 13 employees of the Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal's office and six other government officials tested positive for COVID-19, sources said. These included junior assistants, drivers and peons. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal launched an app named 'Delhi Corona' that will give information to patients about the availability of beds in private and government hospitals. He said cases are increasing in the national capital, but sufficient arrangements have been made for ventilators and beds in hospitals. "We are several steps ahead of coronavirus," the chief minister said. West Bengal registered its highest single-day spike of 396 cases, taking its tally to 5,772. Kerala also recorded its highest single-day spike of 86 positive cases, taking the state's tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,412. Besides, a 77-year-old priest died at the Thiruvananthapuram Medical College Hospital, taking the death toll to 11. Uttarakhand also saw its tally crossing the 1,000-mark after 85 more people tested positive. Five COVID-19 positive family members of the state's tourism minister Satpal Maharaj were readmitted to a hospital within hours of being discharged from the facility. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, however, said India will definitely get back its economic growth and reforms undertaken during the lockdown will help the economy in the long run. His comments came a day after global rating agency Moody's downgraded India's credit rating to just a notch above the junk status on growth concerns. "On the one hand we have taken tough steps to fight the virus and on the other, we have taken care of the economy... We have to save the lives of citizens while also stabilise the economy and speed up growth," Modi said while addressing top industry body CII's annual session. A comprehensive review of various studies, published in the renowned Lancet journal, in the meantime said that physical distancing of two metres or more can prevent person-to-person transmission of COVID-19. It also found that face masks and eye protection may decrease the risk of infection too. The systematic review of existing evidence was commissioned by the World Health Organization, the researchers said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-crosses-2-lakh-mark-1-lakh-new-cases-detected-in-15-days-844911.html
02-06-2020||National||Waste management capacity has increased, 'Clean India' not far away: Housing Affairs secy||The country is moving in a direction in which "Clean India" is not far away, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said on Tuesday. Addressing a webinar on "COVID 19: Challenges and Opportunities associated with Waste Management in India", Mishra said the country was processing solid waste effectively. "We are growing our capacity of door-to-door waste pick-up and 65 per cent of waste is being segregated at the source of generation," he said at the webinar hosted by the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry in partnership with Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung (KAS). "In the last six years, our waste management capacity has increased in a multi-fold manner," the secretary said. For solid waste management, the ministry has come up with a protocol on "Garbage-free City", in which cities can be given a star-rating ranging from one-seven, based on the level of cleanliness, he said. "India is moving towards a direction where 'Clean India' is not far away," Mishra said. D K Aggarwal, president of PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said waste management is one of the most important aspects now because of the outbreak of COVID-19. "The biomedical waste has increased in quantity as compared to last year. In the epicenter of COVID-19, Wuhan, bio-medical waste increased up to six times when COVID-19 was at its peak. "So, for India, we need to be more careful and manage this waste properly in these times of COVID-19," Aggarwal added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/waste-management-capacity-has-increased-clean-india-not-far-away-housing-affairs-secy-844913.html
02-06-2020||National||PM Modi discusses India-China tension with US President Donald Trump, days after New Delhi spurned his mediation offer||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the United States President Donald Trump on Tuesday discussed the escalating tension along India’s disputed boundary with China. Modi also gave his nod to Trump’s proposal to bring India, Australia, South Korea, and Russia into the ambit of the G-7 and turn it into a G-11 – an initiative, which Beijing has already decried as a move by the US to contain China. The Prime Minister and the US President discussed over phone the situation along the disputed boundary between India and China, although New Delhi just recently joined Beijing to give a cold-shoulder to the offer from the Washington D.C. to mediate between the two neighbouring nations and help them defuse tension on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh. Modi’s discussion with Trump on tension along India-China boundary and his support to the American President’s move to expand the G-7 into a G-11 may raise the hackles in Beijing, where the twin moves by New Delhi are likely to be seen as signs of India moving further closer to the US and joining what is perceived as a US-led axis to contain China. Trump told Modi about the US presidency of the G-7 (Group of Seven) and conveyed to him his desire to expand the ambit of the bloc beyond the existing membership by including India and other important countries. “In this context, he extended an invitation to Prime Minister Modi to attend the next G-7 Summit to be held in the US,” the government said in a press release issued in New Delhi shortly after the two leaders spoke to each other over phone. The Prime Minister “commended” the US President for his “creative and far-sighted approach”, acknowledging the fact that “such an expanded forum would be in keeping with the emerging realities of the post-COVID-19 world”, it said. Modi also told Trump that India would be happy to work with the US and other countries to ensure the success of the proposed summit of the expanded bloc. The press release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office mentioned that the “situation on the India-China border”, need for reforms in the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Covid-19 situation in India and the US as topics discussed by the two leaders during the phone-call. Modi chose to discuss with Trump the escalating tension along the India-China border just a few days after his government rejected the offer by the US President to mediate between the two nations. Trump on May 27 posted on Twitter that the US had informed both India and China that it was “ready, willing and able” to “mediate” between the two nations or play the role of an arbitrator to resolve the border dispute they had since long been embroiled in. His offer got a cold shoulder from New Delhi, which pointed out on May 28 that India and China had “established mechanisms both at military and diplomatic levels” to peacefully resolve through bilateral dialogue any “situation, which might arise in border areas between the two nations”. Beijing too rejected the offer by the US President. Trump, however, reiterated the offer on May 30 and even claimed that he had already talked with Modi and found that he was “not in a good mood” over the situation along India’s boundary with China. New Delhi dismissed the US President’s claim, stating that he and the Prime Minister had last spoken to each other over the phone on April 4 – almost a month before a scuffle between Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake on May 5 sparked off tension.  The Chinese PLA followed up by building a bunker in order to restrict the access to an area where Indian Army soldiers regularly patrolled. The PLA later deployed nearly 5000 soldiers in a large camp set up recently at Galwan Valley within the territory claimed by China – in order to support the smaller number of troops, who transgressed the LAC in several locations and entered into the areas claimed by India. The Indian Army also rushed additional troops “in adequate numbers” in response to the deployment by the Chinese PLA. The build-ups by both sides escalated tension along the LAC and the military officials and diplomats of both sides are now holding discussions to defuse the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-discusses-india-china-tension-with-us-president-donald-trump-days-after-new-delhi-spurned-his-mediation-offer-844914.html
02-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi speaks to US President Trump on COVID-19, other issues||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with US President Donald Trump on Tuesday and discussed the COVID-19 pandemic among other issues. "Had a warm and productive conversation with my friend President @realDonaldTrump. We discussed his plans for the US Presidency of G-7, the COVID-19 pandemic, and many other issues," Modi tweeted. The richness and depth of India-US consultations will remain an important pillar of the post-COVID-19 global architecture, the prime minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-speaks-to-us-president-trump-on-covid-19-other-issues-844920.html
02-06-2020||National||2,287 new COVID-19 cases take Maharashtra tally to 72,300; 103 die||Maharashtra reported 2,287 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 72,300 on Tuesday, while fatalities rose to 2,465 after 103 more patients died due to the infection, 49 of them in worst-hit Mumbai, the state health department said. A total of 1,225 patients were discharged from hospitals in the day, taking the tally of the recovered cases in the state to 31,333, a department statement said here. The number of active cases in the state now stands at 38,493, it said, adding a total of 4,83,875 samples have been tested so far. "Of the 103 deaths, 74 fatalities were reported from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), including 49 from Mumbai alone," the statement said. Another major hotspot, Pune city, reported 10 more deaths, it added. Mumbai now accounts for 42,216 COVID-19 cases of the total 72,300 infections in the state with 1,368 deaths. The MMR, comprising Mumbai and parts of its adjoining districts, accounts for 54,951 coronavirus cases and 1,682 deaths, it stated. The total number of cases in areas under the Pune Municipal Corporation now stands at 7,144 with 326 deaths, while Aurangabad city has reported 1,551 cases and 67 fatalities, it said. The case count for Solapur city stood at 880 and fatalities at 72. Malegaon town in Nashik district has so far reported 762 cases and 58 deaths, it said. The tally of cases in Nagpur city is 579 with 11 deaths, and 596 cases with 25 fatalities in Akola city. The number of containment zones in Maharashtra now stands at 3,730. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Total cases 72,300; new cases 2,287, deaths 2,465; discharged 31,333, active cases 38,493, people tested 4,83,875.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/2287-new-covid-19-cases-take-maharashtra-tally-to-72300-103-die-844925.html
02-06-2020||National||Genetically unique strain makes 40% of coronavirus in India||A genetically unique strain of novel coronavirus 2019 - introduced in India in February - has  silently spread to the majority of the states to emerge as the second most dominant types of the pandemic virus sweeping the country. The discovery by CSIR scientists is set to expand the understanding of scores of researchers who are trying to figure out a way to fight the virus with  drugs and vaccines. Known as Clade A3i, this group of virus now consists of nearly 41% of the pathogens circulating in India. The dominant strain, however, is Clade A2a that comprises more than 50% of the strains. "While Clade A2a is seen around the world, Clade A3i is found mostly in India. Singapore is the only other country where 8% presence of such a clade has been," said a member of the CSIR research team.   In a research paper, the scientists demonstrated that a single introduction in February was followed by a country-wide spread mostly affecting the South Indian states. The first detection of this group took place in March at a hospital in Hyderabad. From the analysis of more than 200 genetic sequences, they reported that Clade A3i was the predominant class of the COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, Telengana, Maharashtra and Delhi. It is the second most dominant group in Bihar, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. This group is characterised by four specific genetic signatures unique to the strain. "Put together, the cluster of genomes forms a distinct cluster, predominantly found among Indian COVID-19  genomes with limited representation outside the region," the scientists reported in the paper, which is not yet peer-reviewed but released in the academic circle.  The two CSIR laboratories that conducted the study are Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad and Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi. The causative virus behind the epidemic,  SARS-CoV-2, is a member of the genus betacoronavirus. It has differentiated into at least 10 clades globally and is continuously evolving. "For insurance, the Clade A3i mutates less than the Clade A2a," said the CSIR scientist. "The discovery of the new clade is important as it shows a group, which can now be connected to disease severity (if any) and the spread route (in geographical and temporal context). This will have large implications," CCMB director Rakesh Mishra told DH. The discovery comes a month after two Indian geneticists at the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics, Kalyani showed to the world that Clade A2a was the dominating type of the virus almost all over the globe.  "The discovery of A3i is very interesting. Investigation of the geographical spread of the 62 coronavirus isolates in India that belong to A3i  and the travel histories of the hosts, especially to Iran where A3 is prevalent, will be instructive," commented Partha Majumder, a veteran population geneticist and one of the NIBG scientists who was the lead scientist for the A2a research. The new discovery from Team CSIR has implications in genetic epidemiology, surveillance, contact tracing and the development of long term strategies for mitigation of this disease, the scientists reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/genetically-unique-strain-makes-40-of-coronavirus-in-india-844929.html
02-06-2020||National||PM Modi and his Aussie counterpart Scott Morrison to focus on boosting ties in virtual summit||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison will attempt to further intensify the "positive trajectory" in bilateral ties when they hold an online summit on Thursday, official sources said on Tuesday. It will be the first time that Modi would be holding a "bilateral" virtual summit with a foreign leader. The two prime ministers have already met on four occasions on the sidelines of multilateral meetings during the last one and a half years. On Monday, Australian High Commissioner Barry O'Farrell indicated that India and Australia are expected to sign a landmark agreement for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support during the summit. The focus will be on the positive trajectory in bilateral relations during discussions between the two prime ministers, the sources said. Relationship between the two nations was upgraded to a 'Strategic Partnership' level in 2009. Since then, both countries have expanded their cooperation in a range of key areas. In its White Paper on Foreign Policy in 2017, Australia recognised India as the "pre-eminent maritime power among Indian Ocean countries" and a "front-rank partner of Australia". "The virtual summit will be an opportunity for the two leaders to review the broad framework of the relationship in the context of their growing ties. It will also be an opportunity to discuss their respective responses to the COVID-19 pandemic," said a source. In the last few years, both the countries have been focusing on expanding maritime cooperation. India and Australia commenced their first bilateral naval exercise 'AUSINDEX' in 2015 which was focused on deepening defence and maritime cooperation, especially in the Indian Ocean. The third iteration of AUSINDEX - 2019 was held in the Bay of Bengal in April 2019. Australia has been supportive of India's position on cross-border terrorism and on asking Pakistan to take meaningful action against terrorist groups operating from its soil. Australia also co-sponsored the UNSC resolution to declare Azhar Masood a global terrorist. "Australia values India's diversity and inclusiveness and has holds the view that recent developments with regard to J&K are India's internal matters," the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-modi-and-his-aussie-counterpart-scott-morrison-to-focus-on-boosting-ties-in-virtual-summit-844936.html
02-06-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown: PM Narendra Modi preaches self-reliance to India Inc||Prime Minister Narendra Modi promised to take up structural reforms that would change the course of the country and asked India Inc to take an oath to make India self-reliant. A day after global rating agency Moody’s downgraded India to the lowest investment grade, Modi reassured industry that it was not tough to get economic growth back on track. India’s economic growth slumped to 4.2% in 2019-20, the lowest since the global financial crisis of 2008. Covid-19 is only expected to aggravate the pains of an already battered economy. “The government is standing with you, you need to stand with the goals of the country. We will together build a self-reliant India,” Modi said, addressing industry body CII’s annual day on the theme “Getting Growth Back”. This was his first major speech on the economy since the virus hit the country. Modi asked industry leaders to come up with a detailed study of each sector that reduces country’s unnecessary imports and sought to know why should India, with one of the world’s highest coal reserves, imports coal. And, despite being the second largest leather producer in the world, why its share in global exports is so low. The government, he said, has identified many priority sectors such as furniture, air conditioners, leather and footwear, where India can be self-reliant and manufacture for the world.  “We import more than 30% of our demand for air conditioners. We have to reduce it as fast as possible,” the prime minister said. “I request you to come up with a detailed study of every sector; build consensus; develop concepts and think big… If you move two steps ahead, the government will move four and support you. As the Prime Minister, I am giving you the assurance that I stand with you,” Modi said, boosting industry leaders, ahead of re-starting business. Modi’s speech came a day after Moody’s downgraded India to ‘Baa3’ status, which is just above “Junk”. The financial markets, however, discounted the rating as Sensex surged 522 points and Nifty gained 153, 10-year benchmark G-Sec yields fell barely 2 bps and rupee rebounded by 18 paise.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-pm-narendra-modi-preaches-self-reliance-to-india-inc-844948.html
02-06-2020||National Politics||Doubling farm income would turn out to be another 'jumla': Congress||The Congress on Monday said the hopes of farmers were dashed after the Centre announced new MSPs for crops, adding that if such is the attitude of the government, the promise of doubling farmers' income would turn out to be another "jumla". Congress leader Ahmed Patel said farmers are facing an unprecedented crisis due to the lockdown, a locust attack and natural calamities. "Unfortunately, all hopes of farmers expecting much needed respite dashed today by the Government. "Forget about Profit, this so-called raise in Kharif MSP won't even cover their losses and debts," he wrote on Twitter. "If this is going to the government's attitude towards farmers, their promise to double farm income by 2022 will end up becoming another 'jumla'," Patel said in another tweet. Another senior Congress leader, Jairam Ramesh, said first the prime minister says the finance minister will announce a package. "Second, FM announces package. Third, Gadkari regurgitates what PM and FM have said. This is Maximum Headlines, Minimum Deadlines," the former Union minister said in a tweet. The government raised the minimum support price (MSP) of paddy marginally by Rs 53 per quintal to Rs 1,868 per quintal for the 2020-21 crop year on Monday, while the rates for oilseeds, pulses and cereals were hiked substantially. Among commercial crops, the MSP of cotton was increased by Rs 260 per quintal to Rs 5,515 for the medium staple variety and by Rs 275 per quintal to Rs 5,825 for the long staple variety for the current crop year (July-June).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/doubling-farm-income-would-turn-out-to-be-another-jumla-congress-844573.html
02-06-2020||National Politics||Rajya Sabha elections: Intense lobbying for tickets starts||With the Election Commission of India scheduled to hold elections for four Rajya Sabha seats in Karnataka on June 19, political leaders are doing intense lobbying for their party  tickets. Four sitting Upper House members B K Hari Prasad, Rajeev Gowda M V from Congress,  Prabhakar Kore from BJP and D Kupendra Reddy from JD (S) will retire on June 25. For winning each seat total  44 MLAs votes required in the Assembly strength of 224. The  BJP, which is ruling in the state, is hoping to win two seats easiely as it has 117 MLAs, while Congress can win one seat with its 68 MLAs.  However for fourth seat, both BJP and Congress fall short of numbers.  The JD (S), having  34 MLAs, is planning to field former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda  after gettig extra votes from Congress as fourth caididate. The  Congress may agree to give extra votes JD (S) if Deve Gowda contest the polls. However if Gowda refuse to contest, the Congress planning to field another candidate from the party and ask for JD (S) votes, a leader in Congress said. Senior Congres leader Mallikarjuna Kharge is front runner for the ticket from the party as the party  highcommand had earlier assured him to bring the Upper House, whenever the party gets opportunity, the leader said.   However Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's  confident  and outgoing member Rajeev Gowda expecting second term. Another outgoing member  B K Hariprasad is also lobbying for renomination.  Other senior leaders  K H Muniyappa and fotmer Tumkur Lok Sabha member  S P  Muddahanume Gowda also trying for the ticket. However, Congress Legislative Party leader Siddaramaiah is batting for  former MP  V S Ugrappa. Muddahanume Gowda, who left his Tumakuru Lok Sabha seat in 2019 elections to former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda as per Congress seat sharing formula with JD (S), said, "While leaving the seat to Deve Gowda, the then Congress President Rahul Gandhi and Karnataka incharge General Secretary K C Venugopal had assured a suitable position to me in  future. Since Rajya Sabha elections are coming, I have requested the party top brass to give me ticket," he said. "I am in touch with all senior leaders in Delhi and hope party will keep its promise," he said. Since BJP can win two seats easiely, outgoing Rajya Sabha member Prabhara Kore, former MP Umesh Katti, the party General Secretary incharge for Karnataka, Muralidhara Rao, and Tejasvini Ananth Kumar, wife of former Union Minister Anant Kumar eying for tickets. However RSS is pushing retired professor M Nagaraju for one seat. Rajya Sabha elections date : Last date for filing nominations : June 9 Last date for withdrwal : June 12 Date of polling and counting : June 19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rajya-sabha-elections-intense-lobbying-for-tickets-starts-844729.html
02-06-2020||National Politics||Adesh Kumar Gupta named Delhi BJP chief, Vishnu Deo Sai to head Chhattisgarh unit||The BJP on Tuesday appointed Adesh Kumar Gupta as its Delhi unit chief and tribal leader and former Union minister Vishnu Deo Sai as its Chhattisgarh state president, the party said in a statement. Gupta is a former mayor of north Delhi municipal corporation and replaces Manoj Tiwari, a member of Lok Sabha, at the helm in the Delhi BJP. Tiwari had offered to quit after the BJP lost to the Aam Aadmi Party in the Delhi assembly polls and his term was also over. Sai was a Union minister in the first Modi government but could not contest the 2019 Lol Sabha polls after the BJP decided to not repeat any of its sitting MPs in Chhattisgarh after losing to the Congress in the assembly polls. He replaces Vikram Usendi. In another appointment, the party made S Tikendra Singh its Manipur state president. These are the first important organisational appointments in the BJP after the coronavirus outbreak curbed political activities and the party primarily focussed on steering relief work for people affected by the lockdown. The development signals, to some extent, a return of regular political activities as lockdown restrictions across the country are relaxed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/adesh-kumar-gupta-named-delhi-bjp-chief-vishnu-deo-sai-to-head-chhattisgarh-unit-844755.html
02-06-2020||National Politics||Farmers at God's mercy under Modi rule: Punjab Congress president||A day after the Modi government announced a hike in the MSP for kharif crops, Congress on Tuesday dismissed it as “piecemeal” and accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of leaving the farmers to “God’s mercy”. “Farmer is also a corona warrior but nobody cheered him for his contribution. Even the Prime Minister has left him at God''s mercy,” Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar told reporters. Addressing a press conference organised by the AICC through videolink, Jakhar said the Modi government had made “too little” an increase in support price for the summer crops without taking into account the input costs of the farmers. “Forget profit, this so-called increase in MSP for kharif crops won’t even cover the losses and debts of farmers,” he added The Centre on Monday had announced support prices for 14 kharif crops for the 2020-21 season with the main produce – paddy – seeing an increase of Rs 53 per quintal over the MSP for last year. The highest increase in MSPs is for niger seed (Rs 755 per quintal) followed by sesamum (Rs 370 per quintal), urad (Rs 300 per quintal) and cotton (long staple) (Rs 275 per quintal). Jakhar said due to the lockdown, migrant workers have returned to their home states, thus, creating a shortage of hands and doubling the cost of sowing and planting for the kharif season. “The government has neglected this key aspect while ascertaining the cost of production for the kharif crop,” he said. Jakhar alleged that in many states, the crop procurement was not done as per the MSP and farmers were forced to sell their yield in the open market at a much lesser price.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/farmers-at-gods-mercy-under-modi-rule-punjab-congress-president-844837.html
02-06-2020||National Politics||BJP makes state rejig; new chiefs in Delhi, Manipur||Having already delayed bringing many key changes in the organisation due to COVID-19, BJP on Tuesday appointed state chiefs for three states including Delhi where it hedged its bait Aadesh Gupta belonging to the trader community, which has backed the Sangh family for decades. The decision to send the party'’ Poorvanchali face—well known Bhojpuri singer Manoj Tiwari came months after the party suffered a massive defeat at the hands of Arvind Kejriwal led Aam Aadmi Party in the state despite a whirlwind campaign by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. Kejriwal also belongs to the trader community and his being the face of AAP has led to substantial chunk of BJP’s traditional voters from the community moving away from AAP. BJP has gone to the polls in Delhi without projecting a CM face with many doubtful about projecting Tiwari even as he had been the Delhi BJP chief for more than three years after he replaced Satish Upadhyay in December 2016.  Delhi has a substantial chunk of Purvanchali voters, who earlier voted for Congress and had by large shifted to AAP after the decline of Congress. BJP felt Tiwari could, hence, get this chunk of votes to the party and help it break the Delhi jinx, a state BJP has not been able to win for 22 years after the decline of veterans Madan Lal Khurana and Sahib Singh Verma. The party tried with many faces like late Sushma Swaraj, Harsvardhan and Kiran Bedi but nothing worked. Harshvardhan, now Union Minister for Health has lent his weight behind Gupta with deep RSS roots and having served as a former mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation. The party has once again handed over the baton to its trusted and tried tribal face in Vishnu Deo Sai, appointing him state chief after a gap of seven years after BJP lost power to Congress in 2018 after a 15-year-uninterrupted rule in the state. Sai was one of the sitting Lok Sabha MPs, the party did not field in Chhattisgarh in 2019 general elections. He replaces Vikram Usendi. Congress has made Bhupesh Baghel, a leader from OBC its CM. So falling back on a tribal face is a natural choice for the BJP here. Congress state chief Mohan Markam is also a tribal. BJP has an OBC Dharamlal Kaushik as the Leader of the Opposition in the state assembly. Chhattisgarh is a state with the highest 72 percent reservation in jobs and only last year OBC quota was doubled there. In party-ruled Manipur, it appointed party spokesperson S Tikendra Singh as BJP state chief. Before the current round of rejig, BJP had in February appointed Khajuraho MP Vishnu Dutt Sharma  as new state chief in Madhya Pradesh,  Dal Bahadur Chauhan as BJP President of Sikkim and K Surendran, who had spearheaded the agitation of BJP on Sabarimala in the state as the new President of Kerala Party unit. Taking note of different mood of voters towards the BJP in choosing a government at Centre and in states, the BJP has decided strengthen its provincial leadership after tepid election outcomes starting from Gujarat in 2017, Jharkhand in December 2019 year and Delhi in 2010 where the over-dependence on national issues and national leaders cost the party in state polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-makes-state-rejig-new-chiefs-in-delhi-manipur-844912.html
02-06-2020||National Politics||BJP may breathe easy in Rajya Sabha after June 19 polls||BJP could breathe easy regarding its numbers in Rajya Sabha after elections are held on June 19 of 24 Rajya Sabha seats including 18 polling for which was deferred in May in view of growing spread of coronavirus after 37 of 55 candidates were declared unopposed on March 19 amid the high voltage political drama and heightened tension in few states. NDA, which was expected to lose between three-four as per its strength in the states earlier, has got a shot in arm with BJP managing to overthrow Congress government in Madhya Pradesh. Currently the BJP has 75 members, followed by a distant 39 of Congress, 13 of Trinamool Congress, 09 each of AIADMK and BJD, 08 of Samajwadi Party, 07 each of TRS and DMK, 05 each of JD(U) CPI-M, RJD, 04 each of BSP and NCP, 03 each of Shiv Sena, Shiromani Akali Dal and Aam Aadmi Party and two each of PDP and YSR Congress, besides one member from a large number of parties. With allies AIADMK, JD(U), Shiromani Akali Dal, Asom Gana Parishad, the Bodoland People’s Front, Sikkim Democratic Front (SDF) and the Republican Party of India (A), NDA is 104 including three nominated MPs and four independents, who support it. Add the 09 from BJD,  07 from TRS, two from YSRC Congress and one from NPF, which have many bailed out the BJP in Rajya Sabha during contentious issues, NDA has the number of 123 to get bills passed with simple majority, not accounting those who help it by abstaining. Of this, YSR Congress will gain substantially in Andhra Pradesh, BJP in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. BJP will be at a disadvantage in Rajasthan and Jharkhand, where it lost assembly polls in 2018 and 2020 as well in Gujarat, where Congress improved its tally in the last assembly polls. Six new seats have fallen vacant in June and July while 18 seats are from the 55 seats for which elections were to be held in March. Elections will be held for four Rajya Sabha seats each from Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Karnataka, 03 from Rajasthan, 03 from Madhya Pradesh, 02 from Jharkhand and one each from Manipur, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram. Election in Madhya Pradesh is the most keenly watched which has changed into a BJP ruled state from Congress-ruled when elections for 55 Rajya Sabha seats were announced by the Election Commission in February. The royal scion Jyotiraditya Scindia, who left Congress and joined the BJP with a flock of 22 MLAs flocking, is one of the BJP candidates from Madhya Pradesh in the Rajya Sabha polls. BJP has attempted to push the boundaries by fielding more candidates that its strength has made the contest interesting even in Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Jharkhand. With memories of 2017 Rajya Sabha polls, where Congress’ Ahmed Patel could barely scrape through despite the party having sufficient numbers, fresh, Congress is leaving no stone unturned this time to ensure that the BJP does not manage to win both seats vacated by Union Ministers Amit Shah and Smriti Irani (both became Lok Sabha MPs in 2019) as the saffron party’s strength came down after the 2018 assembly poll results.  In Rajasthan four candidates are in the fray for three seats. As per strength Congress can win two and BJP one but BJP fielded a second candidate indicating there will be some spectacle worth watching in the politics of the border state. In Andhra Pradesh five candidates—four from YSR Congress and one from TDP are in the fray for four seats while in Jharkhand three candidates including JMM patriarch Sibu Soren are in fray for two seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-may-breathe-easy-in-rajya-sabha-after-june-19-polls-844918.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Man who tested COVID-19 positive commits suicide in south Delhi hospital||A 63-year-old man, who had tested positive for COVID-19, allegedly committed suicide by hanging from a ceiling fan in south Delhi's Batra Hospital, police said on Monday. The deceased, a retired class-IV employee of the Delhi Jal Board, was a resident of Meethapur in Harijan Colony and lived with his wife and family, they said. According to the police, the man was admitted at the Batra Hospital on May 20 for dialysis as he was a kidney patient. Later, he also tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said the man was found hanging from a ceiling fan in his room at around 4 pm on Sunday. No suicide note has been recovered, he said, adding that inquest proceedings are underway. Police suspect that he committed suicide due to his health-related ailments. He had been visiting the hospital for the last 10-12 years for treatment, the police said. Medical Director of Batra Hospital Dr SCL Gupta termed it an unfortunate incident and said a precious life has been lost. The patient was suffering from chronic kidney disease and undergoing treatment at another hospital. On May 19, he complained of fever and was tested for coronavirus. He got admitted in our hospital on May 20. Since he was also a kidney patient, he was undergoing dialysis here, Gupta said. The kidney patients are usually more susceptible to the virus because they have low immunity. At around 3 pm, the nurse went to give him food and later when, she went to check on him, he was found hanging from the ceiling fan, he said. She immediately alerted the hospital staff and the deceased was brought down but he was unfortunately dead, he said. He was admitted in the coronavirus ward since May 20 and during the course of treatment, never did he make any complaints to any of the staff here, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-who-tested-covid-19-positive-commits-suicide-in-south-delhi-hospital-844554.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Lockdown 5.0: Liquor shops in Delhi can now open daily, no odd-even rule||The Delhi excise department Monday lifted the odd-even restriction on the opening of liquor shops, allowing them to operate daily after the city government announced more relaxations in the coronavirus lockdown. The government also extended timing for the opening of liquor shops by one-and-a-half hours. "Liquor shops will now remain open from 9 am to 8 pm in Delhi," a government official said. Until now, they would be allowed to open till 6.30 pm. According to the order, liquor shops will open on a daily basis now. Earlier, they were being allowed to open on an odd-even basis. However, those in containment zones will remain closed. Of 863 liquor shops in Delhi, 475 are run by four state-run corporations - Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation, Delhi Tourism and Transportation Development Corporation, Delhi State Civil Supplies Corporation and Delhi Consumer’s Cooperative Wholesale Store - while 389 are owned by private players. Of these 389, about 150 are located in shopping malls, hence not allowed to open.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lockdown-50-liquor-shops-in-delhi-can-now-open-daily-no-odd-even-rule-844576.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||After incidents of online fraud, Delhi CEO asks people to visit EC website for info||The Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) of Delhi on Monday advised people to visit the Election Commission website for important information pertaining to voter cards, after two incidents of cyber fraud were reported in the last month. The office of the CEO was informed about two incidents of cyber fraud in which unauthorized private websites were found offering voter ID card related services in exchange for money, a statement said.  According to the website of Election Commission Of India, no charges are required to be paid by public while submitting online application related to voter ID card, it added. CEO Office, Delhi had requested DCP, Election, Delhi Police to lodge FIR and take necessary action against the offender at the earliest in both incidents, the statement said. In one of the incidents, a 27-year-old man has been arrested from Rajasthan for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of making and renewing voter ID cards through a website. The accused is under judicial custody after two days of police custody, it said. Interrogation revealed that the accused had been using the fake website for six to seven months and has cheated around 5,000 people of nearly Rs 25 lakh. In the second incident, investigation is underway. "The public is, therefore, advised to visit ECI's official website, eci.gov.in, or CEO Delhi's website, ceodelhi.gov.in, or call voter helpline number (1950) for authentic and official information and prevent themselves from being cheated by the unscrupulous elements," it said. Any such information available or displayed online must be verified from the official websites, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/after-incidents-of-online-fraud-delhi-ceo-asks-people-to-visit-ec-website-for-info-844599.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir: Militant killed in encounter in Pulwama||A militant was killed in an encounter with security forces on Tuesday in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir, police said here.  A gunfight erupted between militants and security forces at Saimoh in Awantipora area of the district, a police official said. One militant has been killed so far in the exchange of fire between the two sides, he said, adding the operation was going on till last reports came in.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-militant-killed-in-encounter-in-pulwama-844631.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||‘Poor's income halved, days of work fell by 3/4th during COVID-19 lockdown in Delhi'||The data collected by the researchers, however, showed no "substantive changes" over the course of the lockdown in rates of hunger, product scarcity, ability to access medical care, or security as the negative income shocks were mitigated by the Delhi government’s widespread food assistance programs, which were accessed by more than one-third of their sample.  At the same time, the working paper 'Job Loss and Behavioural Change: The Unprecedented Effects of the India Lockdown in Delhi' warned that "relatively high rates of depression, challenges in food supply chains, and dwindling levels of savings" pose serious concerns about the cumulative effects of the lockdown. The working paper, by Kenneth Lee, Harshil Sahai and Michael Greenstone of the University of Chicago and Patrick Baylis of the University of British Columbia, was based on the responses of over 1,392 people from the poor and non-migrant workers collected during the first seven weeks of lockdown, which started from March 25.  "The urban poor may be more prone to the economic shocks associated with extreme social distancing mandates, due to their likely employment in wage-paying occupations which tend to require physical work, and low levels of savings which are necessary for smoothing out short-term fluctuations in income," it said. According to the study, their weekly income fell by 56.5% during this period and the days they worked a week by 73.3%. During the Round 1 (first four weeks of lockdown) of their study, their mean weekly income fell by 38.9% and it fell further by 77.5% in Round 2 (weeks five to seven) as more and more workers were forced into unpaid leave. "By Round 2, weekly income has fallen to zero for 89.2% of the sample. Relatedly, average days worked over the past week falls from 5.2 to 1.3 days, a decline of 74.6% percent, by Round 2," it said. At the same time, the study said, there was "widespread adoption" of recommended public health directives. "For instance, mask usage rises by 72.9 percentage points (pp); time spent indoors increases by 50.5 pp; smoking decreases by 12.9 pp, and regular hand washing rises by 10.0 pp. The magnitudes of these effects are large, and in certain cases, rival or exceed the impacts of past interventions (to increase handwashing or encourage mask usage, for example)...." it said. Referring to the low usage of masks distributed by the Delhi government during November 2019 when the city was hit by a high level of pollution, the study said the COVID-19 crisis, in contrast, saw using of masks becoming "near universal...despite relatively low levels of air pollution".  "It is likely that the behavioural response to the current crisis, relative to the air pollution crisis, has been driven by a combination of factors, chief among them the extreme level of concern and fear about the coronavirus, and the unprecedented level of media coverage of the pandemic. For example, 79.7% of respondents in our sample reported feeling “extremely concerned” about COVID-19. In comparison, less than 40% percent of respondents felt this way about air pollution during the peak pollution period between October and December 2018," it said. However, the study warned that it remains to be seen whether the large behavioural changes one observe will persist as the novelty, fear, and media coverage of COVID-19 subside, or if access to basic necessities is substantially compromised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/poors-income-halved-days-of-work-fell-by-3/4th-during-covid-19-lockdown-in-delhi-844644.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh starts virtual hearings in RTI appeals to reduce pendency caused amid coronavirus lockdown||With the coronavirus-induced lockdown resulting in pendency of over 7,000 Right to Information (RTI) appeals in Madhya Pradesh, state information commissioner Vijay Manohar Tiwari has started conducting virtual hearings in the cases through mobile video calls. A copy of the commission's decision is then sent to the applicant and officials concerned through WhatsApp, Tiwari told PTI. "Due to the lockdown, more than 7,000 RTI appeals were pending in the state. Therefore, I decided to dispose of cases by using the mobile video-call technology for conducting hearings, and providing a copy of the decision through WhatsApp, he said. The officials concerned have been asked to attend hearings through the technology tool or face action, and the applicants have also been informed to appear before the commission through this mode, he said. The virtual hearings were conducted on Monday in some RTI appeals, he said. "Almost everyone has smart phones with them and they are also on social media. WhatsApp is an easy option during emergency situations. The results of video calls are on the expected lines. Officials also took part in it with full preparedness," Tiwari said. In the hearing of an application seeking information on vacant posts of teachers in Umaria district, when the public information officer failed to give satisfactory replies, the commission ordered him to provide the required information soon and also posted the order on his WhatsApp number, the official said. In another application from Shahdol district seeking information about recognition of private schools and qualification of teachers working there, the applicant was provided information immediately on two points listed by him. But, as the applicant insisted on being provided the entire information in one go, the commission ordered the official concerned to provide the same within a month. A copy of the order was then sent to the official concerned through WhatsApp, Tiwari said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-starts-virtual-hearings-in-rti-appeals-to-reduce-pendency-caused-amid-coronavirus-lockdown-844645.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||171 new COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan; toll 201||The novel coronavirus cases in Rajasthan rose to 9,271 on Tuesday after 171 people tested positive, while two more deaths took the toll to 201 on Tuesday, officials said. There are 2,803 active cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and 5,624 patients have been discharged from hospitals so far, according to the officials. A person each died from the pandemic in Bharatpur and Kota districts, the officials said. Seventy out of the 171 new COVID-19 cases are from Bharatpur, 34 from Jaipur, 23 from Jhalawar and 12 from Jodhpur districts. There are 10 more coronavirus infections in Kota and Alwar, four each in Dausa and Jhunjhunu, and two in Churu. Dholpur and Tonk districts have registered a new case each, the officials said. PTI AG HMB||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/171-new-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-toll-201-844651.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||No screening for migrants at railway stations in Bihar, coronavirus quarantine facilities to close down||The Bihar government has closed the registration of migrants returning to Bihar for putting them in 14-day institutional quarantine from Monday as movement of people has opened across the country, a top official of the Disaster Management department said. So far 28 to 29 lakh migrants have returned to the state and of them, 8.77 lakh people have been discharged from quarantine centres after completing their 14 day quarantine period. Besides, 5.30 lakh migrants, till date, are living at block and district level quarantine centres across the state, he said.  "Yes, we have stopped the registration of migrants from Monday for putting them in 14-day institutional quarantine... Why will anyone (migrant) be registered and for what when restrictions on the movement of people have been lifted in the country. How do you know who is migrant because now anyone can come either by train, bus, car or any other mode," Disaster Management Departments Principal Secretary Pratyaya Amrit told PTI on Tuesday. "The arrangement (of putting migrants in quarantine) was introduced when movement of people was either banned or restricted," Amrit said. During the lockdown period, people had to avail passes from the competent authorities to undertake travel from one place to another. But with the introduction of unlock 1, such requirement has been done away with. He, however, asserted that door-to-door health monitoring would continue and that medical facilities would remain the same from primary health centres to level I and level II hospitals. Asked whether quarantine centres would be closed after June 15, the principal secretary said that these centres will be closed after June 15 when the 14-day quarantine period of the last batch of registered migrants ends.  "Why quarantine centres will remain open when there will be no one at these centres after the arrival of last batch (which was supposed to come Bihar by June 1). We had written letter to the official concerned to send the special (shramik) train by June 1. If we take this into account, the quarantine period will come to an end on June 15," he said. Schools also have to be vacated for starting of academic activities, he said. So far, 28 to 29 lakh migrants have reached Bihar in its biggest ever evacuation exercise, he claimed. The state governments decision comes at a time when many migrants returning to Bihar have tested positive for COVID-19. According to the data released by the state Health department, the number of migrants who have tested positive since May 3 is 2,743.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/no-screening-for-migrants-at-railway-stations-in-bihar-coronavirus-quarantine-facilities-to-close-down-844654.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Uttarakhand minister's family readmitted hours after being discharged||Five COVID-19 positive family members of Uttarakhand Tourism Minister Satpal Maharaj were readmitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences in Rishikesh within hours of being discharged from the facility. Satpal Maharaj's two sons, their wives and a one-and-a-half-year-old grandson were discharged from the hospital on Monday evening to be home quarantined as they were  asymptomatic, but they had to be readmitted at their own request only two hours later, AIIMS, Rishikesh PRO Harish Thapliyal said.   While discharging them, the hospital administration had said it was in accordance with the Centre's guidelines which permit home quarantine of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients.  Satpal Maharaj, his wife and 21 other people – family members, staff and his followers staying in the same household – have tested positive for the disease.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-uttarakhand-ministers-family-readmitted-hours-after-being-discharged-844667.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Man, his 2 children test COVID-19 positive in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar||Three members of a family tested positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district on Tuesday, taking the total number of infected to 54, officials said. The man and his two children were quarantined after his wife had tested positive for the disease on May 30. The woman is undergoing treatment at the Medical College Begarajpur, District Magistrate Selva Kumari said. The western UP district now has 54 coronavirus patients, the DM said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-his-2-children-test-covid-19-positive-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-844681.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||HC decides to monitor disposal of coronavirus bodies||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday said it would be monitoring implementation of the AAP government's recent order on disposal of bodies of those who died of COVID-19. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said that it wants to see how the Delhi government health department's May 30 direction regarding disposal of COVID-19 dead has worked at the ground level. Delhi government additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose, who appeared for the health department, said that the court particularly wanted to see whether the May 30 order has worked with regard to bodies of those who died on May 31 and June 1. Ghose also said that the court asked the Delhi government to file an updated status report two days before the next date of hearing on June 15. The May 30 order of the Health department has fixed the responsibility, for timely disposal of the COVID-19 positive/suspect dead bodies, on the Medical Director/ Director of the hospital where a patient died or was brought dead. "Respective municipal corporation shall make all the arrangements to cremate/bury such dead bodies," the order also said. Some other directions contained in the order are that body of a COVID-19 positive/suspect patient be sent to mortuary within 2 hours of death in hospital or brought dead there and if family or relatives of the deceased contact mortuary within 12 hours, then hospital shall schedule the cremation/burial within next 24 hours. If no family member or relative gets in touch with mortuary in 12 hours, an intimation shall be sent to them through the area SHO regarding the date, time and place of cremation/burial so that they can attend the funeral. "The hospital must fix date and time in such a way that an effective notice of 24 hours is available to family/relatives," the department's order also said.  In case of unidentified bodies of COVID positive/suspect persons, Delhi Police has been directed by the health department to complete all legal formalities within 72 hours of death and dispose of the body in next 24 hours. The court was hearing a PIL initiated by it on its own after coming across news reports that there was a lack of facilities to cremate those who died due to COVID-19 and the bodies were piling up in the mortuaries. An anguished high court had said if this was the correct situation then it was "highly dissatisfactory and violative of the rights of the dead". The court had said it was pained at the state of affairs as reported in newspapers on Thursday, May 28. The news reports had said that the backlog in disposal of bodies was due to non-functioning of CNG furnaces at Nigambodh and Punjabi Bagh crematoriums. On Friday, May 29, the Delhi government had informed the court that urgent steps were taken to remedy the situation, including that LNJP Hospital being authorised to divert bodies to crematoriums at Panchkuian and Punjab Bagh, as opposed to only Nigambodh Ghat. The Delhi government also told the court that it has now authorised wood-fired traditional cremations, in addition to electric and CNG furnaces, providing personal protection (PPE) kits for all workers at crematorium and bodies and the working hours of crematoriums are extended to 7AM-10 PM from existing 9 AM - 4 PM. It had further said that the situation, based on which the court had initiated the suo motu proceedings, was a result of unavoidable circumstances like reduced capacity of Nigambodh Ghat to handle bodies on account of snags in furnaces, workers at crematorium refusing to handle COVID-19 deceased, sudden spike in coronavirus cases and related deaths in Delhi and relatives refusing to come forward to claim bodies.   On Monday, June 1, Delhi government filed an affidavit stating that it has stopped testing the dead for COVID-19 and because of this the relatives are not claiming the bodies of those suspected to have died of the virus, leading to delays in their disposal. Another reason given for delay in disposal of the bodies was social stigma attached with the disease and fear of quarantine. The government also said that the subject occurrence was a one-time event occurring on account of unavoidable circumstances and all steps are being taken to avoid it in the future. The affidavit further said that another reason for delay in disposal of bodies was that relatives were misinformed that the hospital will dispose of the bodies, whereas the hospital is only a facilitator and the bodies have to be claimed by the victim's kin. Some bodies have not been claimed for the reason that the relatives are from outside Delhi and no formal consent for disposal has been received, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-decides-to-monitor-disposal-of-coronavirus-bodies-844683.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Bihar Health dept distributes condoms among migrant labourers||Of the 28 to 29 lakh migrants who have returned to the state, 8.77 lakh people have been discharged as they have completed their 14 day quarantine period. Besides, 5.30 lakh migrants, till date, are living at block and district level quarantine centres across the state. "Migrant labourers are going to their homes after completing the 14-day institutional quarantine. Since there are chances of unwanted pregnancies, so we properly counsel them (migrant labourers) and give them tools (such as condoms) to avoid unwanted pregnancy," a senior Health department official told PTI. The official, who is entrusted with Family Planning in State Health Society, however, made it clear that "it is purely a family planning measure and has nothing to do with COVID-19. As a health professional, it is our responsibility to control the population. We have been taking the support of our health partner Care India to implement the initiative." It has been reported from the world over about unwanted pregnancies and it is in this backdrop, th Health department has initiated the step to check unwanted pregnancy, the official said, adding that it is in addition to what the department has been doing on a regular basis. The initiative would continue till the quarantine centres are closed, he added. The quarantine centres are likely to be closed by June 15, official sources said. The health coordinators have been distributing two packets of condoms at quarantine centres, ASHA workers have been distributing them during door-to-door screening of people in home quarantine. An official of the NGO Care India, said that "we are providing technical support to the Health department in this initiative."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bihar-health-dept-distributes-condoms-among-migrant-labourers-844692.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Now, App to help Delhiites find out COVID-19 beds in hospitals||Seeking to bridge the information gap, the Delhi government on Tuesday (June 2) launched a mobile application that helps people to find out how many beds and ventilators designated for COVID-19 patients are lying vacant in hospitals. The App -- Delhi Corona -- was launched following several complaints that patients were being turned away from hospitals citing unavailability of beds. The App, which will be updated at 10 AM and 6 PM every day -- allows a person to get details of vacant beds in any COVID-19 designated hospital in the capital. According to the update at 10 AM, out of the 6,731 beds for Covid-19 patients, only 2,819 are occupied leaving 3,912 vacant. Out of the 302 ventilators, 210 are vacant. Launching the App, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said there is an "information gap" as there have been complaints about people not being able to find beds in hospitals. “This app will fill that gap,” he said. Acknowledging that the number of cases in Delhi is rising, he said there was no need to panic as the government has made sufficient arrangements. He said, "if you go to a hospital which the App says has beds available and you are denied a bed, call on the helpline number - 1031. The helpline will intimate a Special Secretary, who will directly speak to the hospital authorities and ensure that you get admission on the spot."  Asserting that his government is "four steps ahead" of COVID-19, Kejriwal also said all patients need admission in hospitals. Only around 2,800 are in hospital while 6-7,000 with mild symptoms or asymptomatic are in home isolation.  "If a doctor tells you that your illness is not severe and you do not need hospitalisation, listen to him. Don't stretch the health infrastructure," Kejriwal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/now-app-to-help-delhiites-find-out-covid-19-beds-in-hospitals-844697.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Two tiger cubs spotted at Mukundara Tiger Reserve in Rajasthan||Two cubs have been spotted in the Mukundara Hills Tiger Reserve in Kota, nearly two years after two tigers and as many tigresses were relocated there from the Ranthambore National Park. The cubs were sighted on Monday by Deputy Conservator of Forest (Wildlife) T Mohan Raj, range officer Makan Lal Sharma and forest guard Vinod Meena. "Good news received again on June 2, 2020 about 2 tiger cubs of MT 2 tigress after two years of Tiger Reintroduction in Mukundara Tiger Reserve," Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot tweeted, attaching photographs of the cubs. "Feel ecstatic about the new arrivals. Let us save wildlife and their habitat," he added. In 2018, two tigers and as many tigresses were shifted to the Mukundara Tiger Reserve from the Ranthambhore National Park and one of the tigresses, MT2, gave birth to the cubs, the deputy conservator of forest said. Last Monday, three cubs were spotted in the Sariska Tiger Reserve in Alwar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/two-tiger-cubs-spotted-at-mukundara-tiger-reserve-in-rajasthan-844705.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Congress slams Madhya Pradesh govt for delaying info about COVID-19 deaths||Accusing the Indore district administration of delaying information about COVID-19 deaths, the Madhya Pradesh Congress on Tuesday asked the state government to issue a white paper on the matter. Indore, one of the worst-hit districts in the country amid the COVID-19 pandemic, has recorded 138 deaths so far. The delay in reports of COVID-19 deaths in the district has raised suspicions about the functioning of the state government, state Congress spokesperson Ameenul Khan Suri claimed. In order to dispel these suspicions, the government should issue a white paper on the deaths due to coronavirus in Indore, he said. Earlier, a few NGOs had levelled similar allegations on the health department, stating that it was sharing information about COVID-19 deaths "as per its convenience". When asked about these allegations, chief medical and health officer (CMHO) MP Sharma said he will be able to comment on it only after taking full information about COVID- 19 deaths. Meanwhile, according to the latest data, a 40-year-old man had reportedly died of COVID-19 on May 13, while a 61- year-old woman and a 64-year-old man succumbed to the infection on May 31. With reports of these three deaths, the toll in the region now stands at 138. In the last 24 hours, 31 new positive cases were detected in the district, which taken the COVID-19 tally 3,570 in the region. At least 2,029 persons have recovered from the infection in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-slams-madhya-pradesh-govt-for-delaying-info-about-covid-19-deaths-844751.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||13 employees of Delhi LG office test COVID positive, 6 other govt officials infected too||Thirteen employees of the Delhi Lt Governor Anil Baijal's office and six other government officials here have tested positive for COVID-19, sources said on Tuesday. They said that junior assistants, drivers, peons are among the 13 people working at the Lt Governor Secretariat who have tested positive for the deadly virus. Recently, all officers and officials working at the Delhi LG office underwent the COVID-19 test after a junior assistant was found infected. Meanwhile, sources said that six officials of the Delhi government have also tested positive for COVID-19. On Monday, Delhi recorded 990 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total to 20,834, while the death toll due to the disease mounted to 523, authorities here said.  The number of active cases stands at 11,565, while 8,746 patients have been cured, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/13-employees-of-delhi-lg-office-test-covid-positive-6-other-govt-officials-infected-too-844776.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Congress MP Bajwa takes on Punjab govt over unpaid dues of sugarcane farmers||Congress MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Tuesday accused his party's government in Punjab of not taking "concrete steps" to ensure the outstanding payment of Rs 681.48 crore to sugarcane growers in the state. In a letter written to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Bajwa claimed that around 70,000 sugarcane growers had not been paid their dues amounting to Rs 681.48 crore for the 2018-19 and 2019-20 seasons by cooperative and private sugarmills. "It is a matter of grave concern that there are outstanding payments for years. The government has taken no concrete steps to ensure that these payments are made to the farmers," Bajwa said. He pointed out that as per the Sugarcane Control Order and Clause 3(3) of the Sugarcane Purchase and Regulation Act, sugar mills must make payments within 14 days of purchase of sugarcane. "Otherwise, the mills will have to make these payments along with interest for the delayed period," Bajwa wrote. The Rajya Sabha MP said the unpaid dues have caused "financial distress" to thousands of sugarcane farmers, leaving many with huge debts. He demanded that the government take steps to ensure payment to growers who help it in the crop diversification programme. The former Punjab Congress chief pointed out that two private mills had already paid payment to sugarcane growers. If they could clear dues then why other sugar mills could not do so, he questioned. "It is a major lapse of the government where sugar mills could break the rules and regulations of the state and not face any punishment,” Bajwa wrote. He also sought from the state government to make the pending payment of Rs 681.48 crore to farmers at the earliest. He apprehended if sugarcane farmers were not paid their dues then area under sugarcane cultivation could drop by 20 per cent this year. "This would have disastrous consequences to the economy of Punjab and the goal of crop diversification in the state,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-mp-bajwa-takes-on-punjab-govt-over-unpaid-dues-of-sugarcane-farmers-844782.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Patna High Court grants bail on condition of contributing to PM-CARES Fund||The Patna High Court has reportedly granted bail to three accused, languishing in jail for violating Prohibition Act, on the condition that they donate money in the PM-CARES Fund for COVID-19. The HC order (a copy is with Deccan Herald) was passed on May 29 by Justice Anjani Kumar Sharan, who heard the parties through the virtual court proceeding and ordered conditional bail of the accused. In one of the cases, the court ordered that the accused Raushan Kumar be released once he deposits Rs 15,000 in the PM-CARES Fund and shows the receipt to the court. Raushan was arrested in January this year after he was found to be in possession of 382 litres of foreign wine in Bhagalpur. Bihar was declared a dry State in April 2016 after the Nitish Kumar Government brought a stringent law which imposed total Prohibition in the State. Under the new legislation, consuming, carrying or dealing with liquor has been declared a criminal offence and the offender could be served a jail sentence of 10 years if found guilty. Over 46,000 people are reportedly behind bars for violating Prohibition law in Bihar. Another such case was that of Santosh Sahni and Raghubir Sahni, both resident of Muzaffarpur. They were charged with possession of 1372 litres of foreign liquor in a commercial vehicle and have been languishing in jail since October 2019. After hearing the case, the court of Justice Anjani Kumar Sharan ordered that both the accused be granted bail once they contribute Rs 40,000 each to the PM-Cares Fund, besides furnishing bail bond of Rs 25,000 each. SIMILAR ORDER BY JHARKHAND HC The bail order comes close on the heels of similar order passed by the Jharkhand High Court in April this year. The Jharkhand HC, while granting bail to a former BJP MP Som Marandi and five others, had asked them to deposit Rs 35,000 each in the PM-CARES Fund. According to a Live Law report, Justice Anubha Rawat Choudhary also asked the petitioners to download the Arogya Setu App as soon as they were released on bail. “The petitioners shall show proof of payment of Rs 35,000 each in the ‘Prime Minister’s Citizens Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (PM CARES) Fund’ before the learned court below prior to their release,” the court said in its order. The former BJP MP and others were booked for holding a ‘rail roko’ agitation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/patna-high-court-grants-bail-on-condition-of-contributing-to-pm-cares-fund-844797.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court rejects plea seeking to declare Gairsain as capital of Uttarakhand||The Supreme Court Tuesday dismissed a plea seeking directions to the Uttarakhand government to declare Gairsain as the capital of the state and Pratap Nagar as a new district, saying these are "policy decisions" regarding which court cannot issue any directive. In March this year, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had announced in the state Assembly that Gairsain in Chamoli district will be the summer capital of the hill state. A bench headed by Justice R Banumathi was hearing through video-conferencing a plea filed by a Dehradun-based man who was seeking a direction to the Uttarakhand government to declare Gairsain as capital of the state. "In this writ petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India the petitioner seeks direction to the respondent-State of Uttarakhand to declare the 'Gairsaina' as capital of the State of Uttarakhand and also to declare 'Pratap Nagar' as new district," the bench, also comprising Justices Indu Malhotra and Aniruddha Bose, noted in its order. "In our considered view, these are the policy decisions regarding which the court cannot issue any direction," the bench said, adding, "The writ petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India is dismissed as devoid of merit." In March this year, immediately after finishing his budget speech in the state assembly, Rawat had made the announcement that Gairsain will be the summer capital, which partially fulfils a longstanding demand of the hill people and seeks to put an end to an emotive political issue simmering for the last 20 years. Rawat had said that preparations have to be made on a war footing to build infrastructure Gairsain needs to be the summer capital of the state. The Dikshit Commission, which was formed to study the feasibility of the proposition, had said Gairsain was not appropriate to become a capital because of its seismic vulnerability. Uttarakhand became a state of India on November 9, 2000 and those who had spearheaded the movement for statehood had wanted Gairsain to be its capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-rejects-plea-seeking-to-declare-gairsain-as-capital-of-uttarakhand-844819.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Five more test positive for COVID-19 in Arunachal Pradesh||Five people tested positive for Covid-19 in Arunachal Pradesh on Tuesday, taking the number of active cases to 26, a senior government official here said. All five have recently returned to the state from other parts of the country, he said. "One of them, a 36-year-old woman, is a resident of Lohit district. She returned from Delhi around a week ago. The other four cases were recorded in Itanagar. We are trying to trace the travel history of the four new patients," Health Secretary P Parthiban said. The 36-year-old woman, wife of an Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) officer, was placed under institutional quarantine, following her return to Arunachal with family on May 24, Lohit District Medical officer (DMO) S Chai Pul said. "Her husband and child have tested negative for the disease. The woman has been shifted to a COVID care centre of the paramilitary force," the DMO said. Taking to twitter, Chief Minister Pema Khandu said, "As on 2nd June, 4.40 PM, 5 new positive asymptomatic cases have been reported; Itanagar-4 and Lohit-1. All are in quarantine centre being shifted to Covid Care Centre." The state witnessed the highest-single day spike on Monday, with 18 people testing positive for COVID-19. All active patients in Arunachal are returnees from other states. The state's first patient, a 31-year-old man from Lohit district, was discharged from a hospital on April 16 following his recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-arunachal-pradesh-844829.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh medical college principal calls Tablighis 'terrorists', says they got 'VIP treatment'||The principal of government-run medical college here is heard in a video clip calling Tablighi Jamaat members “terrorists” who should be thrown into a dungeon and complaining against the “appeasement” of the Muslim community. The purported remarks by GSVM Medical College principal Dr Arati Dave Lalchandani triggered criticism from opposition leaders, who urged police to take action. She initially claimed that the clip had been tampered with and on Tuesday apologised for hurting the sentiments of Muslims, whom she described as her “brothers and sisters”. It is not clear when the five-minute video was recorded. The doctor is heard telling her audience, possibly journalists, not to leak her remarks. The Tablighi Jamaat has been at the centre of a controversy for holding in Delhi a congregation of its members, many of whom returned to their homes across the country carrying the coronavirus infection. Uttar Pradesh was among the states which quarantined a large number of them after the event in March. "These people are terrorists and we are giving VIP treatment to them by providing food and water," the doctor is heard saying in the clip. “We are exhausting our resources and manpower on them. We are paying hotel bills and are wasting our kits, food, medicines on them.” Lalchandani says she is plans to speak to the Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, whom she described as an alumnus of the college. "Here, no one will listen. The district magistrate is doing things as per the orders of the UP CM," she says. Referring to Tablighi Jamaat members, she says, “Admitting them to hospitals is appeasement. Those who should be thrown into jails are being admitted to hospitals.” "They should be thrashed in jail and put in solitary confinement instead of being kept in isolation wards. UP CM should issue an order that no resources should be spent on the Jamaatis,” she says. Lalchandani says she even confronted the district's chief medical officer over the Tablighi Jamaat patients. "I asked the CMO to send these patients to some jungle and they should be locked in a 'kaal kothri' (dungeon), but my voice was suppressed.” “The appeasement of these 30 crore people is being done at the cost of 100 crore people,” she says in the video, apparently referring to the entire Muslim community. On Tuesday, she told PTI that she has posted videos on social media apologising to the community. She said she has been helping people as a government doctor for 38 years, without discriminating on the basis of community. Earlier, she had said the video was the result of a sting operation. “We worked for two days straight under a lot of pressure. This was done by a sting operation, by pressurisation, by superimposition, by provocation and by deliberately contorting my statements,” she had said. The doctor said she had never mentioned any community by name. CPM leader Subhashini Ali has demanded the principal’s immediate suspension and stringent action if an inquiry finds the allegations against her to be true. Samajwadi Party leader Neelam Romila Singh has filed a complaint to police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-medical-college-principal-calls-tablighis-terrorists-says-they-got-vip-treatment-844899.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Veteran Congress leader tests positive for coronavirus after his death in Ladakh||Veteran Congress leader and former Union minister P Namgyal was tested positive for coronavirus hours after his death in Ladakh, making him the first person to die of the infection in the Union Territory, officials said on Tuesday. Namgyal, 83, who represented the Ladakh parliamentary constituency and the Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Council for three terms each, passed away after a brief illness at a hospital in Leh on Monday. From 1960-73 and then from 1974-80, he remained a member of the then Jammu and Kashmir Legislative Council until he got elected to the seventh Lok Sabha. Four years later in 1984, he was re-elected to the Lok Sabha and served the Central government as Union minister between 1988 and 1989. He was elected to the Lok Sabha third time in 1996. The Congress leader's sample was taken for COVID-19 test which returned positive, the officials said. District Magistrate, Leh, Sachin Kumar Vaishya, constituted a three-member committee to inquire into alleged lapses in the protocol in handling of a COVID-19 case and alleged irregularities in handling the body of the deceased. The officials said efforts are on to identify all the persons who have come in contact with the deceased leader for sampling. All these persons have been advised to stay in home quarantine, they added.  Four more persons tested positive for coronavirus in Ladakh on Tuesday, taking the number of such patients in the region to 81. "A total of 21 samples were tested at COVID-19 Laboratory at Chuchot Yokma in Leh, out of which four have come positive. One positive report is of Leh district and three are of Kargil district," an official bulletin said. It said the condition of all the 33 active cases of COVID-19 is stable. These include seven active cases in Leh and 26 in Kargil district. Forty-seven patients -- 34 in Leh and 13 in Kargil -- have been cured and discharged from hospitals so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/veteran-congress-leader-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-after-his-death-in-ladakh-844904.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi sets another record for daily COVID-19 spike||Delhi on Tuesday recorded 1,298 COVID-19 cases, the highest for a single day, a day after it reported that the number of daily patients fell below 1,000. With this, the number of cases has risen to 22,132. With the addition of 33 deaths, including 11 from May 31, the toll has now touched 556. Since May 28, Delhi has been witnessing over 1,000 cases every day except for June 1 when it was 990. According to the medical bulletin, 497 people were discharged in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 9,243. At present, 12,573 are under treatment of which 7,461 are in home isolation. The national capital has conducted tests 2.23 lakh samples, including 6,070 fresh samples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-sets-another-record-for-daily-covid-19-spike-844916.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: 9-year-old girl who died on May 30 tests positive in Chhattisgarh||The sample of a 9-year-old girl who died on May 30 from a blood disorder has tested positive for novel coronavirus in Bilaspur in Chhattisgarh, an official said on Tuesday. The girl was admitted to Chhattisgarh Institute of Medical Sciences in Bilaspur on May 29 as she was suffering from a blood disorder, said Dr Aarti Pandey, the facility's public relations officer. "However, against medical advice, her parents got her discharged from hospital. Her samples returned positive for coronavirus on June 1. Her parents are migrant workers and had come back from Prayagraj in Uttar Pradesh to Bilaspur," she said. "When officials contacted her family in Danganiya village, they were told the child had died on May 30 and her last rites had been conducted the next day. Contact tracing has begun in the village and samples of her kin and contacts have been sent for testing," another official said. The state health department is not treating this as a COVID-19 death as it believes the girl was suffering from severe anemia and other blood disorders and died due to them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-9-year-old-girl-who-died-on-may-30-tests-positive-in-chhattisgarh-844940.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Police file 2 chargesheets, say suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain spent about Rs 1.10 crore to fund Delhi anti-CAA protests||Suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain allegedly spent around Rs 1.10 crore to fund anti-CAA protests and the subsequent communal violence that rocked northeast Delhi in February, the Crime Branch of the Delhi Police said in a 1,030-page charge sheet filed at Karkardooma court on Tuesday. The police filed another chargesheet in connection with the clashes between pro- and anti-CAA protesters in Jafrabad on the night of February 23. A case of rioting was registered at the Khajuri Khas Police Station in which 15 people including Hussain were arrested for their alleged role in the riots that occurred at about 2.15 pm on February 24 outside the suspended AAP councillor's house in Delhi's Chand Bagh area. The police said during investigation, it emerged that there was a "deep rooted conspiracy" to cause riots in Northeast Delhi and Hussain, an Aam Aadmi Party leader and sitting councilor in East Delhi Municipal Corporation, played a pivotal role in the incident. The chargesheet stated that Hussain allegedly transferred around Rs 1.10 crore from the accounts of companies owned by him to alleged fake companies. He received the amount in cash in the second week of January, 2020 through a chain of transactions and thereafter, distributed the money to anti-CAA protestors. Police also obtained the bank details of two companies owned by Hussain -- Show Effect Advertising Pvt Ltd and Essence Cellcom Pvt Ltd -- from HDFC Bank. The details were analysed to verify the disclosure made by Hussain regarding organising and distributing cash for anti-CAA protests and the riots, it said. According to the chargesheet, the bank account details showed six suspicious transactions from Essence Cellcom Pvt Ltd. amounting to Rs 92 lakhs to two other accounts. "His (Hussain's) another company Show Effect Advertising Pvt Ltd showed a transfer of Rs 20 lakh on January 8... All these chain of transactions are being investigated," it said. According to the chargesheet, during interrogation Hussain admitted his involvement in the riots and also confessed that he was present on the terrace of his house during as violence broke out in the area around his house. Hussain was in touch with other anti-CAA protestors and had met Khalid Saifi of United Against Hate and JNU student leader Umar Khalid at the Shaheen Bagh protest site on January 8, it said. Saifi told Hussain to be prepared for "something big" at the time of the visit of US President Donald Trump and also said that he and other PFI members will help him financially. Saifi gave him some money for the preparations, the chargesheet said. A day prior to the riots on February 22, Hussain got his pistol released from Khajuri Kha Police Station but during interrogation couldn’t give a satisfactory reply as to why he did so, the police said in the chargesheet. He was connected to Saifi and Khalid who were part of a larger group of people responsible for organising riots and protests in Delhi, the chargesheet said. Several CCTV cameras were found installed in his house-cum-office and four DVRs (digital video recorder) were also recovered from there. But according to the Forensic Science Laboratory, no recording from February 23 to February 28, 2020 could be found on any DVR, it further said. "It means there was no data recorded either because the CCTVs were switched off or they were not in working condition. There is no recording of persons visiting him in his office or house prior to the commencement of riots/during the riots, as if he did not wish the events to be recorded," the chargesheet said. "Absence of any recording in the DVRs proves that he deliberately did it to hide his activities prior to and during the riots," it added. The chargesheet further said that photos and videos obtained from two separate DVDs were analysed and it showed the destruction done by rioters at the scene of the crime. It also showed that Hussain’s house was left untouched by the rioters which indicates that the accused was leading and instigating the mob, the chargesheet claimed. "Recovery of crates containing glass bottles having some liquid filled in them and their necks stuffed with pieces of cloth, which were used/ to be used as Molotov cocktails, large number of bricks and stone pieces and three catapults from the house of accused Tahir Hussain further point towards the conspiracy and the extent of preparation for causing riots in the area," it said. As per his disclosure statement during police remand, one pistol with extra magazine and 24 live cartridges, one mobile phone were recovered from him on March 7. On March 11, 40 live cartridges and 22 empty cartridges were also recovered. However, he didn’t give any satisfactory explanation when asked about the empty cartridges, it stated. “He purchased 100 cartridges on his license but only 64 live cartridges and 22 empty cartridges were recovered. During interrogation, he was unable to give satisfactory reply for the remaining 14 live cartridges and use of 22 empty shells,” mentions the chargesheet. On the instance of Hussain, two brothers Liyakat Ali and Riyasat Ali were arrested and during interrogation they disclosed their involvement in the riots, the chargesheet said. The chargesheet further mentioned that Riyasat actively participated in looting and burning of the parking of one Pradeep, who lives adjacent to Hussain and the brothers divided the cash among themselves. The chargesheet further said, "Pradeep’s parking was inspected by the FSL and crime team. Out of 44 vehicles, 14 were burnt and 18 were damaged. The photos and videos were taken. It showed that Pradeep's parking was being destroyed by the rioters but they left Hussain's place untouched." "During the course of investigation, Hussain's step brother Shah Alam was arrested along with other accused - Mohd Shadab , Mohd Abid, Rashid Saifi. They all disclosed that they had actively participated in the riots on the directions of Hussain," police said. Saifi was arrested on February 26 in another case of rioting at Jagatpuri, Shahdara District, police said. A total of three SITs have been constituted by the crime branch to investigate 59 cases which include murders and some important incidents of riots which occurred in February. Meanwhile, the second chargesheet filed was in connection with the Jafrabad rioting case which happened near Jafrabad Metro station. According to police, twelve people including Pinjra Tod a activists Natasha Narwal and Devangana Kalita were also arrested in this case. They were actively involved in hatching the conspiracy to cause riots near Jafrabad metro station, police said. They were also part of a larger conspiracy and were found to be connected to the ‘India Against Hate’ group and Umar Khalid, police said. One Aman had died due to the gunshot injury in the incident and a total of 35 empty cartridges were recovered from the spot, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-file-2-chargesheets-say-suspended-aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-spent-about-rs-110-crore-to-fund-delhi-anti-caa-protests-844943.html
02-06-2020||North and Central||Police manipulated facts to falsely implicate suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, claims lawyer||Police have "twisted or manipulated" the answers given by suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain to falsely implicate him in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February, alleged his lawyer on Tuesday. In a chargesheet filed on Tuesday, police claimed that Hussain has admitted to participating in the riots and had allegedly transferred around Rs 1.10 crore to alleged fake companies to fund anti-CAA protestors. Advocate Javed Ali, counsel for Hussain, claimed that the politician was roped into a political conspiracy by his rivals, who have managed to pin the blame of the unfortunate events of February 24 on him. He further said that Hussain was not the accused, but the victim here. "No recovery has been affected from him during the police custody or later on. However, certain things have been planted and manipulated against him. Hussain himself is a victim rather than an accused as is being allegedly portrayed by the police who have by far produced no single piece of evidence to prove that he had a role to play in the alleged crime against him except the oral allegations," said the advocate. The Delhi police on Tuesday filed a chargesheet before a court here in the case, alleging Hussain had transferred around Rs 1.10 crore to alleged fake companies to fund anti-CAA protestors in northeast Delhi. Metropolitan Magistrate Richa Parihar has put up the matter for consideration of the chargesheet on June 16. The lawyer claimed that the FIR in which Hussain was booked was general and omnibus in nature and is against a violent mob of persons, whereas no mention of names of perpetrators of alleged violence has been made in it. "It merely describes the incident of riots taking place near the house of the applicant and no other details. Hussain has so far fully and, in all sincerity, cooperated with the police wit their investigation. However, so many of the answers that he had given to the questions posed to him by the police were either omitted or twisted/manipulated by the police itself in order to suit their version for falsely implicating the applicant in the present case," he alleged. "That the present case is after thought and designed very carefully to implicate Tahir Hussain which is evident from the fact that the police have not been able to provide a single proof or evidence to show either direct or indirect involvement of the accused/applicant in the present matter. However, many facts have been manipulated &amp; fabricated by the police officials. Tahir Hussain neither has been in contact with any person as alleged by the Police nor hatched any conspiracy regarding the alleged incidents," he alleged. The police filed two chargesheets in connection with riots-- one is related to Hussain and the other is related to murder and riots case in Jaffrabad, officials said. The police said during investigation, it emerged that there was a "deep rooted conspiracy" to cause riots in Northeast Delhi and Hussain, a politician of Aam Aadmi Party and sitting councilor in EDMC, Delhi, played a pivotal role in the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/police-manipulated-facts-to-falsely-implicate-suspended-aap-councillor-tahir-hussain-claims-lawyer-844946.html
02-06-2020||South||Elderly woman killed in robbery bid in Kerala||A 55-year-old woman was killed and her husband seriously injured by unidentified men during a suspected robbery attempt at their residence at Thazhathangadi near here, police said on Tuesday. The incident came to light on Monday evening when the neighbours sensed the smell of LPG gas from their house and alerted the police. When the police team reached the crime scene, they found the couple tied up using electric wires, lying in a pool of blood and the house filled with gas leaked from the cylinder. The couple was taken to the government medical college hospital here. An investigation has been launched into the incident in which the woman was allegedly bludgeoned to death while her husband was found lying unconscious near her, they said. Both of them suffered severe head injuries in the attack using heavy objects, they added. Valuable items including a car were reportedly missing from their home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/elderly-woman-killed-in-robbery-bid-in-kerala-844640.html
02-06-2020||South||Four workers killed in explosion at Singareni Collieries Company Ltd mine in Telangana||Four workers were killed and three seriously injured in an explosion at an open cast coal mine of state-owned Singareni Collieries Company Ltd in Peddapalli district of Telangana on Tuesday, police said. "The explosion occurred at Ramagundam-3 region of SSCL mine at around 10.25 am, killing the four workers, aged between 28 to 42 years, on the spot," Ramagundam Police Commissioner V Satyanarayana told reporters. He said initial investigation revealed that the blast occurred when non-electrical detonators filled with slurry (semi-liquid mixture of fine particles of manure, cement, or coal suspended in water), exploded. The three seriously injured workers were shifted to a hospital at Godavarikhani, he said. Police said the workers were employed by a private contractor and the incident occurred during the filling of Site Mix Emulsion into the open cast mine. A case under IPC section304A(causing death by negligence) has been registered, they said. Meanwhile, a senior official of SCCL said that the Director General of Mines Safety would conduct an enquiry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/four-workers-killed-in-explosion-at-singareni-collieries-company-ltd-mine-in-telangana-844647.html
02-06-2020||South||Girl ends life in Kerala allegedly over lack of online study facility||As Kerala commenced fresh academic year with online classes from Monday, a ninth-standard student at Malappuram district in North Kerala ended life allegedly owing to lack of online study facilities like television connection and a smartphone at her house. Devika, daughter of Balakrishnan, hailing from a Dalit community at Valancherry, about 25 kilometres from Malappuram town, ended her life. Local police told DH that Devika, who was the eldest among four children of Balakrishnan, was suspected to have self-immolated using kerosene at a premise close to her house on Monday evening. The cause and provocations were still being probed only. No suicide notes were recovered yet. 2.5 lakh students have no means for accessing online class; Govt offers facility With recent reports that abut 2.5 lakh school students in the state do not have facilities like television or internet connection for accessing virtual classes, the state government on Monday decided to extend facilities. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday that the Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE), which is a state government undertaking, offered to subsidise 75 percent of the cost of purchasing televisions for setting up neighbourhood study centres. Remaining 25 percent cost of television and other expenses of setting up the centre must be met by local governments or sponsors. KSFE is coming out with a scheme to purchase laptops through Kudumbasree also. Around 1.2 lakh laptops, 7,000 projectors and 4,545 television sets purchased as part of the high-tech school project of the state would be also used to provide access to online classes for students who do not have facilities, he said. All school authorities were already instructed by the government to get in touch with each of the 40 lakh plus students in government and aided schools over this week and ensure that they were having access to the online classes being delivered through the government's education channel Victers. Facilities like community viewing facility should be provided to those having no access, said Anvar Sadath, Chief Executive Officer of Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/girl-ends-life-in-kerala-allegedly-over-lack-of-online-study-facility-844671.html
02-06-2020||South||115 new Coronavirus cases reported in Andhra Pradesh, tally reaches||The aggregate number of coronavirus cases touched 3,791 in Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday as the upward spiral continued with 115 additions in the last 24 hours. The latest government health bulletin said no fresh deaths due to the virus were reported in the last 24 hours ending 9 am on Tuesday while 40 patients were discharged from hospitals upon recovery. The overall Covid-19 toll in the state so far is 64. Of the new cases, 82 were residents of the state and the remaining 33 came from other states, the bulletin said. The gross coronavirus cases 3,791 includes 3,200 AP residents, 479 from other states and 112 foreign returnees, it added. The total number of active cases was 1,320, which includes 927 AP residents, 111 foreign returnees and 282 from other states. So far, a total of 3.95 lakh tests were conducted in the state at the rate of 7,410 per million population and a positivity rate of 0.96 per cent. The recovery rate is now 63.49 per cent and mortality rate 1.69 per cent in AP, as per the data released by the government. Meanwhile, the government started COVID-19 tests for its Secretariat employees in Amaravati after two staffers were found infected with the disease on Monday. On Tuesday, employees of Home and other departments in the Secretariat Block-2 were tested and the process is expected to continue for three days, sources in the Medical and Health Department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/115-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-reaches-844679.html
02-06-2020||South||Kerala police registers case against misusing pictures of teachers from online classes||The online classrooms through public domain targeting over 40 lakh school students in Kerala from Monday have posed a fresh challenge with cyber-trollers misusing the pictures of teachers for trolling purposes. On the basis of a complaint filed by Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE) chief executive officer Anvar Sadath, the Kerala Police registered a case at the cybercrime police station in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday. "It has come to the notice of the police cyber wing that some anti-social elements were misusing pictures and videos of online classes and circulating those with insulting comments on social media. Stringent action will be taken against such acts," said an official statement from Kerala Police. Anvar requested in a message on the social media that sharing such pictures and videos without any bad intentions also added up to the insult to the teachers and hence those coming across such posts should remove it. Online classes are delivered to students of class one to twelfth through the Victers education channel of KITE. Recorded classrooms by teachers for each standard are aired at specified time slots through the channel, which could be viewed through cable TV and the internet. Since it is on the public domain anyone can view it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-police-registers-case-against-misusing-pictures-of-teachers-from-online-classes-844685.html
02-06-2020||South||Coronavirus: Beauty parlours, saloons, spas in Tamil Nadu told to collect Aadhaar, mobile numbers of customers||Hairdressing in saloons and beauty parlours in Tamil Nadu will require Aadhar card with the state government making it mandatory on the part of service providers to collect details, including the unique ID number, from customers as part of preventive measures against COVID- 19. According to the standard operating procedure for saloons, beauty parlours and spas, they have to maintain record of name, address, Aadhaar and mobile phone numbers of the customers. The measure is aimed at containing the spread of COVID-19 and facilitate contact tracing, official sources said. While saloons and beauty parlours were allowed to operate in all other parts of the state from May 24, the government permitted them in Chennai police limits from Monday, when the "Unlock 1" phase began. Principal Secretary Revenue Administration and Disaster Management Commissioner J Radhakrishnan has instructed the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and all district collectors to direct the establishments to keep a record of all their customers and take other appropriate steps to contain the spread of the virus. Accordingly, a seven-page SOP for owners and workers of these establishments, issued on Monday, makes it mandatory for the establishments to ensure facilities for hand washing with soap or provide hand sanitiser to the customers and employees. Employees should wear hand gloves and face masks and must wash their hands before attending to customers. Blades should not be reused and napkins given to customers should be disposed of safely. Headbands and towels one used for a customer should not be reused before washing. The SOP also said owners should not allow employees having cold, cough or fever symptoms from working and ask them to approach a doctor immediately. Only 50 per cent of the seats should be occupied at a time and markings for queues were necessary to avoid crowding, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-beauty-parlours-saloons-spas-in-tamil-nadu-told-to-collect-aadhaar-mobile-numbers-of-customers-844760.html
02-06-2020||South||Vande Bharat mission: CIAL has received about 10,000 evacuees||The Cochin International Airport (CIAL) here has received close to 10,000 evacuees since the Centre launched its Vande Bharat Mission in the first week of last month to bring home Indians stranded abroad due to the COVID-19 pandemic, an airport spokesman said here on Tuesday. He said the airport is gearing up to receive more flights from new sectors from Cairo in Egypt to Cebu in The Philippines. Apart from the National carrier, many private airlines and chartered airlines have already approached the authorities to obtain necessary approval for operating evacuation flights to Kochi, the spokesman said in a release. . The Vande Bharat Mission had a head start in the country with the first airline touching down at Cochin International Airport on May 7. Till May 31, the airport has handled 8,554 inbound passengers, a majority from the Gulf nations, the US and the European Union. Air India and Air India Express together operated 48 flights. Air India also operated stopover flights from San Francisco, Yerevan and Kiev. The airport received 12 special flights operated by the national carriers of countries like Switzerland, United Kingdom, Maldives, Oman, Qatar and Bahrain. They flew back to their countries with more than 1000 citizens or permanent visa holders who were stranded at Kochi Airport. A chartered flight operated by Air Peace from Lagos, Nigeria evacuated 312 stranded Indians to Kochi. According to the release, an Air India flight from the East African country of Djibouti will land at Kochi airport on June 5. The National carrier will operate Vietnam-Bombay-Kochi flight on June 7, Cairo-Bombay-Kochi flight on 16th, Kiev-Delhi-Kochi flight on 19th, London- Bombay-Kochi flight on 22nd, and Cebu (The Philippines)- Bombay-Chennai-Kochi flight on June 23rd apart from their scheduled operations fromm the Gulf countries. Since March 2020, the airport handled 205 international cargo flights which exported 4644.6 tons of cargo from Kochi. CIAL also confirmed the operation of Air India express flights from Dubai, Kuwait and Doha today, carrying 540 passengers in total. There will be flights from Bahrain, Abu Dhabi, Dammam and Dubai on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/vande-bharat-mission-cial-has-received-about-10000-evacuees-844767.html
02-06-2020||South||Heavy rains lash several parts of Kerala; Orange alert in four districts on day 2 of monsoon||Heavy rains lashed several parts of Kerala on Tuesday, a day after the South West Monsoon set in, while an Orange alert has been sounded for four districts, including the state capital where several low lying areas were waterlogged. Three northern districts of Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod are the others brought under Orange alert -- warning of heavy rainfall ranging from 6.4 cm to 11.5 cm to very heavy rainfall of 11.5 cm to 20.4 cm, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Yellow alert (possibility of isolated heavy rainfall) has been issued to seven districts on Tuesday. The South West Monsoon, which marks the commencement of the four-month-long rainy season in the country, hit the Kerala coast on June 1, its normal onset date, triggering downpour in several parts of the state, which was battered by rain fury in the past two years that claimed several lives and caused extensive damage. Vatakara in Kozhikode district received 19 cm rainfall in the 24 hours ended 8.30 am on Tuesday, an IMD bulletin said. It was followed by Kannur 12.97 cm, Thiruvananthapuram 11.3 cm rains, Thiruvananthapuram airport 13.1 cm and Alappuzha recorded 4.4 cm. The state capital and nearby areas have received heavy rains last night and this morning and many low lying areas have come under sheets of water. Fishermen have been warned against venturing into South Arabian Sea and Lakshadweep and along Kerala coast in the next 24 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/heavy-rains-lash-several-parts-of-kerala-orange-alert-in-four-districts-on-day-2-of-monsoon-844784.html
02-06-2020||South||86 positive cases in Kerala, tally climbs to 1412; one death, toll now 11||In the biggest single day spike, 86 COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Tuesday, taking the infection tally to 1,412 as one more person succumbed to the virus in the state. The 77-year-old deceased, a Christian priest, died at the Thiruvananthapuram medical college hospital. With this, the total fatalities in the state has climbed to 11. The priest, hailing from Thiruvananthapuram district, had been admitted to the hospital on April 20 following a motorcycle accident and he was under treatment till May 20 and discharged. He returned ten days later with pneumonia and respiratory problems and died today. Hissamples had testedpositive for the virus, health department sources said. Presently, 774 people are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 and 627 have recovered, including 19 who were discharged today, a release quoting Health minister K K Shailaja, said. Malappuram reported the highest number of 15 cases,Alappuzha10, Kasaragod nine, Kollam eight, Thiruvananthapuram seven, Kottayam, Thrissur and Wayanad six each, Palakkad, Kozhikode and Kannur five cases each, Ernakulam three and Pathnamthitta one. Of the postivecases, 46 were from abroad and 26 from other states,the release said, adding 12 people were infected through contact--Wayanad six, Malappuram four, Kasaragod and Kannur one each. A health worker from Palakkad was among those who tested positve. According to the release, 1,43,989 people have returned to the state-- 25,832 through airports, 1,06,218 through checkposts, 1,621 through seaports and 10,318 through railways. Over 1.47 lakh people are under observation, including 1.45 lakh in home or institutional quarantine, 1,340 in hospitals, including 200 admitted today. In the last 24 hours, 2,421 samples were sent for testing. The release said 71,068 samples have been sent for testing so far of which results of 67,249 received are negative. The number of hot spots in the state has touched 122, with the addition of one region from Malappuram.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/86-positive-cases-in-kerala-tally-climbs-to-1412-one-death-toll-now-11-844814.html
02-06-2020||South||In-laws in police custody in alleged murder of woman using snake in Kerala||After husband, the in-laws of a woman in Kerala, who was allegedly murdered by inflicting snake bite, were taken into custody by the police. Uthra, a native of Anchal in Kollam district, died on May 7 after suffering a second snake bite in a gap of around two months. Further police probe on the basis of suspicions raised by her family found that her husband Sooraj, who hails from Adoor in Pathanamthitta, inflicted the snake bites with the intention of avoiding her and siphoning off her wealth. On Monday night the police took Sooraj's father Surendran into custody. Sooraj's mother Renuka and sister Soorya were taken into custody on Tuesday afternoon. Surendran's arrest was reported to be recorded, while two others were being quizzed. Several gold ornaments of Uthra, weighing over 35 sovereigns, were found buried in the premises of Sooraj's house. According to sources, the family members were suspected to be harassing Uthra and they were also privy to Sooraj's attempts to murder her and siphon off her wealth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/in-laws-in-police-custody-in-alleged-murder-of-woman-using-snake-in-kerala-844816.html
02-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu makes Aadhaar card mandatory at salons and beauty parlours||Aadhaar card is now necessary to visit beauty parlours, salons, and spas in Tamil Nadu. And the aforementioned establishments have been asked to write down the details of those visiting them for services including their Aadhaar and phone numbers. Government sources said collecting the phone numbers and Aadhaar card details of those visiting salons, parlours and spas would come in handy for authorities if the need for contact tracing arose in the future. The instructions asking shop owners to maintain a register of those visiting is part of the measures taken to contain the spread of Covid-19 in the state. While barber shops in rural areas opened over a week ago, beauty parlours and spas in urban areas reopened after two months on Monday. It is believed that the government is unwilling to take any chances as it had a tough time in tracing the contacts of hairstylists in Chennai who tested positive for coronavirus in March and April this year. "The salons, beauty parlours, and spas should maintain a register for noting down the name, address, mobile number and Aadhaar card details of the customers," the circular issued by Commissioner of Revenue Administration J Radhakrishnan said. The circular also said only 50 percent of the seats should be occupied by customers, while salons, beauty parlours, and spas should adopt 'service by appointment' method to avoid crowding. It also asked the owners to ensure that a blade used for a customer should not be reused for another while mandating the use of disposable towels. It also asked the workers to clean their hands using sanitizer before and after completing their work. “They should wear masks and gloves. The owners and workers of the salons, beauty parlours, and spas should avoid touching their nose, mouth, and eyes often,” the circular said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-makes-aadhaar-card-mandatory-at-salons-and-beauty-parlours-844825.html
02-06-2020||South||85 more test coronavirus positive in Kerala||Kerala's coronavirus tally witnessed a further steep hike of 86 more positive cases on Tuesday, of which a priest died in Thiruvananthapuram in the morning before the test result came. It is the highest number of coronavirus positive cases in the state in a single day after 85 cases on May 28. In a relief to state, 19 persons were tested negative. So far 1412 persons were tested coronavirus positive in Kerala, of which 627 already recovered and 11 died. The number of active patients is 774. Father K G Varghese, 77, of Thiruvananthapuram, who was under treatment for lung disease, died at a medical college hospital on Tuesday morning. His coronavirus test result that came afterwards was found to be positive.  Among the 86 fresh cases on Tuesday, 72 came from other states and abroad, while 12 got infected through local contact. The state was putting in all efforts to keep spread of infection through local contacts at the minimum level and it was found effective so far. However, with lockdown norms being relaxed and inter-district bus services being allowed, there were concerns if the state would witness a spike in infection through local contact.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/85-more-test-coronavirus-positive-in-kerala-844834.html
02-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu needs to ramp up testing to contain coronavirus: Experts||The expert committee’s recommendation to ramp-up testing numbers considerably to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus notwithstanding, Tamil Nadu has not increased its testing capacity for the past few weeks as it continues to test only 10,500 to 12,000 individuals in a day. However, the number of cases is increasing and this, experts say, is a clear indicator that the government should intensify its testing numbers to identify more positive cases, isolate them, trace their contacts, and thereby containing the spread of coronavirus. For instance, 1,149 of the 12,049 persons whose swab samples were collected tested positive on May 31, while the number of persons turning positive hit a new high of 1,162 on June 1 even though the number of persons tested on the day was 1,085 less than the previous day. Though the number of testing labs in the state has increased from 46 on May 1 to 72 on June 1, the number of individuals tested has not increased significantly.  The exponential increase in the number of positive cases despite testing numbers not being raised, experts say, is not a good sign as it indicates “wide-spread prevalence” of the virus that has resulted in “community transmission” in certain parts of Chennai, which is exploding with over 15,000 cases. The majority of these cases are from densely-populated areas of the city, where the testing numbers remain “extremely low” with just 3,000 to 4,000 persons being tested every day. Experts told DH that the numbers should be increased immediately laying stress on “focussed testing” especially within containment zones where the spread of the virus is much higher. At last count on Tuesday, the state had 24,586 Coronavirus patients, including 197 deaths and 13,706 discharges. As many as 19,351 cases are from Chennai and its neighboring districts of Tiruvallur, Kanchipuram, and Chengalpattu, 1,675 persons who came from abroad and other states have tested positive. “Without any doubt, testing needs to be increased and it has to be focussed testing with symptomatic and vulnerable like the elderly being tested more. The testing should be increased more within the containment zones where the prevalence of the virus is very high. If we are focussed, we can reduce the number of deaths and that is the goal,” Dr. P. Kuganantham, former Chennai City Health Officer and epidemiologist told DH. Kuganantham and other members part of the team told the government twice in a fortnight that the number of tests should be increased and there should no reduction. However, the government does not seem to listen to the committee as the numbers have not been ramped up in the past few weeks. However, the government says the testing numbers have not been reduced by flaunting the total samples tested which are over 5 lakh, the highest in the country.  A public health expert, who did not wish to be named, told DH that the testing numbers should be increased to 20,000 a day as the spread of the virus is rampant. “We should compulsorily test all pregnant women before delivery, the vulnerable sections, and all symptomatic people. Only if we increase our testing numbers, we will be able to contain the spread of the virus. Also, people should take the necessary precautions and should not let the elderly out of their houses,” he said. Though experts call for “increased and focussed testing” in Chennai, the testing numbers in the metropolis hover between 3,500 to 3,800 a day, a senior government official said. “The number of positive cases is increasing, and the only way forward is to conduct more tests. And we are aware that more tests would lead to more number of positive cases. We expect the trend to continue at least for the next week,” the official said. Sumanth Raman, a physician by profession and a political commentator who keeps track of Covid-19 developments in the state, said he was clueless as to understand why the numbers have not been ramped up as yet, despite experts asking the government to do. “The testing numbers have come down, in fact. Only one day, the number went up to 14,000 in May and it has come down. We test almost the same numbers every day, but the positivity rate goes up each day and this is what we have witnessed in the past few days. By not increasing testing as per recommendations of the ICMR and the expert committee, the state is potentially being pushed towards a health crisis,” Raman told DH. Dr. J Amalorpavanathan, former director of the Institute of Vascular Surgery at the prestigious Madras Medical College, says the testing should be increased “manifold.” “We have 72 labs and if we don’t increase our testing numbers, what is the point of having so many facilities. I really do not understand what is stopping the government from testing as many people as it can. Rampant testing needs to be done in areas where there is a high prevalence of the virus in Chennai at least,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-needs-to-ramp-up-testing-to-contain-coronavirus-experts-844842.html
02-06-2020||South||Father, relative arrested for 'human sacrificing' minor girl||Tamil Nadu police on Tuesday detained the father of a minor girl, who was found dead inside a eucalyptus tree grove, for allegedly murdering her with help from his second wife and a relative on the advice of a woman who said killing his daughter would bring him prosperity.  The 13-year-old girl was found unconscious inside an eucalyptus grave near Gandharvakottai in Pudukkottai district in the state on May 18 and breathed her last at the government hospital in Thanjavur the following day. Police suspected that the minor girl could have been sexual assaulted with her father, Panneerselvam, also toeing the line, initially.   However, special teams formed by the district police to crack the case have found that the father of the girl along with his second wife hatched the plan to kill the 13-year-old on the advice of one Vasanthi, who said “sacrificing the girl” would end all their problems and their lives will witness prosperity. Pudukkottai district Superintendent of Police (SP) Arun Sakthikumar said Panneerselvam has two wives and the minor girl, whom they killed, was the third daughter from his first wife. “Vasanthi with whom Panneerselvam and his second wife were in close touch told them that they should kill a girl child to end their miseries. After the advice, the duo along with their relative Kumar decided to kill a girl child,” he said. The trio, according to the SP, conducted a pooja near the fields where the minor’s girl was lying unconscious a day before she was strangled. As the girl came to fetch water from a well in the morning, the father along with her on the pretext of talking to her and strangled her with the help of a cloth. “They left her in the fields and made it look like a sexual assault,” the SP said. The post-mortem report of the minor girl had also said that she had strangulation marks in her neck. While Panneerselvam and Kumar are in custody, a manhunt has been launched to arrest two more people. The second wife, Mookayi, also died “after being ill” on May 30, Panneerselvam and Kumar have been taken into custody, the SP said, adding that they are awaiting the post-mortem report of the woman.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/father-relative-arrested-for-human-sacrificing-minor-girl-844846.html
02-06-2020||South||School boy's divergent version of Uttara Ramayana in TTD's publication irks BJP||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has landed in a fresh controversy with an article in its official publication Sapthagiri claiming a contradictory version of a popular episode in the Uttara-kanda of the Ramayana. According to the piece under the headline Kusudu in Telugu, Sita gave birth to only Lava in Valmiki’s hermitage and that Kusa is a figurine made with dharba (grass) and brought to life by the sage. It stated that Valmiki did so as infant Lava, who was left at his care by Sita, as she went to take bath in a pond, was abducted by a monkey. But the monkey leaves Lava at the same pond from where Sita brings him back to the ashram. Valmiki explains the reason for the lookalike child to Sita, who since then adopts Kusa as Lava’s twin, says the article written by a ninth standard boy from Tirupati, attributing the story to the Janapadas. The tale in the magazine’s April 2020 edition contradicting the popular Ramayana narrative has incensed some Hindu groups. The BJP has held a protest on Tuesday in Tirupati demanding the sacking of the publication’s editors, “for publishing such a sacrilegious story written by a kid without proper verification.” “The distorted article making mockery of our great itihasa has hurt the Hindu sentiments. The TTD, as a body governing the revered Tirupati temple, should act sternly so that such blasphemous content does not appear again,” Bhanuprakash Reddy, former member of TTD Board of Trustees and secretary, Andhra Pradesh BJP tells DH. Following the uproar, TTD officials removed the April’s online version of Sapthagiri and stopped the distribution of hard copies priced at Rs 5. The monthly magazine is a pictorial compilation of excerpts from Hindu religious texts, description of Tirumala temple activities and other Hindu spiritual writings brought out in Telugu, Kannada, Tamil, English and Sanskrit. According to TTD sources, the chief editor K Radharamana was questioned by senior officials over selection of the article. An enquiry is on. The controversial article appears at a time when Sapthagiri editors are commemorating the publication’s 50 years. The TTD was in news lately for its contentious decision to auction the devotee donated properties to increase the temple revenues.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/school-boys-divergent-version-of-uttara-ramayana-in-ttds-publication-irks-bjp-844854.html
02-06-2020||South||Man leaps in front of Telangana CM Chandrasekhar Rao's convoy, taken into custody||A 27-year-old man gave tense moments to authorities by barging in front of Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao's convoy while he was returning after paying homage to the Telangana martyrs on the state formation day here on Tuesday, but security personnel immediately took him into custody. The incident happened while Rao was returning after paying homage at the 'Telangana martyrs memorial' in front of the state legislature buildings to those who sacrificed their life for the cause of separate Telangana, police said. Heavy security arrangements were made near the area and the man initially told police personnel that he is an employee of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and stood there after showing an employee ID card, they said. After seeing the Chief Minister's convoy, he suddenly moved and fell in front of it taking the police personnel by surprise and creating security scare for few moments,but security personnel immediately took him into custody and the convoy proceeded. During questioning the man revealed that he is a native of Nalgonda district and working as a driver of the Disaster Response Force of the civic body on outsourcing basis, a senior police official told PTI. The man had grievances on allotment of a house under a state government scheme and may have resorted to this act to get the Chief Minister's attention in the hope of resolving the issue, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-leaps-in-front-of-telangana-cm-chandrasekhar-raos-convoy-taken-into-custody-844857.html
02-06-2020||South||Abusive trolls target teachers,Kerala police registers case||A day after virtual classes began in Kerala signalling a new academic year amid the COVID-19 pandemic, cyber trolls targeted teachers who had taken online classes for the students, prompting police to book a case on Tuesday. Police sources said they have traced three people from Malappuram, Alappuzha and Kannur, who were among those who had put out the troll pages, and their admin. All are juveniles. Details are being collected from the admin, sources said. The case was registered on the basis of a complaintforwarded to ADGP Manoj Abraham by Kerala Infrastructure and Technologyfor Education (KITE) CEO Anwar Sadat. The teachers were attacked and insulted thoughposts in Facebook, Youtube, WhatsApp, following which the complaint was filed. Heath Minister K K Shailaja said those insulting the teachers taking online classes would be dealt with sternly. Meanwhile, the state Women's Commission and the state Youth Commission have also on its own registered cases against those who used the social media platform to attack the teachers. Women's Commission member Shahida Kamal has also sought a report from the state police. The Kerala government had begun online classes for school and college students from June 1 as re-opening of educational institutions, closed due to the COVID-19 lockdown, would commence only by the month end. The online sessions, which began on a trial basis, were telecast through Victers channel, under the State General Education Department, for classes one to 12 from 8.30 AM to 5.30 PM on weekdays and on the online mode and can be viewed by students on television sets or smart phone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/abusive-trolls-target-teacherskerala-police-registers-case-844900.html
02-06-2020||South||Following state's go ahead, Tirupati temple to open from Monday||With the Jaganmohan Reddy government permitting the resumption of darshans, the TTD is planning to open the Tirupati temple for pilgrimage with safety and social distancing in place, starting next week. However, as reported by DH earlier, only the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams employees and local Tirumala population would be allowed for darshan for the first few days under a pilot beginning on June 8. “This helps us arrive at a secure mechanism of pilgrim management,” one official said.   In a communication to TTD on Monday, JSV Prasad, special chief secretary, revenue (endowments) stated that permission as accorded for a trial run for the TTD employees and local public of Tirumala, “with limited number of people duly ensuring physical distance of six feet between persons at all times and at all points.” The memo, the senior official stated, is issued with the concurrence of the state’s health department. In relaxation of the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions, the central government has now allowed the states to open religious places like the temples, mosques, churches from June 8. TTD officials had on May 12 written to the state government to allow them conduct limited darshans at the temple on an experimental basis. The celebrated Hindu temple had been closed since March 20 due to the rise in the virus cases across the country. The temple used to attract about 75,000 pilgrims, on average, daily. Nevertheless, officials are now preparing to limit pilgrim entry into the temple to around 300 per hour to maintain a six feet distance. The number is a major drop from the about 4000 pilgrims per hour earlier. The TTD is understood to be devising a strategy wherein every pilgrim wanting to visit Tirumala temple has to have a prior approval from the authorities. “A devotee coming by public transport or his own vehicle would be allowed past the Alipiri check point when he produces the authorization chit,” a temple official told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/following-states-go-ahead-tirupati-temple-to-open-from-monday-844907.html
02-06-2020||South||Formation Day celebrations sombre as COVID-19 cases surge in Telangana state||People and public representatives in Telangana commemorated the state’s sixth anniversary on Tuesday on a subdued note, as the COVID-19 cases continue to surge, especially in Hyderabad. The state was formed on June 2, 2014, after a protracted statehood movement spanning over five decades. The formation of K Chandrasekhar Rao headed Telangana Rashtra Samithi in 2001 was a landmark political event in the renewed agitation for separation from Andhra Pradesh. Rao, the first chief minister of Telangana who retained the position in December 2018, paid homage at the Telangana martyr’s memorial at the Gun Park, in front of the state assembly in Hyderabad. He later unfurled the national flag at the Pragathi Bhavan, the CM’s official office cum residence.    Rao thanked the President, Vice President, the Prime Minister, Union Home Minister, and other prominent leaders for conveying their best wishes on the Telangana State formation Day. “On behalf of people in the State and on my personal behalf I thank you all for wishing for the State’s progress,” the CM stated. Telangana has now become the top state in terms of paddy procurement across the country, thanks to a chain of irrigation projects developed utilizing the Godavari waters. The state has also made an 18 percent growth in IT exports in 2019-20. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has put brakes on further strides.   Daily new infections which thinned down to single digits earlier are being reported in alarming three-digit numbers lately. After the record 199 cases of Sunday, the state has on Monday added another 94 cases. Tuesday's fresh cases were 99 taking overall tally to 2891. Hyderabad continues to be the virus epi-centre of the state. On Tuesday, 12 postgraduate medicine students in the Osmania Medical College hostels are reported to have tested positive, out of the over 290 students there being screened. The state has till Monday night reported 92 COVID-19 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/formation-day-celebrations-sombre-as-covid-19-cases-surge-in-telangana-state-844915.html
02-06-2020||South||Pregnant elephant killed while eating a cracker-packed fruit in Kerala forest area||In a gruesome incident, a pregnant wild elephant was killed after it was fed a cracker-packed fruit in the forest area of Mannarkkad bordering Palakkad and Malappuram districts. Farmers are suspected to have placed the crackers in fruits to get rid of wild animals that are destroying crops. According to forest department sources, the elephant, aged around 15, was spotted in distress on May 27. Though attempts were made to rescue the animal, the elephant died. Veterinary doctors who performed the autopsy found the fetus. It is suspected that the explosion took place in the elephant's mouth while she was consuming a pineapple laced with crackers. A senior official at Silent Valley National Park in Palakkad said that though the elephant belonged to the region, the incident took place in Mannarkkad. Hence, a case was registered there and an investigation was launched. Surveillance in the forest areas was also enhanced to curb the practice of using crackers to snare wild animals destroying crops. Sources said that such brutal incidents were the outcome of man-animal conflict in the region. From 2015-2019, as many as 514 human lives were lost and 23 wild animals were killed in Kerala's man-animal conflict. The Kerala government has been putting in place various measures, including setting up trenches, establishing geo-fencing as well as putting agave fencing and palmyrah fencing to prevent such incidents.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pregnant-elephant-killed-while-eating-a-cracker-packed-fruit-in-kerala-forest-area-844921.html
02-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka lockdown: KSRTC to run services till 9 pm||In view of the increasing demand, the KSRTC has extended its services by two hours with the last buses departing at 9 pm instead of 7 pm. The KSRTC has increased number of services steadily over the last few days as more number of people are getting on board the buses for inter-district travel. “We had planned to operate 3,500 buses on Monday and ended up plying an additional 100 buses,” a senior official said, adding that the demand has increased sharply over the last week.  Officials, however, said no decision has been taken on resuming inter-state travel. Running buses to neighbouring states require coordination between the governments and also at the border, which needs time, they said, adding that a decision will be made soon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-lockdown-ksrtc-to-run-services-till-9-pm-844537.html
02-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM asks top district officials to work from taluks to check COVID-19 spread||Yediyurappa held a videoconference with DCs, ZP CEOs and SPs of Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Udupi, Yadgir, Raichur and Belagavi districts that have seen spike in cases. Asking DCs, ZP CEOs and SPs to divide taluks of respective district among themselves and camp there to supervise the control of COVID-19 from there, the Chief Minister said all precautions should be ensured before easing the lockdown restrictions on June 8 and the guidelines issued by the central government has to be followed. Pointing out that COVID-19 cases were increasing in the state because of returnees from Maharashtra, he asked officials to take all necessary measures to check it, his office said in a release. Instructing district administrations to be vigilant about those under home quarantine, Yediyurappa said, police department should appoint a constable near the house of those under home quarantine, also at gram pancyat level task force has to be constituted for surveillance.  Noting that booth level teams should be asked to submit reports regarding this on a daily basis, he said, adding "at every village and ward (in cities) vigilance committees have to be set up and they have to work efficiently. If home quarantine is violated FIR has to be registered." Asking border districts to be extra vigilant at the borders aimed at controlling unauthorized entries in to the state, Yediyurappa said, bodies should not be allowed to be brought into the state at any cost. He also instructed to conduct the SSLC (class 10) and PUC (class 12) that have been scheduled later this month smoothly. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Revenue Minister R Ashoka, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar among others were present at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-asks-top-district-officials-to-work-from-taluks-to-check-covid-19-spread-844722.html
02-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka education dept mulls reopening of schools in first week of July||Putting an end to the speculations on opening of schools across Karnataka, the education department is mulling to reopen the schools from the first week of July 2020 onward for the fresh academic year-2020-21. With the union ministry for Human Resources Development (HRD) directing the state governments to take appropriate decision on the issue, the state department of public instructions has ordered to conduct survey to garner the opinion of parents, teachers, students and school managements. Sources in the education department revealed to DH that the survey to elicit opinion from the stake holders will be conducted from June 10 to June 12 at all the block levels. Officials at the districts have been directed to hold consultation with parents, teachers, students and school management representatives and submit the same to the department. Commenting on the issue, Primary Education minister S Suresh Kumar said, “We have decided to conduct consultation at school level to reopen the schools in a phased manner.” In its guidelines to the state governments a few days ago, HRD ministry had said, “States may hold consultation at the institution level with parents and other stakeholders.” The minister further added, “Based on the feedback that we get, a decision on reopening of the schools will be taken in the month of July 2020.” Headmasters of schools have been given the task to hold consultation at the schools level, according to officials. The consultation will deliberate upon the possible dates for reopening of schools, plans to enforce social distancing rule within the classroom ambiance and other safety measures that can be put in place on the school premises to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-education-dept-mulls-reopening-of-schools-in-first-week-of-july-844757.html
02-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka permits fresh brewing of beer and its sale at microbreweries as takeaway||With easing of COVID-19 lockdown curbs, the Karnataka excise department has accorded permission for fresh brewing or production of beer and to sell it in microbreweries as takeaways. "Permission is hereby accorded to microbreweries for fresh brewing/production and sale of beer as takeaway in glass, ceramic or stainless steel container (up to 2 litre) till 30-06-2020, or until further orders, whichever is earlier," the Excise Commissioner in a letter dated June 1 to Deputy Excise Commissioners of all districts said. The opening and closing hours of the microbreweries shall be from 9 am to 9 pm, it said, adding that all other conditions as laid down will remain unaltered. Earlier, in a letter dated May 12, the Excise Commissioner had "conditionally" granted permission for microbreweries to sell their beer stock as takeaway on experimental basis for the period from May 14 to June 30 or until exhaustion of existing beer stock, whichever is earlier. It had called for measures like social distancing, cleanliness, usage of masks and sanitizers, among others, and had said, microbreweries situated in containment zones are not allowed to function.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-permits-fresh-brewing-of-beer-and-its-sale-at-microbreweries-as-takeaway-844783.html
02-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Graveyard guard, who donated plasma, face harassment from society||A 64-year-old (P-363) graveyard guard at Thoravi Hakkala Kabristan in Old Hubballi, over the last 12 years, has laid to rest many. However, on Tuesday there was no end to his joy as he gave a second lease of life to a COVID-19 patient (P-2710) at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi. P-363 (name withheld as per the guidelines), with no travel history, contracted the virus after coming in contact with a positive patient who visited the graveyard. In spite of co-operating with the administration and recovering from the disease, he and his family continue to face discrimination and harassment from the society. His nephew lost his job at a private company as he too was a primary contact of P-363 and was institutionally quarantined. P-363, who tested positive for COVID-19 on April 18 and was discharged on May 8, became the first person to donate plasma at KIMS, the first institute of North Karnataka to get PLACID trial approval from the ICMR. Though there was one other patient eligible to donate plasma, he backed off stating it would affect his fertility! After being convinced by a noted surgeon and philanthropist Dr K I Bijapuri, P-363 donated 400 ml of plasma which was administered to a 63-year-old lorry driver, who had a moderate infection in lungs. Speaking to DH P-363 said, “If humans do not help each other, then who will?” He said he is preparing his body to donate the second round of plasma after 15 days. “I am glad that I am able to help someone minimise his suffering,” he said. When asked about the harassment he and his family has been facing, he said people still look at us with suspicion. “They turn their backs towards me and avoid speaking. Many have stopped coming to the home,” he said and added that more than him, it was his nephew who has been facing discrimination and harassment. “Because he was in institutional quarantine, he has been terminated from service,” P-363 said. Creating awareness P-363, who thanked KIMS doctors for treating him, also had a word of praise for the doctors, especially Dr Sachin Hosakatti, who has been visiting him and creating awareness among his neighbours against discrimination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/graveyard-guard-who-donated-plasma-face-harassment-from-society-844817.html
02-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lockdown: Liquor sale in Karnataka now allowed till 9 pm||Liquor outlets in Karnataka will remain open from 9 am to 9 pm and microbreweries will be allowed to brew fresh beer, according to a fresh set of orders issued by Excise department. Bars and restaurants were also allowed to procure stock for sale of liquor, subject to existing conditions related to the lockdown. The orders were after the Ministry of Home Affairs relaxed curfew timings from 9 pm to 5 am, under the guidelines issued for the three-phased lifting of the lockdown. Earlier, in an order issued in the first week of May - when liquor sales resumed more than a month after the lockdown - the Excise department restricted the sale of liquor from 9 am to 7 pm. Bars and restaurants which were allowed to sell existing stock of liquor at MRP prices from May 18, can now procure new stock.  Similarly, the department permitted "fresh brewing/production and sale of Beer as take-away," stating that all other conditions in previous orders allowing liquor sale in Karnataka will remain unaltered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lockdown-liquor-sale-in-karnataka-now-allowed-till-9-pm-844874.html
02-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 prompts CM B S Yediyurappa to push for paperless offices||In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has decided that his office will receive files and letters in a paperless ecosystem under ‘e-office’. He has asked all his Cabinet colleagues to follow suit.  Under the ‘e-office’ initiative, all files are scanned and uploaded onto the system for further transactions. Besides saving reams of paper, the ‘e-office’ cuts manual movement of files and ensures speedy clearances as their status can be tracked online.  The Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) has already implemented the ‘e-office’ since November 1, 2019, and all outgoing files to various departments are paperless. “With the coronavirus cases increasing day by day, all files and letters should come to my office via ‘e-office’ only and not in their physical form. Also, all ministers are to take action towards implementing the ‘e-office’ technology in their offices to handle all files and letters,” Yediyurappa said in a note to all ministers and the chief secretary.  Yediyurappa also pointed out that the ‘e-office’ technology came into effect in the offices of all heads of departments (secretaries), regional commissioners, deputy commissioners, zilla panchayats, police superintendents and deputy conservators of the forest from January 1, 2020.   According to an internal note by the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR), the ‘e-office’ is a Government of India project and 80% of the secretariat’s work is taking place under this.  The note also lays down the process to be followed under ‘e-office’ at the offices of ministers. All letters that are submitted must be scanned and uploaded after they are received by the minister or the personal secretary. The system generates a number that must be recorded on the physical letter that is to be kept in the office and only the virtual letter should be sent to the department concerned.  A similar procedure is to be followed with official files. Ministers can write notes (tippani) on paper, which will be uploaded into the system.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-prompts-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-push-for-paperless-offices-844884.html
02-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Friends boycott plasma-donating graveyard guard, nephew loses job||By profession, this 64-year-old (P-363) is a guard at Thoravi Hakkala Kabristan in Old Hubballi. Over the last 12 years, he has laid to rest many. However, on Tuesday there was no end to his joy as he gave a second lease of life to a Covid-19 patient (P-2710) at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi. P-363 (name withheld as per guidelines), with no travel history, contracted the virus after coming in contact with a positive patient who visited the graveyard. In spite of co-operating with the administration and recovering from the disease, he and his family continue to face discrimination and harassment from society. His nephew lost his job at a private company as he too was a primary contact of P-363 and was institutionally quarantined. P-363, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 18 and was discharged on May 8, became the first person to donate plasma at KIMS, the first institute of North Karnataka to get Covid-19 PLACID trial approval from the ICMR. Though there was one other patient eligible to donate plasma, he backed off saying it would affect his fertility. After being convinced by noted surgeon Dr K I Bijapuri that donating plasma was harmless, P-363 donated 400 ml of plasma which was administered to a 64-year-old lorry driver, who was suffering from a moderate infection in the lungs due to Covid-19.  Speaking to DH P-363 said, “if humans do not help each other, then who will?” He said he is preparing his body to donate the second round of plasma after 15 days. “I am glad that I am able to help someone minimise his suffering,” he said. When asked about the harassment he and his family has been facing, he said people still look at us with suspicion. “They turn their backs on me and avoid speaking to me. Many have stopped coming home,” he said. More than him it was his nephew who has been facing discrimination and harassment, P-363 said. “Because he was in institutional quarantine, he has been terminated from service,” P-363 said. P-363, who thanked KIMS doctors for curing him, also had a word of praise for the doctors, especially Dr Sachin Hosakatti, who have been visiting him and creating awareness among his neighbours against discrimination.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/friends-boycott-plasma-donating-graveyard-guard-nephew-loses-job-844889.html
02-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Maharashtra spike: CM B S Yediyurappa takes stock of COVID-19 in seven districts||With Maharashtra returnees turning COVID-19 positive in large numbers, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Tuesday put seven districts in the state on guard, asking authorities to intensify home quarantine measures.  Yediyurappa held talks with officials from Kalaburagi, Vijayapura, Yadgir, Bidar, Raichur, Belagavi and Udupi districts.  The problem with Maharashtra returnees is so severe that the government might increase the institutional quarantine period for those coming from this state, Revenue Minister R Ashoka said. Currently, those coming to Karnataka from Maharashtra have to undergo a seven-day institutional quarantine, followed by a seven-day home quarantine. "Maharashtra is the biggest problem for us. Some 15,000-20,000 people have come into each district from Maharashtra and another 2,000 are going to come to each district,” Ashoka told reporters.  "In Udupi, especially, we have seen 210 positive cases and all of them are from Mumbai or Pune. Clearly, the seven-day quarantine is not enough. So, it was decided that the institutional quarantine period for those from Maharashtra should be increased,” Ashoka said.  Yediyurappa directed authorities to ensure strict home quarantining and asked the police to deploy constables outside such homes. He also said task forces at the gram panchayat level should monitor this and booth-level teams should submit daily reports.  The chief minister also asked deputy commissioners to camp at taluks to supervise Covid-19 containment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/maharashtra-spike-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-takes-stock-of-covid-19-in-seven-districts-844890.html
02-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Karnataka records massive single-day spike with 388 cases||Karnataka recorded a whopping 388 Covid-19 positive on Tuesday — the highest single-day spike in the state. Udupi alone reported as many as 150 cases with a total of 410 cases in the district. The surge on Tuesday took the total positive cases to 3,796. Karnataka has been witnessing a surge in the number of cases ever since the lockdown was relaxed. Of the 388 cases, 367 had inter-state travel history, with 355 arriving from Maharashtra. With Udupi seeing a flood of returnees and a majority of them testing positive, the district jumped to the top spot from the fourth place in the state.  Sources in the Health and Family Welfare department revealed to DH that as many as 7,000 people had come to Udupi from Maharashtra and all of them were kept in institutional quarantine and have begun to test positive. Surprisingly, returnees who have cleared the institutional quarantine phase have also tested positive. G Jagadish, Deputy Commissioner, Udupi, said, “All the 150 cases had returned to the district from Maharashtra. People need not panic about the sudden surge in the number of cases. All these days, we were getting test reports of 200 to 300 people and there were fewer positive cases. Today, since we got reports of 2,000 people, the numbers have gone up.” The reports of 5,846 people whose samples were sent for testing are awaited, suggesting a bigger spike in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-karnataka-records-massive-single-day-spike-with-388-cases-844945.html
02-06-2020||West||COVID-19 patient missing from KEM Hospital in Mumbai since May 19: Victim's family||A 70-year-old COVID-19 patient, who was admitted to the civic-run King Edward Memorial Hospital in Mumbai, has been missing since May 19, his family claimed on Monday. The patient's son-in-law told PTI they tried pursuing the matter with the Parel-based King Edward Memorial Hospital (KEM) and police, but the man has not yet been found. They also filed a missing person's complaint at Bhoiwada police station on May 25, but there has been no success so far, he said. "Due to fever and weakness, we had admitted him at KEM Hospital on May 14. Two days later, on May 16, the hospital informed us that he tested positive for coronavirus," he said. He was shifted to KEM Hospital's ward no. 20 from where he went missing on May 19, the son-in-law said. After being unable to trace the patient, his son-in- law approached former BJP MP Kirit Somaiya. Somaiya said he has taken up the matter with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), police and Parel- based King Edward Memorial Hospital (KEM), after the patient's family members pursued it up with authorities in vain. According to a tweet posted by Somaiya, the patient, a resident of Lalbaug area, was admitted at KEM Hospital on May 14. But after his condition deteriorated, he was shifted to the ICU and put on ventilator support on May 18. "On (May) 19 Hospital inform Family Patient is Not Traceable. Family pursuing with KEM & Police for 10 days in vain. I took up matter with BMC & Police & KEM," the BJP leader said in his tweet. KEM's Dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh did not respond to queries in the matter. KEM is one of the major civic-run hospitals in the city having treatment facilities for both COVID-19 and non- coronavirus patients. Last Tuesday, the death of a health worker at the KEM Hospital triggered a protest by its employees, who alleged apathy by the BMC towards their working conditions during the coronavirus crisis. In view of the rising number of deaths of COVID-19 patients, slots in the KEM Hospital's mortuary are full and bodies of several victims keep lying in the corridor of the medical facility, a union leader of the hospital staff later said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-patient-missing-from-kem-hospital-in-mumbai-since-may-19-victims-family-844557.html
02-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Father-son use lockdown time to solve water woes||Even as people are trying to find different ways to overcome boredom during the lockdown, a father-son duo from a village in Maharashtra decided to utilise the time to dig a well to solve the problem of water scarcity in their area. As if the nature was also happy and decided to support them in their endeavour, the duo succeeded in finding water after digging to a depth of about 16 feet in the ground. The family, residing in Mulzara village of Nanded district, is now overjoyed to have water available for their needs anytime they want. Siddharth Devake said the idea to do something constructive struck him after his job as an auto-rickshaw driver came to a halt due to the lockdown.  He also used to work with a local band, but following restrictions on movement to contain the spread of COVID-19, his both sources of income dried up. To add to their woes, they were also facing water shortage and had to walk to a source located at some distance in the village to fetch water for their daily needs. Devake then got the idea to use the lockdown time to dig a well in the premises of their residence. "Due to the lockdown, there were no customers for my auto-rickshaw service. The local band with which I used to work also ran out of business and we faced losses. My son and I got fed up of just sitting at home and hence, we decided to dig a well to solve the water problem," he said. While Devake used to dig the ground, his teenaged son Pankaj would go down in the pit to clear up the mud. "I used to fill mud in a bucket and my father pulled it up. We went like this 16 feet down and now we have water here," the son said. Devake said both of them worked on the project for three to four days and were able to create a water source in their own residential premises. "Now, my children can fetch water from the well whenever they need," he said happily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-father-son-use-lockdown-time-to-solve-water-woes-844615.html
02-06-2020||West||Cyclone Nisarga will be first big cyclone to hit Mumbai||When Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall, it would perhaps be the first time in recent history that a cyclone would hit Mumbai. The cyclone is expected to make a landfall in Maharashtra's coastal Konkan region, particularly the Palghar district, that comes under the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). According to IMD records, in the last over a century's time, Mumbai and its suburbs, have not experienced such a cyclone. "In the recent past there has not been any record of a big cyclone like this," said Dr VK Rajeev, former director of IMD-Mumbai. If one surfs the Internet, one gets umpteen references to Great  Bombay Cyclone of 1882, but research had found it to be "hoax" or "fictitious",  if one goes by a study conducted by  Colombia University, New York,  Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Massachusetts, and Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune. In November 2009, Cyclone Phyan had hit the Maharashtra coast during when Mumbai experienced heavy rainfall but no major damage was reported in India's commercial capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-nisarga-will-be-first-big-cyclone-to-hit-mumbai-844633.html
02-06-2020||West||Mumbai braces for cyclone Nisarga likely to hit on June 3||Massive preparations and coordination meetings are underway in the Mumbai metropolitan region with India's financial capital hours away from its worst-ever cyclonic impact.The Cyclone Nisarga is expected to make landfall on Wednesday with wind speed over 105 to 110 kmph. The Arabian Sea is expected to be very choppy. This could well be the worst cyclone in Mumbai's documented history. Based on the forecast of IMD's Mumbai-based Regional Meteorological Centre, the Maharashtra government has sounded an alert in the coastal Konkan districts of Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg. The Cyclone Nisarga is expected to make landfall in Palghar, located 60 km off downtown Mumbai. A 24-hour control room has been set up at Mantralaya, the state secretariat, for coordination with various rescue and relief agencies and the Army, Navy and Air Force.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will chair a meeting of the Cabinet on Tuesday during which the overall COVID-19 situation and the cyclone preparations would be reviewed. On Monday, Thackeray had briefed Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The Konkan belt districts have asked fishermen, who are deep in the sea, to return as soon as possible and regular radio messages are being passed on to them. The government has also asked the district administration to evacuate people staying in kutcha houses in coastal areas. A red alert has been sounded in 5 MMR districts that include Mumbai City, Mumbai Suburban, Palghar, Thane and Raigad. The Palghar Collector's office has asked shops and industrial establishments to be shut on Wednesday. The Palghar district touches the coast and border of Gujarat, the neighbouring state that too is going to be hit by the cyclone. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport has been asked to allow all cyclone-related SOPs and drills. A dozen teams of NDRF had been kept on standby in the MMR. Indian Coast Guard aircraft and ships are relaying warnings to fishing boats and merchant vessels||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-braces-for-cyclone-nisarga-likely-to-hit-on-june-3-844674.html
02-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Aurangabad records 55 new COVID-19 cases; tally at 1,642||At least 55 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district on Tuesday, taking the count in the region to 1,642, a district official said. Swab reports of 55 suspected patients from the district came out positive on Tuesday morning, the official said. Of the 1,642 coronavirus cases reported in the district so far, 1,049 patients have recovered from the infection and 79 have died of it, he said. At present, 514 persons were undergoing treatment for the deadly infection at different hospitals in the district, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-aurangabad-records-55-new-covid-19-cases-tally-at-1642-844707.html
02-06-2020||West||Gujarat: Ahead of Cyclone Nisarga, 20,000 people to be evacuated||With Gujarat bracing for the approaching cyclonic storm 'Nisarga', the Valsad and Navsari district administrations have started evacuating nearly 20,000 people from 47 villages located close to the state coastline, officials said on Tuesday. Besides, in a relief to people living near the shore, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday indicated the cyclone may not make a landfall on the Gujarat coast. However, it will have an impact in the form of gusty winds coupled with heavy rainfall in the coastal belt, state MeT centre director Jayanta Sarkar said. As a precautionary measure, the district administrations of Valsad and Navsari have started shifting people living near the coast to safer places. In all, nearly 20,000 people will be shifted from both the districts. "We have deployed our teams to shift nearly 10,000 people living in 35 coastal villages. We have already identified shelter homes and started the evacuation process," Valsad Collector R R Raval said. In adjoining Navsari district also, the administration has initiated the process of shifting some 10,200 people from 12 villages, Collector Ardra Agarwal said. As per an IMD release, the deep depression over east- central Arabian Sea is currently around 670 km from Surat and it may intensify into a cclonic storm in next six hours. In the subsequent 12 hours, it will turn into a severe cyclonic storm and "cross north Maharashtra and adjoining south Gujarat coast between Harihareshwar and Daman, close to Alibaug of Maharashtra during the afternoon of June 3, with a maximum sustained wind speed of 100 to 110 kmph," it said. "As per the present predictions, the cyclone will make a landfall near Alibaug, that is in between north Maharashtra and south Gujarat. Though the cyclone will not cross south Gujarat, it will leave its impact in the form of gusty winds and heavy rainfall in south Gujarat," said Sarkar. As many as 14 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in the coastal region. Five more teams will be airlifted from other states and reach here soon, a statement by NDRF said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-ahead-of-cyclone-nisarga-20000-people-to-be-evacuated-844717.html
02-06-2020||West||Out on parole, Maharashtra prisoner tests COVID-19 positive||A 30-year-old prisoner, who was out on parole from Thane Central Jail, has tested positive for COVID-19 in Maharashtra's Palghar district, an official said on Tuesday. Following his release on Saturday, the patient had travelled to his sister's place in Wada and later proceeded to Jawhar, where he was not allowed to enter his village without a COVID-19 test, Palghar district civil surgeon Dr Kanchan Wanere said. The patient was taken to a medical centre, where he tested positive for the deadly infection on Monday night, the official said. The health department has so far traced eight of his contacts, including the police constable who had travelled with him to Wada in a bus and his sister's family, she said. At least 888 cases of COVID-19 have been detected in Palghar district so far, of which 31 persons have succumbed to the infection, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/out-on-parole-maharashtra-prisoner-tests-covid-19-positive-844719.html
02-06-2020||West||33 teams deployed in Maharashtra, Gujarat in view of Cyclone Nisarga: NDRF DG||Thirty-three NDRF teams have been deployed in the coastal districts of Maharashtra and Gujarat in view of the impending Cyclone Nisarga, the chief of the federal contingency force said on Tuesday. In a video message, NDRF Director General (DG) S N Pradhan said, "Gujarat and Maharashtra have 11 and 10 teams respectively and they are being deployed in the coastal districts facing the Arabian Sea". On Gujarat's request, five more teams are being airlifted to the state from Punjab, he said. Gujarat will have a total of 17 NDRF teams, including two on standby, and neighbouring Maharashtra 16 teams, including six on standby, he said. "This will constitute a total of 33 teams in the two states," the officer said. An NDRF team has a strength of about 45 personnel and each unit is equipped with tree and pole cutters, communication gadgets, inflatable boats and a small basic medical unit. Pradhan said the teams on ground have begun the process of evacuation and have launched an awareness drive among the locals. "Although this is not an extremely severe cyclone, all precautions are being taken with the basic principle in mind that while we expect the best, we must prepare for the worst," he said. Cyclonic storm 'Nisarga' is expected to hit Gujarat and Maharashtra on Wednesday. The Indian Meteorological Department had said that the cyclone is expected to cross north Maharashtra and south Gujarat coasts on June 3.  When the cyclone crosses the coast on the evening of June 3, it will have a speed of 105-110 kmph and heavy rains are also expected in south Gujarat and coastal Maharashtra, the IMD had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/33-teams-deployed-in-maharashtra-gujarat-in-view-of-cyclone-nisarga-ndrf-dg-844720.html
02-06-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Funds pour in for man who used wedding savings to feed poor||The gesture of a Pune-based auto- rickshaw driver to use the money saved for his wedding to feed migrant labourers has moved people across the country, many of whom have opened their purses to offer monetary help to him. In turn, Akshay Kothawale (30) is again using the monetary help he has received to provide food and ration kits to the needy and poor people here in Maharashtra. Talking to PTI, Kothawale said is grateful for the overwhelming support he has got and is encouraged to keep helping those whom he finds in need on Pune streets. Kothawale had saved Rs 2 lakh for his wedding, which was earlier scheduled on May 25 but got postponed due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. Pained to see poor people, specially migrant workers, facing hardships due to no work and no income, he along with some of his friends set up a kitchen with the money he had to prepare food, and also distributed it at several places here. In the midst of this, his father died last month, but the tragedy did not deter him and he continued with his initiative. After reading about Kothawale's gesture and his resolve to continue with food distribution, many people from across the country offered him monetary help. "I have received around Rs 6 lakh from people across the country. I am very grateful for the warm and kind gesture shown by people who, after reading about our initiative, came forward and lent a helping hand," he said. Kothawale said he will continue food distribution in several areas here with the money he has received. "With funds in hand, we have purchased essential grocery items from the wholesale market and along with the cooked food, we are planning to distribute ration kits to the needy families," he said. Besides, food distribution, Kothawale offers free rides in his auto-rickshaw to senior citizens and pregnant women who need to visit a doctor. He has also put up a loudspeaker on his auto-rickshaw through which he and his friends have been creating awareness among people about COVID-19 and how to stay protected against it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-funds-pour-in-for-man-who-used-wedding-savings-to-feed-poor-844743.html
02-06-2020||West||'Maharashtra to use drones to spray insecticides on locust swarms'||The Maharashtra government will soon start using drones to spray insecticides on swarms of locusts, Agriculture Minister Dada Bhuse said on Tuesday. Locust swarms are currently spotted in Bhetisurla near Sawangi village in Saoner taluka of Nagpur district where about 500 litres of insecticides had been sprayed, the minister told reporters, after attending a review meeting on upcoming Kharif crop season in the Nagpur division. He said drones will be used from Friday onwards for spraying of insecticides in the areas affected by locusts. Huge swarms of desert locusts had entered some areas under Nagpur division in Vidarbha region on May 25. Though not much damage was caused to Kharif crops, the flying pets devoured leaves of oranges and sweet limes, and damaged vegetables in some farms. The minister said directions have been given to departments of agriculture and revenue to asses the losses. Meanwhile, Bhuse also said that 32 lakh farmers had applied under the 'Mahatma Jyotiba Phule' crop loan waiver scheme, and the amount of Rs 12,000 crore has been deposited in the accounts of 19 lakh of 30 lakh eligible farmers before the lockdown came into force. He said a state-wide drive will be undertaken to bring more agriculturists, who were left out due to technical reasons like discrepancies in spellings etc, in the ambit of the 'Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana' once the lockdown ends. "We had brought these discrepancies to the notice of Union agriculture minister. The state government has decided to undertake a state-wide drive to correct these anomalies, once the lockdown is lifted," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-to-use-drones-to-spray-insecticides-on-locust-swarms-844805.html
02-06-2020||West||How prepared is Maharashtra to face Cyclone Nisarga?||Maharashtra has put in place several measures but keeping its fingers crossed as Cyclone Nisarga is hours away from hitting the coastal Konkan belt. If the cyclonic formation, currently around 400 kms deep in Arabian Sea,  goes as forecast by weathermen, it would be the worst-ever in documented history of Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). Cyclone Nisarga is expected to make a landfall in Alibaug, the district headquarters of Raigad, nearly 90 kms from downtown Mumbai, around Wednesday noon. It would pass through Palghar before heading towards neighbouring Gujarat state. According to Tuesday evening bulletins form IMD's Mumbai and Pune stations,  the "deep depression" is very likely to intensify into a "severe cyclonic storm".  It is very likely to move nearly northwards during next few hours, recurve north-northeastwards, thereafter, cross North Konkan and adjoining South Gujarat coast between Harihareshwar and Daman, close to Alibaug. A maximum sustained wind speed of 100-110 kmph gusting to 120 kmph, could be witnessed in the Mumbai-MMR. Since Monday,  the South Konkan region of Goa and twin districts of Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri has been receiving rainfall. At a Cabinet meeting, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray reviewed the overall COVID-19 pandemic scenario and the cyclone preparedness. Mumbai City district's guardian minister Aditya Thackeray and his Mumbai Suburban counterpart Aslam Sheikh held meetings with BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief and reviewed the emerging scenario in Mumbai, considering the fact that it is flood-prone and several slum clusters are in low-lying areas. A 24-hour control room has been set up at Mantralaya, the state secretariat,  for coordination with various rescue and relief agencies like NDRF and Indian Army, Indian Navy and Indian Air Force. More than a dozen companies of NDRF have been sent to the seven Konkan region districts. The Maharashtra government and IMD have asked fishermen, who are deep in the sea to return back as soon as possible - and regular radio messages are being passed onto them. Around 200-plus boats are still at sea,  when last reports came in. The government has also asked the district administration to evacuate people staying in kutcha houses on coastal areas. The Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport has been asked to allow all cyclone-related SOPs and drills.  The Mumbai Port Trust, the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust at Nhava Sheva in Raigad,  the Central Railway, Western Railway and Konkan Railway have scaled up level of alertness.Indian Coast Guard aircraft and ships are relaying warnings to fishing boats and merchant vessels. Cautionary signals have been hoisted in all the ports along the 760-kms-long coastline of Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/how-prepared-is-maharashtra-to-face-cyclone-nisarga-844827.html
02-06-2020||West||Decision on holding final year exams will be taken as per Universities Act: Maharashtra Governor to CM Uddhav Thackeray||Asserting that the Chancellor of Universities has the final authority over all University matters as per the provisions of Maharashtra Public Universities Act, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Tuesday conveyed to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that decision regarding holding of the examinations of final year students ‘shall be taken in consonance with the provisions of the Act’. Describing the announcement of the cancellation of examinations by the Chief Minister as ‘unprecedented’ and made ‘without any profound thinking on the legal repercussions’, the Governor remarked that the decision, if implemented, would jeopardize the future of students. In a letter to the Chief Minister sent on 2nd June, the Governor said that he was ‘surprised’ to learn through media reports that the former had declared that ‘no examinations shall be conducted this year’, while he was still awaiting a response to his letter to the Chief Minister. The Governor wrote that even though the Committee of Vice-Chancellors constituted by the Minister for Higher and Technical Education to analyse the situation and to explore various options available to conduct the examinations had given its report to the Secretary, Higher and Technical Education Department on 6th May 2020, the same had not been presented to him till date. The Governor pointed out that during his video conference with Vice Chancellors, all the vice-chancellors of state universities had communicated their preparedness for conducting their respective examinations. The Governor stated that he had clearly mentioned that the Chancellor's office shall give further directions after accepting the recommendations of the Committee partially or fully once the report was received by him.“The arbitrary decision has violated the basic principle that to obtain an identical degree, there cannot be two sets of criteria, one who has given examination and for the other who has obtained marks on average. The examinations cannot be made optional”, wrote the Governor. Pointing out that the students of Medicine, Architecture, Law, etc needed to register themselves with their respective professional bodies/councils after completion of professional course so as to get their license to practice, the Governor stated that these bodies may not be able to register the students without them being evaluated on established parameters. The Governor noted that the Ministry of Home Affairs had given approval and issued guidelines to conduct examinations to various state boards and that CBSE and ICSE are in the process of conducting their examinations in spite of the COVID-19 situation. He said that if other Boards can conduct examinations for younger children, then the Universities can conduct their examinations as well. In his letter, the Governor has mentioned that the UGC and other central authorities are of the view that the final year examination may not be dispensed with and that therefore the State Government should abide by UGC guidelines along with the provisions of the Maharashtra Universities Act, 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/decision-on-holding-final-year-exams-will-be-taken-as-per-universities-act-maharashtra-governor-to-cm-uddhav-thackeray-844853.html
02-06-2020||West||Keep emergency kit ready, store water and dry food: Maharashtra CM||Ordering a complete shutdown on Wednesday and Thursday in the coastal Konkan belt, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday appealed citizens to keep a handy emergency kit ready.  According to him, Cyclone Nisarga, could be accompanied by heavy rains and there could be flooding as well.  "Keep an emergency kit ready, be ready for power outages, keep batteries charged,  keep power banks ready," Thackeray said in his webcast.  Besides, do not forget to keep water bottles and some dry food, he  said. "You must be prepared,  should an emergency evacuation is needed," the chief  minister said after a Cabinet meeting in which the situation was reviewed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/keep-emergency-kit-ready-store-water-and-dry-food-maharashtra-cm-844856.html
02-06-2020||West||COVID-19: 6 more test positive in Goa's first containment zone||Six COVID-19 cases were detected in Goa on Tuesday, all from Vasco's Mangor Hill area, which was declared a containment zone after two cases were reported a day earlier, an official said. Goa now has 79 COVID-19 case, though the number of active ones is 22 as 57 people have been discharged, including 13 on Tuesday, he added. Goa's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 79, new cases: six, deaths: nil, discharged: 57, active cases 22, Samples tested till date: 22,378.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-6-more-test-positive-in-goas-first-containment-zone-844866.html
02-06-2020||West||Gujarat COVID-19 cases up by 415 to 17,632; 29 more die||The count of coronavirus cases in Gujarat rose to 17,632 on Tuesday with the addition of 415 new infections, while the toll increased to 1,092 after 29 more patients died due to the infection, 24 of them in Ahmedabad alone, said the state health department. As many as 1,114 COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospitals on Tuesday, raising the number of recovered cases in the state to 11,894, it said here. With this, the state has 4,646 active cases, of which 62 are on ventilator, the department said. The government said there has been a significant drop in the number of active cases in the state, accounting for only 26.35 per cent of the total infections compared to 53.19 per cent two weeks ago. Ahmedabad accounted for 279 of the 415 new COVID-19 cases reported from across the state in the last 24 hours, raising the tally in the worst-hit district to 12,773, the department said. At the same time, as many as 1,019 patients were also discharged from Ahmedabad hospitals in a single day on Tuesday. Out of the 29 patients who died in the state on Tuesday, 24 succumbed in Ahmedabad alone, two in Aravalli, and one each in Surat, Mehsana and Junagadh districts, the department said. The number of coronavirus cases in Surat rose to 1,716 with 57 new cases, while in Vadodara, it increased to 1,106, with 32 fresh infections. Gandhinagar reported 15 new cases and Mehsana five, out of 17 districts that reported fresh infections, the health department said. Coronavirus tests have been conducted on 2,21,610 people so far in Gujarat, it said. A total 2,34,017 patients are under home quarantine in the state. Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 17,632, new cases 415, deaths 1,092, discharged 11,894, active cases 4,646, people tested so far 2,21,610.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-cases-up-by-415-to-17632-29-more-die-844931.html
02-06-2020||West||Stay alert, Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray tells people as Cyclone storm Nisarga nears||With cyclone Nisarga' expected to hit coastal Maharashtra, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday said it was likely to be more severe than cyclonic storms in the past, and asked people to stay alert. Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to him over phone about the impending storm and assured all necessary help from the Centre a day after Union Home Minister Amit Shah gave a similar assurance, he said in a televised address. All efforts were being made to ensure there was no loss of life due to the cyclone that was likely to make landfall near Alibag on Wednesday, he said, adding that the Army, Navy and Air Force were on stand-by. Thackeray also elaborated on `do's and don'ts' in the situation. "The cyclone could be more severe than the other storms....Tomorrow and the day after are crucial in coastal areas," he said. "Activities which had resumed (as part of easing of lockdown to contain coronavirus) will be kept shut there for the next two days in view of the cyclone....it is in our interest that people remain alert and inside their homes," the chief minister said. Fifteen teams of the National Disaster Response Force and four teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed in different coastal areas while five teams have been kept on standby, he said. "All the fishermen have been contacted. In Palghar, some fishermen were not reachable till afternoon, but were contacted later. We will bring them back in time. Nobody should venture into the sea for the next two days," he added. Power supply may be disconnected if it rains heavily, he said, and warned people against using electrical appliances when not needed. Important documents in home should be kept safe and battery-operated devices like mobile phones should be charged, he said. "Don't believe rumours and don't spread rumours. Follow the instructions aired by Doordarshan and Akashvaani," he said. People should cooperate with the administration and shift to safer places wherever necessary, Thackeray said, and informed that COVID-19 patients admitted at the field hospital in Mumbai's Bandra-Kurla Complex have been shifted to safer places. He also asked people not to take cover under makeshift or dilapidated structures. Safe distance should be maintained from gas cylinder or pipeline if there is a leakage, he said. "We are already fighting the novel coronavirus. Now nature too is testing us. But we will face the situation with full strength and come out of it safely," the chief minister assured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/stay-alert-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-tells-people-as-cyclone-storm-nisarga-nears-844938.html
