03-06-2020||Davangere||Woman dies of COVID-19 in Davangere||A 80-year old woman (P-3861) died of COVID-19 in the city on Wednesday. With this, the number of deaths rose to five.  The woman, resident of Jaalinagar, was admitted to the hospital on May 28 after she complained of fever, cough and respiratory disorders. She died on May 29. The throat swab of the woman was sent to lab for the test. The reports confirmed that she was infected by COVID-19. Besides, the district registered three COVID-19 cases on June 3. With this, the number of cases rose to 166. As many as 13 persons were discharged from the hospital.  The district has 27 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/davangere/woman-dies-of-covid-19-in-davangere-845282.html
03-06-2020||First Edit||Maharashtra police gag order untenable||The Mumbai police order which bans any kind of online hate on various social media platforms has more teeth than it appears to have. The order was issued under Section 144 CrPC last week and will be in force till June 8. It covers all social media platforms and ostensibly seeks to curb dissemination of incorrect and fake information and of derogatory and discriminatory content directed against any particular group. It also bans content “which causes panic and confusion among the people’’ and which ‘’incites mistrust against the government officials or their acts to prevent the spread of coronavirus.’’ The first two purposes of the order may be acceptable as reasonable and necessary to ensure that there is no attempt to weaken the fight against the coronavirus. It is also necessary to be vigilant against attempts to create confusion and panic, though there is likely to be scope for subjective judgement in this. But the ban on “incitement of mistrust against government officials’’ is wrong and liable to be misused by the authorities tasked with enforcing it.  The police have said that the order was issued to deal with the “animosity created in the state due to Covid-19 pandemic”. This, in effect, seeks to ban any criticism of the measures taken by the government to fight Covid-19. Maharashtra is the worst-affected state in the country and the government’s containment efforts have been criticised. There is no case to ban such criticism, and criticism is necessary in a democracy. There is even a demand from the opposition BJP for dismissal of the government and imposition of President’s rule in the state. Such criticism may be right or wrong, but the opposition has the right to make a scrutiny of the government’s measures and say that they are not adequate and effective. Such criticism can be interpreted under the order as “incitement of mistrust towards government functionaries…thereby causing danger to human health or safety or a disturbance to the public tranquility.” The order says action can be taken under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code on such a charge. This is untenable. The Bombay High Court has adjourned consideration of a petition against the order. But the order is considered to be illegal and beyond the scope of Section 144 and the powers of a magistrate. The Uddhav Thackeray government has claimed that it is only directed against disinformation on social media but the way it is formulated, it has a larger scope and can be used against all critics. It militates against freedom of expression.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/maharashtra-police-gag-order-untenable-844985.html
03-06-2020||First Edit||Yet another warning on the economy||Moody’s Investors Service’s downgrading of India’s long-term foreign currency and local currency ratings underlines a grim reading of not only the country’s stressed economic situation but also its ability to recover from the present situation. The credit rating agency has cut India’s position from Baa2 to Baa3, which is just above junk status, and has termed the outlook as negative. It had upgraded India’s rating in 2017 on the expectation that the economy would pick up, though the present slide had started even then. It had then said that the implementation of reforms would strengthen the country’s sovereign credit profile through improvement in economic, institutional and fiscal strength. It has now said that this has not happened. The ratings of some of India’s key financial institutions and corporates have also been downgraded by the agency after the sovereign rating downgrade.  It is important to note that the decision to downgrade India was not because of the Covid-19-induced lockdown and the resulting economic troubles. The lockdown only exacerbated the problems which had already built up. The agency has cited the deterioration in the country’s fiscal position, stress in the financial sector and the absence of policies to stimulate growth as grounds for its decision. They generally point to the failure of the government to arrest the economic slide and push up growth. The agency thinks that the situation may worsen in the coming months. Government finances will be badly hit by the lockdown, and government debt will rise from 72% of the GDP in 2019 to 84% in 2020. Poor growth will hurt the country’s ability to check the debt burden. The agency believes that an early recovery from the present position will be difficult. It is clear that it does not set much store by the reform measures which were recently announced and the declarations that recovery will be quick.  India remains investment grade even after the downgrade but that is cold comfort. It will be difficult for the government and companies in India to raise money abroad, or such money will become costlier in the wake of the downgrade. It will have a negative impact on perceptions about the country. There may be downgrades from other agencies. The decisions of credit rating agencies have often been criticised on various grounds, but it should be noted that they serve as the basis for decisions in the international capital market. So, Moody’s action should be taken as yet another warning about the economy and the challenges ahead.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/yet-another-warning-on-the-economy-845311.html
03-06-2020||In Perspective||Why India needs an equality law||Our true character is revealed not in times of comfort and abundance but in times of distress and adversity. The lockdown has shown how we respond to our people during our worst times. While we have seen a massive outpouring of relief and aid from private organisations, we are also witnessing that the ones discriminated the most by the State and private individuals in terms of access to food, shelter, healthcare and dignity have been the poor, migrant workers, transgender persons, sex workers and healthcare workers among others.  The government responses to the health pandemic are exposing the most vulnerable groups to discrimination.  The plight of migrant workers has been the most visible, due to the sheer numbers of them walking across the country crossing hundreds of kilometres on foot because of a total lack of access to food, livelihood or shelter. There are others who have not been so visible. The transgender community, mostly surviving on sex work and begging, has been struggling during the lockdown due to a complete absence of food, having no ration cards and hence unable to get food grains from the public distribution system, shorn of all their sources of livelihood due to the lockdown, no access to medicines for HIV/AIDS, unable to pay rents for their homes and also blamed for spreading the virus due to the stigma they face. This has even led to transgender persons committing suicide. The results of the lockdown have highlighted that our constitutional framework for equality is inadequate. Our constitutional fundamental right to equality under Article 14 and non-discrimination under Article 15 cannot come to our rescue during this time. Article 15 prohibits discrimination based on caste, race, sex, place of birth or religion but does not prohibit discriminatory treatment on the basis of so many other grounds that we are witnessing, such as migrant status, gender identity, occupation and socio-economic disadvantage.   Migrant workers are in a special situation during this time, with no livelihood and no income to enable them to buy food grains. Many are without shelter as they have been forced out of their housing due to industries closing. Most of them do not have ration cards or their ration cards are from other states making them invalid. Migrant status not only deserves protection from discrimination in the context of the lockdown, but in other contexts as well such as in schooling, where migrant children are the ones with least access to public education and most likely to drop out. Discrimination on the basis of one’s occupation is being faced most acutely by sex workers and trans persons who are without any means of livelihood due to the physical distancing norms. Sex workers and healthcare workers have been facing stigma and harassment for being carriers of the virus. In Pune, 22 members of staff of a multi-speciality hospital were forced to vacate their accommodation as they had treated a Covid-19-positive patient and were thought to be infected. Nurses working at Victoria Hospital in Bengaluru were evicted from their paying guest accommodations based on the perception that they are infected with the coronavirus.    We are also witnessing discrimination based on socio-economic disadvantage at a massive scale. ‘Socio-economic disadvantage’ can be elaborated to mean a status of social or economic disadvantage resulting from poverty, level or source of income, homelessness, place of residence, or family background. The poor and the homeless have been the worst affected in this lockdown. As Professor Sandra Fredman points out, recognising socio-economic disadvantage as a ground of discrimination will also bring tangible benefits for the ‘traditional’ discrimination grounds, as many of those who are disadvantaged are women, members of Schedule Castes and Schedule Tribes, religious minorities, transgender persons, persons with disabilities or members of other groups at risk of discrimination. At this time, we do not have in place an equality legislation that would provide a framework to address such stigma and discrimination and impose positive duties and obligations on governments and private actors to ensure that all their actions and measures are non-discriminatory. Constitutional protections would not cover discrimination by private persons such as landlords and housing societies. Article 15 would also not cover systemic or structural discrimination by the government’s policy, such as the absence of any measures for food security, travel or housing for migrant workers and the socio-economically disadvantaged during the lockdown.  We thus need a broad and overarching equality law to cover all these protected characteristics and also to have innovative remedies in place to address inequality. The UN Human Rights Council’s Universal Periodic Review of India in 2017 has overwhelmingly recommended that India needs to strengthen its national framework to reduce all kinds of discrimination and to promote and protect the human rights of all its citizens in an inclusive manner, to fulfil the Sustainable Development Goal 10 of reducing inequality and discrimination. It is high time that we start the conversation for an equality law that would include the protected characteristics of migrant status, gender identity, occupation and socio-economic disadvantage in addition to other protected characteristics of caste, religion, race, ethnicity, descent, colour, sex, sexual orientation, nationality, disability, among others. If the pandemic can push us to work on legislation that would aim to address the gross inequality we are witnessing, it would be a silver lining. (The writer is Executive Director, Centre for Law & Policy Research, Bengaluru and Senior Advocate practicing in the Supreme Court)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/why-india-needs-an-equality-law-844987.html
03-06-2020||In Perspective||Do we lose our basic rights because there is a pandemic?||The Government of India and various state governments have been taking or trying to take some drastic measures in order to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic and to mitigate the consequences of their own responses to the pandemic. The Centre mandated public sector and private sector employees to compulsorily download the controversial Aarogya Setu app, which was saddled with serious privacy concerns, but has since moderated its position. Several state governments have suspended labour laws for varying durations, which severely compromises the rights of workers. Quite brazenly, the Karnataka government tried to restrain migrant workers from going home in order to facilitate economic activities in the state. The Centre has suspended the MPLADS funds for 2020-21 and 2021-22, which will have repercussions on local development initiatives. The Kerala government sought to cut one month’s salary of its employees. In a circular which was subsequently withdrawn, the Tamil Nadu government asked 47 temples under the control of the state government to contribute to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. The central government wants to have total control over the reporting of Covid-19 by the media. While these measures correspond directly with the pandemic, the State has not stopped its usual assault on dissent. Many of these decisions have been unilateral, without any kind of consultative exercise across the political spectrum. Pressing concerns While many of the measures may appear temporary, the implications of these measures can linger for a long time and establish troubling precedents. The pandemic has likely changed the fundamental idea of a workplace. It has also required the world to re-evaluate how we interact with nature. In this context, we need to ask if this pandemic justifies a fundamental shift in the State-people relationship? To what extent does the State get to alter its relationship with people? To what extent are our basic rights up in the air because we are fighting a pandemic? Is there a legitimate explanation for an expansion of the State’s authority over its people? These questions are important because these measures might just well be the beginning. If the pandemic continues and a vaccine is not found or delayed, the State is likely to assert much greater authority than it already does. Fundamental task There is no doubt that the Covid-19 pandemic is unlike anything that any one of us have witnessed in our lifetimes. The closest parallel is with the Spanish flu of 1918. While the situation is unusual, the function that the State is expected to perform is not. Preserving the lives of its people is the most basic function that the State is required to perform. It is the first and the most non-negotiable aspect of any social contract theory through which the existence of the State is legitimised. Without the ability to protects its people, there is no reason for the State to exist and in order to protect its people, the State already has been vested with as much power as required. It does not need more power to do the most fundamental thing it was created to do. This does not mean that people won’t have to adjust to new restrictions. The nature of this pandemic means that keeping the world safe will require compromises in the exercise of our rights. However, such restraints are already conceptualised into the formulation of our rights. For example, the right to freedom of religion is subject to public order, morality and health. Freedom of movement can be restricted in the interest of the general public and for the protection of the interests of Scheduled Tribe. The right to equality does not disempower the State from implementing affirmative action in favour of marginalised communities. Even our right to life and liberty can be curtailed by laws that are just, fair and reasonable. Thus, the State already has sufficient modalities in its hands to formulate the adjustments which may be necessary to deal with the pandemic.    Trust and questions  While the State might prefer unquestioned loyalty and obedience to all that it does, the magnitude of the crisis means that we should be asking more questions, and not fewer. The pandemic has triggered a surge in public trust toward governments across the world. It has also been argued that public trust in the government allows countries to tackle the pandemic better. Both these things reflect the reality that the State is the only institution capable of dealing with such a huge crisis. However, there is a difference between reposing trust and reposing trust blindly. As people across the world are discovering, the pandemic has not stopped the abuse of power by leaders. The biggest crisis in a century is precisely the time when the State has to be more answerable than it ever has been. It should explain why it is not releasing meaningful data on testing. It needs to explain the lack of consultative process which has turned the lives of migrant workers into a hell. The central and state governments need to account for each of their decisions. The state must protect its people and it must do so without violating the terms of the social contract through which it was created. The Covid-19 pandemic demands that the State discharge its most fundamental obligation to the people -- preservation of life. In order to do that, it can’t ask us to choose between our rights and our lives. (The writer is faculty at National Law University Odisha and has recently completed his Fulbright Post-Doctoral Fellowship from Harvard Law School)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/do-we-lose-our-basic-rights-because-there-is-a-pandemic-845314.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Dakshina Kannada, Kasargod authorities issue SOP for daily commuters||Dakshina Kannada district administration has issued SOP (standard operating procedure) for interstate travel movement of daily commuters between Dakshina Kannada and Kasargod districts. The pass application should clearly mention origin and destination locations, the complete work address at DK. The applicant should also upload Aadhaar card, proof of workplace. On receipt of the applications, the AC of Mangaluru division will issue the pass which will be valid till June 30. The DC said that the pass details will be recorded at Talapady check post daily. Those who fail to report during the exit from Dakshina Kannada will be subjected to quarantine by the taluk administration and penal action will be initiated as per Epidemic Act, she warned. Thermal screening of all persons entering DK will be conducted at the checkpost. Only those who are asymptomatic will be allowed to enter. The DC clarified that all the guidelines regarding sevasindhu registration and quarantine conditions will continue for other categories of travellers coming into the district. The SOP and e-pass system is only for daily passes for those who are employed in Mangaluru. Similarly, Kasargod District Collector too has issued a SOP for those who wish to daily commute to Kasargod from Dakshina Kannada. Those who wish to commute have to register in COVID-19 Jagratha portal under the emergency pass category and the applicant has to mention the reason as “inter state travel on a daily basis." Following the rise in COVID-19 cases in Kasargod, the DK district administration had banned movement of all vehicles on Dakshina Kannada - Kerala border roads from March 21. As a large number of people from border areas commute daily between Kasargod and Mangaluru and vice versa for work purposes,the closure of the border had caused inconvenience for them. There was an increase in demand to issue daily pass for commuters who travel daily.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-dakshina-kannada-kasargod-authorities-issue-sop-for-daily-commuters-845134.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Kalaburagi reports over 100 coronavirus cases yet again||Migrant workers have left Kalaburagi district tattered as the district hit a century in a row by reporting 105 fresh COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday. The district recorded 100 cases on Tuesday also. 23 boys and 10 girls aged between one to 18 years are among those tested positive in the district. All the infected have Maharashtra link. Most of the cases being reported in the district are youths and middle people in the age group of 25 to 45. With fresh cases, total count of positive cases shot up to 510 including seven deaths. The district galloped to the first position in the chart of COVID-19 affected districts in the State. It can be mentioned that the country's first COVID-19 death was reported from Kalaburagi in March 10. The district has 375 active cases and 128 people have been discharged from the hospital upon recovery. Maharashtra returnees continue to give nightmare to Raichur district administration as well. A total of 35 positive cases were reported from the district. Among the fresh cases are five minor girls and three boys and eight women. They returned from Maharashtra. Total tally in the district went to 268 with 230 active cases. The district witnessed one COVID-19 death. Throat swab samples of nine Maharashtra returnees in Yadgir district returned positive, taking the tally to 299 including one death. The district had 271 active cases at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/kalaburagi-reports-over-100-coronavirus-cases-yet-again-845268.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 patient from Gadag dies at KIMS||Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences, Hubballi reported its first COVID-19 related death case on Tuesday evening. A 44-year-old priest from Lakkundi in Gadag district, with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI), died on Tuesday evening. However, his medical reports confirming him to be a COVID-19 positive arrived at Wednesday noon. According to sources in KIMS, he had symptoms for the last eight days. He fell ill after returning from a wedding engagement in Maski taluk of Raichur district some 20-days ago. He visited the Gadag District Hospital where he was treated at the OPD. Later, he was admitted at German Hospital in Gadag, where he received treatment for six days. As his condition worsened, he was refereed to Suchirayu Hospital in Hubballi. However, looking at his symptoms, the doctors at Suchirayu referred him to KIMS, the District COVID-19 Centre, on June 1. He had medical condition of diabetics and kidney related ailments. He died at 7:00 pm on Tuesday. In a press release, Gadag Deputy Commissioner M G Hiremath said, the deceased person’s final rites will be held as per the guidelines issued by the government. This is the second death related to COVID-19 to be reported from Gadag. Earlier, a 80-year-old woman (P-166) died on April 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-patient-from-gadag-dies-at-kims-845279.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||University of Mysore conducts exam for Chinese students||As the Chinese Embassy in India decided to evacuate Chinese students from India, the University of Mysore (UoM) is conducting examination for them, who are pursuing higher education at UoM. According to UoM vice-chancellor G Hemantha Kumar, the embassy has asked to complete the examination as it has decided to send the students back to China. As many as 80 Chinese students are appearing for the examination that commenced on June 1. The examination will conclude on June 6, the VC said. According to UoM Registrar R Shivappa, the varsity has a total of 120 Chinese students, but a few have already reached their country, before the outbreak of Covid-19. "We are conducting online examination for those in China," he said. Shivappa said, "The embassy had asked to complete the examination before June 8. But, the varsity will complete the exams on June 6. The embassy is coordinating with the students and has made special arrangements to ferry the students."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/university-of-mysore-conducts-exam-for-chinese-students-845294.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Widening works on Irwin Road recommences||Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has recommenced the widening works on Irwin Road in the city. The authorities blocked the road for demolition and construction activities on Wednesday. Following the lockdown, due to the outbreak of Covid-19 in March, the works were suspended. According to the authorities, demolition of a few building has been taken up and it will be completed within a few days. The authorities had identified 86 buildings, including one mosque, Kalamma temple, Panchamukhi Anjaneyaswami temple and others, for partial demolition to widen the road. An officer said, "95% demolition work was completed before the lockdown and only a small part is remaining. The civic body has settled the compensation amount. A total of Rs 30 crore has been given as compensation to land owners." The officer said that a part of Cauvery Emporium building, owned by the state government will also be demolished for the widening purpose." It has to be noted that the authorities have demolished a part of the City Central Library building and some private buildings. The widening works, which was pending since 20 years, commenced in December 2018 and the authorities had planned to take up the works during night time, to ensure that the works will not hamper vehicle movement. As per the detailed project report (DPR), Irwin Road, which was between nine and 11 metres wide, is planned to extend to 18 metres. The four-lane street will have box drain on either side, maiden and footpath. The City Traffic Police have diverted the traffic as the road is blocked. All KSRTC buses plying via Nehru Circle and Government Ayurveda Hospital will move via Pulikeshi Road and Sayyaji Rao Road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/widening-works-on-irwin-road-recommences-845296.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19 lab at Adichunchanagiri Medical College||Adichunchanagiri seer Nirmalanandanatha Swami inaugurated the new Covid-19 testing lab, established at a cost of Rs 1 crore, at Adichunchanagiri Institute of Medical Sciences, here, on Wednesday. The seer said, “The Covid-19 pandemic is being tackled well, by both Centre and state government, with the support of the people.” The mutt has established the quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) technology-based laboratory, a first of its kind in the state. The lab has a capacity to test around 500 samples per day. The people of the district can make use of the facility, he said. District In-charge Minister K C Narayana Gowda lauded the seer for responding to an appeal and setting up the lab in just 15 days. There will be no need to wait for two days, as the results would be available within 24 hours in the lab. The government is ready to bear the expenses, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-lab-at-adichunchanagiri-medical-college-845298.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||MM Hills: No darshan for Tamil Nadu devotees||Male Mahadeshwara Hill temple will be open for public from June 8, but the district administration and MM Hill Development Authority have decided not to allow devotees from Tamil Nadu. As the government has decided to open the temples and religious institutions across the state, MM Hill temple will open its doors, but with certain conditions. The preliminary meeting, chaired by Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, has taken a few decisions in this regard, as a precautionary measure. As the positive cases are on the rise in Tamil Nadu, devotees from TN will not get an opportunity to visit the hill shrine. They will be restricted on Tamil Nadu borders. The DC directed the officials concerned to follow all precautionary measures listed by the government to combat the spread of the virus. Only those wearing masks will be allowed to enter the temple. It is mandatory to maintain physical distance and use sanitiser before having darshan of the deity. Besides, those above 60 years and below 10 years are not allowed. There is no entry for those suffering from cold, fever and cough. The authority has decided not to hold any utsavas or fairs until further directions from the government. No special tickets will be issued for morning abhishekas, to prevent crowding. Thirtha and Naivedya will be stopped. However, sales of prasadas will continue. As devotees would use sanitisers, they are not allowed to touch arathi. They have to offer obeisance from a distance. It has been decided not to resume dasoha (free food) for devotees, as it will be difficult to maintain social distancing. The shops atop the hills have been given permission to commence business, but they should ensure maintaining distance. Hotels would provide parcel food. The conditions would be relaxed in phases, following the government guidelines, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mm-hills-no-darshan-for-tamil-nadu-devotees-845299.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||PU lecturers threaten to boycott evaluation||The Karnataka State Pre-University College Teachers’ Association has warned the Department of Pre-University Education of boycotting evaluation of science subjects if they don’t decentralise the work process. “We have clearly mentioned in our previous representations requesting for decentralisation of evaluation work considering the pandemic situation and the safety of teachers. But the department is insisting for the evaluation of science subjects in Bengaluru, which is inconvenient for us,” said the association office-bearers. However, the department has decided to conduct evaluation of science subjects in Bengaluru centres only, considering the sensitivity of the subjects.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/pu-lecturers-threaten-to-boycott-evaluation-845309.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Not all parents on same wave length over online classes||The decision by some of the private unaided schools to conduct online classes for children, even at KG level, has received mixed reactions from parents. Some parents said a clear ‘no’ to online classes, a line of thought which got a shot in the arm after Nimhans submitted a report stating that online classes should not be held for children below the age of 6 years. However, another set of parents have started an online petition to Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar. The online petition says, “Article 26 of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that “parents have a prior right to choose the kind of education that shall be given to their children” (United Nations, 2011). However, more recent policies have sought to regulate and limit parental choice, including the recent tweets/articles indicating that the State Governments get to decide if or when a child can be educated.” A parent who has started the petition on change.org said, “We as adults seek social connection and semblance of routine by interacting with friends and colleagues on platforms like Zoom. Why not extend that right to a child? Our children are missing connecting to their friends at school, they miss their teachers and talking to them. We see an upsurge on screen time usage for young children, why not use that screen time to connect with school?” “We don’t know how long this will last, much like other aspects that we are embracing as the ‘new normal,’ I want to retain the freedom to decide the education outcomes for my child. As a parent, we have made a choice on the school that we send our children to. The right to choose if my child should attend online classes is mine,” the parents saycollectively. The parents who are not entertaining online classes have their version: “how many parents have laptop, desktop and a proper chair for child to sit and attend online class for 3-4 hours? Don’t you think it’s unscientific and unhealthy?,” questions a parent. “Some schools even issued time table for online classes with consent from parents and what is more disgusting is schools asking kids to wear uniform while attending online class and also conducting morning assembly,” saysanother parent. “In my case, me and my husband are not friendly in using laptop or computer, now school has asked us even to upload assignments of my son online. Who will help him? How can a class 2 child do it,” says another parent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/not-all-parents-on-same-wave-length-over-online-classes-845321.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Atal Bhujal Yojana for recharging water table in parched districts||The government will soon begin to implement the centrally-sponsored Atal Bhujal Yojana in 14 districts in the state, Minor Irrigation Minister J C Madhuswamy said on Wednesday. The programme, meant for groundwater recharge in areas affected by water scarcity, was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year.  For its implementation, the Central government has sanctioned Rs 1,205 crore to Karnataka. The government has identified 1,199 gram panchayats across 41 taluks in these districts, where water has been over exploited.  The government would begin the project on a pilot basis in Chikkanayakanahalli, Madhugiri, Koratagere, Tiptur and Sira taluks of Tumakuru district, according to the minister. The other districts where the projected will be implemented include Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Bengaluru (Rural), Ramanagara, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Davangere, Ballari, Bagalkot, Gadag, Belagavi, Chamarajanagar and Hassan. "We will map the water bodies, underground water and look at judicious usage of water. We will also look into management of crop patterns and development of fishing activity, to make the best use of the water resources in these areas," Madhuswamy explained. Over the next four years, the government will improve the groundwater situation in these districts, he added.  'Demand for treated water' There was a huge demand from regions around Bengaluru for treated water, the minister said. "While earlier people frowned upon the idea, now they are demanding for more treated water. In Kolar and Chikkaballapur, instead of planting Nilgiri trees, farmers are now cultivating crops because of availability of treated water. In Bengaluru itself, about 18 tmcft of water is going waste. At the moment, we are able to treat about 4 tmcft for usage. We want to bring this up to 14 tmcft at least. This will help us rejuvenate lakes in and around Bengaluru," Madhuswamy said.  Bellandur lake desilting Even as the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has rapped the state government and directed for desilting of Bellandur lake, there were too many practical hurdles slowing down the process, Law Minister Madhuswamy said. To carry on work at the expected pace, we need to move one truck of silt every minute. Movement of the trucks in the heart of the city is a huge challenge. Further, finding a place to deposit the silt is another challenge, the minister added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/atal-bhujal-yojana-for-recharging-water-table-in-parched-districts-845352.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government invites Intel to make chips in Mangaluru or Belagavi||Karnataka on Wednesday invited chip major Intel to set up manufacturing units at Mangaluru or Belagavi, while offering "full cooperation" for the venture. During a video conference with top Intel India executives, Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, who is also the IT/BT minister, made a hard pitch for the company to consider. "There’s a port in Mangaluru while Belagavi is a few hours from a port in Goa," Narayan said, referring to sea connectivity to export the chips manufactured in the state.  The company also made a Rs 1 crore donation to the CM’s Relief Fund.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-invites-intel-to-make-chips-in-mangaluru-or-belagavi-845359.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Dissidence to continue in Karnataka BJP, MLAs met and shared discontent: Siddaramaiah||Leader of Opposition in Karnataka Siddaramaiah on Wednesday claimed that the dissidence within the ruling BJP in the state would continue as several legislators of the saffron party have met him and shared their "discontent". Siddaramaiah's comments come amid talks of dissent within the BJP following recent meetings by a section of party legislators that set alarm bells ringing in the party. "It is true that there is dissidence within the BJP and it will continue. We will not involve ourselves in anything related to it, if the government falls on its own, lets see then," Siddaramaiah was quoted as saying to reporters in Koppal by his office in a release. He also said, "several disgruntled BJP legislators have met me and have naturally shared their discontent, that's all." Ministerial aspirations of some senior MLAs and impending election to Rajya Sabha and state legislative council is said to have triggered the politicking back within the BJP, as over a dozen party legislators, mostly from north Karnataka met at senior MLA Umesh Katti's city residence over food last Thursday. Amid reports that several legislators during the meeting had expressed unhappiness over Yediyurappa's style of functioning and his son B Y Vijayendra's alleged interference in the administration, Siddaramaiah noted that people call Vijayendra "unconstitutional Chief Minister". "People say Vijayendra is working as unconstitutional Chief Minister, we are not saying it. Yediyurappa is CM only for namesake, it is Vijayendra who clears things," he alleged. Rejecting any rift between him and Karnataka Congress President D K Shivakumar, Siddaramaiah said they both share a good bonding. It was said that Siddramaiah was opposed to Shivakumar's appointment as KPCC chief as it would loosen his grip over the party. Opposing the state election commission's decision to postpone the gram panchayat polls, the former Chief Minister said the Congress would approach the court in this regard. Last week, the commission had announced a postponement of gram panchayat polls citing COVID-19 pandemic. Out of 6025 gram panchayats, tenure of 5800 gram panchayats would end by June-August 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/dissidence-to-continue-in-karnataka-bjp-mlas-met-and-shared-discontent-siddaramaiah-845175.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka Rajya Sabha polls: Ticket talk heats up across parties||Suspense continues in the ruling BJP on who it will pick as its candidates for the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections, with speculation rife that a ‘dark horse’ may emerge as one of them.  The biennial elections will be held as the term of four incumbents - D Kupendra Reddy (JDS), Prabhakar Kore (BJP), MV Rajeev Gowda and BK Hariprasad (both Congress) will end June 25.  The last date to file nominations is June 9 and elections will be held on June 19.  Several names are doing the rounds, which has caused a headache to the state BJP unit. The candidates are expected to be finalised in the BJP core committee meeting scheduled June 6, and the list will be sent to the central leadership for clearance.  Banker KV Kamath, who earlier headed the ICICI Bank, is one of the several names doing the rounds in BJP circles. Tejaswini Ananthkumar, who was tipped to get the Bangalore South Lok Sabha ticket last year is another name the BJP is said to be considering.  Senior MLA Umesh Katti is mounting pressure to ensure a nomination for his brother Ramesh Katti even as incumbent Prabhakar Kore is seeking re-election to the upper house of the Parliament.  The names of RSS leader M Nagaraj and hotelier Prakash Shetty have also emerged. MLAs will elect members of the Rajya Sabha and a candidate requires 45 votes. With 117 MLAs in a 223-member House, the BJP can ensure victory for two candidates. The Congress, with 68 MLAs, can win one. The JD(S), at 34, will need support if it wants to send someone to Rajya Sabha. For the Congress, the choice could come down to either veteran Mallikarjun Kharge or incumbent BK Hariprasad. “Even Rajeev Gowda is seeking re-election, whereas, former Tumkur MP Muddahanumegowda is reminding the party that he was promised a Rajya Sabha ticket for having given up his seat to the JD(S) in the Lok Sabha polls last year,” a leader said.  The JD(S) is likely to hold a meeting this week to discuss candidature in the Rajya Sabha polls. According to sources, JD(S) supremo HD Devegowda has not spoken about wanting to contest in the polls until now. "He himself has not expressed any such desire until now. But we are keen that he contests," a senior leader said. Meanwhile, there is also speculation that the party is likely to ask the incumbent Kupendra Reddy to contest again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-rajya-sabha-polls-ticket-talk-heats-up-across-parties-845256.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Houses to flood victims: JD(S) to protest as HD Kumaraswamy not invited for programme||JD(S) District Committee President K M Ganesh said that the party will stage a protest against the state government, for not inviting former Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy to the programme of handing over the houses to the flood victims, to be held at Jambur on June 4. "H D Kumaraswamy had played a pivotal role in initiating the rehabilitation programmes," he said. "But, without inviting him, the government has insulted him." Also, Ganesh alleged that the houses built for flood victims in Jambur in Somwarpet are not up to the mark. The JD(S) workers will stage a peaceful protest during the handing over ceremony of the houses, against the attitude of the government, he said. Stating that the Golikatte road leading to the new houses in the Made village, too, is worn out and the flood victims and the local villagers cannot use the road, he urged to carry out the repair work before heavy rains lash the region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/houses-to-flood-victims-jds-to-protest-as-hd-kumaraswamy-not-invited-for-programme-845265.html
03-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Choosing Rajya Sabha nominees a puzzle for BJP, Kharge's name pops up in Congress||Suspense continues in the ruling BJP on who it will pick as its candidates for the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections, with speculation rife that a ‘dark horse’ may emerge as one of them.  The biennial elections will be held as the term of four incumbents - D Kupendra Reddy (JDS), Prabhakar Kore (BJP), M V Rajeev Gowda and B K Hariprasad (both Congress) ends on June 25.  The last date to file nominations is June 9 and elections will be held on June 19.  Several names are doing the rounds, which has caused a headache to the state BJP unit. The candidates are expected to be finalized in the BJP core committee meeting scheduled on June 6, and the list will be sent to the central leadership for clearance.  Banker K V Kamath, who earlier headed the ICICI Bank, is one of the several names doing the rounds in BJP circles. Tejaswini Ananthkumar, who was tipped to get the Bangalore South Lok Sabha ticket last year is another name the BJP is said to be considering.  Senior MLA Umesh Katti is mounting pressure to ensure a nomination for his brother Ramesh Katti even as incumbent Prabhakar Kore is seeking re-election to the upper house of the Parliament.  The names of RSS leader M Nagaraj and hotelier Prakash Shetty have also emerged. MLAs will elect members of the Rajya Sabha and a candidate requires 45 votes. With 117 MLAs in a 223-member House, the BJP can ensure victory for two candidates. The Congress, with 68 MLAs, can win one. The JD(S), at 34, will need support if it wants to send someone to Rajya Sabha. For the Congress, the choice could come down to either veteran Mallikarjun Kharge or incumbent Hariprasad. “Even Rajeev Gowda is seeking re-election, whereas former Tumkur MP Muddahanumegowda is reminding the party that he was promised a Rajya Sabha ticket for having given up his seat to the JD(S) in the Lok Sabha polls last year,” a leader said.  The JD(S) is likely to hold a meeting this week to discuss candidature in the Rajya Sabha polls. According to sources, JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda has not spoken about wanting to contest in the polls until now. "He himself has not expressed any such desire until now. But we are keen that he contests," a senior leader said. Meanwhile, there is speculation that the party is likely to ask the incumbent Kupendra Reddy to contest again.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/choosing-rajya-sabha-nominees-a-puzzle-for-bjp-kharges-name-pops-up-in-congress-845338.html
03-06-2020||Main Article||Needed: A new economic order||Post-lockdown, ‘migrant workers’ has emerged as a special category of people. Invoking varied responses. To some, their plight is a blot on our conscience but to others, these are foolish people who walked on railway tracks and got killed. Or, gathered in thousands violating physical distancing norms at railway or bus stations, rather than staying indoors in their homes. People do not realise that they hardly have a home in the cities where they live, and that is why they were doing what everyone else was – trying to go home in a time of uncertainty and panic! But, why don’t they have homes in these cities where they live and work? Because no one cares. Neither the Prime Minister or Chief Minister, nor you and I. If they are construction workers, they are often tucked away in small colonies provided by the construction companies, where they usually don’t have more than six feet-by-three feet space for one person to sleep and live in, and a few toilets often without water supply and an open space to bathe, sometimes with access to drinking water, sometimes none. Often located next to the ‘towers’ or a ‘dream city’ – high rise apartments with all amenities and ‘lung space’ – that they were brought in to build. These are the spaces where they were expected to stay for weeks together without any assurance of food, cash, contact with their families. And a majority stayed. They had no option, unless they already had started walking or cycling. And some of those who managed to cycle home did so by cycling through the nights and hiding in the day for fear of police beatings. This is what I found in my recent visits to a few workers colonies in Bengaluru. The same situation exists in other industries and in other cities. Talking to a cross-section of ‘migrant workers’ in the construction sector in Bengaluru, it emerged that a majority of them had not received wages even for January and February when the lockdown was suddenly declared on March 24. Food supplied by NGOs and part payment of the January-February wages by the ‘contractor’ through whom they were hired helped them sustain themselves. The employers rarely provided any food or supplies. And now that the construction activities have started, these companies and the State want them to stay back but are not ready to pay even partial wages for the period of the lockdown. And where is the State in all this? The Union government had passed an order making it compulsory to pay wages during the lockdown but withdrew that order later. We know well who benefits from this withdrawal. Repeated extension of lockdowns did not come with any arrangement for them to go back home. And now, when it has, it is full of confusion and chaos about rules, payment, forms and procedures. These workers I talked to have been trying to negotiate online forms, police stations and railway stations, often without any clear instruction and support, barring from a few civil society networks trying their best to reach out. With poor literacy skills and limited knowledge of local language, they feel frustrated and helpless, and in the process even get cheated. Deepu (name changed) from Bengal received his February wages on May 21 and decided to spend it on buying a regular train ticket, with no hope left for finding a seat in a Shramik Express train. At the ticket counter, he was told that no ticket was available till June 22. Someone took him to a nearby shop and sold him a confirmed ticket worth Rs 3,160 for Rs 4,500. He spent more than half of his monthly wage on this ticket in desperation. What else has the State done? A number of BJP-ruled states, joined by Karnataka now, have either suspended most provisions of labour laws or amended them to enhance the working hours and reduce the social securities to “revive the economy”. There is no sign of any rethinking, any churning or of any gratitude to the fact that the workers, who have kept going the essential services – the grocery shops, security services and health services – must be treated better in the post-crisis phase. Instead, labour laws are being amended to further dehumanise them. Every single worker who I spoke to in these colonies expressed a desire to go back home. Undaunted that there may be no work back home, and they may be walking into a food crisis and other distress: “Whatever is there, we will share and eat”, “even if we die, we will die in peace”, “we will work in the fields and survive,” they said. Considering the huge number of roughly 20 crore migrant workers working outside their villages, the process of revere migration has only just begun. To respect the rights and dignity of these workers, it is time to strengthen labour laws while doing away with overlaps and ambiguities that presently exist. The economy’s revival strategies need to consider the imminent labour crisis in urban areas alongside responding to rising pressure for work opportunities in rural areas. The provisions for food grains in the economic package may give some relief to returning migrants but is highly inadequate. It is not enough to enhance NREGS allocations marginally, it is also important to simplify the processes so that people are not lost in paperwork. It is also important to increase spending on food security and to strengthen basic education and health services in rural areas. It is time that to realise that public spending on these services in times of a slowdown creates multiplier effects ensuring wage and income security while also leading to creation of demand for goods and services, and in turn regenerating economic activities. These are backed by evidence and well-justified economic policy choices and are not a recipe for doling out public money. The guiding principles of public economics are and ought to be different from those of the balance sheet-based accounting guidelines of the corporate sector. (The writer is Director, Centre for Budget and Policy Studies, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/needed-a-new-economic-order-845313.html
03-06-2020||Mysuru||Two women, including one pregnant, test coronavirus positive in Mysuru||With two women, including one pregnant, testing positive for COVID-19, Ramakrishna Nagar G block has been declared as containment zone and the area has been sealed on Wednesday. According to Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Health Officer Dr D G Nagaraju, two women, mother and daughter reached Mysuru from Maharashtra on Sunday.  On their arrival at airport in Bengaluru, the women were suggested for home quarantine as a woman was six-month pregnant. Later they both travelled in a taxi to Mysuru. The Officer said, the authorities collected the samples of the women in Mysuru and the result tested positive. Following the results, the area is sealed down for 28 days. According to the family members of the victims, they both did not go out from home. However, the authorities are checking for the primary contacts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/two-women-including-one-pregnant-test-coronavirus-positive-in-mysuru-845152.html
03-06-2020||National||Drones and imported machines to be used against locusts: Narendra Singh Tomar||The Central government has devised a plan to use drones and specialised imported machines against locusts which have started damaging crops in some states, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Tuesday. He said the government is hopeful of completely repulsing attacks by locusts by September-end. "A plan is put in place to use drones to fight off locusts which are damaging crops in some parts of the country," Tomar said, adding that pesticides will be sprayed using drones. Speaking to reporters via video conference, he said some specialised machines will be imported by the Central government. "Delivery of these machines was expected to start by June end. Whilesome of them were expected to be delivered from England by now, they could not reach India due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown," Tomar said. He said these machines would now be delivered by July-end. "They would help in rapid controlling of locusts," Tomar said. "We are hopeful to completely stop attacks by locusts by September-end," Tomar said. He also said that timely information on the movement of swarms of locusts came handy for government, and that efforts to contain the flying pests have already started. Tomar said swarms of locusts have started damaging crops in some parts of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat, but the Central and state governments have joined hands to fight against this menace. "The Central and state governments have saved crops spread over an area of 57,000 hectares in the country from locusts," he added. Damage caused by desert locusts would be assessed by various state governments, which will send their reports to the Central government for compensation to farmers. Swarms of locusts had entered India from Rajasthan and flew to different states. Neighbouring Maharashtra already announced that it would use drones to spray insecticides on locusts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drones-and-imported-machines-to-be-used-against-locusts-narendra-singh-tomar-844976.html
03-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: HUL donates over 74,000 RT-PCR testing kits||FMCG major Hindustan Unilever Ltd (HUL) on Tuesday said it has donated 74,328 RT-PCR COVID-19 testing kits worth Rs 13 crore to help ramp up testing of patients in the country. While Maharashtra has received about 28,800 RT-PCR testing kits, Indian Council of Medical Research has got 20,160 kits. Metropolis Labs has received 8,088 kits and Apollo Hospitals has got 17,280 kits, the company said in a statement. HUL Chairman and Managing Director Sanjiv Mehta said, "Sufficient supply of testing kits and other medical equipment will help frontline warriors competently tackle the COVID-19 virus." "This will not only allow for free testing in critical regions, but also accelerate the process of testing asymptomatic patients, supplementing government efforts to flatten the curve and arrest the spread of the pandemic in the country," he added. The RT-PCR testing kits consist of nucleic acid diagnostic kit, sample release reagent, throat swab, PCR tube and sample storage reagent, the company said. These have been approved by international certification bodies such as CE IVD, USFDA and EU CE, and are also listed in FIND, a World Health Organization (WHO) Collaboration Centre, it added. HUL said its contribution comes on the back of 29 ventilators worth Rs 3 crore that it is donating to government hospitals in Maharashtra. Last month, HUL also donated 5,000 sets of PPEs, 20,000 N95 masks, 2,00,000 gloves, 112 pulse oximeter and 28 oxygen concentrators worth Rs 2 crore to the Maharashtra Public Health Department. Beside states like Maharashtra and New Delhi, which have a high COVID-19 patient count, HUL is also extending product donation and other support across India around its manufacturing locations and offices in West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. HUL had recently committed Rs 100 crore towards helping India fight the coronavirus pandemic, undertaking various initiatives to ensure safety of people and communities, product sourcing, and business continuity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-hul-donates-over-74000-rt-pcr-testing-kits-844993.html
03-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi conveys to Donald Trump his concern over 'civil disturbances' in US||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday expressed concern over “ongoing civil disturbances” in the United States during a phone-call with American President Donald Trump. Modi “expressed concern regarding the ongoing civil disturbances in the US, and conveyed his best wishes for an early resolution of the situation,” according to a press-release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office after his talks with Trump over the phone. The protests over the death of a black man while being arrested by police escalated over the past week. Trump threatened to deploy US army personnel to quell the growing unrest. New Delhi rarely in the past commented on any unrest in the US or protests against the US Government, except for condemning terrorist attacks. Modi, however, chose to refer to the “civil disturbance” arising out of a protest against police and authorities during his phone call with Trump. It came several months after the US subtly disapproved detention of political leaders, curbs on the internet, and other restrictive measures the BJP government in New Delhi imposed in Jammu and Kashmir in the wake of the move to strip the state of its special status and reorganize it into two Union Territories. New Delhi protested against critical remarks by the US lawmakers on its moves in J&K and the curbs imposed by it, pointing out that it was an “internal affair” of India. Trump was in New Delhi when the violent clashes broke out in the National Capital Territory of India between people supporting and opposing the Modi Government’s Citizenship Amendment Act. The US President, however, refrained from taking it up with the Prime Minister or making any comment about it during his press conference in New Delhi. Two days after his return; Alice Wells, the then acting US Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs, however, subtly nudged India to respect the right of peaceful assembly (to protest against the CAA). A US federal commission in March this year recommended President Donald Trump’s administration in Washington D.C. to designate India as a “Country of Particular Concern” in view of its “sharp downward turn” in religious freedom. It also recommended to the US State Department to impose “targeted sanctions” on Indian Government’s “agencies and officials” responsible for severe violations of religious freedom, by freezing their assets and barring their entry into the United States.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-conveys-to-donald-trump-his-concern-over-civil-disturbances-in-us-845005.html
03-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi gets US President Donald Trump's invite to attend G7 summit: Ministry||India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi got an invitation from U.S. President Donald Trump to attend the next Group of Seven summit, India's Foreign Affairs Ministry said on Tuesday. Over a telephone call, Modi told Trump that New Delhi would be happy to work with the United States and other countries to ensure the success of the next G7 summit, it said in a statement. Trump said on Saturday he was postponing until September the summit that had been scheduled for late June in Camp David, the U.S. president's country retreat, and that he wanted to invite Australia, Russia, South Korea and India to the meeting. Trump conveyed his desire to expand participation beyond the members of the group of the world's most advanced economies. "In this context, he extended an invitation to Prime Minister Modi to attend the next G7 Summit to be held in USA," the ministry said. The leaders exchanged views on COVID-19 situation in the two countries, the India-China standoff at the border, and the need for reforms in the World Health Organisation, it added. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and a senior congressional leader have reprimanded China for bullying behaviour towards India during a military standoff on their disputed border. During the call, Trump recalled his visit to India in February. Modi said the historic visit had added new dynamism to the bilateral relationship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-gets-us-president-donald-trumps-invite-to-attend-g7-summit-ministry-845009.html
03-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 3, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-3-2020-edition-845013.html
03-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 3||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,16,071‬ as of June 3. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 6,078 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged:  100,303  While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-3-845014.html
03-06-2020||National||DH Toon: Domestic flight operations picking up pace, says Puri||Domestic air travel in the country is picking up the pace as 692 flights carrying 64,651 passengers operated on June 1 against 501 flights with 44,593 flyers the day before, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Tuesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-domestic-flight-operations-picking-up-pace-says-puri-845017.html
03-06-2020||National||Drones to disc jockeys: India battles new wave of crop-munching locusts||From deploying drones and fire trucks to banging utensils and blaring loud music, India is experimenting with ways to battle a new wave of locust attacks that have alarmed farmers. Millions of locusts have engulfed India's seven heartland states, including the western desert of Rajasthan, and threaten vegetable and pulse crops such as lentils and beans. "We have never ever seen what we have in the last six months in India ... never in the history," said Bhagirath Choudhary, director of the New Delhi-based South Asia Biotechnology Centre, an agriculture think-tank. Farmers salvaged their wheat and oilseed crops from a previous locust scourge that started late last year. But the fresh swarms have arrived at a time when the government is trying to contain the spread of the coronavirus and reeling from economic fallout associated with pandemic restrictions. India's lockdown - introduced in late March - has pushed millions into hunger and poverty as they lose their livelihoods and left farmers unable to harvest, bag and move their crops because of labour shortages and logistical challenges. The country is battling its worst desert locust outbreak in decades with swarms radiating through much of the western states of Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra, the central states of Madhya Pradesh and Punjab, and Haryana and Uttar Pradesh in the north. States in India's east and south have been on alert too. The last major locust surge was in 1993, when heavy rains created favourable breeding conditions for the insects along the India-Pakistan border. Most years the winged invaders destroy crops in parts of Rajasthan close to the border but farm experts say it is rare for them to move further into the state and other non-desert areas of India. Their wider distribution this year has bewildered residents and farmers, who have resorted to rudimentary efforts to scare the pests away. Some have mounted their tractors with insecticide sprayers or banged steel pots and plates, while others have lit fireworks or played loud music on speakers in the middle of their fields. A farmer in Uttar Pradesh rolled out a mobile disc jockey system, normally used at weddings. Farmers crying   Locust swarms can fly up to 150 km (90 miles) a day, and the adult insects can consume roughly their own weight in fresh food each day. A small swarm can eat enough food to feed 35,000 people in one day, according to the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). "Farmers are crying, they don't know what to do ... it's like a natural disaster," Choudhary told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. India's state-run Locust Warning Organisation, which is responsible for locust survey and control operations, did not respond to requests for comment. Last week, Delhi and neighbouring districts were put on high alert for a possible locust invasion, with authorities urging residents to shut their windows and doors tight. "Farmers are advised to collectively beat drums, tin containers (and) steel plates and use loudspeakers to prevent locusts from descending on farms and damaging crops," Suhas L.Y., the magistrate of Gautam Buddha Nagar district, said via Twitter. Locusts have caused extensive damage to pastures and crops and threatened food security in East African countries including Somalia, Ethiopia, Kenya, Eritrea and Djibouti this year. Pakistan also has faced its worst locust infestation in two decades, prompting authorities to declare a national emergency. Food insecurity? Despite large-scale incursions by the insects, the Indian government and farm experts do not foresee major crop damage for the moment as the pests have arrived during the gap between the previous harvest and the next planting season. But experts warn that federal and state governments need to kill the pests quickly over the next few weeks to ensure they don't breed again and then devour summer crops. If the insects continue to multiply, India could see extensive losses in June and July when monsoon rains spur sowing of rice, sugarcane, corn, cotton and soybean crops, they said. "The new wave of locusts could pave the way for more food insecurity, which will leave more people at risk of starvation," said Andre Laperriere, the executive director of Global Open Data for Agriculture and Nutrition (GODAN). Keith Cressman, senior locust forecasting officer at FAO, said India can expect additional waves of locust invasions until early July. "We are not in a plague situation, but it could get much worse," he said. Choudhary of the South Asia Biotechnology Centre said the warnings should serve as a "wake-up call" to take more action to save crops. Authorities in the affected states have been trying to contain locust swarms by spraying chemicals, using vehicles from tractors to fire trucks, the agriculture ministry said in a statement last week. The government said it was arranging drones to drop pesticides on trees and in inaccessible places to kill the insects. It also plans to use helicopters for aerial spraying. Up to 15 sprayers will start arriving from Britain over the next two weeks and 45 more in one-and-a-half months, it said. Farmer inputs Farm experts said that while loud noises can briefly get rid of the pests, they do not amount to a sustainable plan and can make it more difficult for authorities to target and contain the pests. "It's not killing any locusts, it's just shifting the problem to the neighbours," said FAO's Cressman. He said chemical pesticides were the cheapest and most effective solution to tackle such large numbers of the insects. Farmers can also dig trenches around their fields, in an effort to trap and bury newborn hoppers that try to march in and eat their crops, he said. But he said controlling locusts is not a job for individual farmers but for well-trained government agencies equipped with technical know-how and the correct sprayers and safety gear. Choudhary, however, urged the government to involve village councils and farmer communities in decisions about the pests, and to provide the right knowledge, pesticides, equipment and technology to help people monitor and fight locusts. "With limited manpower in the field, state agencies alone cannot control these intense, frequent swarms," he said. "Empowering and engaging local communities is an absolute must to deal with this big threat to Indian agriculture." He said involving communities could lead to better data collection, including from crowd-sourcing platforms, which could then be combined with the weather office's wind data to provide real-time indications of the movement of swarms. Similarly, soil moisture data can help predict an outbreak up to three month in advance, Laperriere said. "Early preparation and data monitoring would be really helpful in preventing such outbreaks," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/drones-to-disc-jockeys-india-battles-new-wave-of-crop-munching-locusts-845041.html
03-06-2020||National||Mumbai: Trains rescheduled, diverted due to cyclone Nisarga||The Central Railway has rescheduled, diverted, and regulated some trains from Mumbai in view of the cyclonic storm 'Nisarga' which is set to make a landfall at Alibaug in Maharashtra on Wednesday afternoon. Five special trains departing from Mumbai have been rescheduled and three special trains will be either diverted or regulated enroute, the Central Railway (CR) said in a release. Following the changes, the LTT-Gorakhpur Special will depart at 8 pm instead of 11.10 am, LTT-Thiruvananthapuram Special at 6 pm instead of 11.40 am, and LTT-Darbhanga Special at 8.30 pm instead of 12.15 pm, it said. Besides, the LTT-Varanasi Special will depart at 9 pm instead of 12.40 pm, and CSMT-Bhubaneswar Special will depart from the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) here at 8 pm instead of 3.05 pm. The Patna-LTT Special scheduled to arrive at 11.30 am, and Varanasi-CSMT Special scheduled to arrive at 2.15 pm on Wednesday will be regulated en route and arrive behind schedule, the CR said. Also, the Thiruvananthapuram-LTT Special scheduled to arrive 4.40pm will be diverted via Pune to arrive at the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT) here behind schedule, it added. According to the Konkan Railway, it has diverted the ErnakulamH. Nizamuddin Special and Thiruvananthapuram Central-LTT Special trains, which departed on June 2, via Madgaon Junction-Londa-MirajPuneManmad route. The DelhiThiruvananthapuram Central Special, dated June 2, has also been diverted via SuratVasai RoadKalyan MirajLondaMadgaon route, the Konkan Railway said in a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mumbai-trains-rescheduled-diverted-due-to-cyclone-nisarga-845048.html
03-06-2020||National||India records highest daily spike of 8,909 COVID-19 cases; National death toll at 5,815||India registered a record jump of 8,909 novel coronavirus cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 2,07,615 on Wednesday, while the toll rose to 5,815 with 217 more deaths, the Health Ministry said. The number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) mounted 1,01,497 and 1,00,302 people have recovered so far, while one has migrated, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-highest-daily-spike-of-8909-covid-19-cases-national-death-toll-at-5815-845056.html
03-06-2020||National||Second COVID-19 case detected in Sikkim||A man who returned from Delhi recently tested positive for COVID-19 in Sikkim, taking the number of cases in the state to two, a senior health official said on Wednesday. The 56-year-old man, who returned from the national capital on May 25, was found to be COVID-19 positive on Tuesday night, Health Secretary Pempa Tshering Bhutia told PTI. He was lodged at a quarantine facility in the Mining area of East Sikkim on arrival from Delhi, he said. However, his two direct contacts living in the same room have tested negative. Sikkim now has two COVID-19 cases and both are asymptomatic, Bhutia said. Both the patients are undergoing treatment at STNM Hospital in Sokeythang near the state capital, the health official said. Sikkim reported its first case of COVID-19 on May 23 when a 25-year-old man from Rabangla in the South District tested positive after returning from Delhi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/second-covid-19-case-detected-in-sikkim-845059.html
03-06-2020||National||Gujarat braces for cyclone Nisarga; thousands evacuated from coast||Nearly 43,000 people living near the coastline in Gujarat's Valsad and Navsari districts have so far been shifted to safer places as the state prepares to face the approaching cyclonic storm 'Nisarga', officials said on Wednesday. As many as 13 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and six teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed at different locations, the state government said in a release. Five more teams of NDRF have also been called in, the government said. Valsad Collector R R Raval said, "We have shifted nearly 32,000 people living close to the seashore to temporary shelters. The weather is cloudy at present, but winds have not started yet." Besides, some 11,000 people have been evacuated from different villages of Navsari district ahead of the cyclone, another official said. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has indicated that the cyclone may not make landfall on the Gujarat coast. However, it will make an impact in the form of gusty winds coupled with heavy rainfall in the state's coastal belt. According to the IMD, the cyclonic storm Nisarga over East Central Arabian Sea is currently around 460 km away from Surat and it will turn into a "severe cyclonic storm". It will cross North Maharashtra and the adjoining South Gujarat coast between Harihareshwar and Daman, close to Alibaug of Maharashtra during Wednesday afternoon, with a maximum sustained wind speed of 100 to 110 kmph, the IMD said in a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-braces-for-cyclone-nisarga-thousands-evacuated-from-coast-845060.html
03-06-2020||National||Fact-check: Did PM Narendra Modi claim that 1 crore COVID-19 patients were treated for free in India?||The graphic was part of India TV’s broadcast aired in the morning of May 31 where PM Modi’s radio show ‘Mann ki Baat’ was played live. However, on June 1, India TV aired a correction. “Yesterday during the broadcast of Mann Ki Baat, it was reported that one crore patient of corona has been treated in India. This was a human mistake. Let us make it clear that the number of corona patients in India is not so high. We are sorry for this mistake.” India TV’s broadcast concerned PM Modi’s ‘Mann ki Baat’ address on May 30 where he spoke about the coronavirus pandemic and the Ayushman Bharat health scheme which he said has helped the poor. He can be heard talking about the same 18 minutes onward in the show. The Prime Minister stated that the beneficiaries of the Ayushman Bharat scheme have crossed the figure of 1 crore. This was misreported by India TV as him claiming that 1 crore COVID-19 patients have been treated for free.  Therefore, an erroneous video report by India TV led many social media users to target PM Modi. However, India TV later clarified that the channel made a mistake. (This article was first published on AltNews website and was reproduced here through special arrangement.)||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-did-pm-narendra-modi-claim-that-1-crore-covid-19-patients-were-treated-for-free-in-india-845063.html
03-06-2020||National||China reports five new coronavirus cases||China has reported five new coronavirus cases, including four asymptomatic ones while Wuhan, the epicenter of the COVID-19, has not registered any infection, health officials said on Wednesday. According to China’s National Health Commission (NHC), one imported coronavirus case and four asymptomatic cases were reported on Tuesday. It did not specify where the asymptomatic cases were registered. The NHC on Wednesday said 357 asymptomatic cases, including 276 from Wuhan are still under medical observation. It said, statistics after a latest review and revision showed that as of Tuesday, the overall confirmed cases on the mainland have reached 83,021, including 73 patients who were still being treated, and 78,314 people who have been discharged after recovery. Altogether 4,634 people have died of the disease in the country. Meanwhile, Wuhan where nearly 10 million residents were tested in a 19-day drive, reported no confirmed or asymptomatic coronavirus cases on Tuesday. The city tested 9,899,828 people between May 14 and June 1, city officials told the media on Tuesday. No confirmed COVID-19 cases were found in the process, said Lu Zuxun, a professor with Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, at the event. During the drive, 300 asymptomatic cases were found and quarantined. All the tracked 1,174 close contacts tested negative for the COVID-19 and were also quarantined, Lu said.  On May 14, the city launched a campaign to offer nucleic acid tests to those not tested before. Officials said the move was aimed at tracing asymptomatic cases and reassuring society as the city gradually reopens its factories, businesses and schools. Executive Deputy Mayor Hu Yabo said Wuhan spent 900 million yuan (USD 126 million) on the tests, which was "totally worthwhile" as it reassured Wuhan residents, as well as the whole nation, and will help the city bring its social and economic activities back on track. "After the citywide tests, Wuhan residents, who made great sacrifices during the city's lockdown will also lift their psychological lockdown," he said. Li Lanjuan, a Chinese epidemiologist said the campaign brought the total number of nucleic acid testees in Wuhan to 10.9 million. "Wuhan is now safe, and Wuhan people are safe," she told the media. The tests have been met with great enthusiasm from the public, state-run Xinhua news agency reported. Wang Weihua, deputy director of the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission, said 63 testing agencies in the city have been mobilised to raise the testing capacity. Hu Ke, a respiratory doctor at Renmin Hospital of Wuhan University, believed the citywide testing is worthwhile in a city where the virus has infected more than 50,000 people, saying it helps prevent a rebound and ease public concerns. "The mass tests helped detect asymptomatic cases, who may still infect others. Only by putting them in strict isolation and treatment can the epidemic be stemmed and the whole society be reassured," Hu said. Du Zhizhang, vice dean of the Institute of State Governance, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, said the tests will help the world better understand the real situation in Wuhan, while corporate and other employers can use the results to pave the way for accelerating work resumption. For the residents, the benefits are also psychological. "It's like issuing health certificates to Wuhan residents, which helps prevent discrimination against them," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-reports-five-new-coronavirus-cases-845065.html
03-06-2020||National||Rajasthan records 102 fresh cases of COVID-19||Over 100 fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in Rajasthan on Wednesday, taking the virus tally in the state to 9,475, officials said. The death toll due to COVID-19 in the state stands at 203.     There are 2,766 active cases of COVID-19, while 5,977 patients have been discharged from hospitals so far, the officials said. While 28 of the 102 new COVID-19 cases are from Jaipur, 18 are from Bharatpur, 13 from Nagaur, 10 from Jhalawar, three cases each from Baran, Dungarpur, Kota and Rajsamand. Two cases each of the novel coronavirus have been reported from Karauli and Sirohi and one case each from Churu and Dholpur. The addresses of two other patients is yet to be ascertained, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajasthan-records-102-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-845072.html
03-06-2020||National||US probe into India's digital tax not a move of aggression, says Indian govt source||The US government's move to launch a trade investigation into a digital services tax adopted by several countries including India should not be construed as a move of aggression against New Delhi, a senior Indian government source said on Wednesday. The US Trade Representative's Office is investigating digital services taxes being adopted or considered by India and other countries such as Italy and Brazil, it said on Tuesday, a move that could lead to new punitive tariffs and heighten trade tensions. "A number of US allies such as the EU and the UK are mentioned in this list ... this USTR action is meant to address the issue of digital taxation and should not be treated as a move of aggression against India," said the government source, declining to be identified due to the sensitivity of the matter. India's federal trade ministry did not immediately respond to an emailed request from Reuters for a comment. The Indian government has so far not commented officially on the USTR investigation. From April 1, India imposed a new 2% tax on foreign billings, or transactions where companies take payment abroad for digital services provided in India. The tax also applies to foreign e-commerce transactions on sites such as Amazon.com . The tax is also levied on advertising revenue earned by companies overseas if those ads eventually target customers in India. Alphabet Inc's Google was particularly concerned that it would not be able to swiftly identify countries where such advertising arrangements were in place, Reuters has reported.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/us-probe-into-indias-digital-tax-not-a-move-of-aggression-says-indian-govt-source-845075.html
03-06-2020||National||Four die of coronavirus in AP, 180 fresh cases reported||In a single largest spike, 180 new COVID-19 cases were added in Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday, taking the aggregate to 3,971. The toll too increased by four to 68 in the last 24 hours, the latest bulletin said. Of the fresh cases, 79 were state residents, seven foreign returnees, and 94 from other states, it said. In Chittoor, two fresh coronavirus deaths were reported while Krishna and Kurnool registered one each. The total number of active cases now stood at 1,447, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/four-die-of-coronavirus-in-ap-180-fresh-cases-reported-845084.html
03-06-2020||National||Toddler tests positive, shifted to COVID-19 hospital along with mother||A woman was shifted to a COVID-19 hospital in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district after her one-year-old daughter tested positive for the novel coronavirus, officials said on Wednesday. Six migrant workers and the girl who came from Tamil Nadu tested positive for COVID-19, following which they were shifted to the Muzaffarnagar Medical College on Tuesday. The girl's mother was also shifted to the hospital despite not testing positive, the official said.  The people of Kawal village in Jansath area requested the authorities for quarantining the girl in her home as she was a toddler, but the plea was turned down. Ashok Kumar, the incharge of the primary health centre, said the woman was also shifted as the baby cannot be kept in the hospital alone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/toddler-tests-positive-shifted-to-covid-19-hospital-along-with-mother-845085.html
03-06-2020||National||Can govt confirm no Chinese soldier has entered India, asks Rahul Gandhi||Amid a border standoff with China, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday asked the government to make it clear whether or not Chinese soldiers have entered India. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh had on Tuesday said that a "sizeable number" of Chinese troops have moved into eastern Ladakh and India too has taken all necessary steps to deal with the situation. Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday took to Twitter to ask, "Can GOI (Government of India) please confirm that no Chinese soldiers have entered India (sic)." He also shared a report about India and China holding a top-level military meet on June 6 in a bid to resolve the troops standoff in eastern Ladakh. Gandhi asked the government to come clean on the border standoff with China and tell the country what exactly is happening "as its silence is fuelling speculation and uncertainty". "The government's silence about the border situation with China is fuelling massive speculation and uncertainty at a time of crisis," he said earlier. The Congress has asked the government to come clean on the border standoff and take all political parties and the country into confidence over restoration of the status quo ante on the border with China. Troops of India and China were engaged in a major standoff for over three weeks in Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie in eastern Ladakh, in what is turning out to be the biggest confrontation between the two countries after the Doklam episode in 2017. The government has been maintaining that talks at military and diplomatic levels are on to resolve the row.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/can-govt-confirm-no-chinese-soldier-has-entered-india-asks-rahul-gandhi-845095.html
03-06-2020||National||Mamata urges Centre to give Rs 10,000 each to migrant workers||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday appealed to the Centre to give one-time assistance of Rs 10,000 each to migrant workers amid the COVID-19 crisis. In a tweet, she said financial aid should also be provided to those engaged in the unorganised sector to help them cope with the ongoing economic crisis arising out of the lockdown. Banerjee suggested that a portion of the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund (PM-CARES) could be used for the purpose. "People have been facing economic hardship of unimaginable proportions bcz of the ongoing pandemic. I appeal to Central Govt to transfer Rs 10,000 each as one-time assistance to migrant laborers including people in unorganized sector. A portion of PM-CARES could be used for this," she tweeted.  The country's economy headed towards its first annual contraction in several decades following which the government has started easing lockdown norms in many regions of the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mamata-urges-centre-to-give-rs-10000-each-to-migrant-workers-845096.html
03-06-2020||National||Gujarat govt forms panel of doctors to revamp health care system||The Gujarat government has formed an expert committee of doctors to help it in formulating strategies to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic and revamp the state's health care system, an official said on Wednesday. The step comes at a time when the COVID-19 death rate in Gujarat is double than the national average. The state is at the fourth position in the country in a number of COVID-19 cases, and the Gujarat High Court recently expressed concern over the health care conditions at the Ahmedabad Civil Hospital. "The chief minister has formed an expert committee of doctors to guide the government in formulating and implementing strategies and supervise the health care system, an official in the Chief Ministers Office said. The panel will give suggestions to the state government on revamping the public health system, overall health facilities, and treatment protocol, he said. The committee will have eight top private doctors of the state as its members, while state principal secretary (health) Jayanti Ravi will be its convener, a statement from the Chief Minister's Office said. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who also holds charge of the health department, held a meeting with the expert panel on Tuesday.  The COVID-19 death rate in Gujarat is 6.19 per cent as compared to 2.8 per cent of the country.   In the state's worst affected Ahmedabad city, the death rate is as high as seven per cent. Till Tuesday, the count of coronavirus cases in Gujarat was 17,632 and the death toll was 1,092. Out of these statistics, Ahmedabad has so far reported 12,773 cases and 888 fatalities. The Gujarat government earlier appointed a committee headed by former Union finance secretary Hasmukh Adhia to revive the state's economy which has been badly hit due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-govt-forms-panel-of-doctors-to-revamp-health-care-system-845097.html
03-06-2020||National||Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall near Alibaug, will pass through Mumbai-Thane in next 3 hours||Cyclone Nisarga has made landfall near Alibaug on the Maharashtra coast and the "process" will be completed by about 4 pm, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. The landfall process started at around 12.30 pm. It made landfall about 40 km from Alibaug, 95 km from Mumbai. “The right side of the wall cloud passes through the coastal region of Maharashtra, mainly the Raigad district. It will gradually enter into Mumbai and Thane districts during the next three hours,” the IMD said in a statement. The wind speed of the cyclone is currently 100-110 kilometres per hour, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-nisarga-makes-landfall-near-alibaug-will-pass-through-mumbai-thane-in-next-3-hours-845098.html
03-06-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockodwn: AAP's Sanjay Singh to send migrants home in flights with tickets from MP quota||AAP leader Sanjay Singh said on Wednesday he would use the air tickets he is entitled to as an MP to help stranded migrant workers reach Patna from Delhi by flights. He would take migrant workers on two flights to Patna on Thursday. In a tweet, Singh said that he will use 34 flight tickets received by an MP during the year to send migrants to Patna with the help of colleagues and voluntary organisations.  An MP is entitled to 34 business class tickets in domestic flights annually. The decision was praised by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who said it would be an inspiration for everyone. "Everyone will be inspired by this unique initiative of Sanjay ji. Those whom God has given means, it is their responsibility to put their resources in the service of others. Sanjay ji deserves to be congratulated," Kejriwal said in a tweet. Responding to the compliment, Singh said these were the ideals with which he entered politics. "Thank you Arvind Kejriwal ji. These are the ideals with which we entered politics with you and I will try to follow them throughout my life," he said in a tweet. The coronavirus-triggered lockdown has had a devastating impact on the economy as well as on the livelihoods of lakhs of migrant workers. The plight of migrant workers, walking hundreds, sometimes thousands of kilometres, cycling or clambering onto buses and trains, to go from urban centres to their villages has been the focus of concern for almost two months. The Centre has said around four crore migrant labourers are engaged in various jobs across the country. And so far, 75 lakh of them have returned home in trains and buses since the nationwide lockdown was imposed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockodwn-aaps-sanjay-singh-to-send-migrants-home-in-flights-with-tickets-from-mp-quota-845100.html
03-06-2020||National||Pope condemns racism and violence in US, calls for national reconciliation||Pope Francis broke his silence on the unrest in the United States on Wednesday, saying no one can "turn a blind eye to racism and exclusion" but condemning violence as "self-destructive and self-defeating." Francis, who dedicated the entire English-language section of his weekly audience to the US situation, implored God for national reconciliation and peace. He called the death of George Floyd tragic, and said he was praying for him and all those who had been killed as a result of the "sin of racism".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pope-condemns-racism-and-violence-in-us-calls-for-national-reconciliation-845107.html
03-06-2020||National||Delhi returnee tests COVID-19 positive in Mizoram; count rises to 14||A 30-year-old man who had recently returned to Mizoram from Delhi has tested positive for the novel coronavirus, taking the state's tally to 14, an official said on Wednesday. Of the 14 cases, 13 are active, the official said. The man, who had returned from Delhi in the last week of May, was housed in a quarantine center in Aizawl, state nodal officer for the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP), Dr Pachuau Lalmalsawma told PTI. His samples had tested positive for COVID-19 at the state-run Zoram Medical College (ZMC) late on Tuesday night, he said. Though the new patient was not responsive to the rapid antibody test, he was admitted to the ZMC after he complained of fever, the official said, adding that the man is out of danger. The health department has traced the persons with whom the new patient had come in contact with and their samples will be tested, Lalmalsawma, also the department's spokesperson on COVID-19, said. Earlier, on June 1, twelve persons had tested positive for COVID-19. Ten of them had returned from Delhi while the other two had come back from Kolkata.  Eleven of them were quarantined at a facility in Kolasib district near the Mizoram-Assam border while one person was sent to the ZMC from a quarantine centre in Aizawl after he exhibited COVID-19 symptoms.   All of them are being treated at the ZMC and they are out of danger, health department officials said. Mizoram reported its first case on March 24 when a 52 -year-old man, who had traveled to the Netherlands, tested positive for the novel coronavirus. He recovered and was discharged from the ZMC on May 9. Meanwhile, the administration of the Lawngtlai district in southern Mizoram has declared a total lockdown in its entire jurisdiction owing to rising COVID-19 cases in the state. The order issued by Lawngtlai District Deputy Commissioner Shashanka Ala on Tuesday had proclaimed total lockdown from 1 pm on June 2 till 6 am on June 5. No person without permission from competent authorities will be allowed to step out of his or her house during the lockdown period, the order said. An area within a 500-meter radius of the quarantine centre in Kolasib district where the 11 COVID-19 patients were housed before the detection of their infection will be declared as a containment zone, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-returnee-tests-covid-19-positive-in-mizoram-count-rises-to-14-845109.html
03-06-2020||National||Flight with 180 Indians stranded in Dubai lands in Tamil Nadu||A repatriation flight under the Vande Bharat mission, carrying 180 Indians, who were stranded in Dubai, arrived at the international airport here early Wednesday. The Air India Express (IX 1611) flight with 94 male, 66 female adults, 17 children and three infants onboard landed here after a gap of over two months. It is the first repatriation flight to the city. Majority of the passengers hailed from Tamil Nadu and some from Karnataka and Puducherry, airport sources said. The medical team at the airport collected the swab samples of all the passengers for PCR-based COVID-19 tests. All of them would be sent for institutional quarantine for one week, either at hotels or places of their choice followed by seven-day home quarantine, they said. The expenses for institutional quarantine would be borne by passengers. Those who test positive for the disease would be immediately taken to the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/flight-with-180-indians-stranded-in-dubai-lands-in-tamil-nadu-845113.html
03-06-2020||National||Odisha reports 143 new cases of COVID-19||Odisha reported 143 new cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of people infected in the state to 2,388, a health department official said. Of the fresh cases, 132 were detected among those lodged at quarantine centres, while the other 11 were found during contact tracing, he said. There are 1,054 active cases in the state at present and 1,325 patients have so far recovered from the disease. Odisha has conducted 1,59,567 tests so far. Seven persons have died due to COVID-19 in the state till date, while two others who tested positive died of other reasons, the official said. Over the last four days, the state reported 569 new COVID-19 cases. While 129 cease were reported on May 31, it was 156 on June 1, 141 on June 2, apart from the 143 cases detected during the day, the official said, noting that this is the state's biggest spike in such a short time.  Of the 30 districts in the state, only Rayagada in southern Odisha has not reported any case of COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-reports-143-new-cases-of-covid-19-845117.html
03-06-2020||National||Madhya Pradesh: Indore detects 27 new COVID-19 cases; tally rises to 3,597||With 27 persons testing positive for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours, the case count in Madhya Pradesh's Indore district rose to 3,597 on Wednesday, a health official said. Indore is one of the worst-affected districts in the country amid the coronavirus pandemic. At least 27 persons from the district had tested positive for the deadly infection in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 3,597 in the region, the official said. Moreover, three persons have reportedly died of the infection at different hospitals in the district, which has reported 141 deaths so far, he said.  According to the data, a 72-year-old COVID-19 patient, who had died at a private hospital in the city on May 14, was among the latest casualties, the official said. A total of 2,132 patients have recovered from COVID-19 in the district so far, he added. The Indore district administration has drawn flak for delaying the reports of deaths in the region. The Congress and NGOs have alleged that the health department was sharing data about deaths "at its convenience", raising doubts about the authenticity of the information.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/madhya-pradesh-indore-detects-27-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-3597-845120.html
03-06-2020||National||Raveesh Kumar appointed India's next Ambassador to Finland||A seasoned diplomat and former spokesperson of the External Affairs Ministry Raveesh Kumar has been appointed as India's next Ambassador to Finland, the government announced on Wednesday. Kumar, a 1995-batch Indian Foreign Service officer, served as the spokesperson of the MEA from July 2017 to April 2020 during which he deftly articulated India's position on a number of sensitive issues including last year's Balakot strike, reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir and the controversy surrounding the National Register of Citizens. "He is expected to take up the assignment shortly," the MEA said. Before becoming the MEA spokesperson, Kumar was serving as Consul General of India in Frankfurt. Kumar started his career at the Indian Mission in Jakarta and it was followed by his postings in Thimpu and London. In his nearly 25-year career, Kumar also looked after the East Asia desk in the headquarters of the MEA in Delhi and served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Jakarta followed by his posting as Consul General in Frankfurt from August 2013 to July 2017.   In Finland, he succeeds Vani Rao. Finland is an important country for India in Europe, and bilateral trade has been on an upswing in the last few years. Around 35 Indian companies have invested in Finland in IT, healthcare, hospitality and automotive sectors while over 100 Finnish companies have operations in India in energy, textiles, power plants and electronics sectors.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/raveesh-kumar-appointed-indias-next-ambassador-to-finland-845121.html
03-06-2020||National||1,500 people shifted to sturdy shelter in Alibaug: CMO||About 1,500 citizens were evacuated and shifted to a safe and sturdy shelter in Alibaug in Raigad district of coastal Maharashtra earlier on Wednesday, as per Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray's Office. Cyclone 'Nisarga' made landfall as a severe cyclonic storm around 12:30 pm near Alibaug, 95 km from Mumbai. "Around 1500 citizens evacuated and placed in a safe sturdy shelter in Alibag, Raigad this morning," the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1500-people-shifted-to-sturdy-shelter-in-alibaug-cmo-845122.html
03-06-2020||National||SC dismisses plea of Andhra Pradesh govt against HC order on removing party colours from state buildings||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed an appeal of the Andhra Pradesh government against the high court order asking it to remove the colour of flags of political parties, including the ruling YSRCP, from government and 'panchayat' buildings and get them repainted. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Krishan Murari and S Ravindra Bhat did not agree to the submission of the state government on the issue and rejected the appeal of the state government led by YSR Congress Party (YSRCP). The state government was represented by lawyer G N Reddy who said the high court order was against using flags’ colours of political parties on government buildings including ‘panchayat bhawans’. Recently, the high court at Vijayawada ordered removal of the colours that resemble those of political party flags on the government buildings within ten days. It had also ordered their re-painting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-dismisses-plea-of-andhra-pradesh-govt-against-hc-order-on-removing-party-colours-from-state-buildings-845124.html
03-06-2020||National||Cyclone Nisarga forces diversion of Konkan railway trains||Cyclone Nisarga and heavy rain in the Konkan region in Maharashtra has led to the diversion of four trains of Konkan railway that had commenced journey on Tuesday (June 2). Cyclone Nisarga and forecast for rains in coastal districts of Sindhdurg, Ratnagiri, Raigad, and Mumbai in Maharashtra has affected train traffic. Konkan railway trains that have commenced journey on Tuesday (June 2) have been diverted to the South Western Railway route between Madgaon in Goa to Miraj in Maharashtra, official sources said. Train No 02627 Ernakulam-Nizamuddin special is plying via Madgaon-Londa-Belagavi-Miraj-Pune.Train No 06346 Thiruvanantbpuram-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Mumbai is plying via Madgaon-Londa-Belagavi-Miraj-Pune.Train No 02342 New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram is plying via Surat-Kalyan-Miraj-Belagavi-Londa-Madgaon.Train No 02618 Nizamuddin-Ernakulum is plying via Manmad-Pune-Miraj-Belagavi-Londa-Madgaon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-nisarga-forces-diversion-of-konkan-railway-trains-845125.html
03-06-2020||National||Bangladeshi youth who planned to marry Karachi woman held at Attari||A Bangladeshi youth, who wanted to marry a Pakistani woman he befriended on social media and fell in love with, entered India illegally and hitchhiked his way to Punjab to cross the border, but his plans went awry as he was held at Attari. Nayanmiah Abdullah (20) decided to take the arduous journey after the woman expressed her inability to visit Bangladesh and asked him to come to Pakistan to marry her, he told police. Abdullah, a resident of Bepari Para village in Bangladesh's Shariatpur district, first managed to reach Kolkata and then arrived in Amritsar a fortnight back, police said on Wednesday. Abdullah was staying at different locations in Amritsar before moving to Attari. He was held on Sunday night near the exit gate of the integrated check post at Attari by the Border Security Force, police said. He was neither carrying a passport nor necessary permission for crossing over to Pakistan and also travel documents, according to the police. During questioning, Abdullah told investigators that he wanted to go to Pakistan to meet a Karachi-based woman whom he loved. The teenager, who was pursuing post-graduation in Bangladesh, came in contact with the woman on social media six months ago. Later, he fell in love with her and decided to marry her. Both of them remained in touch over a video call, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bangladeshi-youth-who-planned-to-marry-karachi-woman-held-at-attari-845127.html
03-06-2020||National||Around 42 crore poor received financial assistance of Rs 53,248 cr under PMGKP||About 42 crore poor people have received financial assistance of Rs 53,248 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP), the finance ministry said on Wednesday. On March 26, the government had announced the Rs 1.70 lakh crore relief package to help the vulnerable sections of the society deal with the COVID-19 crisis. The package entails free food grains and cash payment to women, elderly, farmers and others. The ministry said implementation of the package is being continuously monitored by central and state governments. "Around 42 crore poor people received financial assistance of Rs 53,248 crore under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package (PMGKP)," it said. Giving details of the progress achieved till Tuesday, it said Rs 16,394 crore was front loaded towards payment of the first instalment of PM-KISAN to 8.19 crore beneficiaries, and Rs 20,344 crore credited to women Jan Dhan account holders in two instalments. Besides, Rs 2,814.5 crore has been disbursed to about 2.81 crores elderly, widows and disabled persons in two installments. Under PMGKP, 2.3 crore building and construction workers also received financial support amounting to Rs 4,312.82 crore. The ministry further said so far 101 lakh MT of food grains have been lifted by 36 states/Union Territories for April. "36.93 LMT of food grains have been distributed, covering 73.86 crore beneficiaries by 36 States/UTs for April 2020. "32.92 LMT of food grains have been distributed, covering 65.85 crore beneficiaries by 35 States/UTs for May 2020," it said. It added that 3.58 LMT of food grains have been distributed, covering 7.16 crore beneficiaries by 17 states/UTs for June. Also, 5.06 LMT of pulses have been dispatched to various states/UTs. A total of 1.91 LMT of pulses have been distributed so far to 17.9 crore household beneficiaries out of 19.4 crore such beneficiaries, the ministry said. Further, 9.25 crore Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) LPG cylinders have been booked so far and 8.58 crore free cylinders delivered to beneficiaries. As per the ministry, 16.1 lakh members of EPFO have taken benefit of online withdrawal of non-refundable advance from EPFO account amounting to Rs 4,725 crore. Also, 24 per cent EPF contribution has been transferred to 59.23 lakh employees' accounts amounting to Rs 895.09 crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/around-42-crore-poor-received-financial-assistance-of-rs-53248-cr-under-pmgkp-845133.html
03-06-2020||National||Delhi High Court asks Google to take down Saheb Biwi aur Gangster movie from Youtube||The Delhi High Court has asked Google LLC to remove from Youtube the Hindi movie 'Saheb Biwi aur Gangster' which according to its co-producer has been uploaded illegally on the social media platform. Justice Rajiv Shakdher in an interim order on Tuesday, directed Youtube to take down the movie within 48 hours, but its lawyer said that the platform has been taken over by US-based Google LLC which will comply with the direction. The high court recorded the statement made by the lawyer appearing for Youtube and listed the matter for further hearing on July 9. The order came on a lawsuit filed by the movie's co-producer, Rahul Mitra, who has claimed that Tigmanshu Dhulia, the other producer, has assigned to him all the rights in the film. In his plea, Mitra has contended that uploading of the subject movie on Youtube has degraded his rights.  He claimed that he was suffering a huge monetary loss as he is not in a position to sell rights in the movie to video streaming platforms like Amazon Prime Video and Netflix. The high court issued notice to Youtube and Google LLC seeking their response to the lawsuit. During the proceedings held via video conferencing, Youtube's lawyer told the court that it is only an intermediary and, therefore, cannot be held liable for uploading of the movie on its platform.   It also said that had the plaintiff specified the uniform resource locator or URL of the works in which he had rights, Youtube would have been in a position to take down the infringing material. Youtube said that the plaintiff ought to have impleaded in the suit the person or entity which uploaded the movie in question. The high court, thereafter, directed the plaintiff to make the movie uploader a defendant in the suit within five days. "Furthermore, having heard learned counsel for the parties, I am inclined to direct defendant No. 1 (Youtube) to take down the subject movie. Thus, defendant No. 1 is directed to effectuate the aforesaid direction issued by me within the next 48 hours.  "At this stage, Mamta Rani Jha (Youtube's lawyer) also informs me that defendant No. 1 has been taken over by a US entity by the name Google LLC and that the aforesaid directions will be complied with by the said entity. The statement of Ms. Jha in this behalf is taken on record," the judge said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-high-court-asks-google-to-take-down-saheb-biwi-aur-gangster-movie-from-youtube-845143.html
03-06-2020||National||256 Shramik trains cancelled by states; Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh top defaulters: Indian Railways||As the operation of Shramik Special trains move towards culmination, Railways' data showed of the 4,040 trains run till Sunday, 256 trains were cancelled by state governments since May 1, with Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh being the top defaulters. Maharashtra cancelled 105 trains, Gujarat 47, Karnataka 38 and Uttar Pradesh 30 trains, the data showed. As on Wednesday, the Railways has run 4,197 Shramik trains since May 1. While 81 trains are in transit, 4,116 have reached their destinations. Only 10 more Shramik trains are in the pipeline.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/256-shramik-trains-cancelled-by-states-maharashtra-gujarat-karnataka-uttar-pradesh-top-defaulters-indian-railways-845155.html
03-06-2020||National||Over 1 lakh national IDs of Indians put on dark net for sale: Cyber intelligence firm||Over 1 lakh scanned copies of Indians' national IDs, including Aadhaar, PAN card and passport, have been put on dark web for sale, cyber intelligence firm Cyble said on Wednesday. The leaked data seems to have originated from a third party and not from the government system, according to a report by Cyble. "We came across a non-reputed actor who is currently selling over 1 lakh Indian National IDs on the dark net. With such a low reputation, ideally, we would have skipped this; however, the samples shared by the actor intrigued our interest -- and also the volume. The actor is alleged to have access to over 1 lakh IDs from different places in India," Cyble said. The personal data leaked by cyber criminals leads to various nefarious activities such as identity thefts, scams, and corporate espionage. Many criminals use the personal details in the IDs to win trust of the people over a phone call for fraudulent activities. Read more at: https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyber-criminals-leak-personal-data-of-29-cr-job-seeking-indians-on-dark-web-for-free-840891.html The Cyble researchers acquired around 1,000 IDs from the seller and confirmed that the scanned IDs belong to Indians. "Preliminary analysis suggests that the data originated from a third party, and no indication or artefact is indicating that it came from a government system. At this point, Cyble researchers are still investigating this further -- we are hoping to share an update soon," Cyble said. The scanned ID documents indicate that the data may have been leaked from a company's data base in the segment where they have to comply with 'Know Your Customer' (KYC) norms. "Cyble researchers have also learned about a surge in KYC and banking scams -- leaks such as this are often used by scammers to target individuals, especially elderlies," Cyble said. The cyber intelligence firm has recommended people to refrain from sharing personal information especially financial information over phone, e-mail or SMS. "Regularly monitor your financial transaction, if you notice any suspicious transaction, contact your bank immediately," the company said. In May, Cyble showed two instances where personal data of 7.65 crore Indians have been put on sale in the dark web. In one instance, the seller claimed to have sourced data of 4.75 crore Indians from online directory Truecaller and in other, the seller claimed to have sourced from job websites. Truecaller, however, had denied the claim of breach in its database.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-1-lakh-national-ids-of-indians-put-on-dark-net-for-sale-cyber-intelligence-firm-845156.html
03-06-2020||National||Akhilesh-Shivpal to shun differences, join hands again||After deciding to go solo in the next assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh, which is due in less than two years' time, Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav, has changed his plans. Apparently, Yadav, not wanting to allow the BJP to take advantage of the 'feud' within the 'Mulayam Singh Yadav family', has signaled that he is ready to make peace with his estranged uncle Shivpal Singh Yadav. Akhilesh not only withdrew the application before the UP assembly speaker Hriday Narayan Dixit seeking disqualification of Shivpal under the Anti Defection Law but also had a meeting with the latter after almost three years. According to the sources in the SP, party patron Mulayam Singh Yadav has played a crucial role in bringing the uncle-nephew duo together. ''Bringing back Shivpal the party fold will not only strengthen the party organisation but will also not provide an opportunity to the BJP to take advantage of the family feud in the elections,'' said a senior SP leader while speaking to DH here. Shivpal, who was one of the founders of the SP, had played an important role in strengthening the party at the grass-root level, party leaders said. Sources said that Shivpal, who had floated Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia (PSPL), could return if he was given an important post in the party organisation. He could be made general secretary of the party, sources added. ''I can consider returning to SP if given a respectable post,'' Shivpal said.  Although Shivpal's party could not win any seat in the state in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, it certainly affected SP's prospects on at least four to six seats. Shivpal, who had contested against Akshay Yadav, his nephew, from Ferozabad LS seat, ensured the defeat of the latter by bagging around one lakh votes. Akhsay's margin of defeat was less that one lakh. Similarly, he also played spoilsport at Kannauj, Etawah, and some other seats.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akhilesh-shivpal-to-shun-differences-join-hands-again-845165.html
03-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall, US probes global digital services taxes||From the Newsroom is a DH podcast that brings to you the major developments of the day. Today, cyclone Nisarga makes landfall in Maharashtra, relief operations are underway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-cyclone-nisarga-makes-landfall-us-probes-global-digital-services-taxes-845176.html
03-06-2020||National||Foreign businessmen, professionals can now fly into India||Foreign businessmen on non-scheduled commercial or chartered flights as well as foreign researchers, engineers, technicians and other professionals are allowed to fly into India from now on with the government relaxing visa and travel restrictions imposed on them during COVID-19 lockdown.  The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Monday issued orders relaxing visa and travel restrictions for these categories of foreign nationals who need to come to India. According to the official memorandum, all those allowed to land in India will have to obtain fresh business or employment visa from Indian missions. Foreign nationals holding a valid long term multiple entry Business visa would have to get the document re-validated. Also, it said, foreign nationals would not be permitted to travel to India on the strength of any electronic visa obtained earlier.  The move to allow foreign businessmen and professionals came as there has been demand from various quarters that the continuing restrictions would have detrimental effect on the business environment. As per the new plan, foreign businessmen on business visa can fly into India in a non-scheduled commercial or chartered flight. Similarly, foreign healthcare professionals, health researchers, engineers and technicians for technical work at Indian health sector facilities, including laboratories and factories, have the permission to land in India provided they have a letter of invitation from a recognised and registered healthcare facility, registered pharmaceutical company or accredited University in the country.   Professionals -- engineering, managerial, design or other specialists -- in manufacturing units, design units, software and IT units as well as financial sector companies (banking and non-banking financial sector firms) are also allowed to travel to India on behalf of foreign business entities located in India. Another set of people, who are allowed, include technical specialists and engineers travelling for installation, repair and maintenance of foreign-origin machinery and equipment facilities in India, on the invitation of a registered Indian business entity. These could be for equipment installation, or is under warranty, or for after sales servicing or repair on commercial terms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/foreign-businessmen-professionals-can-now-fly-into-india-845177.html
03-06-2020||National||Amit Shah changes Bihar rally plan, so does Tejashwi||Former BJP president and Union Home Minister Amit Shah has advanced his Bihar rally planned for June 9. Now, he will address the party workers in the State through video conferencing on June 7, Sunday. The RJD, which had planned ‘Garib Adhikar Diwas’ to counter BJP’s ‘virtual rally’ on June 9, too, has advanced it to June 7. “We have also advanced our programme and will now counter BJP’s ‘virtual rally’ on Sunday by organising ‘Garib Adhikar Diwas’ on June 7. We will observe the day to show solidarity with the poor migrants and farmers. Our stir is to protest the ruling BJP, which, instead of showing sympathy with the poor and migrant workers, is thinking about elections in the midst of the COVID-19 crisis,” said Leader of the Opposition, Tejashwi Yadav. Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal confirmed that Shah’s virtual rally will now be held on June 7. “Due to some technical reasons, it has been advanced from June 9 to June 7,” said Jaiswal, who is a BJP Lok Sabha MP from West Champaran in Bihar. “The Union Home Minister will address lakhs of party workers in the State through video-conferencing,” the Bihar BJP chief added. This will be for the first time in the history of an Indian election campaign where a digital mode of electioneering will kick-start for the Assembly polls. Bihar, which will be the first State to have polls post-COVID-19 crisis, is slated to have Assembly elections for 243 seats in October-November this year.  Senior BJP leader and Deputy Chief Minister of Bihar, Sushil Modi, had last month dropped ample hint that instead of the conventional method, the BJP could go for a digital mode of campaigning. In Bihar, the JD (U) and the BJP are ruling alliance partners since 2017. Shah has already announced that the Assembly polls in the State will be contested under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-changes-bihar-rally-plan-so-does-tejashwi-845191.html
03-06-2020||National||Sitaram Yechury opposes 'digital divide' in academics||CPI(M) on Wednesday found fault with the push for online classes saying digital methods cannot replace traditional pedagogical teaching in schools and colleges, especially, at a time the "digital divide" is excluding poor and the rural people from academics. The government to reschedule the academic session so that examinations can be conducted in the normal way and students do not suffer the loss of a year, the party said after a one-day meeting of the Polit Bureau. Elaborating on the deliberations in the meeting, CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury said the government is imposing digital education during the COVID-19 pandemic by pushing examinations, admissions and even entrance tests through digital format when the technology is not universally available for all. "The poor and rural people are outside the digital technology and they will be deprived. That is going to be disastrous. Unfortunately, the Narendra Modi government is busy with own agenda, which has nothing to do with dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic," Yechury said. Acknowledging that digital methods may be employed so that the academic year is not disrupted during this pandemic and the consequent disruptions, Yechury, however, said the CPI(M) had all along opposed and continues to oppose the replacement of traditional pedagogical teaching in schools and colleges with digital methods.  "Digital education can never be the replacement. Even this must only be utilized only where there is universal access to digital equipment by all students in a concerned area. The CPI(M) opposes any digital divide in education," he said.  Yechury’s comments came against the backdrop of reports from Kerala where a girl died by suicide after she was unable to attend an online class. Kerala has started online classes from June 1.  He said the national lockdown imposed on March 25 came when the academic year was ending and it has disrupted the future of a generation of students. "Using the lockdown, the central government is seeking to implement its retrograde education policy, unapproved by parliament and imposing digital teaching/learning methods. The digital divide should not be super-imposed on our country’s education system, adversely affecting the future of India," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sitaram-yechury-opposes-digital-divide-in-academics-845197.html
03-06-2020||National||Kashmir remained shut for 3,000 days since 1990: Valley trade bodies||Kashmir valley remained shut on account of strikes, curfews and other disturbances for nearly nine years in the last three decades due to which business community has suffered whopping losses. This was stated by representatives of over 30 trade bodies including Kashmir Chamber of Commerce & Industry (KCCI) during a presser. Sheikh Ashiq, president of KCCI said the traders who have suffered losses in the past three decades demand measures for the revival of businesses. “The only aim to hold a joint presser today is to raise our voice for the business fraternity across the Valley. In particular, our businesses are suffering from last ten months and we have never come out of the lockdown,” he said. Ashiq said while the businesses suffered hugely due to last August security clampdown, the situation got further deteriorated after the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown. “Our business friends in India have raised voice over the losses suffered by them. The government later announced a package for the affected people. (But) we have been excluded from the package as it is only for those who suffered losses in last two months,” he said. “But, the businessmen in Kashmir are facing losses from last ten months,” the KCCI president said. “We need attention of the government as ten months of suffering needs to be mitigated. The people at helm should take comprehensive measures for revival of Kashmir’s business.”   Iqbal Ahmad, Kashmir Economic Alliance (KEA) Vice-Chairman while talking to the media said that the Valley has witnessed 3,000 days of lockdown in three decades. “Whenever the valley witnessed lockdown, the business fraternity got badly affected,” he said. “Despite witnessing such a situation, none of the traders in Kashmir turned Vijay Mallya or Nirav Modi. The Kashmiri traders who have borrowed money from the banks are repaying the amount. We also do deserve a relief package,” Ahmad demanded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kashmir-remained-shut-for-3000-days-since-1990-valley-trade-bodies-845217.html
03-06-2020||National||Demand for Shramik special trains goes down||The demand for Shramik Special trains, meant to ferry stranded migrant workers, has come down drastically for the past few days from the state governments.   Since May 1, the day the services of Shramik Special trains started, Indian Railways operated  total 4,197 trains and ferried over 57 lakh passengers. While 81 trains are in transit, 4,116 have reached their destinations as on Wednesday. Only 10 more Shramik trains are in the pipeline. At the same time 256 trains were cancelled by the state governments since May 1 with highest in  Maharashtra followed by Gujarat and Karnataka. Maharashtra cancelled 105 trains, Gujarat 47, Karnataka 38 and Uttar Pradesh 30 trains, the  railways said. As railways demanded minimum 1,000 to 1,200 passengers for each Shramik Special trains, in several places states could not find required numbers. This also lead to cancellation of  trains by state, said the officials.    With demand for Shramik special trains going down, the railways likely to take a decision to suspend its services soon.  As most of the states sent registered migrant workers to their home states, the demand for Shramik Special trains has reduced, said an official in the railways. Earlier, Railway Board chairman V K Yadav said the railways is ready to operate Shramik Special trains as long as the states demand it. While the railways started operation of  200 regular time tabled trains daily from June 1,  over 28 lakh passengers booked ticket till June 30. Besides, most of the workers already reached their home states and remaining workers may want to stay back since factories have started functioning,  said an official.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/demand-for-shramik-special-trains-goes-down-845232.html
03-06-2020||National||Veteran Bollywood lyricist Anwar Sagar passes away||Veteran lyricist Anwar Sagar, best remembered for his hit track ‘Wada Raha Sanam’ from Akshay Kumar starrer “Khiladi”, passed away on Wednesday. The actor, in his 70s, was brought dead to Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani hospital in the afternoon. He must be close to 70 years, a hospital source told PTI. The cause of his death is not known, the source added. Anwar wrote songs for the 80s and 90s films such as David Dhawan’s “Yaraana”, Jackie Shroff’s “Sapne Saajan Ke”, “Khiladi”, “Main Khiladi Tu Anari”, Ajay Devgn starrer “Vijaypath” among others. His most popular creation is the romantic track - ‘Wada Raha Sanam’ picturised on Akshay and Ayesha Jhulka. "Veteran lyricist and IPRS member Anwar Sagar has passed away. Known for writing songs like 'Vaadaa Raha Sanam', he also penned lyrics for iconic movies like Vijaypath and Yaraana. Our thoughts and prayers are with his family in this difficult time. May his soul #RIP," Indian Performing Rights Society said in a tweet. Bollywood has seen some terrible losses during the lockdown with the back-to-back deaths of Irrfan Khan and Rishi Kapoor in April. Noted singer-composer Wajid Khan passed away recently at the age of 42. He had underlying kidney issues and had tested positive for COVID-19. Veteran lyricist Yogesh Gaur also died last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/veteran-bollywood-lyricist-anwar-sagar-passes-away-845236.html
03-06-2020||National||PSA of Shah Faesal, two other Kashmiri leaders revoked||Jammu and Kashmir government on Wednesday revoked Public Safety Act (PSA) of former IAS topper-turned-politician, Shah Faesal and two leaders of regional PDP, who were detained after abrogation of Article 370 last August. One of the most vocal critics of the Center’s move to end Jammu and Kashmir’s special status, the 2010 IAS topper was detained at Delhi airport last August when he was reportedly on the way to Istanbul. Besides, Faesal, the PSA of two senior leaders of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) - Sartaj Madani and Peer Mansoor- was also revoked, leaving last chief minister of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir, Mehbooba Mufti among the few prominent leaders from the region who continue to be in detention. Earlier, two other former chief ministers of J&K Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah were released in March after remaining in detention for more than seven months. In April after more than eight months of incarceration, Mufti the president of the PDP, was shifted to her official Gupkar residence in Srinagar, where she has been kept under house detention since then. Dozens of high profile politicians, including three former CMs, were detained by the government following the revocation of special status of J&K under Article 370 and 35-A and bifurcation of the erstwhile state into two Union Territories (UTs) on August 5, 2019. Meanwhile, Omar Abdullah while welcoming the revocation of the PSA of Faesal, Madni and Mansoor demanded release of other detained leaders including Mehbooba. “Good to hear @shahfaesal, Peer Mansoor & Sartaj Madani have been released from their unjust PSA detention. Disappointed that @MehboobaMufti, Sagar Sb & Hilal Lone continue to be detained. It’s high time they are set free as well (sic),” he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/psa-of-shah-faesal-two-other-kashmiri-leaders-revoked-845240.html
03-06-2020||National||CPI(M) to hold nationwide protest on June 16 against govt's response to COVID-19 pandemic||The CPI(M) will hold a nationwide protest on June 16 protesting against the Narendra Modi government's response to COVID-19 pandemic that rendered "an additional around 15 crore people jobless" during the lockdown and pushed migrant workers to hit roads to march towards their homes displaying the extent of hunger they were suffering. The decision to hold the protest was announced by CPI(M) General Secretary Sitaram Yechury on Wednesday, a day after the party's top leaders in the Polit Bureau met "digitally" to analyse the situation in the country. The Central Committee, the highest decision making body of the party, will also be called in July "using digital technology like done for the Polit Bureau meeting", in a first of its kind deliberations through video conferencing, when it takes a call on its triennal Party Congress next year and discuss the political situation. Yechury said the Polit Bureau has decided to hold the protest by observing physcial distancing norms and wearing masks. The protesters are demanding a cash transfer of Rs. 7500 per month for a period of six months to all families outside the income tax paying bracket and free distribution of 10 kg foodgrains, per individual, per month for a period of six months. The protesters will also demand a minimum of 200 days employment under MNREGA with enhanced ways, extending the employment guarantee scheme to urban areas and unemployment allowance to all jobless people as well as against privatisation and scrapping of labour laws.  "The Modi government is pursuing an agenda which is deepening and sharpening communal polarisation by arresting, isolating and targeting activists from minority communities. A financial package is announced which is nothing but repackaging of already announced schemes. Only 1% of the Rs 20,000 lakh crore is new, which is completely inadequate," he said. "A vast section of our people have lost all means of livelihood. The heart-rending experiences of hungry migrant workers on the roads marching back home has shown the depths of huger that a sizeable section of our people are suffering today," he said. Asked about his views on unlocking, Yechury said the lockdown and unlocking was equally unscientific as the government did not take measures for "either augmenting the health facilities required" or in providing relief to the people who have been "agonized cruelly by not getting any time to prepare to meet the consequences" of the lockdown. "The government is now telling people, you fend for yourself. It is washing its hands off," he said adding it took a unilateral decision to impose lockdown and is now "shifting the burden" of bearing the consequences of the lockdown, on to the shoulders of the state governments.  "Modi even refuses to part with the thousands of crores of rupees he is collecting in a private trust fund under the PM’s name, to the states," he added. On the June 1 announcement on increasing Minimum Support Price (MSP) for certain agricultural products, he said the increase was a meagre 2% for paddy and likewise for other commodities. The increase was much less than the cost of production that has gone up during the last one year, pushing the peasantry into "greater indebtedness", he said. Asked about the stand-off between India and China, he said the matter was an issue of concern and expressed hope that the talks being held through the established mechanism at the defence and diplomatic levels will help to resolve it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-to-hold-nationwide-protest-on-june-16-against-govts-response-to-covid-19-pandemic-845247.html
03-06-2020||National||Govt to conduct skill-mapping of citizens returning from overseas||The government on Wednesday said it has launched a new initiative 'SWADES' to conduct a skill mapping exercise of the Indian citizens returning from overseas under the 'Vande Bharat Mission'. SWADES (Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support) is aimed at making the best of skilled workforce returning to the country due to the ongoing pandemic. "This is a joint initiative of the Ministry of Skill Development & Entrepreneurship, the Ministry of Civil Aviation and the Ministry of External Affairs, which aims to create a database of qualified citizens based on their skill-sets and experience to tap into and fulfil demand of Indian and foreign companies," an official statement said. The collected information will be shared with the companies for suitable placement opportunities in the country. The returning citizens are required to fill up an online SWADES Skills Card. The card will facilitate a strategic framework to provide the returning citizens with suitable employment opportunities through discussions with key stakeholders including state governments, industry associations and employers. Commenting on the collaboration, Mahendra Nath Pandey, Union Minister of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, said, “These are testing times and it is crucial that the entire country comes together and supports the Centre in its efforts to address the challenges posed by the economic downturn caused by the COVID–19 pandemic." He said the data collected through SWADES Skill Card will help the citizens with job prospects and bridge the demand-supply gap. "The spread of COVID-19 across the globe has had a significant economic impact with thousands of workers losing their jobs and hundreds of companies shutting down globally. Many of our citizens returning to the country through the Vande Bharat Mission of the Government of India may be facing uncertainty regarding their future employment opportunities," the statement said. It said lakhs of citizens have registered at the various Indian missions requesting to return to the country and so far, more than 57,000 people have already returned to the country. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, Minister of External Affairs, commented, “In view of the global emergency caused by the unprecedented spread of the Novel Coronavirus, we are committed to provide every possible support to our citizens stranded abroad and the challenges they are facing due to job losses. "We shall actively promote the SWADES Skill Card initiative through our Embassies/ High Commissions/Consulates across different countries. The initiative will help in deployment of returning Indian workforce matching their skill sets.” The online form has been created to gather required details of the returning citizens. The form contains the details such as details related to the work sector, job title, employment, years of experience. A toll free call centre facility has also been set up to support the citizens for any queries related to filling the form. "The SWADES Skill Form (online) was made live on May 30, 2020 and has garnered around 7000 registrations till 3rd June 2020 (2 pm). Amongst the data gathered so far, the top countries from where the citizens are returning are UAE, Oman, Qatar, Kuwait and Saudi Arabia," the statement said. As per the skill mapping, these citizens had been primarily employed in sectors such as oil and gas, construction, tourism and hospitality, automotive and aviation.    The data also suggests that the states which have shown highest returning labour are Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana, said the official statement.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-conduct-skill-mapping-of-citizens-returning-from-overseas-845248.html
03-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi speaks to Mozambique Prez Nyusi on COVID-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday spoke with Mozambique President Filipe Nyusi on the COVID-19 pandemic and assured him of India's continued support, including medical assistance, to combat the health crisis. "Had an excellent talk with H.E. Filipe Nyusi, President of Mozambique on COVID-19 situation. I assured him of India's continued support to Mozambique, including medical assistance to combat COVID-19," the prime minister tweeted. Modi said he thanked the Mozambique leader for taking care of the safety and security of the Indian community there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-speaks-to-mozambique-prez-nyusi-on-covid-19-situation-845249.html
03-06-2020||National||State cannot be ungrateful to migrant workers: Madras HC||The Madras High Court on Wednesday observed that the State cannot be ungrateful to the migrant workers having extracted work from them and directed it to provide food and shelter for the stranded labourers "on a war-footing." Additional Solicitor General G Rajagopalan submitted that comprehensive directions have been given by the Supreme Court and the same is being followed. The migrant labourers are not charged even for train travel as per the apex court order, the ASG said and sought time to file a comprehensive report and counter in the matter. Petitioner-advocate AP Suryaprakasam submitted that thousands of migrant labourers are without food and shelter and they are loitering in the railway stations and so, they should be provided with food, shelter and medical facilities. The petitioner has filed a habeas corpus petition seeking a direction to produce Ilayaraja and 400 others who have allegedly been illegally detained by the Superintendent of Police, Sangli, Maharashtra. When the matter came up for hearing today through video conference, a division bench of Justices N Kirubakaran and Justice R Hemalatha said: "It is the duty of the State to see that every migrant worker is provided with adequate food, drinking water, shelter and medical facilities. Having extracted work from the migrant labourers, State cannot be ungrateful. Hence, the State Government is directed to identify the migrant labourers who are without food, shelter and medical facilities and provide the same to them on war-footing basis and file a report in the next hearing." The bench then posted the matter for further hearing to June 8. Last month when the case came up, the division bench observed that though the central and state governments have taken care of every section of the society to the maximum extent possible, the guest workers and agricultural workforce were neglected. While referring to the sufferings of the migrant workers, the court said "..one cannot control his/her tears after seeing the pathetic condition of migrant labourers shown in the media for the past one month.It is nothing but a human tragedy...." It then asked the Central and state governments to file a detailed report on such stranded guest workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/state-cannot-be-ungrateful-to-migrant-workers-madras-hc-845250.html
03-06-2020||National||Rahul's interactions on COVID-19: Cong releases teaser of discussion with industrialist Rajiv Bajaj||Rahul Gandhi's dialogue with industrialist Rajiv Bajaj on the economic fallout of the COVID-19 crisis will be aired on Thursday, the latest in the series of deliberations the former Congress chief is having with experts from various fields on the impact of the pandemic. In the teaser of the conversation released on various social media accounts of the party, Gandhi, citing experts, is seen talking about the fear of the coronavirus disease, which, if spreads once, is difficult to get rid of. In the teaser, Managing Director of Bajaj Auto, Rajiv Bajaj, is seen talking about the effect of the lockdown on the economy. "The virus is waiting to hit you, so you have not solved that problem, but you have decimated the economy. You have flattened the wrong curve -- not the infection curve but the GDP curve. This is what we have ended with -- the worst of both worlds," Bajaj says.  The first such dialogue was held on April 30 when Gandhi discussed the coronavirus pandemic and its economic implications with former Reserve Bank of India governor Raghuram Rajan. He then held a conversation with Nobel laureate Abhijit Banerjee who had said India should come out with a large enough stimulus package to revive demand. The former Congress chief last week spoke to globally renowned public health experts -- Professor Ashish Jha of Harvard Global Health Institute and Swedish epidemiologist Johan Giesecke. "Tomorrow, Thursday, 4th June, 10 AM onwards, join my conversation with Mr Rajiv Bajaj on the COVID crisis, across all my social media platforms," Gandhi said on Twitter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rahuls-interactions-on-covid-19-cong-releases-teaser-of-discussion-with-industrialist-rajiv-bajaj-845253.html
03-06-2020||National||Centre distorting facts on Shramik Special trains, rail minister should resign or be removed: Cong||The Congress on Wednesday accused the Centre of distorting facts on payments for Shramik Special train services and demanded that Railway Minister Piyush Goyal either resign or be removed from the post. The Railways has maintained that 85 per cent of the expense of Shramik Special trains, ferrying migrant workers stranded due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, was being borne by the Centre and the states were only paying 15 per cent in the form of fares. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the central government has not spent a single penny on running special trains for migrant workers returning home as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta has made it clear before the Supreme Court that state governments receiving or sending migrants were to pay for them. "It is now clear that the Central government has been distorting facts and being less than fair with the public regarding rail travel for labourers and migrant labourers. "This is a very serious point on which we need to pin down the government. With this kind of clear contradictions, how is it that the railway minister will not resign or will not be removed? One of the two must happen," Singhvi said at a press conference. The Modi government "did not spend a single penny" on the travel of migrant workers, he said, adding that Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Home Minister Amit Shah and other BJP leaders had been claiming that the Centre was bearing 85 per cent of the cost of trains. Instead, the railways levied a superfast charge of Rs 30 and an additional Rs 20 for food and water while the impression given by the government was that everything was being given free, the Congress leader alleged. "Which government fails to provide food and water to people and then lies about it?" he posed. Singhvi said that according to an analysis, of the 3,740 trains that ran since May 1 about 40 per cent were recorded as late with an average delay of 8 hours. A total of 421 trains were delayed for 10 hours or AND around 10 pc or some 373 Shramik Specials were late by 10-24 hours, he claimed, adding 78 trains were delayed by a day or more and 43 trains say 30 hours of delay and some added two days or more over and above their scheduled journey time. "This is the true state of what is happening with the migrants and the railways. Things that we shared nails the government's lies. With this, how is it that the Railway Minister has not resigned or has not been removed?" he asked.  It is admitted that at least 81 deaths have happened and there are allegations that more fatalities occurred but have not being declared by the railways, Singhvi said. He said Home Minister Amit Shah gave a "strange explanation" that a few migrant labourers had lost patience and started walking home during the lockdown, even though the Centre had provided adequate facilities for them to return home. He recalled that the solicitor general had said in the Supreme Court that all the cost of the rail travel of migrants has to be borne by sending states or receiving states and there is no mention of the Centre. "While the SC says provide free of cost, here all sorts of charges are being levied on trains. Who is lying? Why this distortion?" he said. "If the BJP (leaders) had their hearts in the right place to help migrant workers, such massive failures would not have occurred," Singhvi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-distorting-facts-on-shramik-special-trains-rail-minister-should-resign-or-be-removed-cong-845262.html
03-06-2020||National||SC notice to journalist Upendra Rai on plea against bail in money laundering case||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to journalist Upendra Rai on a plea by the Enforcement Directorate against the bail granted to him in a money laundering case. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy said until further orders, the Delhi High Court's order should be stayed if Rai had not been released. The Enforcement Directorate, led by Additional Solicitor General K M Nataraj, challenged the validity of the High Court's order passed on July 9, 2019. Rai, a senior journalist having worked with Tehelka, Star TV, and other big media houses, has already been released from jail. In its order, the High Court had noted in the case registered in May 2018, a complaint was made by Kapil Wadhawan on behalf of M/s White Lion Real Estate Developers Private Limited. It was alleged that a sum of Rs 16.40 crore has been extorted. It also said out of the total laundered amount of Rs 52.55 Crore, Rs 26.65 Crore stood attached.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-journalist-upendra-rai-on-plea-against-bail-in-money-laundering-case-845264.html
03-06-2020||National||Focus of fight against COVID-19 now on prevention, awareness: Jitendra Singh||Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Wednesday said the country's focus in the current phase of fight against coronavirus is mainly on prevention and awareness and for these the role of civic bodies is very vital. Interacting with representatives of municipal bodies of Jammu and Kashmir through video conference, Singh, the Union minister for PMO, also said the need of the hour is to follow the 'mantra' of 'awareness, not anxiety'. For this, the elected representatives of municipal bodies, who are the grassroot leaders, can play a convincing role by making people understand the importance of exercising precaution without panic, he said. Singh, who hails from Jammu and Kashmir, said the main consideration in earlier two phases of fight against COVID-19 was to arrange essential supplies for people held up in different parts of the country and ensure their free movement to their respective homes. However, in the current phase, the focus is on two issues -- prevention and awareness -- and for fulfilling these two objectives, the role of the local bodies and their representatives is very important, he said. The minister said there is a need to make people understand that even though the number of coronavirus cases is high, this is to a great extent because of mass screening and more number of samples being tested, a press release said. Otherwise, he said, the percentage prevalence and death rate have remained almost same over the last ten weeks. Singh said municipal bodies should continue with fumigation, maintenance of cleanliness, hygiene, social distancing and the district administration has been directed to keep the municipal bodies on board in planning and execution of all COVID-19 related activities. The heads of the municipal bodies appreciated the regular contact with them maintained by the minister and his office on day-to-day basis. They brought to the notice of Singh that the release of funds to the local bodies had got delayed.  The minister appreciated the role played by the municipal bodies and civil society during the coronavirus pandemic and assured them that he is personally following up for closer coordination amongst all. During the two-hour-long meeting, those who presented their views included mayor of Jammu Municipal Corporation Chandra Mohan Gupta, deputy mayor of Jammu Municipal Corporation Purnima Sharma, mayor of Srinagar Municipal Corporation Junaid Azim Mattoo and deputy mayor of Srinagar Municipal Corporation Parvej Quadri, the release said. In addition, chairmen of the municipal bodies of Billawar, Basholi, Hiranagar, Bhaderwah, Doda, Vijaypur, Kupwara, Baramulla, Anantnag, Chenani, Ramgarh, Parole, Batote and others also participated in the interaction, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-of-fight-against-covid-19-now-on-prevention-awareness-jitendra-singh-845274.html
03-06-2020||National||Technology mainstay for NCERT's alternative academic calendar for higher education||Mobile Apps, phones, educational television and YouTube videos are to play a significant role in imparting education to the higher secondary students in the alternative academic calendar unveiled by the HRD Ministry on Wednesday. The Alternative Academic Calendar, developed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) also emphasises on learning rather than testing for scores as teachers look for newer avenues to keep students engaged during the Covid-19 induced closure of schools. “The calendar provides guidelines to teachers on the use of various technological tools and social media tools available for imparting education in fun-filled, interesting ways, which can be used by learner, parents, and teachers even while at home,” HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said.  He said the NCERT has also taken into account the varying levels of access of students to different tools and platforms such as mobile phones, radio, television, SMS and various social media. The Minister said the Alternative Calendar will cater to the needs of all children including Divyang children (Children with Special Needs) – link for Audiobooks, Radio programmes, Video programme will be included. It also suggests to teachers to guide students through SMS or voice calls in case there is no access to mobile internet or television. Initially, this calendar is prepared for four weeks, which may be extended further. In this calendar, the themes/topics have been selected from the syllabus and are linked with the learning outcomes.  “All the given activities are suggestive in nature, not prescriptive, nor is the sequence mandatory. Teachers and parents may opt to contextualise the activities and do those activities that the student shows interest in, irrespective of the sequence,” an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/technology-mainstay-for-ncerts-alternative-academic-calendar-for-higher-education-845276.html
03-06-2020||National||Operationalise 'Vande Bharat' mission flights from Europe, US to Kerala: Tharoor tells Puri||Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor has urged Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri to operationalise evacuation flights connecting Europe, North America and certain other regions with Kerala under the Vande Bharat Mission. In a letter to Puri, Tharoor said while evacuation flights, as part of the mission, have evacuated the country's citizens from some major cities like San Francisco, New York and Frankfurt, these flights have primarily flown back to metropolitan hubs like New Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad. "As a result, those wishing to travel to other states from these cities, have to undergo the mandatory period of quarantine first before they are allowed to proceed to their homes. This has become a cause of concern for expatriate groups from the state of Kerala that are currently in these countries," the MP from Thiruvananthapuram said. "Recently, I received a representation from over 54 Keralites stranded in Germany, in a group that also includes pregnant women, senior citizens and those facing imminent visa expiry," he said. The only way for this group to return would be to fly to one of the aforementioned Indian cities and undergo quarantine there, Tharoor said, adding that this would not only cause them mental anguish and concern of potentially contracting the virus, but would also increase the strain on the existing infrastructure within these cities that serve as institutional quarantine facilities. Similar concerns have also been raised by a number of Keralite pravasi welfare groups that are based in the US, he said in a letter dated June 2. "There is, therefore, a strong case to consider operationalising flights that land directly in one of the major airports in the state, particularly the airport in my constituency of Thiruvananthapuram which has the proven capability of facilitating the arrival of wide-body aircraft," Tharoor said.  Such a measure would give these groups the mental satisfaction of being quarantined in their own state and also allow for seamless transfer to their respective homes once the period of quarantine is over, he said. While the majority of pravasis from the state reside in the Gulf Cooperation Council region and other parts of the Middle East, the state also has a substantial community in parts of Europe like Germany as well as other countries like the US, Algeria, Australia and Canada, Tharoor said. The Ministry of External Affairs has also indicated that they will have no objection to direct flights from US and European airports to Kerala, provided there are enough passengers to fill wide-bodied aircraft, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/operationalise-vande-bharat-mission-flights-from-europe-us-to-kerala-tharoor-tells-puri-845280.html
03-06-2020||National||Wildlife poaching in India more than doubles during COVID-19 lockdown||Incidents of wildlife poaching in India have more than doubled during the COVID-19 lockdown with 88 animals being killed for meat and trade during this time compared to 35 in the pre-lockdown days in February, a new study has revealed. The study conducted by TRAFFIC, a wildlife trade monitoring network and an NGO working globally on trade in wild animals, said that between February 10 and 22, the number of animal poaching incidents was 35 while during the lockdown between March 23 and May 3, the number escalated to 88. TRAFFIC, which operates as a programme division of the WWF India, found a significant increase in reported poaching of wild animals in India during the lockdown period that is not restricted to any geographical region or state or to any specific wildlife area. Reported poaching incidents rose from 35 to 88, including nine leopards being killed during the lockdown compared to four killed in the pre-lockdown period, said the report 'Indian wildlife amidst the COVID-19 crisis: An analysis of poaching and illegal wildlife trade trends.' “Reports of poaching incidences for consumption and local trade have more than doubled during lockdown although there was no evidence of stockpiling of wildlife products for future trade,” it said. The study indicates that despite consistent efforts by law enforcement agencies, wild animal populations in India are under additional threat during the lockdown period. Ravi Singh, CEO, WWF-India said, “If poaching of ungulates and small animals remains unchecked it will lead to depletion of prey base for big cats like tigers and leopards and a depletion of the ecosystems.  “This in turn will lead to higher incidences of human-wildlife conflicts and will undermine the significant successes that India has achieved in the field of wildlife conservation”.   The highest increase in poaching was reported to be of ungulates mainly for their meat, and the percentage jumped from nearly 22 per cent (eight out of 35) total reported cases pre-lockdown, to 44 per cent (39 out of 88) during the lockdown period. The second group which showed a marked increase was poaching of “small mammals” including hares, porcupines, pangolins, giant squirrels, civets, monkeys, smaller wild cats. “Although some have always been in high demand in international markets, most hunting during the lockdown period is presumably for meat or for local trade. Cases for these rose from 17 per cent to 25 per cent between the pre-and lockdown periods,” the report said. It also said a total of 222 people were arrested in poaching-related cases by various law enforcement agencies during the lockdown period across the country, significantly higher than the 85 suspects reported as arrested during the pre-lockdown phase. However, there was less reporting of poaching and illegal trade in tortoises and freshwater turtles, with almost no seizures of these species during the lockdown period, the report said. Saket Badola, Head of TRAFFIC's India Office said, “The more than doubling of reported poaching cases, mainly of ungulates and small wild animals for meat is doubtless placing additional burdens on wildlife law enforcement agencies. Therefore, it is imperative that these agencies are supported adequately and in a timely manner so that they can control the situation.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wildlife-poaching-in-india-more-than-doubles-during-covid-19-lockdown-845289.html
03-06-2020||National||Centre not to scrap MSP on wheat, rice: Agriculture minister||Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Wednesday said the Centre will continue to fix the minimum support price (MSP) on wheat and rice, while using the Opposition not to create "confusion and play politics" on this issue. He was responding to a query whether the Cabinet discussed scrapping of MSP for wheat and rice. While briefing Cabinet decisions, Tomar said that two days back, the government announced MSP of kharif crops like paddy for the crop year 2020-21 (July-June). He added that the government has started fixing MSP, which is 50 per cent higher than the cost of production. "Procurement at MSP is underway. It will continue in the coming days as well. Those who want to create confusion and play politics, I request them to do it on other issues," he said. Tomar said farmers suffered injustice in the past 70 years and when the current government is giving justice, "at least don't do politics". MSP is the rate at which the government buys grain from farmers to ensure assured returns on the produce.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-not-to-scrap-msp-on-wheat-rice-agriculture-minister-845301.html
03-06-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir administration revokes PSA against Shah Faesal and two PDP leaders||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday revoked the stringent Public Safety Act against former IAS officer-turned-politician Shah Faesal and two PDP members, including the maternal uncle of former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, officials said. The controversial Public Safety Act (PSA) against Faesal, which was extended by three months on May 14, has now been superseded by the order on Wednesday from the Home Department of the Union Territory. Faesal, who was under detention after scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, was booked under the PSA in February this year, with his detention being extended barely hours before it was to come to an end. The Home Department also revoked the stringent act against senior PDP leaders Sartaj Madani and Peer Mansoor. Madani was lodged with National Conference general secretary Ali Mohammed Sagar at a government bunglow. Their detention had been extended on May 5 for a period of three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-administration-revokes-psa-against-shah-faesal-and-two-pdp-leaders-845304.html
03-06-2020||National||Govt introduces three ordinances to help farmers earn more||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday decided to promulgate three Ordinances to ease farmers’ access to markets across the country to sell their produce, help them enter contracts to get assured returns and exempt farm products from the Essential Commodities Act (ECA). Wednesday’s announcements were part of the relief measures unveiled by the Modi government last month to soften the impact of the COVID-19-induced lockdown on the economy. According to the amendments approved to the 65-year-old ECA, farm produce such as cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onions and potatoes will be exempted from the law that allowed government impose stock limits in case of sharp rise in prices. “The ECA was enacted when the country faced shortages. Today we are a country of surpluses,” I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters briefing on the decisions taken by the Union Cabinet. Besides enabling better price realisation for farmers, the ECA amendment will also ensure that no stock limits shall apply to processors or value chain participant, subject to their installed capacity or to any exporter subject to the export demand. With agriculture a state subject, the Centre decided to enact a new law to declare places beyond the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee area as market places, thus, allowing doorstep purchase of farm produce. “The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020’ will promote barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade and commerce outside the physical premises of markets notified under State Agricultural Produce Marketing legislations,” Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar said. He said the move will help small and marginal farmers who will save money on transporting their produce to wholesale markets. “This is a historic-step in unlocking the vastly regulated agricultural markets in the country,” he said. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020 is expected to empower farmers to engage with food processors, aggregators, wholesalers, large retailers and exporters on a level playing field without any fear of exploitation, Tomar said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-introduces-three-ordinances-to-help-farmers-earn-more-845308.html
03-06-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir administration revokes PSA against Shah Faesal and two PDP leaders||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Wednesday revoked the stringent Public Safety Act against former IAS officer-turned-politician Shah Faesal and two PDP members, including the maternal uncle of former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti, officials said. The controversial Public Safety Act (PSA) against Faesal, which was extended by three months on May 14, has now been superseded by the order on Wednesday from the Home Department of the Union Territory. Faesal, who was under detention after scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir's special status, was booked under the PSA in February this year, with his detention being extended barely hours before it was to come to an end. The Home Department also revoked the stringent act against senior PDP leaders Sartaj Madani and Peer Mansoor. Madani was lodged with National Conference general secretary Ali Mohammed Sagar at a government bunglow. Their detention had been extended on May 5 for a period of three months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-administration-revokes-psa-against-shah-faesal-and-two-pdp-leaders-845316.html
03-06-2020||National||Centre launches real-time market in electricity||Union Power Minister R K Singh on Wednesday launched pan-Indian real-time market in electricity, which allows consumers like discoms to buy power just one hour before delivery. Real-time market (RTM) enables consumers, including distribution companies (discoms) and captive users, to buy power on exchanges quickly. The real-time market went live at Indian Energy Exchange (IEX) and Power Exchange India Limited (PXIL) at 10:45 PM on May 31, 2020 for delivery at 12:00 AM on June 01 (Sunday midnight), 2020 said a statement from the Ministry of Power. This will also provide an alternate mechanism for discoms to access larger market at competitive price. National Load Despatch Centre-POSOCO is facilitating necessary automation in coordination with power exchanges to ensure faster transactions and settlements in the real time market framework, the statement said. The new system of electricity marketing  would help to mitigate challenges to the grid management due to intermittent and variable nature of renewable energy generation and therefore, help to integrate higher quantum of renewable energy resources into the grid, the statement said. Real-time market will also make the power market dynamic as auctions will be conducted every 30 minutes. There will be 48 auction sessions during the day, the Minister said while launching through video conference. The introduction of real-time market will bring required flexibility in the market to provide real-time balance while ensuring optimal utilization of the available surplus capacity in the system, the Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-launches-real-time-market-in-electricity-845323.html
03-06-2020||National||Coronavirus recoveries cross one lakh while India reports nearly 9k new cases||India On Wednesday reported the biggest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases as 8,909 new infections took the total number of cases to 2,07,615. The death toll also spiked by 217, taking the total fatalities due to the infectious disease to 5,815. On the brighter side, the number of recovered persons also crossed the one-lakh mark to touch 1,00,303 or 48.31 per cent of the total persons infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus. According to a separate DH COVID-19 Tracker, the total confirmed cases are 2,13,792 and the death toll has risen to 5,989 at 8:00 p.m. on Wednesday. As on Wednesday, the Indian Council of Medical Research had tested 41.03 lakh samples for COVID-19 through its network of 688 laboratories – 480 state-run and 208 private testing centres. The Health Ministry issued guidelines for treating ENT patients that discourage walk-in visits by patients to clinics or hospital OPDs. “Patients having symptoms suggestive of COVID-19 (whether ENT or respiratory symptoms) should be seen in a separate ‘COVID-19 screening Clinic’ and not in the ENT OPD,” the health ministry said. It added that such steps are necessary to ensure the safety of other patients in the ENT OPD. The ministry also suggested that personnel posted in the COVID-19 Screening Clinic wear personal protection equipment to minimise infections. According to the health ministry data, Maharashtra has reported 72,300 cases so far, followed by Tamil Nadu (24,586), and Delhi (22,132). Of the 5,815 deaths across the country, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of fatalities at 2,465, followed by Gujarat (1,092) and Delhi (556). At least 7,123 cases have not been assigned to any states, mostly due to discrepancies in the forms filled while referring the samples to testing centres and the current state of residence of the patient.    “The numbers are higher because we are testing more than one lakh samples every day,” a health ministry official said. According to the ministry, fewer people were succumbing to the disease in India when compared with the rest of the world. India’s current case fatality rate is at 2.82 per cent against the global average of 6.13 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-recoveries-cross-one-lakh-while-india-reports-nearly-9k-new-cases-845331.html
03-06-2020||National||Centre to map skill-sets of Vande Bharat returnees, help them find jobs||With a large number of Indians, setlled outside, returning home due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the government on Wednesday launched a new initiative to map their skill-sets to help them find new jobs. The Skilled Workers Arrival Database for Employment Support (SWADES), a joint effort of the ministries of Civil Aviation, External Affairs and Skill Development, is aimed at making the best of skilled workforce returning to the country due to the ongoing pandemic. “It aims to create a database of qualified citizens based on their skill-sets and experience to tap into and fulfil demand of Indian and foreign companies,” an official statement said. The collected information will be shared with the companies for suitable placement opportunities in the country. The returning citizens are required to fill up an online SWADES Skills Card. The card will facilitate a strategic framework to provide the returning citizens with suitable employment opportunities through discussions with key stakeholders including state governments, industry associations and employers.    An online form has been created to gather required details of the citizens returning from across the world. The form contains the details related to the work sector, job title, employment, years of experience. A toll free call centre facility has also been set up to support the citizens for any queries related to filling the form. The initiative was launched on Saturday and had received 7,000 applications till Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-map-skill-sets-of-vande-bharat-returnees-help-them-find-jobs-845335.html
03-06-2020||National||India could've faced unmitigated disaster had govt not taken timely action on COVID-19: Gautam Adani||India could have faced unmitigated disaster with global ramifications had the government delayed taking decisions based on best available information following the COVID-19 outbreak, billionaire Gautam Adani said. The chairman of infrastrucure conglomerate Adani Group also said it was an opportune time to make a bet on India as it will be one of the world's top consumption centres, manufacturing and service hubs and a beacon of stable democratic governance. "What we must realise is that there are no absolute right or wrong ideas. What is required during an unprecedented crisis like COVID-19, is a Government that is willing to make decisions based on best available information at a given point of time and constantly adapting as new information becomes available. "For this, the Indian Government and bureaucracy must be complimented," Adani said in the Chairman's message section of Adani Enterprises' annual report released on Wednesday. "Countries with greater resources than ours have struggled and while our battle with the virus is far from over, I have no hesitation in stating that had the decisions that got made been delayed we could have been facing an unmitigated disaster that would not just impact India but have global ramifications," he added. Yes, business has suffered immensely, lives and jobs have been lost, and the migrant worker crisis saddened the entire nation, but the consequences of the unknown alternates would be far grimmer, Adani said. Terming the parts played by leaders, doctors, healthcare workers, police, army, street vendors and citizens to support each other during pandemic as "truly what defines India and its resiliency", Adani said the government is now able to do direct benefits transfer as a result of the integrated approach it has built through the Jan Dhan, Aadhaar and Mobile linking systems. "Sitting where we are today, I can say that history is in process of being scripted. I will be the first to admit that I have no way of predicting the short or mid-term possible economic outcomes as a result of COVID-19. "However, there cannot be any denying the fact that India over the next several decades will be a market continuously on the up and one that simply cannot be ignored," he said. It will be one of the world's top consumption centres, manufacturing and service hubs and a beacon of stable democratic governance, the billionaire said, adding if there was a time to make a bet on India, there may not be a better time than now. "What I can predict is that on the other side of this crisis will emerge massive new opportunities, will emerge great new leaders, will emerge terrific businesses, and will emerge a few stronger nations. Those that succeed will be the ones that understand that resilience is built on the other side of the tunnel of crisis and we are already getting ready for this," he said. About group performance, he said each one of the six publicly traded companies performed well "even as we started to confront the trying circumstances following the first few weeks of 2020." While the group may have to do need-based course correction in strategies in the wake of the challenge it faces, the roadmap remains clear, he said. At the group level, the focus is on optimising capital utilisation, redesigning the organisational structure to minimise risk in businesses and funding operations in phases, Adani said. During the year, the group has been able to bring strategic global equity partners in Adani Gas Ltd, Adani Green Energy Ltd and Adani Electricity Mumbai Ltd (AEML), he said, adding the total investment is USD 1.6 billion which will help drive future growth of businesses. AEML (part of Adani Transmission) recently completed an investment grade, USD 1 billion bond issuance, the first by a private integrated utility from India, he said. The issue generated significant interest from international investors and was oversubscribed 5.9 times. "I must also mention here that APSEZ raised USD 750 million by selling overseas bonds, the proceeds from which would be used for fund expansion and further reduce the cost of debt and progressively further deleverage the balance sheet. "In the preceding 12 months, the Group has successfully placed seven bonds in the international markets, totaling to 4.26 Bn USD," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-couldve-faced-unmitigated-disaster-had-govt-not-taken-timely-action-on-covid-19-gautam-adani-845344.html
03-06-2020||National||Empowered group of secretaries to attract investments to India||The Centre on Wednesday decided to set up a high level empowered group of secretaries, chaired by cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and a Project Development Cell (PDC) in ministries for attracting investments to India in the wake of new opportunities presented by the COVID-19 situation. The decision was taken at a meeting of the Union Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Besides Gauba, Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant and the secretaries of the departments of commerce, revenue and economic affairs will be members of the group. Secretary of the department for promotion of industry and internal trade would be the member convenor, an official statement said. “It will bring synergies between ministries and departments, among centre and state governments in policy matters. It will give boost to the economy and open up immense direct and indirect employment opportunities,” I&B Minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/empowered-group-of-secretaries-to-attract-investments-to-india-845345.html
03-06-2020||National||Lancet begins probe on study on use of hydroxychloroquin in treating coronavirus||Top medical journal Lancet has begun to probe a controversial study on the use of antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquin in treating COVID-19 patients after receiving complaints from several quarters. Among those who reached out to the journal are several top Indian scientific organisations that questioned the dataset and the method employed in the study. According to the controversial study, use of chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine is linked to increased rates of mortality and heart arrhythmias among hospital patients with COVID-19. "Important scientific questions have been raised about data reported in the paper. We are issuing an Expression of Concern to alert readers to the fact that serious scientific questions have been brought to our attention," the journal said in a statement. Soon after the publication of the study, the World Health Organisation temporarily suspended a global trial of the HCQ to check its efficacy in treating COVID-19.  "The (Lancet) study has several limitations as the authors have themselves acknowledged in the article. Using the study to halt the use of hydroxychloroquine or chloroquine in the ongoing controlled trial seems questionable," Indian scientists wrote in a letter to the Lancet editor.    The scientists raised several scientific questions and argued that without an answer to such queries, the conclusions would not carry much weight. "The  decision of the WHO to temporarily suspend quality HCQ trials based on findings of this study appears to be a knee-jerk reaction," Indian scientists said in a statement.  The signatories of the letter are Shekhar Mande, director general, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research; Anurag Agarwal, director of Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi  (one of the CSIR institutes) and Rajeeva Karandikar, director of Chennai Mathematical Institute. From the beginning of the pandemic, India was using HCQ as a prophylactic on the advice of the Indian Council of Medical Research.  The ICMR has recently advised to expand the use of HCQ as a preventive medicine among all asymptomatic healthcare workers working in Covid and non-Covid  hospitals.  In addition, the medicine has been recommended for use among surveillance workers deployed in containment zones, police and paramilitary personnel involved in COVID-19 related activities and asymptomatic household contacts of confirmed cases. The Lancet said an independent audit of the provenance and validity of the data had been commissioned and results were expected very shortly. Since the same dataset was used for another study published in the New England Journal of Medicine, the NEJM editors too launched an independent audit and issued an Expression of Concern.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lancet-begins-probe-on-study-on-use-of-hydroxychloroquin-in-treating-coronavirus-845348.html
03-06-2020||National||No death in 'Shramik' trains caused by starvation, issue being politicised: BJP||The BJP on Wednesday rejected the allegation that starvation was behind the death of passengers on 'Shramik Special' trains and said the manner in which the issue was being "politicised" was unprecedented. "None of the deaths in Shramik trains has been caused by hunger or starvation as per postmortem reports. Natural deaths have occurred on trains earlier too but the manner in which unfortunate deaths of shramiks (labourers) have been politicised is unprecedented without (critics) waiting to know about the exact cause of deaths," the BJP said in a statement. Its spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain cited details of postmortem reports and comments of some of the deceased's family members to claim that they suffered from pre-existing conditions. Dashrath Prajapati (30) suffered from chronic kidney disease, the health of Ram Ratan Ground (63) had been deteriorating, Ibrar Ahmed's postmortem report found brain stroke as cause of death and not dehydration while Arbina Khatoon suffered from pre-existing mental ailment, Hussain said, referring to some of those who died during their journey. "We are not here to do petty politics. Government believes in tackling the problems head on, and addressing it," he said. The BJP's statement came after Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi hit out at the central government, saying this has been "admitted" that at least 81 deaths have happened and there are allegations that more fatalities occurred but were not being declared by the railways. The opposition party demanded resignation of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, accusing the government of distorting facts on payments for these train services. The Congress said the central government has not spent a single penny on running special trains for migrant workers returning home as Solicitor General Tushar Mehta has made it clear before the Supreme Court that state governments receiving or sending migrants were to pay for them. Hussain reiterated that the Railways bore 85 per cent of the total cost of getting the migrants back to their home states, while the remaining 15 per cent was charged from the states. The solicitor general also said the same in the Supreme Court when asked who will pay the fare which is covered by the state, Hussain said. 'Shramik Special' trains are being supplied with multiple meals and adequate drinking water, with over 1.5 crore meals and two crore packaged water bottles having been provided by the railways free of cost, he said. As many as 4197 of these special trains have carried 58 lakh passengers to their home states between May 1 and June 3, the BJP leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-death-in-shramik-trains-caused-by-starvation-issue-being-politicised-bjp-845365.html
03-06-2020||National Politics||Durai Murugan will continue to be DMK Treasurer: Stalin||Senior DMK leader Durai Murugan, one of the close confidants of late M Karunanidhi, will continue to be the party’s treasurer as his resignation from the post has been kept in abeyance for now. DMK President M K Stalin said the General Council of the party could not be convened due to the COVID-19 situation and ordered Durai Murugan to continue in the post of treasurer, no.3 in the pecking order.  The announcement came on a day the DMK celebrated the 97th birth anniversary of Karunanidhi. Durai Murugan resigned as treasurer of the DMK in mid-March as he expressed his interest to contest the elections for General Secretary, a post that fell vacant after incumbent K Anbazhagan died on March 7. Stalin accepted Durai Murugan’s resignation and announced that elections for both general secretary and treasurer will be held on March 29. However, the elections could not happen as the General Council meeting was postponed due to COVID-19. As both the posts are vacant for over two months, Stalin said in a statement on Wednesday that the atmosphere is not conducive to conduct elections for the two posts by convening the General Council. “Based on this, I announce that Durai Murugan will continue as the treasurer of the party as I have kept in abeyance his resignation from the post of treasurer by exercising powers accorded to me in the party by-laws,” Stalin said. Durai Murugan is likely to succeed Anbazhagan, who held the post from 1977 till his last breath on March 7, as the fourth general secretary of the party, at least a few months later. Former Union Minister A Raja, a prominent Dalit leader, former state ministers E V Velu and I Periyasamy and party’s parliamentary party leader T R Baalu are said to be in the race for the Treasurer's post as and when elections are held. There is also clamour for Kanimozhi, Stalin’s half-sister, to be elevated to the Treasurer’s post. Anbazhagan, who was General Secretary of the DMK for 43 years and a fellow traveller of its patriarch M Karunanidhi for more than six decades, died on March 7 due to age-related illness.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/durai-murugan-will-continue-to-be-dmk-treasurer-stalin-845129.html
03-06-2020||National Politics||Train coaches for COVID-19 isolation wards a gimmick: Derek O'Brien||With only a few of the 5,300 train coaches that were converted into COVID-19 isolation wards, the Trinamool Congress on Wednesday said the Centre's move was nothing but a "gimmick to create headlines", as it did not even consult states whether they needed it. Trinamool's Rajya Sabha leader Derek O'Brien said the first deployment of 10 coaches came almost two months after this was announced. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal tweeted, "Railways deploys first set of isolation coaches in Delhi (Shakur Basti Railway Station) for treating those with COVID-19 infection. The rake with 10 disinfected coaches has 160 beds and is equipped with medical facilities to comfortably quarantine the patients." "Now that 10 coaches are deployed, we want to know where are the remaining 5,290 coaches. We want to know to which states they were sent? What was the cost of converting it into isolation wards? We have heard that converting it into wards required 2-3 times the cost of the coaches itself," O'Brien said here. "The conversion of coaches into isolation wards was a gimmick aimed at grabbing headlines. Several former top officials of the Railway Board have told that this was a bad idea. You made a complete mess out of this. This was to create headlines and manage perception," he added. O'Brien said several doctors have expressed their unwillingness to work there. He accused the Centre of spending money on isolation coaches without checking with states. He said the Centre could have used these coaches to send stranded migrant workers in the first week of lockdown that started on March 25. When asked about Home Minister Amit Shah's remarks that migrant workers were not sent in the beginning as it gave states time to prepare, O'brien countered it saying whether the Centre checked with states. "Did Shah say some migrant labourers lost their patience (during his interviews)? They didn't lose patience, they were hungry, homeless, they lost their dignity. Not just they lost dignity, you robbed them off their dignity. How do you know that states were not prepared? How many meetings you had with Chief Ministers on this?" he said. "If you had planned then, you wouldn't have run Parliament parallel to the formation of Madhya Pradesh government . Your focus was not COVID-19, not federalism but formation of government. It was all about getting a new Chief Minister in Madhya Pradesh. 2021 (West Bengal Assembly elections) is not our priority right now, it might be for Amit Shah. Our priority right now is to fight COVID-19," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/train-coaches-for-covid-19-isolation-wards-a-gimmick-derek-obrien-845145.html
03-06-2020||National Politics||PM Narendra Modi resorting to rhetoric; his road to self-reliance nowhere in sight: M Veerappa Moily||Senior Congress leader M Veerappa Moily on Wednesday hit out at Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying instead of addressing real concerns, he was again resorting to the rhetoric of 'road to self-reliance' which is "nowhere in sight". Moily's remarks came a day after Modi, at the CII's annual session, on Tuesday had explained the concept of 'Atma-nirbhar Bharat' or Self-reliant India - one where products are 'Made in India' for the world and a nation that is not dependent on others in strategic sectors. "The address by the Prime Minister to the CII yesterday is a big joke on the economic distress facing the country. The need of the hour is to have an honest approach to the plight of the people of the country," Moily said in a statement. In his address prior to 'Lockdown 1', the prime minister said the 'Mahabharata' war was won in 18 days, but the fight against COVID-19 will take 21 days, the Congress leader recalled. After urging the nation to light candles and 'diyas' for nine minutes at 9 pm to "defeat the despair" brought by the COVID-19 pandemic, all statements thereafter have proved hollow and several such remarks are far away from the truth, the former Union minister said. Noting that even NITI Aayog gave a report that COVID-19 will not survive beyond May 31, Moily said the confidence of the people is at the lowest. The relief measures have amounted to only 0.8 per cent of the GDP, leaving the RBI to do the heavy lifting. The Standard Chartered Bank Plc is projecting a two per cent contraction this year, the ANZ banking group economists have said that "growth in India is clearly under siege" and Moody's downgrade has again exposed the ill-conceived policies of the past, he said. The credibility of the Indian economy is so low that foreign banks are contemplating selling away Indian loans, the Congress leader said. Moody's have downgraded PSUs and some private banks and also cut ratings of eight non-financial companies and infrastructure issuers, he said. "This trend will herald an economic disaster in the country. The number of the affected COVID-19 cases has surged to 2 lakh plus," Moily said. "The country has not planned to contain this big outrage. The draconian lockdown has resulted in internal migration of the worst character," he said. The prime minister, instead of addressing the real concerns, has again resorted to "rhetoric of the road to self-reliance which is nowhere in sight", Moily said. "It is said by an author 'there is a difference between interest and commitment. When you are committed to something you accept no excuses, only result','' he said. A day after Moody's downgraded India's credit rating to a notch above junk status on growth concerns, Prime Minister Modi had asserted that the country will definitely get back its economic growth and had said reforms undertaken during the lockdown will help the economy in the long-run. Modi had called on India Inc to rise to the occasion and partner rural India in these testing times. Moody's Investors Service on Monday downgraded India to the lowest investment grade level and kept it on a negative watch. This was because the country faces a prolonged period of slower growth relative to its potential and rising debt. It joined S&P Global Ratings and Fitch Ratings in predicting the first contraction in GDP in over four decades and a fiscal deficit blowout as the coronavirus pandemic spreads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-narendra-modi-resorting-to-rhetoric-his-road-to-self-reliance-nowhere-in-sight-m-veerappa-moily-845199.html
03-06-2020||National Politics||Chandrababu Naidu blasts CM Jaganmohan Reddy accusing blatant wastage of public money||Telugu Desam Party chief Chandrababu Naidu has demanded that the expenditure on the paints on government buildings in Andhra Pradesh be revealed and recovered from the ruling YSRC Party.  The ex-CM was reacting to the Supreme Court's refusal on Tuesday to entertain the Jaganmohan Reddy government's petition challenging the AP High Court orders initiating the contempt of court proceedings against the state officials for declining to remove the YSRCP party colors. Since August 2019, after it came to power one year back, the Reddy government has been painting the Panchayat etc., offices with blue, white, and green colours identified with the YSRCP flag. The same was challenged in the High Court, which had earlier directed the state government to remove the new colors. Not abiding by the order, the Reddy government had approached the apex court on the matter. “The YSRCP colors episode is an example of how the obstinate stand of a ruler harms the state. This is in disobedience of the Constitution, the courts,” said Naidu. “The government even tried to deceive the courts by adding another (terracotta) color, which the HC again ordered to remove. Since the directive was unheeded by the YSRCP government, three top officials – chief secretary, principal secretary (Panchayati Raj) and commissioner had to stand in the court,” the former CM remarked. “Now, the apex court has ordered that the colors should be removed within a month. Why go to such extremes like contempt of court for publicity with your party colors on government edifices? No other party across the country or its leaders thought of painting buildings visited by everyone with their political colors.” “Who gave you the authority to waste public money on paintings first, then on advocates and now another expense on removing colors. Is it to waste thousands of crores of public money, you asked the voters for one chance (to become the CM),” Naidu questioned Reddy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/chandrababu-naidu-blasts-cm-jaganmohan-reddy-accusing-blatant-wastage-of-public-money-845339.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Triple murder case: Allahabad HC acquits man sentenced to death by lower court||The Allahabad High Court on Tuesday acquitted a man, who was awarded death penalty by a local court for murdering his mother, wife and a four-year-old son in Tanda, Ambedkar Nagar in 2013. Pronouncing the judgment, a division bench of justices RR Awasthi and V K Srivastav held that the prosecution had failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt and hence, the conviction and sentence did not sustain in the eyes of law. Appellant Ram Kumar Saini had challenged before the Lucknow bench of the high court the verdict of the additional sessions judge, Ambedkar Nagar, passed on February 15, 2017, whereby he was held guilty for the triple murder so that he could have an illicit relationship with a woman. Arguing for the appellant, senior lawyer Nagendra Mohan pleaded that the entire case was based on circumstantial evidence and there was no direct evidence against his client. He argued that the informant was the appellant's father-in-law, who had lodged a case against him when he had eloped with his daughter. "The other witnesses are the informant's wife, son and daughter, whose testimony cannot be safely relied upon for want of other corroborative evidence," the appellant's counsel said. "That too, the informant filed an FIR 17 days after the incident, whereas he was present at the time of inquest and post-mortem," he argued. Opposing the appeal, government advocate Vimal Srivastav pleaded that four persons, including the appellant, lived in the house and hence, it was for him to explain the deaths of the three other members of the family, who died of poisoning. After hearing both sides, the bench found out that the FIR was registered 17 days later while the police of Tanda Kotwali was informed about the incident by a relative on the very day -- April 19, 2013. Later, the police registered an FIR, got a confessional statement of the appellant and then filed a chargesheet in the case after recording the statements of the informant and his family members. The police had, however, not agreed to the theory of illicit relationship. In view of this, the bench concluded that the prosecution's version of the incident was not reliable and the trial court had erred in convicting and sentencing the appellant. Allowing the appeal, the bench further declined to confirm the reference sent by the trial court to uphold the death penalty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/triple-murder-case-allahabad-hc-acquits-man-sentenced-to-death-by-lower-court-844952.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||SC rejects plea seeking to declare Gairsain as capital of Uttarakhand||The Supreme Court Tuesday dismissed a plea seeking directions to the Uttarakhand government to declare Gairsain as the capital of the state and Pratap Nagar as a new district, saying these are "policy decisions" regarding which court cannot issue any directive. In March this year, Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had announced in the state Assembly that Gairsain in Chamoli district will be the summer capital of the hill state. A bench headed by Justice R Banumathi was hearing through video-conferencing a plea filed by a Dehradun-based man who was seeking a direction to the Uttarakhand government to declare Gairsain as capital of the state. "In this writ petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India the petitioner seeks direction to the respondent-State of Uttarakhand to declare the 'Gairsaina' as capital of the State of Uttarakhand and also to declare 'Pratap Nagar' as new district," the bench, also comprising Justices Indu Malhotra and Aniruddha Bose, noted in its order. "In our considered view, these are the policy decisions regarding which the court cannot issue any direction," the bench said, adding, "The writ petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India is dismissed as devoid of merit." In March this year, immediately after finishing his budget speech in the state assembly, Rawat had made the announcement that Gairsain will be the summer capital, which partially fulfils a longstanding demand of the hill people and seeks to put an end to an emotive political issue simmering for the last 20 years. Rawat had said that preparations have to be made on a war footing to build infrastructure Gairsain needs to be the summer capital of the state. The Dikshit Commission, which was formed to study the feasibility of the proposition, had said Gairsain was not appropriate to become a capital because of its seismic vulnerability. Uttarakhand became a state of India on November 9, 2000 and those who had spearheaded the movement for statehood had wanted Gairsain to be its capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-rejects-plea-seeking-to-declare-gairsain-as-capital-of-uttarakhand-844982.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Man tied to tree, burnt alive for harassing police woman in UP||A 22-year-old man was tied to a tree and burnt alive here over alleged sexual harassment of a police woman, officials said on Tuesday. When police arrived in a village in Pratapgarh district's Fatanpur police station area on Monday night, a mob clashed with them, burning two vehicles. The man, identified as Ambika Prasad Patel, died on the spot after he was set afire, police said. Police arrested two men, including the father of the police woman posted in Kanpur, and an FIR was registered, Superintendent of Police Abhishek Singh said. A separate FIR was lodged against villagers, including Patel's family members, for setting ablaze police vehicles, SHO of Fatanpur police station Umesh Singh said. The police woman's father had lodged a complaint against Patel on March 1 for allegedly harassing his daughter and posting an objectionable photo of her on social media. Police suspect this to be the cause behind the killing. Based on the father's complaint, a case was then registered against Patel under sections 67 (publishing or transmitting obscene material) of the Information Technology Act, and 354 (outraging the modesty of a woman) of the IPC and he was arrested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-tied-to-tree-burnt-alive-for-harassing-police-woman-in-up-844988.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Punjab's COVID-19 death toll rises to 46, state tally at 2,342||The death toll due to COVID-19 in Punjab rose to 46 on Tuesday, with two fresh fatalities and the total number of cases climbed to 2,342 as 41 more people tested positive for the disease, officials said. The deaths were reported from Ludhiana and Pathankot districts, they said. An 86-year-old man, a resident of Fauji Mohalla in Ludhiana, died of coronavirus at a hospital in the district, an official said. He was suffering from asthma, the official said. A 60-year-old man from Pathankot succumbed to coronavirus at a government hospital in Amritsar. He was also a patient of hypertension and was on ventilator support, the official added. Of the 41 fresh cases, 11 were reported in Amritsar, followed by eight in Pathankot, according to a medical bulletin. Six cases were reported in Sangrur; four in Ludhiana; two each in Amritsar, Moga, Kapurthala and Gurdaspur; and one each in SBS Nagar, Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala and Faridkot, it stated. Fifteen of these patients contracted the virus from outside Punjab, the bulletin said. Seventeen coronavirus patients were also discharged from various hospitals in Punjab after being cured, it said. With this, the total number of cured persons in the state has reached 2,017, it added. According to the bulletin, there are 279 active cases in the state. Amritsar continues to lead the COVID-19 tally with 388 cases, followed by 256 in Jalandhar, 200 in Ludhiana, 157 in Tarn Taran, 140 in Gurdaspur, 130 in Hoshiarpur, 123 in Patiala, 113 in Mohali, 104 in SBS Nagar and 102 in Sangrur. There are 70 cases in Rupnagar, 69 in Pathankot, 66 in Muktsar, 64 each in Fatehgarh Sahib and Moga, 63 in Faridkot, 49 in Bathinda, 46 in Ferozepur, 44 in Fazilka, 38 in Kapurthala, 32 in Mansa and 24 in Barnala. One patient is critical and on ventilator support, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/punjabs-covid-19-death-toll-rises-to-46-state-tally-at-2342-844994.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Previous Congress govt responsible for Indore coronavirus spread: Madhya Pradesh BJP leader||Senior BJP leader Kailash Vijaywargiya on Tuesday alleged that the erstwhile Congress government in Madhya Pradesh was responsible for the spread of coronavirus in Indore, which has emerged as one of the worst- affected districts in the country. The BJP general secretary said the previous Kamal Nath government failed to implement the advisory issued by the Centre to medically examine air travellers at international airports in the state. "The advisory also directed that air passengers who demonstrated coronavirus-like symptoms be quarantined. But, the previous state government did not act upon it, causing a bit of disturbance in Indore, which is under control now," he told reporters here. He was responding to a query on state health department's additional chief secretary Mohammed Suleiman's statement that the coronavirus infection had made inroads into Indore as early as February this year before spreading to other locations. Vijaywargiya also expressed confidence that the ruling BJP would win bypolls to all the 24 assembly seats. The schedule for the byelections is yet to be announced. To a question, Vijaywargiya said that Congress' bid to rope in poll strategist Prashant Kishor for the by-polls would fail to yield results. Indore district has so far reported 3,570 COVID-19 cases and 138 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/previous-congress-govt-responsible-for-indore-coronavirus-spread-madhya-pradesh-bjp-leader-844999.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||CBI searches Delhi-based company for hosting child pornography content on websites||The CBI carried out searches at the premises of a private company based in Paschim Vihar area of West Delhi for allegedly hosting child pornography on websites on the servers based in Russia, Netherlands and India, officials said on Tuesday. The agency has booked the company, its directors and other unidentified persons for alleged violation of the Information Technology Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, they said. "It has been alleged that the said company hosted websites of Russian domain containing objectionable material pertaining to child sexual abuse. The case involves the alleged jurisdiction of India, Netherlands and Russian Federation as of now vis-à-vis the location of servers, facilitation of hosting of objectionable material and owner of the objectionable contents," CBI spokesperson R K Gaur said here. He said searches were conducted at the residence-cum-office premises of the accused, including a private company and its directors in Delhi, which led to recovery of electronic devices and incriminating documents and material.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-searches-delhi-based-company-for-hosting-child-pornography-content-on-websites-845000.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||120 shanties gutted in fire at Tughlaqabad slums||A fire broke out in the slums of southeast Delhi's Tughlaqabad area in the early hours on Wednesday, officials said. According to the Delhi Fire Services, a call about the blaze at Valmiki Mohalla was received at 1.30 am and 22 fire engines were rushed to the spot. The fire was brought under control by 3.30 am. No one was injured in the blaze that gutted 120 huts. This is the second fire incident in a week's time in the area. Last week, a massive fire had gutted 250 shanties in Tughlaqabad village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/120-shanties-gutted-in-fire-at-tughlaqabad-slums-845045.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar’s kin among three militants killed in Kashmir||Security forces in Kashmir achieved a major success on Wednesday by killing three militants, including kin of Pakistan based Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) chief Moulana Masood Azhar in southern Pulwama district. Reports said Ismail alias Fauji Bhai, a close relative of Azhar, was an operational commander of the JeM in Kashmir and was believed to have been involved in planting the IED-laden car that was recently detected in Pulwama. Sources said Ismail had also played a key role in the February 14, 2019 suicide bombing that killed 40 CRPF personnel and brought India and Pakistan - two nuclear-armed countries - almost to war. “Ismail was sent to Kashmir by the Jaish in early 2018 after the killing of Talha Rasheed, another close relative of Masood Azhar in November 2017. He took over the reins of the Jaish in Kashmir this January after its chief Qari Mufti Yasir was killed by security forces,” they said. Reports said the gunfight erupted in Astan Mohalla, Kangan area of Pulwama, 30 km from Srinagar after Army’s 55 Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation in the area during the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. “As the security forces zeroed in on a suspected house early morning, the hiding militants opened fire triggering a fierce gun battle,” a police official said and added three militants were killed in the gunfight while a soldier also sustained injuries. The identity of two other slain militants was not ascertained. Since the past few weeks, police have not been revealing the identities of militants killed in encounters. They are buried away from their native villages with their family members being allowed to participate in the funerals, police said. A senior police officer said that scouring of several “virtual mobile numbers”, social media accounts and emails led them to Ismail. “He was an IED expert and was planning to carry out car bomb attacks on security forces. Last week, Ismail almost succeeded in his plans but it was detected on time in the wee hours on May 28. The plan of Ismail was to carry major suicide attack for which the responsibility would have been taken by ‘The Resistance Front’, a front propped up by Pakistan to avoid embarrassment at an international level,” he said. Terming Ismail’s killing a major success, the officer said, “This would shatter the Jaish network in Kashmir and it will take them a long time to revive.” This was the second gunfight in Pulwama within the past 24 hours as two militants of the Jaish were killed in a similar encounter in Tral area on Tuesday. Increase in anti-militancy ops There has been an increase in anti-militancy operations in the Valley since March. Since the lockdown, a total of 44 militants and two of their associates have been killed while 24 security forces personnel, including two in ceasefire violations, have lost their lives. Since the beginning of this year, 82 militants have been killed across Kashmir in dozens of encounters with security forces and 154 militants were killed in gun battles across Kashmir in the first seven months of 2019.   In the next five months, only 20 militants were neutralised by the security forces as anti-insurgency operations almost came to a halt as security and communication clampdown was imposed to prevent civilian protests in the wake of revocation of Article 370 on August 5. Last month, J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh had said that less than 240 militants were active in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaish-e-mohammad-chief-masood-azhar-s-kin-among-three-militants-killed-in-kashmir-845066.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Former union minister from Ladakh tests positive for COVID-19 a day after his death||The former minister’s two daughters have also tested positive for the deadly virus. The district administration of Leh has ordered a high-level inquiry into the handling of the body of the former minister, who happened to be a tall leader of the Congress in Ladakh and died on Monday at the age of 83. The Committee has been asked to submit a report within two days. Reports said that the former Minister had travelled to Leh from New Delhi on May 28 and on June 1, he developed complications after which he was rushed to a hospital, where he was declared as brought dead.  As per COVID-19 protocol, the body was to be kept in a mortuary of the hospital till the report of the sample arrived. However, authorities allowed his body to be taken home in Leh town after taking a sample for COVID-19 testing. As the news of the leader’s death spread, prominent politicians of the UT and some senior officers visited his residence to convey their condolences to the family. After the leader’s sample tested positive for deadly novel coronavirus, authorities isolated his family members and started tracing his contacts. On Tuesday, around 150 people, including four executive councillors, two former ministers, one ex-Lok Sabha member, religious leaders and some officers, who had either visited the residence of the deceased or were involved in dealing with the body were sent on home quarantine. An official said that a serious lapse in handling a COVID-19 suspect and later irregularities in handling the body has punctured all the precautions taken in the containment of COVID-19 in Leh. This is the first COVID-19 death in Ladakh, which has so far reported 81 positive cases out of which 33 are active.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/former-union-minister-from-ladakh-tests-positive-for-covid-19-a-day-after-his-death-845073.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Migrant worker tests COVID-19 positive in Shamli, active cases 10||A migrant worker who recently returned from Noida tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Shamli, taking the number of cases in the Uttar Pradesh district to 39 on Wednesday, an official said. The active cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) rose to 10 after the driver, who was quarantined at Sakoti village, tested positive for the infection, District Magistrate Jasjit Kaur said. The patient has been shifted to a COVID hospital in Jhinjhana town. Twenty-nine out of the 39 patients have recovered, Kaur added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/migrant-worker-tests-covid-19-positive-in-shamli-active-cases-10-845083.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases rise by nearly 9,000; recoveries cross 1 lakh||On the brighter side, the number of recovered persons also crossed the one lakh-mark to touch 1,00,303 or 48.31% of the total persons infected by the Sars-Cov-2 virus. As on Wednesday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had tested 41.03 lakh samples for COVID-19 through its network of 681 laboratories – 476 state-run and 205 private testing centres.  According to the Health Ministry data, Maharashtra has reported 72,300 cases so far, followed by Tamil Nadu (24,586), and Delhi (22,132). Of the 5,815 deaths across the country, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of fatalities at 2,465, followed by Gujarat (1,092) and Delhi (556). At least 7,123 cases have not been assigned to any states, mostly due to discrepancies in the forms filled while referring the samples to testing centres and the current state of residence of the patient. “The numbers are higher because we are testing more than one lakh samples every day,” a health ministry official said. According to the ministry, fewer people were succumbing to the disease in India when compared with the rest of the world. India’s current case fatality rate is at 2.82% against the global average of 6.13%.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-rise-by-nearly-9000-recoveries-cross-1-lakh-845086.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Locals oppose cremation of COVID-19 positive victim in Jammu||Belonging to hilly Doda district, the 72-year-old was undergoing treatment at GMC Jammu for breathing problems and heart ailment. However, he was tested positive for COVID-19 and died on Monday. According to the aggrieved family members, the body of the deceased was taken to Nagbani area in Domana for cremation as decided by the authorities.  However, when they put the body on a funeral pyre, Amit Katoch – family member of the deceased – said that the non-locals and locals in large numbers assembled there and they opposed the cremation, pelting stones on them. “They attacked the family members. After the residents didn’t allow the deceased’s cremation, fearing that it would spread the infection in the area, the half-burnt body was brought back to the mortuary of the hospital,” he said. Disappointed with the behaviour of the people, the family demanded that they want to take the body for cremation at their home town in Doda. Deputy Commissioner, Jammu, Sushma Chauhan said, “I sought a report why the cremation could not happen at the identified place. I am told that the wood was wet and could not catch fire despite repeated attempts.” “There was opposition by the locals. However, the allegations of stone pelting are incorrect,” the DC said. A police officer said later they cremated the body on the bank of River Tawi in Jammu.  This was the second incident, where locals resisted cremation of a COVID-19 patient in Jammu. Last month a coronavirus-infected person who had died in Jammu was denied cremation at Jogi Gate after opposition from the local residents. Local Congress councillor from ward number 7 in Jammu, Ritu Choudhary, had then said, “Given the magnitude of the infection and ever-increasing death count, the administration should identify a proper place for the cremation of those dying of coronavirus.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/locals-oppose-cremation-of-covid-19-positive-victim-in-jammu-845088.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Mizoram to soon get 4 RT-PCR machines||At a press conference on Tuesday, Lalthangliana said the procurement process for the four RT-PCR machines, including one from a private donor, is currently underway. He said the government would purchase an RT-PCR machine and would get one each from the Centre and Department of Science and Technology of Manipur.  The state government has already installed two Truenat machines in south Mizoram's Lunglei town and another two have been procured, he said. According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, the real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique is highly sensitive and specific and can deliver a reliable diagnosis as fast as three hours, though usually, laboratories take on average between six to eight hours. The health minister said that the state government is making all efforts to deal with the present situation efficiently and prevent further spread of the coronavirus. He said 1,012 samples have been tested so far in the state. Health Secretary H Lalengmawia said the state government was taking necessary steps to strengthen the health infrastructure. Mizoram at present has 36 ventilators in ICUs and set up COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC) as well as Dedicated COVID-19 Health Centre (DCHC) in all the 11 districts, he said. Stating that the health department is well prepared to treat COVID-19 cases, Lalengmawia said the state has enough infrastructures, equipment and manpower to treat over 700 patients at present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-mizoram-to-soon-get-4-rt-pcr-machines-845104.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Supreme Court declines to consider plea for renaming India as Bharat||The Supreme Court on Wednesday declined to consider a PIL for renaming India to Bharat or Hindustan, saying the plea can be sent to the Union government as a representation. "We can't do that. India is already called Bharat in Constitution," a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy said. Petitioner Namah, represented by advocate Ashwin Vaish sought amendment into Article one for renaming the country. The bench, however, asked him why he has come to the court. Advocate Vaish contended repeatedly that the name, India, has been sought to be excluded during the Constituent Assembly debate. It has not been derived from within the country, it is a name of Greek origin derived from the word “Indica”. He said the history was full of examples of “Bharat mata ki jai” having been used. The court, however, remained unbudged and finally allowed him to make a representation to the Union government. The petition, filed by advocate Raj Kishore Choudhary, said the country should be recognised by its original and authentic name, i.e. Bharat as cities have been renamed with Indian ethos. He contended that India being replaced with Bharat would justify the hard-fought freedom by our ancestors, would ensure to get over the colonial past and instil a sense of pride in our nationality.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/supreme-court-declines-to-consider-plea-for-renaming-india-as-bharat-845111.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Rajasthan hikes liquor prices to boost revenue||The state Finance Department said the decision has been taken to mitigate natural or man-made calamities like floods, epidemic etc. "The order has been taken in exercise of powers conferred by section 28-A of the Rajasthan Excise Act, 1950 where surcharge can be charged on all kinds of liquor for the purpose of mitigating natural or man-made calamities like drought, flood, epidemic, public health exigencies, fire etc.,” the finance department said on Tuesday.  The surcharge on Indian-made Foreign Liquor will be Rs 5 for 180 ml and 375 ml bottles, breezers, miniature and other packaging, while it will be Rs 10 on 750 ml bottles. For beer, Rs 20 will be charged for 650 ml and 500 ml bottles besides Rs 30 on BIO (bottled in origin) A surcharge of Rs 1.5 has been imposed per bottle of country liquor and Rajasthan Made Liquor (RML). In April, the state government had increased excise duty on liquor by 10 percentage points.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-rajasthan-hikes-liquor-prices-to-boost-revenue-845112.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Rajasthan Roadways resumes bus services on 200 routes||The Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation (RSRTC) on Wednesday resumed bus services on over 200 routes, including three interstate routes, in compliance with the government's guidelines for Lockdown 5.0. Initially, 100 routes were identified for plying buses but more than 200 routes were opened by the state government, an official of the RSRTC said. From Jaipur, routes to Gurgaon and Hisar have become operational, he said. Inter-state bus services to Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh will start from next week, he said.  Apart from normal buses, three super luxury buses will operate on Jaipur-Gurgaon route. "People can buy tickets online and offline," Chairman and MD of RSRTC Navin Jain said. The buses are available to all district headquarters from Jaipur and will operate from 5 am to 9 pm, he said. "Wearing masks is mandatory for all passengers and they are suggested to carry sanitisers too,” Jain said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-rajasthan-roadways-resumes-bus-services-on-200-routes-845114.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt sets up panel to strengthen overall preparedness of hospitals to battle COVID-19||A five-member committee has been constituted by the Delhi government for healthcare infrastructure augmentation and strengthen overall preparedness of hospitals to battle COVID-19, officials said. The order to set up the panel was issued on Tuesday, the day Delhi recorded its highest single-day spike of 1,298 coronavirus cases. The members include Dr Mahesh Verma, Vice-Chancellor of IP University; Dr Sunil Kumar, Medical Director of GTB Hospital; Dr Arun Gupta, president of Delhi Medical Council; Dr R K Gupta, former president of Delhi Medical Association; and Dr Sandeep Budhiraja, Group Medical Director, Max Hospital, the order said. The committee will guide the Delhi government on healthcare infrastructure augmentation and strengthen overall preparedness of hospitals to battle COVID-19, it said.  It will also guide the government on any other area where strengthening of infrastructure is required to better manage the pandemic in Delhi. The panel has been directed to submit its report by June 6, the order said.  A record single-day spike of 1,298 fresh cases took the COVID-19 tally in Delhi to over 22,000 on Tuesday and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 556, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-sets-up-panel-to-strengthen-overall-preparedness-of-hospitals-to-battle-covid-19-845116.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Don't take admissions in 'unapproved' educational institutions in PoK: Govt to Jammu and Kashmir, Ladkah students||The Centre has advised students of Jammu and Kashmir, and Ladakh union territories against taking admissions in colleges or universities in Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK) as the educational institutions there were not recognised by India. In a public notice, published in local dailies here, the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) cautioned the students of J and K and Ladakh about "unapproved technical institutions" operating in PoK. "Pakistan occupied Jammu and Kashmir (PoJK) is an integral part of the Union of India and the educational institutions including universities, medical colleges, and technical educational institutions situated in PoJK are neither established by Government of India nor recognized by statutory authorities such as University Grants Commission (UGC), AICTE and Medical Council of India (MCI) etc," reads the notice issued by Member Secretary, AICTE. The notice advises the students not to take admission in any college, university or technical institution for courses in engineering and technology, architecture, town planning, pharmacy, hotel management and catering technology, applied arts, crafts and design, management, computer applications and travel and tourism. "... for which advisories are issued by various other regulatory bodies under government of India in the territory under illegal occupation of Pakistan including the so-called Azad Jammu & Kashmir (AJK), Gilgit and Baltistan, which are currently not recognized in India," reads the notice.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-take-admissions-in-unapproved-educational-institutions-in-pok-govt-to-jammu-and-kashmir-ladkah-students-845140.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Flight with 153 Indians from Dubai lands at Chandigarh||A special Air India flight has brought back 153 stranded Indians from Dubai under the Centre’s Vande Bharat Mission, Chandigarh international airport officials said on Wednesday. The AI 1916 flight landed at the international airport on Tuesday night. This was the third flight under the mission to land here. Earlier, 244 Indians were brought back through special flights from New York and Ukraine’s capital Kiev. Eighty of the passengers who landed on Tuesday here belonged to Punjab, the officials said. Thirty-seven of them belonged to Himachal Pradesh; 13 from Haryana; 11 from Chandigarh; four each from Delhi and J-K; and two each from Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. All passengers will be taken to their home districts under the supervision of officials where they will be quarantined according to the government guidelines. All precautionary measures related to COVID-19 were at place at the international airport. The passengers were screened by the Punjab Health Department authorities. The Centre had recently said the mission to bring back stranded Indians will continue till June 13 and the extended phase will cover 47 countries. As per the government policy, Indians having "compelling reasons" such as pregnant women, elderly people, students and those facing prospects of deportation are being brought back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/flight-with-153-indians-from-dubai-lands-at-chandigarh-845141.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Pak violates ceasefire, targets LoC areas in J&K's Poonch||Pakistan army continued its ceasefire violation by resorting to intense firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in Poonch district of Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday, prompting retaliation from the Indian Army, a defence spokesman said. "There was unprovoked firing from across the border in Kirni sector that started around 1.45 pm," he said. The Indian Army replied to the Pakistan firing, the spokesman said. The exchange of fire between the two sides lasted for quite some time, he added. However, there was no report of any casualty or injury on the Indian side, the spokesman said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pak-violates-ceasefire-targets-loc-areas-in-jks-poonch-845160.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Yogi asks officers to run campaign for new ration cards||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday asked officials to run a campaign to make new ration cards to provide foodgrains. "A campaign should be run to prepare new ration cards to provide foodgrains to new applicants," he said during a meeting to review the measures taken to unlock the economy. He said it should be ensured that there should be no anomalies in food grain distribution and a plan should be prepared within a week for it. At the meeting, the CM also directed police to ensure patrolling and ensure social distancing. He said the health department should ensure that deaths due to the coronavirus should not rise and best facilities are provided in hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/yogi-asks-officers-to-run-campaign-for-new-ration-cards-845162.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||7 policemen put under quarantine in Srinagar||Seven policemen were placed under quarantine after a man who was arrested here earlier this week on charges of domestic violence tested positive for COVID-19, officials said on Wednesday. The policemen had taken into custody a man from Kalai-andar in Rainawari area of the city after his wife had registered a case of domestic violence against him in Nowhatta police station, the officials said. He developed a cough and fever on Monday night after which his sample was taken and sent for COVID-19 test, they said, adding the result came positive. The seven police officers, who came in contact with the arrested person, have already been placed under quarantine while samples of several other policemen have been collected for testing, the officials added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/7-policemen-put-under-quarantine-in-srinagar-845170.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh Congress delegation meet governor over party state unit chief's arrest||An Uttar Pradesh Congress delegation on Wednesday called upon Governor Anandiben Patel at the Raj Bhavan here to highlight the alleged inhuman way of the arrest and detention of the party’s state unit chief Ajay Kumar Lallu. In a statement issued here on Wednesday, Congress Legislative Party leader in UP Assembly Aradhana Mishra said, "A delegation of the UP Congress met the governor to highlight the arrest of state Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu, which was done because of the personal and political vendetta, and then a baseless case was registered against him.” “He was arrested in an inhuman and non-respectable way, she added in her statement. Senior Congress leader Pramod Tiwari, UP MLC Deepak Singh, Sohail Ansari, R K Chaudhary, Virendra Chaudhary and Naseemuddin Siddiqui too were part of the delegation that met Governor Patel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-congress-delegation-meet-governor-over-party-state-unit-chiefs-arrest-845173.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||BJP worker shot dead in east Delhi||A man was shot dead by unidentified assailants near a park in east Delhi's Mandawali area on Wednesday morning, police said, while a local BJP leader claimed that the victim was a party worker. The victim -- Rahul Nagar alias Bhuru -- suffered four gunshot wounds, they said. He contested from Vinod Nagar ward as a Congress candidate in the 2017 civic polls. He lost the election and later joined the BJP, a Delhi BJP leader said. Police were informed about the incident at around 7:30 am. Nagar was walking near his house in the morning when some unidentified men fired at him, police said. His neighbours and family members rushed out and found him lying on the street. The accused escaped on bikes, a senior police officer said. Of the over six bullets fired, four hit him, he said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Jasmeet Singh said he was rushed to the Max Patparganj hospital where he was declared brought dead. Nagar was declared a "Bad Character" at Mandawali police station, he said. He was previously involved in cases of violence, attempt to murder and criminal intimidation, they said. A case of murder has been registered and an investigation has started, police said, adding that they are scanning CCTV footage to identify the culprits. Last November, Nagar was attacked by some men and a case of attempt to murder had been registered in this regard, the police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-worker-shot-dead-in-east-delhi-845189.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand records 23 new COVID-19 cases; tally 1,066||Twenty-three more people tested positive for COVID-19 in Uttarakhand on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 1,066, a health department bulletin said. The fresh cases were reported from Dehradun (8), Haridwar (9), Chamoli (4), Nainital (1) and Pauri (1), it said. According to the bulletin, the people who tested positive had travelled to Delhi, Aligarh, Mumbai and Hyderabad, it said. Of the total COVID-19 cases in Uttarakhand, 259 patients have recovered so far and eight have died. However, according to authorities, none of the these deaths were due to COVID-19 as the patients were suffering from other diseases too.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-records-23-new-covid-19-cases-tally-1066-845225.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Stay on 69,000 UP govt teachers' appointment: Priyanka slams Yogi govt||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Wednesday slammed the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the stay on the appointment of 69,000 assistant basic teachers, saying the youth are suffering the most due to the negligence of the Yogi Adityanath dispensation. Her attack on the UP government came hours after the Allahabad High Court stayed the appointment of 69,000 assistant basic teachers in Uttar Pradesh. "69,000 teachers recruitment case: Once again the dreams of the youth of Uttar Pradesh have been eclipsed. Due to the chaos of the UP government, all the recruitments are stuck in the court," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet. "Paper leak, cut-off controversy, fake evaluation and wrong answer key -- Due to all these shortcomings of the UP government, the matter of recruitment of 69,000 teachers is pending," the Congress general secretary in-charge UP East said. The government's negligence is hitting the youth the most, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/stay-on-69000-up-govt-teachers-appointment-priyanka-slams-yogi-govt-845238.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi State Legal Services Authority partners Yatra.com for Vidhik Sewa App||The Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) and Yatra.com on Wednesday said they have joined hands for Vidhik Sewa App, a COVID-19 helpline. Apart from legal services, the app covers crucial services such as food, shelter, clothes, medicines, sanitary napkins and others, according to a statement. Yatra.com supported this initiative of DSLSA in pursuance of its corporate social responsibility to ensure that in these unprecedented times, help reaches to those in need, in all possible ways, it added. "At this crucial time when COVID-19 poses a national challenge, we have collaborated with DSLSA to develop Vidhik Sewa App. This app acts as a platform to provide individuals in Delhi with crucial services like food, shelter, medicines and more during unprecedented times like these," Manish Amin, co-founder and Chief Information and Technology Officer at Yatra.com, said. Kanwaljeet Arora, member secretary of DSLSA, said the app will help ensure that justice is not delayed and access to judicial service is unrestricted. "Additionally, we will extend essential services through the app. This association with Yatra.com for the app will help in extending our services to those in need and unable to avail them physically due to restricted movement," he added. The app is available in Hindi and English on Android Play Store.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-state-legal-services-authority-partners-yatracom-for-vidhik-sewa-app-845246.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Terror hideout busted in Jammu and Kashmir's Kishtwar, arms and ammunition seized||A terrorist hideout was busted on Wednesday in Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir, leading to the recovery of a cache of arms and ammunition, police said. The hideout was unearthed by a joint search party of the Special Operations Group (SOG) of local police and troops of the 17 Rashtriya Rifles and the 52 battalions of CRPF at Tokranar near Bela nalla in Chicha area, a police official said. He said the search of the hideout led to the recovery of an AK 56 rifle with a magazine and 27 rounds, a pistol with a magazine and six rounds and an under-barrel grenade launcher (UBGL) grenade. A case under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act was registered in police station Kishtwar and further investigation is on, the official said. However, he said no one was arrested in connection with the recovery so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/terror-hideout-busted-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kishtwar-arms-and-ammunition-seized-845336.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19 cases surge in Delhi, tally now at 23,465||The COVID-19 cases are sharply rising in Delhi with Wednesday recording a new high in daily cases crossing the 1,500-mark for the first time even as the AAP-trained guns at the central government-run Ram Manohar Lohia hospital for "erroneous" results on virus infection tests. The latest medical bulletin said the national capital recorded 1,513 cases, the highest for a single day, for the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 23,465. Fifty more deaths, including two reported on June 1, were added to the toll, as the total rose to 606. At present, 13,497 are still under treatment, including 8,405 under home isolation. In the past 24 hours, 299 people were discharged while the total recoveries touched 9,542. AAP national spokesperson and MLA Raghav Chadha accused the RML Hospital of giving out erroneous COVID-19 positive test results and violating the norms of submitting results within 48 hours. He claimed that Delhi government retested 30 samples from RML Hospital which were declared COVID-19 positive but 12 found to be negative and two others were inconclusive. "As per the protocol and to maintain the certainty of the tests, the Delhi government checks the test results of the hospitals by re-testing some samples time and again. Recently, the Delhi government took 30 samples from the RML hospitals which were declared to be positive by the RML and sent for re-testing. You will be surprised to know that the result of 12 samples out of 30 came negative and results for two samples were inconclusive," he said. "The test was done within 24 hours after the samples were declared positive by the RML hospital. This means that there was an error of 45% in RML's testing. Such a huge variation in result of COVID-19 test is unacceptable. Such false and erroneous results are highly condemnable and this exposes the negligence of the RML hospital," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-cases-surge-in-delhi-tally-now-at-23465-845341.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||Allahabad HC stays appointment of 69,000 UP teachers||The Allahabad High Court Wednesday stayed the appointment of 69,000 assistant basic teachers in Uttar Pradesh, holding that there has been an 'error' in the evaluation of question paper. The Lucknow bench of the high court fixed the next hearing on July 12. Justice Alok Mathur’s order comes days after the Supreme Court sought the UP government's reply on pleas challenging the high court verdict, which had upheld the state’s decision to keep higher cut-off marks for these appointments. Justice Mathur passed the interim order after hearing 31 writ petitions moved by hundreds of unsuccessful candidates individually. “The notification issued on May 8, 2020, whereby the final answer key has been issued is hereby stayed, and all proceedings pursuant to same are also stayed till the next date of listing," the court said. Pronouncing the order reserved on June 1, the court said, “In the present case, the court has examined certain questions and is of the considered opinion that there has been a material error in evaluation of question paper due to which a large number of candidates are liable to suffer for no fault of theirs.” The high court declined the argument of Advocate General Raghvendra Singh that though some questions may be argumentative having more than one correct answer, even then the court need not interfere in the issue in as much as the presumption should go in favour of the examining authority. “Once it is clear that there could be more than one correct answer in an objective type question where several options have been provided by the examining authority, the candidate is required to select only one correct answer, then it is incumbent, necessary and mandatory that in-fact there should only be one correct answer which could be selected by the candidate, otherwise, he would be liable for additional marks for the negligence of the examining authority and he need not be made to suffer,” the court said. Arguing on behalf of the petitioners, senior advocates LP Mishra, HGS Parihar and Sudeep Seth demonstrated as many as five questions and answers, which the court prima facie found either ambiguous, wrong or different from earlier examinations. “Since the cut-off for general and OBC candidates was 65 per cent and 60 per cent for SC/ST and many petitioners did not succeed for one, two or three marks, if reevaluation was conducted, the petitioners could get within the cut-off,” argued the lawyers. Holding that prima facie the petitioners had succeeded in making a case for the interim relief, the court referred the provisional answer key along with the objections to experts to be appointed by the Secretary, University Grants Commission (UGC), New Delhi. The court directed the UP Examination Regulatory Authority to send the question paper and the provisional answer key, along with the objections received from the candidates, to the UGC Secretary within 10 days. On receipt of the papers by the Secretary, the UGC shall proceed to appoint a panel of experts within one week, from amongst persons who have adequate knowledge in the subjects in relation to which opinion has been sought. “The experts are required to give their opinion within a period of two weeks from the date of receipt of the papers and, therefore, the Secretary, University Grants Commission, New Delhi, is directed to submit the expert opinion to the Examination Regulatory Authority of Uttar Pradesh who shall bring the same on record by filing an affidavit before this court on July 12,” the bench said. Earlier, the Supreme Court on May 21 had asked the state government to explain the process adopted for the appointment through a chart, posting the matter for further hearing on July 6. It asked the Uttar Pradesh government to explain why it changed the earlier criteria of 45 per cent cut-off marks for the general category and 40 per cent for the reserved category.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/allahabad-hc-stays-appointment-of-69000-up-teachers-845346.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||AIIMS Nurses' Union protests over working conditions; 329 workers contracted COVID-19 so far||The AIIMS Nurses' Union, which has been protesting for the last three days over its members' poor working conditions, on Wednesday warned the administration that they will go on strike if their concerns are not addressed, as the number of workers infected by COVID-19 at the hospital here rose to 329 including 47 nursing staff. The nurses' body had put forth a number of demands including implementation of a uniform four-hour shift with personal protective equipment in COVID-19 areas of the Centre-run hospital, a uniform rotation policy between COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 areas, and establishment of proper donning and doffing area. In a fresh mail sent to AIIMS Director Dr Randeep Guleria, the Nurses Union said that no heed has been paid to letters and regular representations in task force meetings conveying the plight of COVID-19 healthcare workers. "At this difficult juncture, the aggrieved nurses of AIIMS have decided to carry on with our protest until the administration pays enough heed... we are still left unheard by the AIIMS authorities. So we have been forced to resort to severe steps including mass casual leave on June 10 and still if our issues persist, we have decided to go for indefinite strike from June 15," the mail read.  Underlining that they are seeking a prompt meeting with the Director, the union said, "We also do not want to go for strike during this difficult time. But when it would become a predicament, we will be having no options but to go for strike and the sole responsibility of all consequences will be on the AIIMS administration." President of the union Harish Kajla earlier during the day said working at a stretch for six hours, which usually extended to seven to eight hours at times, while donning PPEs was adversely affecting the physical well-being of the nursing staff, especially the women. "Several of our staff are facing health complications like body rashes and urinary tract infections, while several others have lost weight," Kajla said. "Women are having issues related to menstruation as they cannot change sanitary pads with PPE on, neither can they go to the washroom. Once you wear a PPE you cannot take it off just like that and thus we are forced to wear adult diapers during duty, but it's very uncomfortable," he said. He further said that as the health of nurses is adversely affected, they are getting prone to contracting the infection fast. Kajla said since there was no response from the administration, the protest would continue but clarified that the healthcare work is not getting hampered. "Nursing staff participate in the protest in rotation after their shifts get over."  Since February 1, as many as 329 healthcare workers including four faculty members, 17 resident doctors, 47 nurses, 86 hospital attendants, 62 sanitation staff and 77 security personnel among others have been infected by the virus. AIIMS Medical Superintendent Dr DK Sharma said, "329 healthcare workers have so far contracted coronavirus since February 1. Several of those who had tested positive for COVID-19 have recovered and rejoined duty." So far three persons from the AIIMS succumbed to COVID-19. An electrician who had tested positive for the disease died on Sunday. A sanitation supervisor and a mess worker at the RPC canteen died due to the disease last week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/aiims-nurses-union-protests-over-working-conditions-329-workers-contracted-covid-19-so-far-845367.html
03-06-2020||North and Central||As coronavirus cases spiral, Delhi govt forms 5-member panel to strengthen health infra in city||As the coronavirus cases continue to spiral in the national capital, the Delhi government has set up a five-member panel to strengthen the healthcare infrastructure in the city and look into the overall preparedness of hospitals to battle the pandemic, officials said on Wednesday. Delhi recorded 1,513 fresh cases, the highest spike so far, taking the tally to 23,645, while the death toll rose to 606, according to a health bulletin. The officials said that there are 8,386 COVID-19 dedicated beds in the city hospitals, of which 3,446 are occupied. Of the 408 ventilators dedicated for COVID-19 patients, 255 are being used for patients. The newly-formed committee will guide the Delhi government on healthcare infrastructure augmentation and overall preparedness of the hospitals to battle COVID-19, they said. The members of the panel are Dr. Mahesh Verma, the vice-chancellor of IP University; Dr. Sunil Kumar, the medical director of GTB Hospital; Dr. Arun Gupta, president of Delhi Medical Council; Dr. R K Gupta, former president of Delhi Medical Association; and Dr. Sandeep Budhiraja, the group medical director of Max Hospital, according to an official order. The panel will also guide the government on any other area where strengthening of infrastructure is required to better manage the pandemic in Delhi. The daily spike in cases has been upwards of 1,100 for last several days while the total number of containment zones has risen to 158. Delhi has the highest number of cases after Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the complete lockdown has helped the Delhi government in strengthening the city's health infrastructure to effectively battle COVID-19. Addressing the "Cities Against COVID19 - Global Summit 2020" via video conference on Wednesday, he mentioned key measures adopted by the Delhi government to contain the spread of the dreaded virus. The summit was attended by mayors and experts from 21 cities, including Moscow, Jakarta, Istanbul, Budapest, Tehran, Tel Aviv, Buenos Aires, Vancouver and Chongqing. "As Delhi got its first COVID-19 positive case on March 2, it was very important to curb the spread of the disease. The total lockdown enabled us to spread awareness about the virus among the citizens and strengthen our health infrastructure to effectively battle the disease," he said. The deputy chief minister said the government has adequate medical facilities to deal with coronavirus cases. He said the Delhi government's relief teams have been working round the clock to provide meals to almost a million people twice a day. "Delhi plans to restore economic activity safely in a phased manner," the deputy chief minister said. Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party claimed that the Centre-run (Ram Manohar Lohia) RML Hospital was giving out “erroneous” COVID-19 test results and violating government norms of submitting them within 48 hours. Addressing a press conference here, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Delhi government re-tested 30 samples from the RML Hospital which were declared COVID-19 positive. He said 12 of these samples were found to be negative and the results of two samples were inconclusive. "As per the protocol and to maintain the certainty of the tests, the Delhi government checks the test results of the hospitals by re-testing some samples time and again. Recently, the Delhi government took 30 samples from RML Hospital which were declared to be positive (by the hospital) and sent for re-testing. “You will be surprised to know that the result of 12 samples out of the 30 came negative and results for two samples were inconclusive," he said. No immediate reaction was available from the hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-coronavirus-cases-spiral-delhi-govt-forms-5-member-panel-to-strengthen-health-infra-in-city-845368.html
03-06-2020||Opinion||Higher education could be key to strong India-Australia ties ||If the primary aim of the first virtual bilateral summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison, slated for June 4, is to strengthen the strategic partnership between the two countries, they need to look no further than the higher education sector, where they complement each other. Almost 10.9 lakh Indian students are pursuing higher education abroad and Australia is the third most popular higher-education destination for international students, hosting at least 3.81 lakh international students. Direction of diplomacy Before we delve into the opportunities for India and Australia to strengthen their partnership on the higher education front, let’s look at other key factors playing out in the international scenario.  The Chinese Ambassador to Australia opined that its people may not consume Australian wine or beef. He also added: “Maybe the parents of the students would also think whether this place, which they find is not so friendly, even hostile, is the best place to send their children to.” If China sticks to its guns and prevents its students from studying in Australia, then it would certainly imperil the latter’s international higher education exports.  At the other end of the spectrum, India might be at the receiving end of visa restrictions from the US, the top destination for Indian students, though the relationship between the two countries is buoyant. US President Donald Trump has said that to protect jobs for American citizens, he “will be signing an Executive Order to temporarily suspend immigration into the United States.”  The proposed move to restrict immigration, including for education, would require a rejig within the Indian higher-education sector, as it would need to accommodate more students who would otherwise have crossed borders in pursuit of higher education.  Economics of international higher education  Australia would be keen on expanding its export base and reduce its dependence on China, which accounts for over 26 percent of its total trade in 2018-19, as per the Australian Trade and Investment Commission. India is its sixth-largest trading partner, along with New Zealand and the UK, contributing 3.4 percent of its total trade.  According to the Australian Department of Education, international education, of which higher education is the largest component, is its fourth-largest export earning $37.6 bn in 2018-19, coming only behind iron ore, coal, and natural gas exports. Unlike overall trade, international education export is a duel between China and India, the top two sources for Australia, with the former contributing 32 percent and the latter offering 14.6 percent of Australia’s total education export income.  As per the latest statistics, Australia is hosting 1.65 lakh Chinese and 1.05 lakh Indian students. Though the gap between India and China is big, India is contributing increasingly more to Australia’s education export income with an average growth (CAGR) of 27.4 percent, vis-à-vis China’s 19.67 percent, for five years since 2013-14. Importantly, India’s year-on-year contribution zoomed 44.3 percent in 2018-19 compared to China’s 9 percent. Therefore, as things stand, the stage is well set for India to capitalise on its contribution to Australia’s higher education sector.  Australia would be favourable towards accommodating more Indian students, as that would help eliminate or mitigate the loss of export income if Chinese students don’t arrive in the same numbers as before. Even if there is no abatement in the enrolment of Chinese students, it is prudent for Australia to diversify its higher education consumer basket than to rely predominantly on China. But, why would India send its students overseas, including Australia?   The correlation between education, more specifically higher education, and economic growth is strong. Internationalisation of higher education provides benefits to all the stakeholders, including the host and consuming countries. As internationalising higher education at home requires time, developing countries make use of cross-border higher education, by which its human resources get educated abroad, for a price.  Post their higher education, these skilled human resources help their nation develop when they repatriate as researchers, teachers, entrepreneurs, innovators, etc. Those students who stay back after higher education offer the benefits of diaspora.  Further, Indian students are in any case travelling abroad for higher education and are spending an estimated $6-7 bn or Rs 45,000 crore annually, as per a 2015 study.  Win-win solution It is likely that in a couple of academic seasons, Australia may need more international students to keep its export earnings intact. With depletion in the supply from the US, India may have an oversupply of students who would be keen on travelling abroad for higher education, forcing India to look for a better alternative, which could very well be the UK or Australia. As the UK is relatively more affected by the pandemic, Australia seems to be in the pole position. It would be beneficial for India to send more students to Australia and as a trade-off strategically engage Australia to help internationalise its domestic higher education sector, on favourable terms. Morrison has termed India as a natural partner and has recently assured that the “Indian community in Australia, including Indian students, would continue to be valued as a vibrant part of the Australian society,” assuaging any misgivings due to the Indian student crisis of 2009. Recently, after speaking with Modi telephonically, he tweeted: “We shared our experiences on managing the crisis and will continue to share knowledge on treatment for the virus and as we work towards a vaccine.” With universities spearheading research and development of vaccines, it’s hoped that both leaders will hit it off well and use higher education for deepening strategic ties. (M Saravanan is a higher education consultant based in New Delhi. Views are personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/higher-education-could-be-key-to-strong-india-australia-ties-845093.html
03-06-2020||Panorama||COVID-19: Close encounters of the senior kind||“That moment when you’re worried about the elderly, you realise that you are the elderly.” This vividly illustrated meme, in circulation via social media in the early days of the Covid-19 lockdown in India, touched a chord with me and many in my cohort.  Till March 2020, we had been blithely going about our lives as regular human beings: busy with work; family and household responsibilities; professional and community engagements; exercise; social, cultural and other leisure activities; paying bills and taxes; staying abreast of news and information (and trying to ignore or counter fake news and misinformation/disinformation) ; getting resigned or addicted to the evidently interminable and unavoidable pandemic of apps, and so on.  Then, all of a sudden, around mid-March, we found ourselves defined almost exclusively by our age group. Overnight, everyone aged 60 and above became an undifferentiated whole that was said to be particularly susceptible to infection by the dreaded, little known and less understood novel coronavirus, SARS-CoV-2. While the majority of those who contracted Covid-19 were expected to undergo a self-limiting illness and recover, “older” adults were reportedly at a significantly increased risk of severe disease, possibly requiring oxygen therapy or ventilators, and sometimes resulting in death.   According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), eight out of 10 deaths among “the elderly” occurred in individuals with at least one underlying co-morbidity, particularly cardiovascular disease/hypertension and diabetes, but also a range of other chronic conditions. But “older” became the defining characteristic of this abruptly endangered section of the population. It is perfectly understandable that such a specific, somewhat alarming, physical vulnerability would necessarily circumscribe corporeal options, ruling out activities likely to lead to avoidable exposure to the virus. So most “senior citizens” had no choice but to observe “reverse quarantine”. Even though, for some of us at least, our natural instincts were to be more actively engaged in the unfolding crisis, especially the desperate plight of migrant workers and others dependent on daily earnings for survival, we perforce had to make do with contributing as much as we could from the safe confines of our homes. At the same time, many of us – especially women – had to cope with the unaccustomed, exhausting and seemingly endless burden of housework, while also figuring out how to virtually procure essential and, in the early days, scarce groceries. Considering the reality of our pre-pandemic lives, it was both annoying and amusing to observe the noticeable, if subtle, shift in perceptions of and attitudes towards the “high-risk” demographic in which we unexpectedly found ourselves. In an ironic role reversal, there was suddenly a lot of exasperated, albeit (hopefully) affectionate, talk about the difficulties of keeping restive parents in check, making them understand the gravity of the situation, ensuring that they are kept amused with online entertainment, and the like.   If some progeny tended to infantilise, even obviously sympathetic and well-meaning experts often ended up generalising, if not patronising. There was seldom any acknowledgement of the fact that “60+” represents quite a heterogenous bunch, even among middle and higher income groups – diverse not just in terms of physical fitness but also with respect to activity, mobility, agility, adaptability, independence/self-reliance, and so on. Not everyone in this demographic is even a retiree; many older adults (not only politicians!) remain active, professionally and otherwise, well beyond the official retirement age.  So it was a bit galling to read this in a recent newspaper report about mental health issues faced by the elderly during the lockdown: “While young people can learn and adapt faster to change, ageing brains cannot.” I merely rolled my eyes. But it did come across as an unacceptably inaccurate, insensitive and disempowering statement about a rather broad range of people, especially coming from a mental health professional.   Interestingly, according to a 2019 article, the US-based Pew Research Center, which has been studying the “Millennial generation” for over a decade, had decided that anyone born between 1981 and 1996 (a 15-year span) could be considered a Millennial, while anyone born from 1997 onward would be considered part of a new generation (popularly known as Gen Z). Similarly, disaggregating senior citizens into at least two groups would appear to make sense. Unfortunately, the stereotyping and homogenising of this age group in the Covid-19 context was evident in official pronouncements, too. Whether they emanated from the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare (MHFW) or the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment (MSJE), advice for the elderly and their care-givers appeared to address the realities of middle and higher income groups alone.  The series of advisories issued from mid-March onwards appeared to presuppose the existence of secure homes with multiple rooms, and access to smartphones, internet connections, unlimited water, soap, disinfectants/sanitisers and tissue paper (!), nutritious meals (including fruit juices), prescription medicines, and so on. There was no reference even in MSJE advisories to the ground realities of older members of the “disadvantaged and marginalised sections of society, including scheduled castes (SC), Other Backward Classes (OBC), the disabled, … the victims of drug abuse” who, besides “the elderly”, the Ministry is supposed to be responsible for. The latest available data (circa 2011) puts the population of the 60 and above age group in India at nearly 104 million, 8-9% of the total population, of whom 73 million live in rural areas and 31 million in urban areas. According to a survey by the non-profit organisation, HelpAge India, about half of them – around 53 million – are very poor. And about 6% of the elderly live alone, even in rural areas.  A number of organisations in urban areas provide various kinds of invaluable support services to senior citizens even in normal times. During the lockdown period, many voluntary groups also sprang up, offering practical help to seniors trapped indoors and finding it difficult to procure essential groceries and medicines. Many Residents’ Welfare Associations and neighbours also kindly pitched in to provide much-needed assistance. While civil society similarly stepped into the breach to provide basic meals and other aid to many migrant workers and others who suddenly found themselves jobless and penniless, the plight of the elderly among the poor – as “high-risk” as the rest of us, if not more – remained unknown. On my first, wary, masked, gloved, sanitised foray into the outside world a couple of weeks ago, I saw an elderly man seeking alms at a traffic signal – wearing a mask but with his nose exposed. I wondered if he had even heard of the monthly pension supposedly being given by the government to 2.98 crore poor senior citizens, widows and persons with disabilities, in addition to an “ex gratia” amount of Rs 1,000, to cover three months of life under the threat of Covid-19.  (The writer is a Bengaluru-based senior journalist, author and co-founder, Network of Women in Media, India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/covid-19-close-encounters-of-the-senior-kind-844986.html
03-06-2020||Panorama||Rethinking pharma patents||The Covid-19 pandemic has brought home the nature of globalisation, like no other event has. Now, even a person living in a rural hinterland is able to discern the meaning and the impact of globalisation on our lives. Discussions are rife on whether the nature, extent and the rules governing global exchange will undergo a change once the world comes out of this pandemic. While the whole framework that administrates the globalised world (formulated by WTO) has been criticised, the one issue that is outstanding and which requires attention in the light of the current situation is that of patents on pharmaceuticals. While it is fair that the owners of intellectual property are incentivised, there is also a need for a balance, so that the users of the product are not unduly taxed. This is especially true in the case of pharmaceuticals. It is the contention of pharma MNCs, that having invested enormous amounts on research it is only correct that they should get exclusive manufacturing and marketing rights (which they do, for a period of twenty years). Having acquired these rights they sell the doses at a premium that is not affordable to many people in the developed countries. The WTO has made exceptions to these exclusive rights of IP owners in a situation where governments need to protect public health. Court battles between the developing countries (Indian has been such a party in such battles) and pharmaceutical MNCs over granting of compulsory licenses have been common ever since the TRIPS came into being. This background becomes important especially in the current situation as the world is waiting anxiously for a vaccine, to emerge out of a lockdown that seems endless. It is heartening to see that the scientific community has a head start as several candidates have entered the human trial phase. It will be a huge breakthrough if a vaccine is invented in such a short span of time. The next problem that governments will face would be to make it available to all the populace. Heated arguments have already erupted over the statement of the chief executive of Sanofi--a French drug manufacturer, that its first batch of potential Covid-19 vaccine will go to the US as its government has funded the company in its search for a vaccine. To this, the French President has reacted with indignation and said that the vaccine is “a global public good, which is not submitted to market forces.” It would be no wonder if this potential vaccine is caught in the patent quagmire. Covid-19 is being a public health emergency, governments will have the right to issue a compulsory license, but it won’t be smooth sailing as it will be challenged in courts if past precedents are anything to go by. Infectious diseases have been on the rise in the past few decades. This has been blamed on man’s irreverent interaction with the environment. There is, therefore, a likelihood that infectious diseases may multiply in the decades to come. To address the problem, we need to change the way we live, but we would also need palliative measures in the form of vaccines and medicines. The current system of IP rights is not conducive to the objective of making much-needed medicines affordable to the masses. It is time to come up with other ways to incentivise inventions, particularly in the field of medicine. Prize funding for research and tier pricing as a market model are two approaches that have already been suggested. In fact, it is opined by many that the patent system is ‘anti-commons’ as it results in essential knowledge being locked-up. This has major implications in the field of health as there will be islands of information, inaccessible to others who are working to find a solution or ameliorate a problem. Also, it is a waste of time and resources as several people are working in the same direction in competition with each other. This is what is happening currently as several drug majors are running a race against Covid-19 as well as against each other. This is an opportunity for world leaders to come together and find a common ground. That would be a stellar example of a globalised world. (The writer is an independent researcher with an interest in WTO)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/rethinking-pharma-patents-844990.html
03-06-2020||Panorama||Governing principle of the universe||Of all the principles that govern the universe we live in, the principle of Guru tatwam is undoubtedly the most important. The Guru occupies the very highest position in Sanatana Dharma. This explains why he is so extolled in the scriptures. He is venerated Brahma, Vishnu and Maheshwara. He is praised as the eternal witness, as the Parabrahman. In other words, salutations are offered to him as the aupreme being himself. According to Swami Vivekananda--“Every soul is destined to be perfect, and every being, in the end, will attain the state of perfection. Whatever we are now is the result of our acts and thoughts in the past, and whatever we shall be in the future will be the result of what we think and do now. But this, the shaping of our own destinies, does not preclude our receiving help from outside; nay, in the vast majority of cases, such help is absolutely necessary. When it comes, the higher powers and possibilities of the soul are quickened, spiritual life is awakened, growth is animated, and man becomes holy and perfect in the end.” He added, “the person from whose soul such impulse comes is called the Guru — the teacher, and the person to whose soul the impulse is conveyed is called the Shishya — the student. To convey such an impulse to any soul, in the first place, the soul from which it proceeds must possess the power of transmitting it, as it were, to another; and in the second place, the soul to which it is transmitted must be fit to receive it. The seed must be a living seed, and the field must be ready ploughed; and when both these conditions are fulfilled, a wonderful growth of genuine religion takes place. “The true preacher of religion has to be of wonderful capabilities, and clever shall his hearer be” and when both of these are really wonderful and extraordinary, then will a splendid spiritual awakening result, and not otherwise. Such alone are the real teachers, and such alone are also the real students, the real aspirants. All others are only playing with spirituality. “When the power that attracts the light of religion, the receiving soul is full and strong, the power which answers to that attraction and sends in light does come as a matter of course”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/governing-principle-of-the-universe-844991.html
03-06-2020||Panorama||The Ladakh incursion: Understanding China’s motivations  ||It is disappointing to find Indian websites not easily yielding the text of the epoch-making 1993 “Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquility along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas”. Consequently, one has to search foreign sites like the UN or the Stimson Center. The agreement was the direct result of the successful 1988 Rajiv Gandhi visit to China and his meeting with paramount leader Deng Xiaoping. This, together with the October 23, 2013 “Border Defence Cooperation Agreement between India and China”, signed by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh and Chinese Premier Li Keqiang should have, if faithfully followed, prevented any incidents like the 2017 Doklam stand-off or the current incursions in Ladakh. The 1993 agreement says that pending the final settlement of the boundary, each side would respect the Line of Actual Control. In case one side crosses the line, they would pull back on being cautioned by the other. Differing views on alignment would be resolved by joint efforts. The 2013 agreement also says that maximum self-restraint should be exercised if the border forces come to a face-to-face situation in areas where there is no common understanding. No provocative actions or threat to use force or actual use of force would be made. Why then are we witnessing such pushing and punching by both sides? The reason, according to me, is an inadequate understanding of how the Chinese mind, trained in the tradition of Mao, works, especially in “siege” situations. Only Jawaharlal Nehru, through his extensive travels, understood the orientations of Maoist China even before our independence. He had also discussed this subject with people like the US journalist Agnes Smedley and French intellectual Andre Malroux well before Mao came to power. Agnes Smedley, who was Lala Lajpat Rai’s assistant in New York, had met Nehru in 1926 in Brussels. She was the first American journalist to stay in the Yenan caves where Chairman Mao and his comrades lived and worked. It was through her that Mao learnt about India. In 1951, Nehru told Chester Bowles, the US Ambassador to India, that China was potentially “aggressive and expansionist”. The late Howard B. Schaffer, who was Bowles’ assistant and later US Ambassador to Pakistan, has recorded this in his 1993 biography of Chester Bowles, who was US ambassador to India twice, 1951-53 and 1963-69. A book, “Chinese at the Negotiating Table”, published in 1994 by the US National Defense University, gives details of the Chinese mental orientation and strategy. It was written by Alfred D. Wilhelm Jr., who was vice-president of the Atlantic Council, with a preface by Ambassador Alexis Johnson who, as US Ambassador to Czechoslovakia (1953-58), had negotiated with Mao’s emissaries at Geneva and Warsaw, long before diplomatic relations were started in 1979 after President Nixon’s 1972 visit to Beijing. The fundamental premise under which Mao defined relationships with others was that China, “after 100 years of suffering and humiliation due to Western imperialism”, would not allow any “relationship that might appear to subordinate China’s interests -- political, ideological, economic, cultural or military  -- to any big power or bloc of powers.” He expected other countries to conform to China’s norms and values. China would uphold the principle of “equality and mutual benefit” adding that the “door swings inward more than outward”. Based on this principle, the People’s Republic of China did not classify America as a “friend” even in 1984, five years after the normalisation of relations, even when the Soviet Union was perceived as the principal threat.  Where does India stand in this complex relationship? The PRC’s relationship with the Soviet Union deteriorated when the latter made unilateral compromises with the US, violating Marxist-Leninist principles. China suffered as a “surrogate” of Moscow during the Korean War whereas Soviet support was non-existent during the 1958 Taiwan Straits Crisis and during the 1962 Sino-Indian War. In the Chinese lexicon, different words are used to describe relationships with countries for negotiations: “Tanpan” suggests that both parties, even hostile, are serious about seeing that the situation does not get worse. “Huitan” is used for the normalisation of talks. It connotes trust with no hostility. “Huishang” is used between friendly countries. “Xieshang” connotes greater levels of trust and is used for “consulting”. This formula explains why China specifically preferred Pakistan as the intermediary to facilitate Kissinger’s secret visit in July 1971, which paved the way for President Nixon’s pathbreaking visit to Beijing in 1972. Kissinger had tried two other channels -- through China “friend” Romanian President Nicolae Ceausescu, and through the Chinese Ambassador in Paris, who was a ‘Long March’ veteran.  In 1971 and 1972, China considered India as the Soviet Union’s surrogate as the transcripts of the Zhou Enlai-Kissinger and Zhou Enlai-Nixon talks indicate. Zhou particularly condemned Nehru for claiming “their” Aksai Chin plateau from 1956 onwards under Nikita Khruschev’s instigation. In 1972, Zhou included Indira Gandhi among China’s adversaries for threatening Pakistan. It was only in 1988 that India’s status was upgraded for “Huitan” level talks after Rajiv Gandhi’s visit. This status was lost in 1998 when Prime Minister Vajpyee’s ill-advised letter to President Bill Clinton, blaming China for our nuclear tests, was leaked and published by New York Times on May 13, 1998. Against this background, it’s easy to understand why China is playing border games with the Modi government, which has closely aligned India’s foreign, financial, commercial and security policy with America’s orientations. We have indicated our eagerness to allow US enterprises to be located in India after President Donald Trump’s suggestion to them to withdraw from China. Union minister Nitin Gadkari had even suggested on April 27 that “India should look to convert the world’s hatred for China into an economic opportunity” for India. Thus, any number of Wuhan or Mamallapuram talks will only remain “events” as long as this suspicion remains in the minds of the Chinese. (The writer is a former Special Secretary, Cabinet Secretariat) (Syndicate: The Billion Press)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-ladakh-incursion-understanding-china-s-motivations-845317.html
03-06-2020||Panorama||Vaccinations are vital||One of the greatest boons that medical science has given to mankind, vaccines help in preventing and eliminating many life-threatening diseases and infections. They have had an enormous contribution to healthcare worldwide and have enabled medical science in the eradication of diseases like smallpox and pushed others like polio to the verge of extinction. As per statistics from the WHO, vaccination is estimated to avert two to three million deaths every year with its targeted strategies and proven mechanism.   The fight against diseases can be a slow as reinforced by the most recent health pandemic-- coronavirus. It is true that despite vaccination, there may still be outbreaks of certain diseases given the fact that complete eradication requires long, sustained, and rigorous efforts. However, a reduction in occurrence can gradually lead to a decrease in incidence and an overall improved health status. For a country like India with a not-so-strong healthcare system and lack of timely access to medical care, it becomes even more imperative to vaccinate children as a way of protecting them from preventable diseases. This will further reduce the pressure on families since they will not need to go far for treatment or lose a child. Vaccines form an important part of any community healthcare programme given that they prevent and control the outbreak of serious illnesses as well. In 1974 WHO’s expanded the programme on immunization (EPI) and extended benefits of vaccination to the world. The EPI has managed to cover over 80% of the population, even in the extremely vulnerable low and middle-income countries. Since then, there has been a major reduction in fatalities and hospital admissions for diseases such as measles and neonatal tetanus.  When we consider India, about five lakh children die of vaccine-preventable diseases and one in three children continue to remain unimmunized. To bring down this number, the Government of India launched the Universal Immunization Program (UIP) in 1985 with the aim of preventing six seriously crippling and fatal ailments. This includes diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, mumps and measles. It was in 2014 that the WHO finally declared India as ‘polio free’.  Today, as part of the UIP initiative, access to several vaccines is free of cost and this has further been successful in bringing down child mortality rates in India. There are also new vaccines added to the UIP in a bid to address the continued challenge of combating new disease-causing bacteria and viruses. There are now 12 vaccines, including Rotavirus, rubella and IPV which are a part of the regular immunization chart for children up to the age of five years. Any side effects of vaccination are completely outweighed by its advantages include eradication, elimination, control of mortality, morbidity and complications, mitigation of disease severity, prevention of infection, protection of the unvaccinated population indirectly and through source drying, prevention of related diseases and cancer, societal and other benefits such as savings and extending life expectancy.  The commemorative World Immunization Week is a reminder about the importance of this process. The theme of the 2020 campaign is #VaccinesWork for All and it will focus on how vaccines – and the people who develop, deliver and receive them – are heroes. The main goal is to urge greater engagement around immunization globally. The aim is threefold-- to demonstrate the value of vaccines for the health of children, communities and the world; to show how routine immunization is the foundation for strong, resilient health systems and universal health coverage; to highlight the need to build on immunization progress while addressing gaps, including through increased investment in vaccines and immunization. The need of the hour is for the public and private sectors to join hands, spread awareness, and ensure that children are vaccinated on time – not only for their own health but for the greater benefit of the nation as well.  (The writer is medical director at Portea Medical)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/vaccinations-are-vital-845318.html
03-06-2020||Panorama||Throw out your checklists||So much of what we do on a daily basis is built on tight schedules and checklists. One of the most popular narratives during the very first week of the lockdown was that this time would be a true measure of resilience and self-worth, both evaluated solely in terms of productivity. Other social media posts urged readers to immediately begin learning a new language or gaining a new certification. It would be unfair to dismiss the importance of quantifiable achievements, efficiency, and deadlines in ensuring accountability. However, widening the scope and intensity of this structured, result-oriented approach to every part of our day is one surefire path towards burnout.  This realization is pivotal, especially along with a committed focus on your best efforts and vision, rather than just targets and quotas. It becomes a game-changer, not just in the professional sphere where it soothes stress and anxiety, but even more so in emotional health, and in one’s spiritual journey.  Often, we begin to believe that the checklist approach can apply to our walk with God. This causes people to become preoccupied with the to-dos – to pray, meditate or give, in order to meet one’s own ideals of perfect religion. However, as Apostle Paul writes in Colossians 2, these human rules and teachings soon lose their meaning. When we focus continually on the doing, it causes us to approach faith in the same way as we do work - as tasks to be accomplished and criteria to be met. One of the most freeing revelations one could have is this – the criteria were thrown out, a couple millennia ago!  Where the law had proposed an unattainable checklist, love has become its ultimate fulfilment. Every commandment now amounts only to love – to love the Lord your God with all your heart, and to love your neighbour as yourself. It is then, our time to focus on the being – for as we read in 1 John 4:12, “God lives in us, and his love is made complete in us.”  More often than not, concern with fulfilling the to-do can directly hinder this most important commission. So then, if there is one thing we actually need to do, it is this – throw out all checklists, and simply love.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/throw-out-your-checklists-845320.html
03-06-2020||Right in the Middle||Lockdown and a dove’s tale||Several videos that highlight wild animals reclaiming spaces have been doing the rounds during the lockdown. Things are scary, but then there is another way of looking at the things by generating opportunities. This is a chance to pivot away from routine life, to do something different, pick up some new skills.  A few weeks ago, my wife and I came across a lovely 'mourning dove' that had set up her home in our balcony. As time passed, I observed that both she and her mate were beautiful creatures that seemed curious about us, rather than anxious. I would begin every morning by greeting these lovely creatures. I began observing her sitting on her eggs for several days and every time I would look at her while reading or writing in the balcony, she would gaze back calmly. The eyes are said to be the windows to the soul. Similarly, I observed that the dove had an ability to understand humans by looking at them and discerning if they might pose a risk. Everything was fine until a predator attacked the female dove and trying to eat her eggs during my absence. The dove, however, managed to protect her eggs from the predator but to my dismay lost her life. Thinking of the adversaries that these eggs or probably the babies would face without their mother left me helpless. To my relief, after some time, Mr Dove arrived for his incubation duty. After learning of the demise of her beloved, Mr. Dove became restless, perhaps he was telling his babies of the loss of their brave mother. From this instance, I learnt that even birds do express their grief, and it is possible for an individual to identify with that. For me, it was a heartbreaking moment but to console myself, I reminded myself of the “survival of the fittest” phrase that originated from the Darwinian evolutionary theory. I expressed solidarity with Mr. Dove but told myself that he would be a great Dad! This lockdown gave me an opportunity to discover a new hobby that doesn’t take a lot of investment. After all, bird watching is one of the fastest-growing hobbies, so it’s a great way to meet new friends.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/lockdown-and-a-dove-s-tale-844989.html
03-06-2020||Second Edit||GDP numbers tell story we all knew||The poor GDP growth estimates for the country for the January-March quarter and for the past financial year were not unexpected as the economy was already sliding before the Covid-19 pandemic struck and there were no signs of recovery. The figures released by the National Statistical Organisation (NSO) show that the GDP for the quarter and the fiscal grew just by 3.1% and 4.2% respectively, which were the slowest rates in the past 11 years. The government has said that the estimates were affected by data flow problems during the lockdown period, but the picture may not change much even with the receipt of full data. The Gross Value Added (GVA) figures for the quarter and the full year are low, and thus the low growth numbers. All indicators have persistently declined, belying claims that had then been made that the slowdown had been arrested. Some economists have even questioned the numbers and said they might actually be even lower.   The estimates were for a period before the national lockdown and the situation has only worsened since then. All important sectors of the economy, including manufacturing, construction and services, contracted considerably, resulting in fall in output and job losses. Others like trade, transport and communications also showed clear declines. Hotels and tourism were affected. Only agriculture and government spending gave some strength to the economy. Private consumption, which is the main driver of the economy, declined and investment activity slowed down for the third consecutive quarter. While this is a bad scenario, it should be worse in the subsequent months because the lockdown has dealt a severe blow to all sectors of the economy. Some available indications only confirm these fears. The Index of Industrial Production (IIP) for eight core sectors has shown a 38% decline in April, and all the sectors contracted. Exports declined by 60% in that month. There were signs of resumption of activity in some sectors in May, with the easing of the lockdown in some areas. But the economically important states and cities are in dire straits. So the outlook for the rest of the year is grim, with predictions of a negative growth for the economy. The packages announced by the government till now, including the sops approved by the cabinet on Monday, are considered too little and too late. Some of them are policies which may yield results, but only over time. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has said that growth will be back on track, but the present indications are that the distress will continue for months.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/gdp-numbers-tell-story-we-all-knew-844984.html
03-06-2020||Second Edit||Low standards for a government law officer||Everyone knows that public discourse in India has deteriorated badly, with norms of common decency, decorum and respect for others being flagrantly violated and professional conduct in many areas finding new lows. This has been seen as a reflection of changes in the attitudes and standards of conduct in society and politics and has caused concern. But some areas like the judiciary, especially the higher judiciary, have held themselves up and have been largely unaffected. But the performance of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta in the Supreme Court last week and even earlier, on matters relating to the plight of migrant workers which was before the court, was most unedifying and lowered many standards. Mehta did not conduct himself as a senior lawyer, an official of the court and the second-highest judicial officer of the government but as a partisan representative of the government with no respect for the high threshold of conduct needed in the nation's highest court.    Mehta’s statements in the court stood out for their misrepresentation of facts, lack of respect for and even vilification of other lawyers and the media, exposition of wrong and untenable positions on issues, and a failure to understand not just the legal but also the basic humanitarian aspect of the matter before the court. He had told the court some weeks ago that there were no migrants on the road, when the whole nation was witness to tens of thousands of them trekking home. He described those who reported on and photographed the plight of the migrants as “vultures” and questioned the intentions and credentials of those who spoke for them and brought the matter to the court, calling them prophets of doom who spread negativity and who showed no courtesy to the nation. Criticism of the government’s inadequate and insensitive response to the migrant workers’ crisis is not discourtesy to the nation, and the solicitor general should not have parroted the identity between the government and the nation which ignorant and ill-intentioned political partisans assert these days. He tried to contend before the court what its duty is and what judicial independence means, and even told it that some high courts, which sought to help the migrants, were “running a parallel government’’. Law officers should not be so blatantly partisan and abandon professional etiquette and codes of behaviour. They should not devalue their positions and set bad precedents. Mehta should be admonished and restrained from such obnoxious conduct. A government law officer should be on the side of truth and justice and should not bring down the standards of the court with his conduct.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/low-standards-for-a-government-law-officer-845310.html
03-06-2020||South||Plea for allowing Nalini to make video call: Madras HC poser to Tamil Nadu govt||The Madras High Court on Tuesday orally observed why the Tamil Nadu government was not allowing Nalini and her husband Sriharan, life convicts in Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, to make video calls to her mother-in-law in Sri Lanka when it had already decided to release her and six others. A bench of Justice N Kirubakarn and Justice R Hemalatha made the observation during the resumed hearing of a petition by Nalini's mother seeking a direction to permit her daughter and her husband to speak to her mother-in-law in Sri Lanka and sister-in-law in London daily for ten minutes. Father of Murugan, a Sri Lankan national, had recently died and the two had to console the bereaved family members, she contended. Making clear they were not in support of the convicts, the judges wondered as to why the prison authorities were refusing to grant the permission when the state has taken a stand to release all the seven convicts in the case. It was referring to the decision of the state cabinet for premature release of the seven convicts, which is awaiting approval from the state Governor. Public Prosecutor A Natarajan informed the court that Nalinicannot be allowed to make video calls as there was no such provision in rules for contacting any person in any foreign country. Since the offence committed by the life convicts had international ramification and given their overseas contacts with banned outfits, there was no guarantee that the convicts would use this facility for personal and family affair, he submitted. The bench then adjourned the hearing to Wednesday with a direction to the prosecutor to inform the court the clear stand of the prison authorities. Earlier, in a counter affidavit, the state DGP/IG (Prisons) Sunil Kumar Singh had said there was no provision either in the Tamil Nadu Prison Rules or in government orders to allow a prisoner to make video call or even voice call to any person in any foreign country. The official noted that the issue involving foreign countries falls within the domain of Union Ministry for External Affairs, and the state government or the prison authorities cannot take any unilateral decision. Besides Nalini and her husband, the others convicted in the case are A G Perarivalan, Santhan, Jayakumar, Ravichandran and Robert Pyas. All are serving life imprisonment for their role in the assassination of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on May 21, 1991 by an LTTE suicide-bomber at nearby Sriperumbudur. They were initially sentenced to death, but later it was commuted to life imprisonment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/plea-for-allowing-nalini-to-make-video-call-madras-hc-poser-to-tamil-nadu-govt-844980.html
03-06-2020||South||13 more COVID-19 deaths in Tamil Nadu, toll now at 197; 1091 fresh cases||Thirteen more people succumbed to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu which reported 1,091 fresh cases on Tuesday pushing the infection count past the 24,000 mark, the health department said. The toll in the state has now risen to 197 while the infection tally is 24,586. The day also saw Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami calling on Governor Banwarilal Purohit at Raj Bhavan to discuss the measures taken by the government in controlling the spread of the coronavirus. This is the third straight day the state is witnessing more than 1,000 cases. Tamil Nadu reported 1,162 cases yesterday and on Sunday the number was 1,149, according to a bulletin issued by the health department. According to a Raj Bhavan release, Palaniswami during his brief interaction with the governor in the evening presented a report on the COVID-19 containment measures taken by his government. Chennai with 809 COVID-19 cases today continued to witness the maximum number of cases among districts totalling 16,585 cases till date. The city was also leading in number of those who succumbed to the coronavirus at 150 (of the total death toll 197). According to the bulletin, 536 people got cured today, totalling 13,706 in the state. The number of active cases, including those in isolation wards, stood at 10,680, the bulletin said. On the fatalities, the bulletin said three women and 10 men died between May 28 and June 1 and it was reported today. A total of 11,094 samples were tested Tuesday, taking the tally to 5,14,433 samples till date. Besides Chennai, Chengelpet reported 82 fresh cases followed by Thiruvallur 43 and Tuticorin 20, the bulletin added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/13-more-covid-19-deaths-in-tamil-nadu-toll-now-at-197-1091-fresh-cases-844995.html
03-06-2020||South||LG Polymers India has absolute liability for gas leak, says NGT||South Korean company LG Polymers India has absolute liability for the loss of life and public health in the gas leak incident at its plant in Visakhapatnam, the NGT has said while directing that the interim penalty of Rs 50 crore would be spent on compensation to the victims and the restoration of the environment. The National Green Tribunal directed that a restoration plan be prepared by a Committee comprising two representatives each of the Environment Ministry and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and three representatives of Andhra Pradesh government. The NGT also junked the company's plea seeking review of its May 8 order slapping on it the Rs 50 crore interim penalty saying that it is justified in taking suo motu cognisance of the matter. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said that final calculation of compensation may be assessed by a committee comprising representatives of Ministry of Environment Ministry, CPCB and National Environmental Engineering Research Institute. "The committee will be at liberty to associate/co-opt any other expert institution or individual. The Secretary, MoEF may ensure the constitution of such committee within two weeks... The Committee may give its report within two months thereafter," the bench, also comprising Justice Sheo Kumar Singh, said. It also directed Andhra Pradesh Chief Secretary to identify and take appropriate action against persons responsible for the failure of law in permitting the company to operate without statutory clearances within two months and give a report. "In view of the stand of the state pollution control board and the company that it will not recommence its operation without requisite statutory clearances, we direct that if any such statutory clearances are granted and the Company proposes to recommence, this aspect must be brought to the notice of this tribunal so that compliance of law is ensured," the bench said in its June 1 order uploaded today. The NGT asked MoEF to constitute an Expert Committee to suggest ways and means to revamp monitoring mechanism to check and prevent violation of environmental norms and preventing any such recurrence in future in any of the establishments dealing with hazardous chemicals. "A special drive may be initiated in this regard. An action taken report may be furnished within three months. This order will not prejudice any criminal or other statutory proceedings in accordance with the law," the bench said. The NGT said that the safety of citizens and environment is of prime concern and any economic or industrial activity, however necessary, has to be consistent with the safety of human beings and the environment. "The damage to human life, human health and environment has to be restored by applying the 'Sustainable Development' principle, of which 'Precautionary' and 'Polluter Pays' principles are part," the bench said. The NGT on May 8 sought response from the Centre and others saying 'there appears to be a failure to comply with the said Rules and other statutory provisions'. It had set up a five-member Committee to probe gas leak incident in the chemical factory, in which at least 11 people were killed and 1,000 exposed. The matter was taken up suo motu (on its own) by NGT on the basis of media reports to the effect that leakage of hazardous gas, Styrene, took place on May 7 from a chemical factory owned by the South Korean company LG Polymers India Pvt Ltd, R R Venkatpuram village, Pendurthy Mandal, Vishakhapatnam resulting in the death of 11 persons. A major early morning chemical leak from a polymer plant near Visakhapatnam impacted villages in a five-km radius, leaving many people dead and scores of citizens suffering from breathlessness and other problems, as the Andhra Pradesh government ordered a probe into the issue. The leak was noticed by company staff who were reportedly inspecting machines to restart the factory and raised an alarm. Hours after the styrene gas leak from the multinational L G Polymers Plant at R R Venkatapuram village near here, scores of people could be seen lying unconscious on sidewalks, near ditches and on the road, raising fears of a major industrial disaster.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/lg-polymers-india-has-absolute-liability-for-gas-leak-says-ngt-845102.html
03-06-2020||South||Kerala elephant tragedy: Another jumbo suspected to have been killed in similar fashion||As the brutal killing of a pregnant wild elephant in Kerala led to widespread condemnation, a similar incident has come to light in Kollam district, where a young female elephant died of injuries in her mouth, a month ago. The pregnant wild elephant in Silent Valley Forest had fallen victim to an act of human cruelty on May 27 after a pineapple filled with powerful crackers offered by a man exploded in her mouth when she chomped on it. A top forest officer told PTI that another female elephant had met with a similar fate in April in Pathanapuram forest range area under Punalur division in Kollam district. The officer said the elephant was found in a serious condition from the fringe areas of the forests in Pathanapuram by forest officials in the month of April. "The pachyderm was found alienated from the herd of elephants. Its jaw was broken and it was unable to eat," the senior officer told PTI. "It was very weak. When the forest officials approached, the elephant ran into the forest and joined the herd of elephants waiting there. But the next day, the elephant was again found alienated from its herd. Proper treatment was given but unfortunately, it succumbed to its wounds," he said. Another official said an investigation has been launched into the incident. "It is suspected that the elephant bit a food item filled with crackers and it exploded in her mouth. We are waiting for the postmortem report," the officer, who did not wish to be identified, said. Forest officials opined that investigation into such cases was very tough. "It is very difficult to gather information in such incidents. Locating the place where they meet with such fate is not as easy as the herd of wild elephants travels several kilometers a day. The incident comes to the notice of forest officials after the ill-fated elephants are found alienated from their herds. That too weeks later. This makes the probe tough," he said. Meanwhile, Kerala Forest Minister K Raju told PTI that he has sought report from the top wildlife officials about the incidents of elephant deaths. The pregnant wild elephant in Silent Valley was unable to eat after she chewed the pineapple filled with crackers and it exploded in her mouth. Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) and Chief Wildlife Warden Surendrakumar said the incident was reported from the fringe areas of the Silent Valley in Attappadi. He said the elephant died at Velliyar River in Malappuram district on May 27. " I have directed the forest officials to nab the culprit. We will punish him for 'hunting' the elephant," Surendrakumar told PTI. The issue of the pachyderm's tragic death in Silent Valley came to light after Mohan Krishnan, a forest officer, posted an emotional note on his Facebook page, narrating the death of the elephant in the waters of the Velliyar River. "When we saw her she was standing in the river, with her head dipped in the water. She had a sixth sense that she was going to die. She took the Jalasamadhi in the river in a standing position," Krishnan, who was deputed to bring the elephant back to the shore, wrote. He also posted the photos of the elephant standing in the river water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-elephant-tragedy-another-jumbo-suspected-to-have-been-killed-in-similar-fashion-845105.html
03-06-2020||South||Cyclone Nisarga: CM Uddhav Thackeray shares do's and dont's, asks people to ignore rumours||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday shared dos and don'ts in view of the cyclonic storm Nisarga that is likely to make a landfall at the Alibaug town in Raigad and also impact other coastal districts including Mumbai, Palghar and Thane. Sharing a graphic on Twitter, the Chief Minister's Office urged people to pay attention to official instructions on TV and radio, and not heed to rumours or circulate them. Thackeray said people should tie or move indoors loose things outside their homes and regularly inspect battery-operated devices as well as reserve power systems. If a person is not living in a mud house or hut, he/she should choose a part of the house as an emergency shelter and practice how all members of the family will use the space during the cyclone. Stay at the centre of the room, stay away from corners as debris often accumulates in corners, the chief minister said. He urged people to hide under strong furniture such as a stool, heavy table or desk and hold it tight. Use your hands to protect your head and neck, Thackeray said. People should stay away from windows, he said, adding that some windows should be closed and some kept open so to maintain the pressure. People should avoid large roof spaces such as auditoriums and shopping malls, he said and asked for keeping the emergency kit ready. He suggested disconnecting the power supply of all non-emergency equipment and tools. Store drinking water in a clean place (jugs, bottles), he said. People should help those who are trapped or injured and provide first aid if needed, Thackeray said. He said people should open windows and leave a building if possible if there is any gas leak. Turn off the gas valve and report to the gas company, he said. He also asked people to help those in special need, like children, physically challenged and elderly. The chief minister asked fishermen to keep their boats/rafts tied-up in a safe place and also keep a radio set with extra batteries handy. Among don'ts, Thackeray said people should not spread or believe in rumours. "Do not attempt to drive or ride any vehicle during the cyclone. Stay away from damaged buildings. Do not move injured people unless it is absolutely safe to do so. It may cause more harm, he said. The chief minister also urged people to not allow oil and other flammable substances to spill and clean them immediately (if the fluids spill). He again appealed to fishermen should not venture into the sea in view of the rough weather conditions. Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) asked the authorities concerned to temporarily shift people staying near the sea and other dangerous locations in eight wards on the city's west coast to municipal schools. The fire brigade personnel are on alert and 93 lifeguards deployed at six chowpatties in the city, apart from lifeguards and rescue boats, the BMC said. Eight teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and five teams of Navy are deployed at various locations in Mumbai. The BMC also appealed to people to dial its helpline number 1916 for help in case of any emergency. The situation in the city is being monitored from the disaster control room with the help of 5,000 CCTV cameras installed on roads. To avoid water-logging, over 300 pumps have been put up and adequate staff deployed at six pumping stations in the city, the BMC said. The buildings which are in a dangerous condition have been inspected and their occupants asked to remain alert. Also, 96 civic teams have been deployed to prune branches of trees and remove trees which fall due to the wind, the BMC said. Generators have been provided in hospitals and towing vans deployed for removing vehicles stuck on roads, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/cyclone-nisarga-cm-uddhav-thackeray-shares-dos-and-donts-asks-people-to-ignore-rumours-845108.html
03-06-2020||South||Hyderabad: Four doctors at govt hospital test positive for COVID-19||Four doctors at a government hospital in  Hyderabad tested positive for the COVID-19 virus on Wednesday, an official said. The hospital is taking precautionary measures to control the spread of the virus and has also informed health department officials about the doctors testing positive, he said. On June 2, 12 post-graduate students of a state-run medical college here tested positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-four-doctors-at-govt-hospital-test-positive-for-covid-19-845151.html
03-06-2020||South||Disinfectant sprayer fitted motorbikes to aid personnel sanitise alleys in Tamil Nadu||Disinfectant sprayer-fitted new motorcycles are set to help personnel sanitise narrow streets better in containment zones with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami inaugurating the clean-up service on Wednesday .As part of COVID-19 prevention measures, the customised motorcycles would be used by Fire and Rescue Services personnel in congested localities here. Palaniswami flagged off nine two-wheelers at his camp office marking the launch of disinfection work by the personnel using 25 new Royal Enfield motorcycles bought at a cost of Rs 1.36 crore, an official press release said. The fire services department is among the government agencies involved in disinfection activities across the state and they have sanitised about 45,000 locations, including hospitals and markets. After the completion of anti-COVID 19 work, the two- wheelers would be utilised for fire-fighting operations, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/disinfectant-sprayer-fitted-motorbikes-to-aid-personnel-sanitise-alleys-in-tamil-nadu-845183.html
03-06-2020||South||No YSRCP party flags colours on govt buildings in Andhra Pradesh: Supreme Court||In a major setback to the Jaganmohan Reddy government, the Supreme Court on Wednesday rejected its plea challenging initiation of contempt proceedings by the Andhra Pradesh High Court for not removing the YSRCP party flag colours from government buildings. A bench of Justices L Nageswara Rao, Krishna Murari and S Ravindra Bhat dismissed a petition filed by the Andhra Pradesh government against the high court's judgement for repainting of the buildings, including those of Panchayat. The state government contended that the colours were no way related to the YSRCP flag. The HC, in its order, had questioned the state government for going ahead on painting the government buildings despite the earlier orders against it. It had then sought to know why a contempt court should not be filed against the government officers. It sought an explanation from the Panchayat Raj secretary and chief secretary in this regard. The YSRCP government had taken the controversial move in August 2019 to paint Panchayat and other building in party colours of green, blue and white, which was challenged before the high court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/no-ysrcp-party-flags-colours-on-govt-buildings-in-andhra-pradesh-supreme-court-845222.html
03-06-2020||South||High level probe ordered into Kerala elephant killing||Kerala government has ordered a high-level probe into the death of a pregnant elephant in the forest areas suspected to be following an explosion, while doubts were raised over the death of another elephant couple of months batch with a mouth injury. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a probe into the death of the elephant by explosion was on and a stringent action would be taken against the culprits. Animal rights activists, including Maneka Gandhi, have taken up the matter with the Kerala government seeking a detailed probe, following which Kerala Forest Minister K Raju directed Chief Wildlife Warden Surendrakumar to inquire into it, sources at the minister's office said. Various animal rights organisations, including the Federation of Indian Animal Protection organisations have taken up the matter with the government. The Humane Society International, India offered a reward of up to Rs. 50,000 for those providing information helpful for the investigation. Meanwhile, forest department sources said that a female elephant aged around ten died in the Pathanapuram forest areas near Punalar in the rural parts of Kollam district in April. A wound in the mouth of the elephant was the cause of death. However, the reason for the wound was yet to be ascertained as forensic examination reports were still pending. It could be either due to biting of crude explosives or accidentally consuming any sharp objects like glass pieces. The elephant got separated from the heard and was very weak. Subsequently, doctors tried to treat it. But it could not be saved. A forest department official said that a major challenge in ascertaining the exact cause of infection in both instances would be to locate the place of occurrence of the injury. Elephants used to walk at least 20 kilometers a day. When the injury in the elephant in Kollam came to the notice of forest officials, the injury was about 15 days old. Similarly in the recent incident at Malappuram district, the elephant that came under the Silent Valley area in Palakkad district was found ill in the forest areas on the Manarkkad division falling in Malappuram district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/high-level-probe-ordered-into-kerala-elephant-killing-845241.html
03-06-2020||South||DMK patrirarch M Karunanidhi's memorial turns into wedding venue on his 97th birth annivesary||The memorial of former DMK patrirarch M Karunanidhi at Marina beach here turned into a wedding venue on Wednesday on his 97th birth anniversary, with party president M K Stalin presiding over the marriage of a couple after paying floral tributes to his late father. The wedding was of a party worker Ashok Kumar. Stalin, along with party veterans, including Duraimurugan showered petals at the memorial, after which he presided over the wedding. The DMK chief handed over the mangalsutra to the bridegroom and presented gifts to the couple. 'Mangala isai', the traditional music, was played by 'nadaswaram' and 'thavil' exponents when Stalin paid floral tributes and during the brief wedding ceremony. The marriage -with the bride and groom sporting masks and hand gloves- was held sans rituals involving priests as per the Dravidian movement's ethos and in the presence of a limited number of DMK leaders and family members of the couple. A banner in the backdrop hailed the wedding as an event of "two hearts coming together on the occasion of Kalaignar's 97th birth anniversary." As a mark of respect, Karunanidhi is called 'Kalaignar' in Tamil which means an artist or a scholar in art forms. Nadaswaram and thavil are percusssion and wind instruments used during auspicious occasions in Tamil Nadu. Last year, an AIADMK leader had held his son's marriage at the samadhi of late Chief Minister J Jayalalithaa, also on the Marina beach. The memorial, decorated with an assortment of flowers hailed late Chief Minister Karunanidhi's 97th birth anniversary as "Arathin pirandhanaal", which means the "birth day of dharma." Former Union Minister T R Baalu, party Lok Sabha MP Kanimozhi, and Stalin's son and DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi paid floral tributes. Stalin later visited DMK headquarters "Anna Arivalayam", party organ 'Murasoli' office, and the Gopalapuram residence of the late party supremo and garlanded his decorated portraits in the presence of party leaders and workers. Microblogging platform Twitter witnessed posts both hailing Karunanidhi (by hashtags like #Father of Modern Tamil Nadu) and opposing him by making allegations. Five time Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Muthuvel Karunanidhi was born on June 3, 1924 and died on August 7, 2018 here.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-patrirarch-m-karunanidhis-memorial-turns-into-wedding-venue-on-his-97th-birth-annivesary-845266.html
03-06-2020||South||Protest against burial of priest's body in Kerala as 82 more COVID-19 positive cases reported||The funeral of a priest who died due to COVID-19 in Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday was affected owing to local protests. Father K G Varghese, 77, of Thiruvananthapuram, died on Tuesday. A section of local people objected to the burial of the priest's body at a church cemetery in the city on Wednesday. Authorities were trying to sort out the issue until late in the evening. The exact source of COVID-19 infection of the priest could not be traced yet. Over a dozen doctors of a government hospital in the city were advised to remain home quarantine as the priest recently took treatment following an accident. Meanwhile, eighty-two more persons were tested COVID-19 positive in Kerala on Wednesday of which 72 were from abroad and other countries and five were health workers. Five got infected through local contacts. At present 832 persons were under treatment in Kerala, while 651 recovered and 11 died.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/protest-against-burial-of-priests-body-in-kerala-as-82-more-covid-19-positive-cases-reported-845278.html
03-06-2020||South||How Jaganmohan Reddy wants to revamp govt school education in Andhra Pradesh||Andhra Pradesh chief minister Jaganmohan Reddy wants a digital learning app to be developed for government school students to get their doubts cleared through an audio-video interface. The CM has asked education department officials to expedite the makeover of 15,715 government schools by July end as schools are planned to be opened on August 3 in the state. On Tuesday, the CM reviewed the progress of Mana Badi Nadu-Nedu (Our School – Then and Now) programme aimed at refurbishing the 44,512 government schools in the state with nine essentials like green chalk boards, water purifiers, modern benches, almirahs, fans, toilet conveniences on par with the facilities at corporate schools. Despite the opposition criticism and legal hurdles, Reddy also intends to make English medium teaching mandatory in all the schools.    All schools to have running water, a compound wall, and an English lab. The plan is to cover all the state-run schools in three phases, in three years. The state is at present procuring over five lakh benches for children, about 90,000 tables and chairs for teachers, 72,596 green chalk boards, 1.57 lakh ceiling fans, among other things at an estimated cost of Rs 890 crore.     Reddy examined the benches, water purifiers, cup boards, ceiling fans etc., brought to his camp office at Amaravati and asked officials not to compromise on quality. The CM also directed officials to set up a toll-free number for the students and parents to register complaints to the government on the functioning or lack of amenities. According to the officials, Reddy wants constant appraisal on performance of Class 6 to 10 students. “Such data on student's performance with detailed overview of strengths and weaknesses should be placed online for timely, corrective measures,” the CM opined while instructing that a proper student-teacher ratio be maintained in all schools. Reddy stated that during the TDP government single teachers were allotted at 7,991 schools and “most of these schools were subsequently closed down.”   “Even school uniforms and books used to be provided in October or November. Such approach was to demoralize government schools and encourage the private sector. The government sector education has thus suffered much,” the Chief Minister said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/how-jaganmohan-reddy-wants-to-revamp-govt-school-education-in-andhra-pradesh-845287.html
03-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary's tenure extended till October||The Union Government on Wednesday extended the tenure of Tamil Nadu Chief Secretary K Shanmugham by three months. Shanmugham, who was supposed to retire on July 31, will now attain superannuation on October 31, 2020. The extension in service/tenure was granted based on a request from the Tamil Nadu government, the Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions said. Shanmugham took over as Chief Secretary on July 1, 2019 after incumbent Girija Vaidyanathan retired. Prior to assuming office, Shanmugham was the state’s finance secretary.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-chief-secretarys-tenure-extended-till-october-845290.html
03-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu's coronavirus tally crosses 25,000-mark; Chennai records 1,000 fresh cases||This metropolis recorded its biggest-ever single-day spike on Wednesday with 1,012 persons testing positive for coronavirus even as Tamil Nadu’s tally went beyond the 25,000-mark. And for the first time in a month, the number of samples tested also went beyond the 14,000-mark with the government appearing to heed to calls from experts to ramp up its testing numbers. The state’s tally now stands at 25,872 positive patients with 14,316 discharges and 208 deaths -- 11 of which were reported on Wednesday alone. While eight of the deceased belonged to Chennai, one each was from Tiruchirapalli, Kanchipuram, and Chengalpattu. The increasing number of deaths and positive cases are major concerns for the state which is trying to hide behind numbers – the government says the mortality rate is less than 1 percent, one of the lowest in the country, and attributes the increase in cases to “high testing numbers.” A daily Covid-19 bulletin issued by the Health Department said all 11 deaths reported on Wednesday were due to “co-morbidities.” The government had last week, quoting a study, claimed that 84 percent of the COVID-19 deaths are due to co-morbidities while only the remaining 16 percent can be classified as “exclusive COVID-19” deaths.  The bulletin said 14,101 samples were tested on Wednesday, the highest number in over a month and the increase comes amid widespread calls from experts to ramp up testing, especially in Chennai. Chennai, which has a total of 17,598 cases, is grappling with “wide-spread community transmission” even as the government outright denies that the virus is out in the open.  While the rest of the state is slowly limping back to normalcy with easing of restrictions, Chennai and its neighbouring districts of Kanchipuram, Tiruvallur, and Chengalpattu are struggling to contain further spread of the virus. Of the total 25,872 cases, 20,508 are from the aforementioned four districts and 1,724 are those who returned from other states and abroad. The government and the city administration have been trying various methods, including sensitizing the local community, to prevent further spread of the virus, but in vain. The city administration is also under attack for not increasing its daily testing numbers which are below 4,000.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadus-coronavirus-tally-crosses-25000-mark-chennai-records-1000-fresh-cases-845292.html
03-06-2020||South||Come with specific instances, says Madras HC as it dismisses plea over 'fleecing' of COVID-19 patients by private hospitals||The Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed a plea based on a media report about 'overcharging' by private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment in Tamil Nadu and seeking to regulate the fees, observing that it cannot conduct a rowing inquiry and go by news reports. First bench comprising Chief Justice AP Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy refused to entertain the plea, saying petitioner Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) failed to bring up any specific incident of violation on the part of private hospitals. "Come with specific instances and not general allegations. If any such patient who has been allegedly charged exorbitantly by private hospitals come forward, we will take notice of the same... we will not undertake any academic exercise just for the sake of doing it unless the petitioner comes up with specific instances," it said. Relying on an 'expose' telecast by an English TV channel last week, the petitioner contended since the state government failed to regulate the treatment charges, private hospitals in the state were fleecing COVID-19 patients by raising exorbitant bills. Even the Tamil Nadu Health Minister has admitted to prevalence of the issue during a press meet. Therefore, the court should take judicial notice of the issue which is available in the public domain, the TMMK argued. However, refusing to concur with the arguments, the bench noted that it cannot make a rowing inquiry into the issue and that the courts cannot go by news reports. State Health Minister C Vijayabaskar had on Saturday warned private hospitals against fleecing coronavirus patients and announced that a rate card for charging people battling the pathogen will be fixed in a day or two. Asked about some hospitals allegedly fleecing patients, he had said it had come to the notice of the government too that charges were on the higher side in some hospitals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/come-with-specific-instances-says-madras-hc-as-it-dismisses-plea-over-fleecing-of-covid-19-patients-by-private-hospitals-845322.html
03-06-2020||South||Monsoon season is here: How prepared is Kerala in facing another calamity?||With the onset of monsoon season, Kerala, which is yet to come out of the shocks of the 2018 and 2019 floods that claimed over 500 lives, seems to be better prepared to face another calamity this time. All the local self-government institutions have got disaster management plans ready. Around 3,000 families were shifted from vulnerable areas. Weather alert systems were improved and advance flood mitigation measures were initiated. With the monsoon coinciding with COVID-19, more buildings for setting up separate monsoon relief camps for COVID-quarantined and vulnerable groups like aged are being identified. Meanwhile, the lockdown owing to COVID-19 had reportedly delayed flood mitigation measures, especially cleaning of stormwater drains in major cities and towns. Kerala State Disaster Management Authority member secretary Sekhar L Kuriakose said that preparations for monsoon kicked off by mid-April as soon as the long-range monsoon forecast came. Various review meetings right from the level of the chief minister were held and steps were initiated to clean hotspots like Pumba river and Thaneermukkam bund, which are crucial in avoiding flooding of areas like Kuttanad and Pathanamthitta that were badly hit in the previous foods. Sekhar said that it was perhaps for the first time in India that any state in having disaster management plan kept ready by all local-self governments. The plans were prepared on the basis of the 2018 and 2019 situations. KSDMA initiated a reassessment of calamity-prone areas through field verification and reports were submitted to respective district collectorates. Around 3,000 families agreed to relocate by accepting Rs 10 lakh each compensation. Even as a fresh flood hazard map from Central Water Commission is still awaited, KSDMA prepared one with the help of available data on 2018 and 2019 floods. The weather observation systems of KSDMA have been improvised by roping in the service of four more weather agencies apart from the Indian Meteorological Department. Skymet, IBM Weather Company, Earth Networks and Windy are the private weather agencies being engaged. The Orange Book for Disaster Management was revised in detail with all aspects like what people should do and plans for deploying rescue forces. Meetings of heads of all forces and dam owners were also held, said Sekhar. The lockdown reportedly delayed flood mitigation measures, especially cleaning of stormwater drains in major cities and towns, but the state now seems ready to face the fury of monsoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/monsoon-season-is-here-how-prepared-is-kerala-in-facing-another-calamity-845324.html
03-06-2020||State||MM Hill Temple: No darshan for Tamil Nadu devotees||The popular Male Mahadeshwara Hill temple will be open for the public from June 8, but the district administration and the M M Hill Development Authority has decided not to allow the devotees from Tamil Nadu to visit the temple. As the government has decided to open the temples and religious institutions across the State from June 8, M M Hill temple will open its doors for the public, but with certain conditions. The preliminary meeting, chaired by Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi, has taken a few decisions in this regard, as precautionary measures. As the COVID-19 positive cases are on the rise in Tamil Nadu, the devotees from TN will not get an opportunity to visit the hill temple. They will be restricted on the Tamil Nadu borders. The DC has directed the officials concerned to follow all the precautionary measures implemented by the government to combat the spread of the virus. Only those wearing masks will be allowed to enter the temple. It is mandatory to maintain physical distance and use sanitiser before having darshan of the deity. Besides, those above 60 years and below 10 years are not allowed. There is also no entry for those suffering from cold, fever and cough.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mm-hill-temple-no-darshan-for-tamil-nadu-devotees-845159.html
03-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||SC notice to Prajwal on plea against his election in LS polls||The Supreme Court on Wednesday (June 3) admitted a plea for consideration against the Karnataka High Court's order dismissing an election petition filed against Prajwal Revanna who won from Hassan Lok Sabha constituency as a joint candidate of JDS and Congress. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy issued notice to Prajwal Revanna, grandson of ex-Prime Minister H D Devegowda on a petition filed by G Devarajegowda.  The petitioner, who is a voter, represented by senior advocate Pramila Nesargi and advocate Lakshmi Rao challenged the validity of January 31, 2020 judgement of the High Court, dismissing the election petition on "procedural irregularities". He claimed Prajwal had resorted to unfair and corrupt practices and his election should be set aside. The petition filed by advocate Balaji Srinivasan contended that the HC did not consider the fact that by dismissing the election petition, it was running a risk of having a representative in Parliament who has not got the maximum number of valid votes. The petitioner, an advocate by profession, sought a declaration of rival BJP candidate, A Manju as the winner for having secured the maximum number of valid votes. A separate petition filed by Manju was also dismissed by the HC on January 17, 2020. He also filed a special leave petition against the judgement in the top court, which had on March 2, 2020, issued notice to Prajwal.  The HC had termed his plea as "not maintainable” for it was filed without an affidavit and thus incomplete in terms of the provisions of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961. Manju had challenged the 2019 election of Prajwal on the ground that there was allegedly non-disclosure of assets held by him in his election affidavit. Prajwal was declared as the winner with 6,76,606 votes. Manju came as a first runner up with 5,35,282 votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sc-notice-to-prajwal-on-plea-against-his-election-in-ls-polls-845154.html
03-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka invites Intel to set up chip-making units in state||Karnataka Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Wednesday invited chip major Intel to set up manufacturing units in Mangaluru or Belagavi. "There is a port in Mangaluru while Belagavi is a few hours from a port in Goa," he was quoted as saying in a press release. The release referred to the connectivity through sea to export the chips made in Karnataka. The deputy chief minister said the government would ensure ease of business for Intel to set up its units. Ashwath Narayan, also in-charge for IT, BT, held a video conference with Intel India head Nivruti Rai and other top executives. Rai, while announcing Rs 1 crore as donation to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund, appreciated Karnataka government's way of handling COVID-19, the release said. Director, Intel (business operations), Manas Das handed over a cheque for the sum to the deputy chief minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-invites-intel-to-set-up-chip-making-units-in-state-845227.html
03-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||'Nisarga'-caused rains turn boon for North Karnataka||Intermittent light to moderate rains in North Karnataka caused by 'Nisarga' cyclone which posed a severe threat to Maharashtra has become a blessing in disguise for the region, as it has cut short the harsh summer, and has brought early monsoon-like effect, creating an appropriate situation for farming activities. Since the last couple of days, the region in receiving rains, along with cloudy weather. This has brought the temperature from around 38 degree Celsius last week to 24 degree Celsius now, bringing relief from soaring temperature. As only a week is left for the expected onset of the annual monsoon in the region, the cyclone-caused rains have brought a kind of early onset of the rainy season. "We have studied 12 districts in the North Karnataka region, and the situation caused by pre-monsoon showers is good. The cyclone is moving towards North-East, and rains in this region will recede in a day or two, but cloudy weather may continue. We are just in the periphery of the cyclone area, and it is not harmful for north interior Karnataka. Monsoon had already entered Kerala, and it will enter slowly and steadily in the region on June 8 or 9," said Dharwad-based University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS) Agricultural Meteorology Department head R H Patil. 'Nisarga' and depression effect has brought about 10mm to 27mm rainfall in most of the districts, which is helpful to keep the ground ready for sowing. Monsoon this time is predicted to be normal, with only 2% additional rainfall than the average rainfall, and flood-situation in unlikely this time, Dr Patil added. Low pollution Due to good pre-monsoon rains, air pollution, which used to be high during the peak summer, has also come down. "Due to rains, dust particles do not emerge high, improving air quality. However, water quality may be little affected due to rains, and lakes may get bit contaminated. But, there will be no effect on groundwater, as soil acts as a purifier," said Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) environment officer Vijaykumar Kadakbhavi. For farmers Moreover, farmers have kept the fields ready for sowing and some have started sowing activities also. The pre-monsoon and monsoon showers are likely to help them. Experts observed that pre-monsoon rains have increased the moisture in the soil, which helps the seeds to germinate. With good pre-monsoon showers, the situation prevailing now is as if it is 'early monsoon' The present climatic condition seems to be perfect for growing soybean, green gram, black gram, and other Kharif season crops. This is a very good situation for farmers this time, said Agriculture Department Joint Director (Dharwad) Rajashekhar Bijapur. Out of 2.46 lakh hectares of land targetted for sowing in Dharwad district this season, 53,261 hectares are for green gram, 47,054 hectares for cotton, 36,933 hectares for maize, 31,933 hectares for groundnut, and 20,486 hectares for paddy. The Agriculture Department officials say that sowing has already completed in nearly 5,000 hectares of land especially in Kalghatagi and Dharwad taluks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/nisarga-caused-rains-turn-boon-for-north-karnataka-845272.html
03-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus lockdown: School reopening date in Karnataka not yet finalised, says S Suresh Kumar||Primary and Second Education Minister S Suresh Kumar has clarified that July 1 is not the date decided by the government for the reopening of the schools. He told reporters that that is the date planned by the education department for the school reopening.  Suresh Kumar said the opinion of parents will be collated before the reopening of the schools. A meeting of school development and monitoring committees and parents has been convened from June 11 to 13 for the purpose at the school level. Later, a report will be submitted to the report about such meetings on June 15. Thereafter, the government will take a final decision based on the guidelines of the Union government, he said.  He said the safety measures, to be taken for SSLC exams, will be continued even after the reopening of the schools. The minister said a final decision about cutting the syllabus short in view of the late reopening of schools will be taken in consultation with the Directorate of State Educational Research and Training (DSERT)||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-school-reopening-date-in-karnataka-not-yet-finalised-says-s-suresh-kumar-845305.html
03-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||PETA flayed for comparing Indian, Chinese wet markets||The Karnataka State Poultry Farmers and Breeders’ Association (KPFBA) has criticised the People for Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) for a recent advertisement by the latter, which compares the Indian wet markets with those in China and says these markets are be likely breeding grounds for the Coronavirus.  The association has decided to approach the Advertising Standards Council of India (ASCI) against the “misleading advertisement”. The PETA advertisement, which was recently published in certain newspapers, stated, “India’s live-animal meat markets, factory farms and slaughter houses are as filthy as China’s ‘wet markets,’ where this pandemic likely started…” It further goes on to say that meat-eating is not required as it is linked to heart disease, cancer, stroke etc, calling for people to give up meat. Irked by the advertisement, the state poultry association said PETA’s portrayal of Indian wet markets was far from reality. In an official release, the association has stated that the Indian and Chinese markets were incomparable. “The wet market in Wuhan sold live and slaughtered species of snakes, baby crocodiles, bats, beavers, and other wild animals. In India, it is not the case where it is mostly poultry meat, sheep, and fish,” the release said. The dietary prescription of the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) recommends meat as a source of proteins. The PETA India should not impose dietary choice on citizens in a culturally, socially, and economically diverse country like India, it further emphasised.   KPFBA president B Sushanth Rai said the poultry business, in general, had progressed with technology while taking into account the issues around hygiene. “We agree that there are a few unregistered shops falling short of standards. We are already in talks with officials in civic bodies such as BBMP to fix these issues,” he said. Generalising the market conditions and further correlating meat-eating to lifestyle diseases was inaccurate. Such advertisements would have an adverse impact on the livelihoods of poultry farmers, the association contended. According to the association, the poultry business in India generated an annual revenue of Rs 1.2 lakh crore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/peta-flayed-for-comparing-indian-chinese-wet-markets-845307.html
03-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Missed online classes? Get ready for offline lessons||Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan on Wednesday assured students that offline classes will be conducted for them if they miss out on online classes due to various reasons.  Ashwath Narayan, also the Higher Education minister, said that the government was forced to adopt online teaching due to the Covid-19lockdown. “Until we are permitted to restart classes once the lockdown norms are relaxed, we can perform academic activity only online and there is no alternative in the present situation,” Ashwath Narayan said when he was live on a Facebook interaction hosted by the DH. Once the lockdown is relaxed completely, the government can think of conducting regular classes. “Whoever was not able to learn online will be provided opportunity to attend the classes,” he said. “Online education is not something we are trying to impose. The situation has warranted us to provide this solution. We need to ensure whatever is possible in the given situation,” Ashwath Narayan said, responding to questions on the challenges faced by the rural students. On demands to cancel exams and promote students, Ashwath Narayan said that all parameters of academic activity will be followed. “It is not in the interest of students to pass out without appearing for exams. There is also an issue with backlogs,” he said, adding that Karnataka need not follow what other states had done when it came to promoting students. On confusion caused by varying remarks made by ministers over quarantine facility for people returning from Maharashtra, he said that the 7-day institutional quarantine was mandatory for everyone returning from the state. On increase in cases as the lockdown was being lifted, he said that the state had made enough arrangements to prepare for the spike in cases. “The virus is not going to go anywhere for a period,” he said, noting that it was too early to comment on herd immunity. “It will kick in only if more than 50-60% or more of a population, depending on the geography, is infected. The disease has not been that prevalent in the state,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/missed-online-classes-get-ready-for-offline-lessons-845315.html
03-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Government tightens purse strings; issues fresh fund release norms||Gripped by recession, Karnataka is tightening the screws on expenditure and has issued stringent guidelines for release of government funds. Ceasing the practice by some departments in releasing both state and the Centre’s share for centrally-sponsored schemes, and mandatory implementation of Human Resource Management System (HRMS) to draw salaries in all government institutions are among the directions issued by the state. The order further delegated financial powers to all department heads for the next six months. The order also listed more than 200 schemes and projects for which the departments concerned will have to seek prior concurrence from the Finance Department for funds. Some of the schemes in the list included free bus travel facility to the physically challenged, concessional bus travel facility to senior citizens, Jaladhare - rural water supply scheme, construction of residential schools, implementation of Karnataka Tourism Vision Group recommendations, several housing schemes and others. The Central government is planning to reduce the allocations under centrally-sponsored schemes owing to financial constraints. Therefore, the departments should communicate with their respective Union ministries and prepare revised action plans for implementation of various schemes, the order said. Finance Department took objections to the practice by few departments to releasing Centre’s share of funds for some schemes. “Finance Department has noticed that some administrative departments have been releasing both Centre and state’s share of funds while awaiting the release of funds by the Centre. The practice should be compulsorily stopped. If such cases are repeated, the release of funds for the scheme will be stopped and financial powers delegated to the department will be withdrawn,” the order said. Despite directions for all departments and corporations to use HRMS for transparency in payment of salaries, several corporations were yet to adopt the system. Now, the Finance Department has set a final deadline of June 30. In a circular issued September 27, 2019, the Department had set an April 1, 2020, deadline for all government bodies to adapt the HRMS. The order on May 30, delegated financial powers for a period of six months from June to November. While such orders were issued every quarter, Covid-19 pandemic had forced the government to issue separate orders for the months of April and May to regulate expenditure during the lockdown||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/government-tightens-purse-strings-issues-fresh-fund-release-norms-845319.html
03-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Kalaburagi records 100-plus cases for second straight day ||Kalaburagi district recorded 100-plus Covid-19 cases for the second straight day on Wednesday. With 105 fresh infections, the district galloped ahead of Udupi and Bengaluru Urban districts to hold the unwanted number one spot in the list of highest Covid-19 cases in the state. A flurry of cases in the last two days has taken Kalaburagi district’s tally past 500-mark. According to Health department’s bulletin, all 105 new cases have a travel history to Maharashtra. Most of the cases reported on Wednesday are people in the age group of 25 to 45. What’s more disturbing is a total of 15 children, aged between 1 and 8, have tested positive for the virus. The district, as on June 3, has 375 active cases. Following the direction by the state government, the district administration had sent as many as 28,857 people home from institutional quarantine. Many of them were waiting for their test reports. Tens of thousands had returned to the district from Maharashtra by two Shramik Special trains and over 700 buses.  Maharashtra returnees continue to give nightmare to Raichur district administration. A total of 35 positive cases were reported from the district. Among the fresh cases are eight children and as many women. The district had zero cases till May 18. But in less than two weeks, it saw 268 cases. Throat swab samples of nine Maharashtra returnees in Yadgir district returned positive for Covid-19. The district’s case count has jumped to 299 including one death. present.  A 45-year-old woman from Ballari, suffering from severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), has tested positive for Covid-19. She’s been admitted to the designated Covid-19 hospital in Ballari. In a worrying trend, interstate travellers, mostly from Maharashtra, continued to add to Udupi district’s Covid-19 tally. The coastal district on Wednesday saw 62 fresh cases, all with a travel history to the western state. Davangere district recorded three fresh cases, including a death. An 80-year-old woman had symptoms of fever, breathlessness and cough. She was brought dead to the designated Covid Hospital in Davangere on May 29. Her throat sample has returned positive for the virus on Wednesday. With this the toll in the state has increased to 53.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-kalaburagi-records-100-plus-cases-for-second-straight-day-845337.html
03-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Quarantine rules set to change, says medical education minister Dr K Sudhakar||The government is considering a proposal to relax quarantine rules by making people undergo home quarantine, Medical Education Minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Wednesday. “Institutional quarantine in hotels or government-owned buildings will soon be replaced by home quarantine. The guidelines for home quarantine are being drafted,” Dr Sudhakar told reporters in DC’s office hall. He said the government will also take a final decision on making institutional quarantine mandatory for people arriving from Maharashtra which has a heavy viral load. “Those returning from foreign countries will have to undergo home quarantine if their throat swabs test negative or seven-day institutional quarantine if their samples test positive for Covid-19. The government is aware that home quarantine was found to be effective in other countries. The government will also consider suggestions on supplying essentials to those in home quarantine,” he said. Covid-19 laboratories have been made mandatory for all medical colleges. Sudhakar warned medical colleges of stalling their admissions if they fail to initiate Covid tests. Initially, there were only two laboratories to test throat swabs in the state. Today, there are 64 laboratories across the state. He said the government is geared up to face all challenges. “As protecting the health of children aged below 10 years is very important, lifting of the ban on opening of schools will be in the final stages,” he said. Earlier, the minister, while addressing heads of medical colleges, officials and elected representatives in DC hall said the government faces the twin challenge of saving the lives of people and preventing disruptions in normal life. Due to initial precautionary steps, Covid-19 is under control in Karnataka. So far, 3,31,688 samples have been tested and 3,500 samples among them had tested positive for Covid-19. Only 1.8 to 2% of infected people had died due to Covid-19, he added. Sudhakar said that over 98% Covid positive cases reported in the state were Maharashtra imports. According to the directions of the Supreme Court, migrants are being allowed to return to their homes. The number of migrants from abroad and other states will increase, and thus, the government is issuing fresh quarantine guidelines for villages and cities. A task force committee is also being set up in rural and urban areas, said the minister. Dakshina Kannada District In-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary and other MLAs urged the medical education minister to conduct Covid tests on all those entering the state from Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-quarantine-rules-set-to-change-says-medical-education-minister-dr-k-sudhakar-845347.html
03-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Home quarantine: Government seeks help from people||Karnataka has sought assistance from the general public, residents' welfare associations (RWAs) and commercial establishments in regulating the movement of people who have arrived from other states and are under home quarantine. An order issued by Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar Wednesday, assigned a role for the public, RWAs and shops to contain the spread of Covid-19. "All shops, commercial establishments, offices, factories, malls, religious places, hotels, etc. are required to check for quarantine stamps on all their customers or visitors (on the back of their hand) before they enter the premises," the order said, requesting the public to call the police for any violations. The general public and RWAs are also directed to call the police, if anyone with a quarantine stamp enters their premises before the end of the quarantine period or till they get a negative report on a Covid-19 test. In the recent set of guidelines for inter-state travel issued by the Health and Family Welfare Department, several restrictions were imposed for the free movement of people arriving from other states. Due to high case load from Maharashtra, the government had also imposed mandatory institutional quarantine for those returning from that state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/home-quarantine-government-seeks-help-from-people-845351.html
03-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka's coronavirus tally gallops past 4,000-mark||Karnataka witnessed 267 fresh cases, including 249 with an interstate travel history, on Wednesday. Maharashtra returnees alone accounted for as many as 231 cases. All new infections reported from Kalaburagi, Udupi, Raichur, Mandya, Yadagir, Dakshina Kannada, Shivamogga, Bagalkot, Bengaluru Rural and Dharwad districts had a travel history to Maharashtra while the travel history of those reported from other districts were linked to Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Bihar and Gujarat.  The remaining cases were contacts of previously diagnosed patients, containment zones and two with SARI. With this, Karnataka's tally jumped to 4063 cases. Of which, 2,494 are active.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnatakas-coronavirus-tally-gallops-past-4000-mark-845361.html
03-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Speculations rife over Cong-JD(S) coming together once again for RS polls||Speculations are rife in Karnataka's political circles about coming together of former alliance partners Congress and JD(S) for elections to four Rajya Sabha seats from the state that will be held on June 19. Four Rajya Sabha seats from Karnataka, represented by Rajeev Gowda and B K Hariprasad of Congress, Prabhakar Kore of BJP and D Kupendra Reddy of JD(S) will fall vacant on June 25 with their retirement and polls have been scheduled for these seats on June 19. With 117 members (including Speaker), the BJP can ensure victory in two of the four seats, while Congress, with 68 MLAs, can win one seat. With a minimum of 44 votes required for candidates to win, no party can independently win the fourth seat. Speculations are rife that Congress and JD(S), which had contested the 2019 Lok Sabha polls in an alliance and faced a rout, and eventually parted ways leading to the fall of the H D Kumaraswamy-led coalition government, may come together for the fourth seat. According to top party sources, the Congress that is likely to field veteran party leader and former union Minister Mallikarjun Kharge as candidate for the seat it can easily win, is mulling supporting JD(S) if party supremo and former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda is fielded. The JD(S), which has 34 seats in the assembly, is not in a position to win a seat in the Rajya Sabha on its own and will need Congress' support for this. Parties are yet to finalise the list of candidates. The last date for filing of nominations is June 9. Sources said talks are on within the Congress over supporting Gowda and feelers have been sent to JD(S) in this regard, with a condition that the regional party support it in the elections to seven seats of the Legislative Council from the Assembly, slated later this month. Aimed at consolidating his position as a Vokkaliga leader, state Congress President D K Shivakumar is said to be keen on supporting Gowda, a veteran from the community that has a large presence in the southern parts of the state. Kharge seems to be front runner for the seat it can win, though there are several aspirants from the Congress,including former Union Minister Veerappa Moily and K H Muniyappa, Muddahanume Gowda (who gave up Tumkur seat for Gowda as coalition's joint candidate), also those retiring. Kharge, a nine-time MLA and two-term MP, who had served as Congress floor leader in the previous Lok Sabha, faced his first electoral loss in his political life spanning several decades against BJP's Umesh Jadhav in Gulbarga in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Gowda was defeated in Tumkur constituency after he chose to contest from the seat, vacating Hassan-his home turf, in favour of his grandson Prajwal Revanna (a current MP). According to some BJP leaders, the party that easily wins over two seats is unlikely to field a candidate or support an independent against Gowda if he contests. However no final decision has been taken in this regard, they said. Lobbying is said to have intensified within the ruling BJP for the RS ticket. While Prabhakar Kore is looking for another term, names of former Union Minister Ananth Kumar's wife Tejaswini and party general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Muralidhar Rao are also doing the rounds. Umesh Katti, an eight-time MLA, who has been sulking for not being made minister, is also making frantic efforts for his brother Ramesh Katti to be chosen for the RS seat, and had held a meeting with a section of BJP legislators from north Karnataka that set alarm bells ringing in the ruling party. Similar lobbying is also said to have intensified for elections to seven seats of the Legislative Council from the assembly, out of which BJP can win four easily, Congress two and JD(S) one. Congress is likely to seek the support of JD(S) for the third seat by not fielding a candidate in return to supporting Deve Gowda's election to the Rajya Sabha, sources said. Meanwhile, amid speculations about the possibilities of the former alliance partners joining hands and dissidence within the ruling party, BJP leader and Revenue Minister R Ashoka, noting that Congress was responsible for Gowda stepping down as PM, made cryptic comments about the party being open to support from the JD(S) for development. "Congress is a party with a culture of sham. They had earlier in a way cheated JD(S). It was Congress that made Deve Gowda step down as Prime Minister. JD(S) is aware about Congress...we (BJP) too had formed a government with JD(S) once. We are focused on development. Whoever supports development, if it is JD(S) also, we are fine," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/speculations-rife-over-cong-jds-coming-together-once-again-for-rs-polls-845363.html
03-06-2020||West||Cyclone Nisarga is about 150 km away from Mumbai||Cyclone Nisarga, that could well be one of the worst cyclones to hit the West coast of India, is just around 150 to 160 km off Mumbai. Around noon on Wednesday, the deep depression emanating from the Arabian Sea is expected to make landfall in Alibaug in Raigad district. The coastal Konkan region is likely to be affected badly. "Cyclone Nisarga approaching North Maharashtra coast with a speed of 13 kmph during past 06 hours. It is 155 km south-southwest of Alibag and 200 km south-southwest of Mumbai," according to an IMD  advisory issued around 7 am. According to IMD's deputy director-general of meteorology Dr KS Hosalikar, heavy rainfall warnings for Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar are already issued in view of cyclone.  "High winds, very rough sea. Please keep watch. Take care," the weatherman tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-nisarga-is-about-150-km-away-from-mumbai-845019.html
03-06-2020||West||COVID-19 Lockdown: Rajasthan CM directs officials to conduct university exams in July||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday directed officials to conduct the exams of universities, postponed due to the COVID-19 lockdown, in July. Chairing a review meeting of the higher education department, the chief minister asked the officials to start examinations of final year of UG and PG courses from second week of July, a statement said. It was decided in the meeting that first and second year students will be promoted to next year on provisional basis and their exams will also be conducted later on, according to the statement. Same pattern will be followed for B Tech, MBA and polytechnic courses He said that health protocols, social distancing should be followed properly in view of coronavirus during exams and other activities, it said. Higher Education Minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati, Technical Education Minister Subhash Garg, Chief Secretary DB Gupta and other senior officials were also present in the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-lockdown-rajasthan-cm-directs-officials-to-conduct-university-exams-in-july-845023.html
03-06-2020||West||Mumbai streets deserted as India's biggest city braces for cyclone||The streets of Mumbai emptied on Wednesday as a rare cyclone headed for India's most populous metropolis and thousands of people moved away from the coast, adding to the pressure on authorities grappling with coronavirus. India's largest container port, Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT), on the outskirts of Mumbai, was also ordered to shut for 24 hours, the port said in a statement. The cyclonic storm in the Arabian Sea "is very likely to intensify into a Severe Cyclonic Storm during next 6 hours," the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Wednesday. The cyclone, designated Nisarga, could make landfall between on the coastal border region of Maharashtra and Gujarat states, with winds gusting up to 120 km per hour (75 miles per hour), the equivalent of a category 1 hurricane, the IMD said. Cyclones often skirt densely populated Mumbai, a metropolis of more than 20 million people, though every year during torrential rains of the June-September monsoon season roads are submerged, and the suburban railway service that serves millions of people comes to a halt. Mumbai's emergency services are already struggling with the nation's largest outbreak of the novel coronavirus. Roads were deserted and police were advising people to stay indoors in the financial capital and surrounding areas that have nearly 55,000 cases of COVID-19, with more than 1,600 deaths. Maharashtra and Gujarat have evacuated more than 100,000 people from coastal areas, especially those staying in slums and makeshift houses to places of shelter, officials from both the states said. In Mumbai, authorities shifted 150 patients from newly built makeshift Covid-19 hospital to other hospitals as the new structure was located in low-lying area. Mumbai airport is operating only 19 flights on Wednesday against 50 allowed to operate, the airport said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-streets-deserted-as-indias-biggest-city-braces-for-cyclone-845047.html
03-06-2020||West||Heavy rain, winds in Goa due to low pressure in Arabian Sea||Goa experienced heavy rain and gusty winds on Wednesday morning due to formation of a low pressure area in the Arabian Sea, causing flooding in some low lying parts of the coastal state. With the sea conditions being rough, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has asked fishermen not to venture into the waters. The Goa government-appointed lifeguard agency Drishti has also appealed to people not to go in the sea and red flags have been put up at most of the spots along the 105-km-long state coastline. The IMD on Tuesday evening said, "Squally wind, with speed reaching 50-60 kmph and gusting to 70 kmph is likely prevail over East Central Arabian Sea along and off Karnataka-Goa coasts during next 24 hours." Following the heavy showers, many low lying areas in in the state were inundated on Wednesday. "Several roads are inundated. There is very less traffic on roads as people are staying indoors, a senior police official said. Corporation of City of Panaji Mayor Uday Madkaikar said pre-monsoon work was undertaken even during the lockdown, considering the arrival of rains. We will review the situation today. Our labour force is already on duty to ensure inundation is reduced, he said. The low-pressure area in the Arabian Sea is intensifying into cyclonic storm 'Nisarga' which is set to make a landfall and cross North Maharashtra and South Gujarat on Wednesday, according to weather officials. The southwest monsoon, which already hit Kerala on Monday, will reach Goa by June 6, IMD Goa's senior scientist Rahul Mohan said on Tuesday. "Monsoon will advance further only after the low- pressure system in the Arabian Sea dissipates and that may occur by June 5," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heavy-rain-winds-in-goa-due-to-low-pressure-in-arabian-sea-845050.html
03-06-2020||West||Cyclone Nisarga enters from Raigad killing one; spares Mumbai||Amid lashing of tall tidal waves and strong gusty winds, the Nisarga cyclone made its entry around Wednesday noon from the Raigad district along the Konkan coast of Maharashtra.  Thereafter, it headed towards Pune, the cultural capital of the state and then the Nashik district,  the pilgrimage hub. The landfall was south of Alibaug, the district headquarters of Raigad district.  However, Mumbai was spared of the cyclone fury. One person died in the Raigad district when electric wires snapped and the pole came crashing down. More than 13,000 people living in kutccha houses and weak structures were evacuated to safety,  according to Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhary and superintendent of police Anil Paraskar. "We appeal to people not to step out till damage assessment is done," said Choudhary. In the state,  more than 40,000 people were evacuated to safety. In Mumbai,  Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took a comprehensive review of the situation. The entire Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR) comprising Mumbai and neighboring districts of Thane,  Palghar and Raigad districts experienced rains and strong winds. According the IMD,  cyclone Nisarga made a landfall in Raigad and currently the formation lay 75 kms south-east Mumbai and 65 kms west of Pune. "Cyclone Nisarga landed  & causing damage inland even in Chinchwad, Pune," NDRF director general Satya Prakash Pradhan said. THe coastal districts of Maharashtra bore the brunt of rough weather condition experiencing strong winds, heavy rainfall and raging sea surge.   Tidal waves measuring upto 6-8 feet lashed parts of coastal areas in Ratnagiri and Raigad districts.  Tin roofs erected on the terraces of residential apartments flew away in some places in Raigad and Palghar districts.   Alibaug, Shrivardhan and Murud witnessed windspeeds of 120-130 kmph.  Power utilities had shut down electricity supply in some parts of Ratnagiri district as a preventive measure. Mobile services were affected in parts of Raigad district.  Alibaug recorded a rainfall of 45 mm and Ratnagiri 38 mm,  till 4 pm. NDRF Commander Anupam Srivastava said a number of trees have fallen in Roha, Revdanda and Srivardhan areas.   He said there have been tree falling incidents on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway too, but the traffic flow was not affected.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-nisarga-enters-from-raigad-killing-one-spares-mumbai-845052.html
03-06-2020||West||Sensex rallies over 500 pts in early trade; Nifty reclaims 10,100 level||Equity benchmark Sensex rallied over 500 points in early trade on Wednesday, led by strong buying in HDFC duo, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries as positive domestic and global cues enthused investor sentiment. The massive influx of foreign funds also supported market sentiments, traders said. After hitting a high of 34,422.71, the 30-share index was trading 513.91 points or 1.52 per cent higher at 34,339.44. Similarly, NSE Nifty surged 164.40 points or 1.65 per cent to 10,143.50. Bajaj Finance was the top gainer in the Sensex pack, rising around 6 per cent, followed by ICICI Bank, Axis Bank, IndusInd Bank, ONGC, Tech Mahindra and HDFC Bank. On the other hand, Bharti Airtel, HCL Tech and HUL were among the laggards. In the previous session, the BSE barometer soared 522.01 points or 1.57 per cent to settle at 33,825.53, and the broader Nifty jumped 152.95 points or 1.56 per cent to 9,979.10. On a net basis, foreign portfolio investors bought equities worth Rs 7,498.29 crore in the capital market on Tuesday, provisional exchange data showed. The bulls continued to maintain their firm grip on the markets as the benchmark indices surged led by heavy foreign fund inflow and positive global cues, analysts said. Encouraging comments by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that India's economy would get back on track as the government is working towards systematic reforms also boosted investor sentiments, they noted. The further added that gradual reopening of economies world over has fuelled bullish trend in global markets. Bourses in Shanghai, Hong Kong, Tokyo and Seoul surged up to 2 per cent. Exchanges on Wall Street ended on a positive note in overnight trade. International oil benchmark Brent crude futures were trading 1.31 per cent higher at USD 40.09 per barrel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sensex-rallies-over-500-pts-in-early-trade-nifty-reclaims-10100-level-845053.html
03-06-2020||West||All fishing boats return to shore ahead of cyclone Nisarga||All fishing boats which were out in the sea off Palghar coast have returned ahead of the cyclone 'Nisarga', which is set to make a landfall at Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district of Maharashtra on Wednesday afternoon, an official said. As many as 577 fishing boats from Palghar had earlier gone out in the sea and till Monday evening, 564 came back. Later, help was sought from the Coast Guard, Navy and the fisheries department and the remaining 13 boats also returned to the shore late Tuesday evening, district disaster control chief Vivekanand Kadam said. Till Wednesday morning, more than 15,000 people residing in low lying areas and 'kutcha' houses near the coast in Dahanu, Palghar, Vasai and Talasari tehsils of Palghar were evacuated and shifted to safer places, he said. Two teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have already been stationed in Palghar to meet any eventuality, another official said. The NDRF personnel on Tuesday went around some villages in the district and made locals aware of the do's and dont's during the cyclone. Prohibitory orders have already been imposed inPalghar and neighbouring Thane district till Thursday, and people, including fishermen, have been asked not to venture into the sea. In Thane, a team of NDRF has been deployed at the Uttan coast in Bhayander, where a large number of fishermen live, district regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam said. One more team has also been called in and is expected to arrive any time, NDRF Commandant Rajendra Patil said. In addition to this, a team each of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) and Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF) is already stationed in the district, he said. District disaster control officer Anita Jawanjal earlier said no fishing boat from Thane is left out in the sea. "All the 252 boats which had gone out for fishing returned by Monday evening," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/all-fishing-boats-return-to-shore-ahead-of-cyclone-nisarga-845070.html
03-06-2020||West||Here's a list of dos and don'ts for Cyclone Nisarga||As Maharashtra and Gujarat prepare for the approaching cyclonic storm 'Nisarga', the Maharashtra government has already issued a red alert in Mumbai and neighbouring districts in view of the cyclonic storm 'Nisarga', which is expected to hit the state's coast today. The NDMA and IMD have also issued warnings for several districts of Gujarat and Maharashtra.  A flood alert has been sounded in several low-lying regions of Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Ratnagiri. In order to stay safe during this cyclone, here are some of the do’s and don’ts and the necessary actions that are to be taken when nature’s fury strikes. Before the Cyclone starts:  DO’s 1. Listen to the radio, watch the news, read up on weather forecasts on your digital devices. 2. Keep monitoring the warnings. This will help you prepare for a cyclone emergency. 3. Pass the information to others. 4. Ignore rumours and do not spread them; this will help to avoid panic situations. 5. Believe in the official information. 7. Stay alert for the next 24 hours as a cyclone alert means that the danger is within 24 hours. 8. Keep some wooden boards ready so that glass windows can be boarded if needed. 9. Keep a kerosene lantern, battery operated torches and enough dry cells handy. 10.  Keep some extra batteries for transistors. 11. Keep some dry non-perishable food always ready for use in emergency. 12. Keep your electronic gadgets charged. 14. Keep your important documents and valuables in a waterproof container. 15. Prepare an emergency kit for safety and survival.  16.  Leave early before your way to high ground or shelter gets flooded. 17.  Take shelter in the safe part of the house. 18. Board up glass windows or put storm shutters in place. 19. Provide strong suitable support for outside doors. 20. Avoid being misled by rumours.   During the Cyclone: DO’s 1.     Switch off electrical mains. 2.     Keep doors and windows shut. 3.     Disconnect gas connection. 4.     Drink boiled or chlorinated water. 5.     Watch out for broken electrical poles, wires and other sharp objects. 6.     Seek a safe shelter as soon as possible.  7.     Stay indoors during the heavy rains. 8.     Try to remain as calm as possible.   DONT’s 1.     Do not panic. 2.     Do not pay heed to information unless it comes from a credible or official source. 3.     Don't leave shelters until informed by the rescue personals. 4.     Do not allow children to venture out, to swim or play in water bodies and stagnant water. 5.     Don't touch the loose and dangling wire from a lamp post, it may have an electric current. 6.     Do not go into damaged buildings.   Now here are a few Post-Cyclone instructions: 1. If you have to drive, do drive carefully. 2. Clear debris from your premises immediately. 3. Report the correct losses to appropriate authorities. 4. Keep monitoring the weather forecast. 5. Head for the proper shelter or evacuation points indicated for your area. 6. Do not worry about your property. 7. At the shelter, follow instructions of the person in charge. 8. Remain in the shelter until you are informed to leave.   This should help you get through the cyclone. Meanwhile, stay calm and stay safe!||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/heres-a-list-of-dos-and-donts-for-cyclone-nisarga-845076.html
03-06-2020||West||Cyclone Nisarga moving along predicted path, says NDRF DG SN Pradhan||Cyclone Nisarga is moving along the predicted path and is expected to make landfall between 2 pm and 4:30 pm on Wednesday around Alibaug in Maharashtra, NDRF chief S N Pradhan said. The Director General (DG) of the federal contingency force said a total of 43 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are deployed in the two states of Gujarat and Maharashtra. "The cyclone is expected to make landfall between 2 pm and 4:30 pm somewhere a little south of Alibaug in Raigad district," he said. "It is moving along the predicted path as stated by the IMD and in southern parts of Maharashtra the signs of cyclone building up are evident," Pradhan said in a video message update on the cyclone.  In Ratnagiri, winds and rains have picked up, the DG said. The evacuation work is nearly complete, he said, adding, precautionary measures are being taken and people in cyclone shelters are being taught life skills with social distancing.  All preparations have been done by central and state agencies and coordination is of a high order, Pradhan said. "Let us hope we ride through the cyclone and safely negotiate it," he said. Cyclone Nisarga comes a week after Cyclone Amphan wreaked havoc in West Bengal and also affected coastal Odisha||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-nisarga-moving-along-predicted-path-says-ndrf-dg-sn-pradhan-845101.html
03-06-2020||West||Cyclone: Animals shifted to safer place in Mumbai zoo||In the wake of the cyclonic storm 'Nisarga', all carnivorous animals in Mumbai zoo have been shifted to holding areas in their enclosures to keep them safe from rain and strong winds, an official said on Wednesday. A zoo emergency response team is on alert to avoid any untoward incident, he said. Since the city has been experiencing rain, authorities at the Veermata Jijabai Udyan, also popularly known as Byculla Zoo which is spread over an area of 50 acres,are taking all steps to protect the animals against the rough weather and avoid any damage due to tree falls. Carnivores like tigers, leopards and hyenas have been shifted to the holding areas, an official from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. "The holding areas are safe to avoid any damage from tree fall. A 20-member zoo emergency response team, comprising animal keepers, gardener and tree-trimming and security staff, is on the job to tackle any untoward incident," he said.  Officials are keeping a watch on the animal enclosures with the help of CCTVs installed in the premises, he said. Zoo animals usually have at least two areas where they are housed- the holding area and the exhibit area. During visiting hours, zoo animals are housed in their exhibit area. In the morning, before the zoo opens, they move into the holding area for husbandry care and to receive food.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-animals-shifted-to-safer-place-in-mumbai-zoo-845110.html
03-06-2020||West||Cyclone Nisarga: Over 40,000 living near sea coast in Mumbai evacuated||Over 40,000 people living near the sea coast in Mumbai were shifted to safer places in view of the cyclone 'Nisarga' which made a landfall at Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district of Maharashtra on Wednesday, officials said. When the cyclone passes off, these people will be sent home after their health tests, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said. "The BMC shifted 10,840 people from areas near the sea coast and landslide prone locations to 35 municipal schools where temporary accommodation facilities have been set up. They were provided food and water," the civic body said in a release. Besides, following an appeal by the BMC, nearly 30,000 people on their own moved to these temporary accommodations, it said. The civic body also received 37 complaints of tree fall in the city, but there was no report of any injury. Mumbai Police also said that hundreds of people living in areas near sea shores like Colaba in South Mumbai, Worli and Dadar in Central Mumbai, and Juhu and Versova in Western Mumbai were shifted to safer places. Police have beefed up security along the beaches in Mumbai, where Section 144 of the CrPC has already been imposed. "Mumbai, we have survived several storms together. This cyclone shall pass too. As always, just take all necessary precautions, follow the guidelines and don't believe in any rumours. Trust only official sources. Take care," Mumbai Police tweeted. BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal also asked people not to venture out of their homes, unless necessary, and support the city administration. The civic body on Tuesday shifted 212 COVID-19 patients admitted at a facility in the Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) to facilities set up at the Worli-based National Sports Club of India (NSCI) dome and NESCO ground in suburban Goregaon to avoid any untoward incident. According to the BMC, the facility at BKC was able to withstand wind speed of 105 kmph, but the MeT department said wind speed would be about 120 kmph when the cyclone hits the coast.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-nisarga-over-40000-living-near-sea-coast-in-mumbai-evacuated-845138.html
03-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Trees and poles fall as Cyclone Nisarga makes landfall near Alibaug||Cyclone 'Nisarga' has made landfall near Alibaug on Maharashtra coast with the wind speed of more than 110 kms per hour and heavy rainfall, leading to falling of many trees and electricity poles, a Raigad district official said. The cyclone hit areas near Dive Agar in Shrivardhan, 87 kms away from Raigad, district collector Nidhi Choudhary said. "Due to the impact of the gusting winds, many trees and electric poles fell down in Shrivardhan as well as in Alibaug," the collector said. She said 13,541 people have been shifted to safer places so far. "We have identified 62 villages in the radius of five kilometres near the coastline (in Raigad) and are taking extra precautions there," the collector said. She appealed to people to stay indoors until Thursday morning for their own safety. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the landfall process started around 12.30 pm near Alibaug, 95 kms from Mumbai. "The right side of the wall cloud passes through coastal region of Maharashtra, mainly the Raigad district. It will gradually enter into Mumbai and Thane districts during the next three hours," the IMD said in a statement. Meanwhile, the collector said the fallen trees and electricity supply poles will be removed in the next few days and replaced with new poles. "Not only the coastal areas in Raigad, but residents of towns like Roha, Tala, Sudhagad, Khalapur, Mangaon, Panvel and Poladpur will also have to remain alert," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-trees-and-poles-fall-as-cyclone-nisarga-makes-landfall-near-alibaug-845139.html
03-06-2020||West||Gujarat: 8 dead, 50 injured as boiler blast causes fire in factory||Eight workers were killed and 50 others were injured on Wednesday in a massive fire triggered by a blast in the boiler of a chemical factory at Dahej in Gujarat's Bharuch district, police said. The death toll may rise further as some of the injured workers are in a serious condition, according to police. As companies of methanol and xylene chemicals are located near the affected factory, authorities have shifted about 4,800 people from nearby Luvara and Lakhigam villages to safer places as a precautionary measure. About 230 workers were present inside the factory, Yashaswi Rasayan, located in Dahej Special Economic Zone-1, 42 kms from Bharuch, at the time of the incident in afternoon, they said. "Eight workers died in the boiler blast at the chemical factory located in Dahej Special Economic Zone-1, while around 50 others sustained injuries," said Dahej Marine police station inspector Vipul Gagiya. While six charred bodies were recovered from the factory after the fire was doused, two more workers died at separate hospitals in Bharuch, he said. "32 injured workers are admitted in various hospitals in Bharuch and nearby areas," he said, adding that the death toll may go up as some of the workers are in a serious condition. About 18-20 workers were given a primary aid, local officials said. It took about six hours for eleven fire tenders to bring the massive blaze under control, officials said. Meanwhile, senior Congress leader and Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat, Ahmed Patel, blamed the state BJP government for the incident. He said factories need to undergo complete safety audit as there have been rising cases of industrial accidents in Gujarat. Patel also expressed concern about recent changes in labour laws, which he said will encourage factories to create "unsafe working conditions". "There has been a rise in industrial accidents in Bharuch district today and people lost their lives. "The buck stops only with the state government ensuring safe working conditions that factories have completed safety audits. We are concerned that recent changes in labour laws will incentivise unsafe working conditions," he tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-8-dead-50-injured-as-boiler-blast-causes-fire-in-factory-845144.html
03-06-2020||West||Thane federation opposes COVID centres in housing societies||The Thane District Co-operative Housing Federation on Wednesday opposed the Thane Municipal Coroporation's decision to declare clubhouses and community halls of housing societies as COVID Care Centres (CCC). In a letter to commissioner Vijay Singhal, federation chairman Sitaram Rane said the TMC should have consulted representatives of housing societies and the federation before taking the decision. In the main, the federation took exception to the directive that housing societies themselves will bear the expenses of running the CCC. Setting up a CCC on the premises of housing societies was not an issue, but the federation was opposed to the guidelines for such centres prescribed by the TMC, Rane said. As per the TMC, society members who have mild coronavirus symptoms can be shifted to CCCs on the premises. But the Federation said that the requirement that societies themselves should arrange doctors and other trained staff, and patient or his or her family should bear the expenses was unreasonable. There was no provision in the Co-operative Societies' Act for the society to bear such expenses if the patient or his or her family failed to pay up, he said. Rane, who is a member of the BJP, also expressed fear that managing committees of societies may face prosecution if there are any lapses in the running of the centre. Hence it should not be made mandatory for societies to run COVID Care Centres, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-federation-opposes-covid-centres-in-housing-societies-845172.html
03-06-2020||West||Don't take COVID-19 outbreak in containment zone lightly: Goa Congress||The outbreak of COVID-19 at a containment zone in Goa's Vasco town should not be taken lightly and the entire town should be sealed, state Congress spokesman Trajano D'Mello said on Wednesday. The state government on Monday declared Mangor Hill area of Vasco town in South Goa district as a containment zone after six members of a family tested positive for coronavirus. On Wednesday, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said 40 more people from the area tested positive for the disease. Sawant said the "local transmission" was due to the fault of one family, and ruled out community transmission. DMello said the outbreak of COVID-19 at Mangor Hill should not be treated as an isolated case. "The chief minister is in denial, that it is not a community transmission but only a local transmission. Such a statement from the chief minister when the link of contact history is not yet established is confusing and therefore, things cannot be taken lightly, he said. DMello claimed some reports suggested that one of the COVID-19 patients from Mangor Hill area is in fish fertilizer business and he recently came in contact with fish trucks bringing consignments from Karnataka. His contacts have not yet been established. In such a situation, the staff working at the state border for last so many days on different shifts will have to be screened and immediately put under home quarantine till the tests with results are completed, he said. DMello said most people from Mangor Hill area are workers/labourers who go around anywhere for work. Therefore as a stringent precautionary measure, it is suggested that the entire Vasco town be sealed, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/dont-take-covid-19-outbreak-in-containment-zone-lightly-goa-congress-845192.html
03-06-2020||West||Cyclone Nisarga remains away from Mumbai||India's financial capital of Mumbai was set to be hit by strongest cyclone of the century in its coast but Nisarga seems to have maintained physical distancing.  After hitting Raigad, the cyclonic formation moved towards Pune bypassing Mumbai.  The Maharashtra government and its various agencies were in tenterhooks as it would have been a double whammy given the fact that Mumbai is the COVID-19 hotspot of the country. By clamping section 144 CrPC, the Mumbai police ensured that there is no one on road even as the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) put up its might addressing several calls of uprooting of trees, short-circuits.  As a precautionary measure, road traffic on the Bandra-Worli Sea Link was suspended and the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport shut operations for nearly three hours. The Central Railway, Western Railway and Konkan Railway rescheduled or cancelled several special trains that it is running during lockdown. "Mumbai, we have survived several storms together. This cyclone shall pass too. As always, just take all necessary precautions, follow the guidelines and don’t believe in any rumours. Trust only official sources. Take care," Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh tweeted. Donning raincoat, BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal hit the street and inspected several places including pumping stations. Several people from low lying areas and fishermen's colonies were shifted to BMC schools as a precautionary measure. "Threat for Mumbai is almost over. Rains to continue until tonight but winds will not exceed 50 Kmph. Eye of Cyclone Nisarga has completed landfall," tweeted Mahesh Palawat,  vice president, meteorology  & climate change, Skymet Weather. Trees were uprooted and crashed in south Mumbai’s Colaba and Churchgate crushing at least two vehicles, while heavy waves lashed the jetties at Gateway of India, Bhaucha Dhakka, and popular beaches at Girgaum Chowpatty, Dadar, Juhu, Versova, Madh, Marve, Gorai on the city’s west coast. In Mumbai, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray along with other ministers and officials continuously monitored the unfolding cyclonic situation while his deputy Ajit Pawar called up all coastal district collectors and sought ground reports from them. Search and Rescue teams of NDRF and SDRF, besides army, navy, air force, coast guard,  were on stand by. Meanwhile, Maharashtra Fishermen’s Association President Damodar Tandel said that many fishing villages on the entire coastal belt have suffered huge damages due to the storm. “As per the latest information, most of our fishing boats were moored safely since the past couple of days," he said. The Mumbai city and suburbs on an average  received 40 to 50 mm rainfall.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-nisarga-remains-away-from-mumbai-845203.html
03-06-2020||West||Aurangabad records 47 new COVID-19 cases; tally rises to 1,696||As many as 47 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district on Wednesday, taking the tally to 1,696 in the region, an official said. The swab reports of 47 suspected patients from the district came out positive on Wednesday, the official said. Of the 1,696 COVID-19 cases reported in the district so far, 1,085 patients have recovered from the infection and 85 have succumbed to it, he said. At present, 526 patients were undergoing treatment at different hospitals in the district, he added. Meanwhile, 18 containment zones have been identified in Aurangabad city, which will remain under complete lockdown, a civic official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/aurangabad-records-47-new-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-1696-845219.html
03-06-2020||West||Goa records biggest COVID-19 jump with 40 new cases in one day||Goa recorded its biggest jump in COVID-19 cases, with 40 persons testing positive in South Goa's Mangor hill area in a day, even as Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday continued to insist, that the nature of transmission was purely local in nature and the spike could be described as community transmission. The record jump saw the state's tally of active COVID-19 cases to 62. Sawant also said, that in view of the sudden increase in cases, the Goa government would take a call on re-opening of places of religious worship in the state for public access. "Out of the 200 persons tested at Mangor hill, 40 have tested positive today. The area has been declared as a containment zone. We have nearly tested the inner circle where the first cases were found and are now fanning out," Sawant said. The first two cases of COVID-19 in Mangor hill were detected on Monday, with two persons from a family testing positive. On Tuesday, three more persons from the same family tested positive, along with one person who was in touch with them.  Sawant claims, that the family was hiding details as to how they contracted the infection, when nearly all the active COVID-19 cases in Goa, involved persons who had a history of immediate travel outside the state.   "The family is trying to hide something. We suspect a couple of reasons why the transmission occurred there. Either somebody from outside came in contact with them or someone from their family returned home from outside the state," the Chief Minister said. Sawant also said, that the spike in cases at Mangor hill was still a local transmission and added that contact lists of all persons who had tested positive for Covid-19 was being prepared.  "There is local transmission in one area, so we have converted that area into a containment zone. We are trying to get in touch with persons, who people from the containment zone may have met. Our next strategy depends on the test results of these contacts," Sawant said. The Chief Minister also said, that no date had been finalised yet for opening of educational institutes in the state, in wake of the pandemic and added that the Goa government would soon decide on opening up religious institutions. "Currently, it is a local transmission, but if the transmission spills outside the area, then the government will take a decision taking the factor into account," Sawant said, when asked about when places of religious worship were likely to be opened in the state for public access.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-records-biggest-covid-19-jump-with-40-new-cases-in-one-day-845233.html
03-06-2020||West||Maharashtra reports highest single-day coronavirus death toll||In what seems to be one of the worst days for Maharashtra, a whooping 122 COVID-19 patients died on Wednesday, the highest 24-hour toll recorded in the state.  With the 122 deaths, the state's toll now has crossed 2,500 touching 2,587. A total of new 2,560 cases were recorded on Wednesday taking the total to 74,680. Meanwhile,  996 patients were discharged taking the total to 32,329.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-reports-highest-single-day-coronavirus-death-toll-845235.html
03-06-2020||West||Ailing student from Maharashtra stuck in Budapest||A student from Aurangabad in central Maharashtra is stranded in Hungary since the outbreak of coronavirus outbreak, and waiting to return to India as he is unwell. Prithviraj Rajput, who is studying catering and tourism at an institute in Budapest, told PTI over phone that over 50 Indians are stuck in the East European country since the pandemic brought air travel to a halt. "I collapsed last Wednesday and somehow managed to call my friend who took me to hospital here. Doctors told me it was a blood sugar issue," he said. "Things are expensive here. My friends cooked and supplied me food in hospital. Now these friends have returned to their homes and I have not recovered completely yet," Rajput said. "We are a total of 51 Indians here who want to return to India. We are in touch with each other through a WhatsApp group. Doctors have advised me to return home," he said. Jaswantsingh Rajput, his father, who is a veteran tour operator, said, "We have been writing to embassies and concerned offices (of the Ministry of External Affairs). We received a reply few days back that stranded students from Budapest will be sent back to India from Frankfurt. But there was no communication thereafter. "Three flights are scheduled to depart for India from Frankfurt till June 11. We are expecting that my son will get a seat on one of them as he is not well," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ailing-student-from-maharashtra-stuck-in-budapest-845239.html
03-06-2020||West||Supreme Court notice to Centre, others on plea for renaming Bombay HC as Maharashtra HC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday issued notice to the Centre on a plea for renaming the Bombay High Court as the Maharashtra High Court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/supreme-court-notice-to-centre-others-on-plea-for-renaming-bombay-hc-as-maharashtra-hc-845251.html
03-06-2020||West||No lion census, only observation activity this week in Gujarat||The Gujarat forest department on Wednesday clarified that it would just be conducting a lion observation activity on June 5 and 6 and not a lion census. The census of lions, which was to be carried out last month, had to be put off in view of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, it said. The Junagadh forest department, under whose jurisdiction the Gir Wildlife sanctuary is located, clarified this amid reports that the state government would carry out the lion census on Friday and Saturday with only forest department staff. "On every full moon day, we ask the forest department personnel to observe lions in the areas assigned to the staff. We will take up a similar exercise from 2 pm on on June 5 to 2 pm on June 6," Chief Conservator of Forests, D T Vasavda, said in a statement. "This is not a lion census. Lion census is carried out every five years in an extensive manner. Large number of central and state government officials, wild life lovers, NGOs and members of National Board of Wildlife are involved in it," he said. The last census was carried out in 2015 and it was supposed to be held during summer this year. But due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, it was not possible, he said. "This full moon day observation exercise will be carried and rough estimation of figures arrived at will be used for internal policy making for the safety oflions," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-lion-census-only-observation-activity-this-week-in-gujarat-845255.html
03-06-2020||West||Ahead of RS polls, 3 Gujarat Cong MLAs meet CM, Dy CM||Ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls in Gujarat scheduled later this month, three Congress MLAs on Wednesday held meetings with Chief Minister Vijay Rupani and Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel at Gandhinagar, triggering speculations of defection. However, these opposition MLAs refuted the rumours and claimed that they went to make a representation about various issues related to coronavirus and lockdown. Congress legislators Kirit Patel, Lalit Vasoya and Lalit Kagathara met the chief minister and his deputy at the state secretariat in Gandhinagar on Wednesday afternoon. When asked about their sudden meeting with the leaders of the ruling BJP, Kirit Patel, who represents Patan Assembly seat, said none of them is joining the ruling party. "We went to meet Deputy CM and then Rupani with some demands. During our meet with Nitin Patel, I urged him to expand the bed capacity of Dharpur hospital in Patan so that more number of coronavirus patients from north Gujarat can be treated there," Patel told reporters. Kagathara and Vasoya said that they demanded withdrawal of cases lodged against people, especially farmers, during the lockdown. "There is no question of joining the BJP. Vasoya and I met Nitin Patel and the CM, specifically to demand withdrawal of cases lodged against thousands of people for lockdown violations. Many farmers were also booked in such cases. In the coming days, our party is also planning to take up this cause," they said. The Rajya Sabha election for four seats in Gujarat has been scheduled on June 19. It was supposed to be held on March 26. However, it was eventually postponed for an indefinite period in the wake of coronavirus pandemic and subsequent imposition of nation-wide lockdown. While the Congress has fielded two candidates, BJP has fielded three, making it difficult for the Congress to win the second seat. In March, five Congress legislators had tendered their resignations days after the elections were announced. This had further reduced the Congress's chances of retaining both the seats. In the 182-member Assembly, BJP has 103 MLAs and the opposition Congress 68. The Bharatiya Tribal Party has two MLAs, and Nationalist Congress Party one. One MLA is Independent while seven seats are vacant; two due to court cases while five due to the resignations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ahead-of-rs-polls-3-gujarat-cong-mlas-meet-cm-dy-cm-845340.html
