04-06-2020||First Edit||Bihar decision wrong, dangerous||The Bihar government’s decision to stop mandatory testing and quarantining of migrant workers returning to the state from June 2 is wrong, and it may lead to a calamity. If observance of preventive measures like social distancing is the responsibility of citizens, it is the state’s responsibility to do testing and quarantining of people, especially those who are vulnerable to the disease, and offer treatment to those who are found infected. Bihar has about 5,000 quarantine centres, and they will be closed from June 15 when those who were admitted on June 1 complete their quarantine period. About nine lakh migrants have been discharged after quarantine till now and about 5.3 lakh are still lodged in the centres. It has been announced that there will not be any registration and even thermal screening of returning migrants. The new system has already come into force. The official reason given for the decision is that there is no need for registration and quarantine when restrictions on movement of people have been lifted all over the country. Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi has also claimed that “home quarantine is the best quarantine, according to foreign experts’’. Bihar’s policy on returning migrants has been negative or reluctant from the beginning. There were indications that it did not actually want them to return in the first place. There may be many migrants who may still go back to the state and if the state has no record of them and they are not quarantined, it will present a clear and present danger of the disease spreading. Many of the returning migrants are from hotspot states like Maharashtra, Delhi and Gujarat. Most confirmed cases in the state are of migrants who have returned.  There have been reports about the poor functioning of quarantine centres in the state and charges that some of them existed only on record. But if they are going to be dispensed with altogether, that may be a prescription for transmission of the disease to the community. Bihar has a big population and most migrants are from villages. If the virus gets into the community in the rural areas, there will be no check on it. When even the quarantine facilities are grossly inadequate for the incoming migrants, how will the state take care of many more numbers of infected people? The Centre has allowed states more freedom to take their decisions, but this is a case where it should prevail on the state to reverse a wrong decision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/bihar-decision-wrong-dangerous-845758.html
04-06-2020||In Perspective||Teachers: Step up to the challenge of online teaching||With schools and colleges closed indefinitely, a viable alternative to classroom teaching has to be evolved. When face-to-face classrooms are not possible, online teaching, especially for higher classes, is an obvious option. Technology, that we have come to increasingly rely on, has an uncanny propensity to make life’s challenges easier or more complicated based on who handles it. This is true of online teaching as well. Teachers have a new challenge before them. They need to learn the ropes of this technological pathway and update their skills in order to fulfil their role as effective teachers. Teachers who are unwilling to learn will find themselves rendered redundant. So, this is a question of a teacher’s professional survival. In the Indian context, where technology is still a far cry for a large chunk of our student population and teachers can only record their teaching and send it by email to the students. This is likely the scenario in a vast majority of our schools. Students who have no facilities at home are likely to participate in these classes at some common facilities available in their villages and towns. Even assuming that a group of students with access to devices or tools participate in live online teaching from home, the teacher cannot interact with students with the same ease as in the traditional classroom. In other words, a virtual classroom will not be the same as a real classroom. Technology has its limitations. Let’s assume at this stage that teachers will be recording their lessons for students to study at their own convenient place. Perhaps this will be the most feasible option in the present circumstances. Let us proceed with this assumption. Teachers will have no students sitting in front of them to get feedback or get a sense of how their teaching is being received. To imagine a class and emote as if a class is in front of you is not easy. One has to rely entirely onthe subject one handles in order to emote appropriately. This needs tremendous effort, which is yet another challenge. Thus online teaching is a new ball game altogether. In a real classroom situation, a capable teacher can sense how the lesson is being received by sheer eye-contact with the students. With experience, the teacher can establish that ‘connect’ and sense an instant, non-verbal feedback from students. Teachers move on by checking at intervals through brief questions, and brain-teasers to ensure that the students are on the same page. In the online teaching scenario, we have no scope to get such instant feedback, but an imaginative teacher will use his or her intuition and clarify certain doubts that one can anticipate from students. Online teaching requires more effort in terms of preparation than conventional teaching. We need to exercise precision in thinking and economy in words. Clarity is the proverbial hallmark of a teacher, whatever the mode of teaching. So, one should be loud enough to be heard clearly. The teacher’s voice, modulation, pause, emphasis on certain words or statements etc are all essential elements here. The body language of the teacher, including one’s gestures, facial expression, relaxed appearance establishes an instant ‘connect’ with the students. Teachers should build their confidence by practising in front of their colleagues. Peer review of lessons will be a useful method to improve one’s presentation skills. Teachers should be open to constructive criticism in order to improve. The board (black or green) should be used judiciously, with other teaching-aids. Power points are okay, but displaying large chunks of text on the screen is best avoided. Bullet points are always useful, and they can be displayed as the lesson progresses using the ‘drop-down’ option. This helps the teacher too, to refresh the key elements of the lesson. Students cannot imagine a class without a teacher, and hence the teacher should be visible throughout the lesson. The image of a passionate teacher on the screen willbe an inspiration to any student. Timely assignments and projects based on the topics covered is another facet to be carefully planned and executed by teachers. This is needed not only to ensure attendance in classes but also to enable effective learning. Yet another challenge for teachers is their exposure to parents and others. The classroom was always the teacher’s kingdom, rarely overseen by others, but in the present scenario, there is visibility and transparency. A teacher’s mannerisms and weaknesses in terms of language, factual correctness might be magnified by those who are keen to find fault with teachers. Let them have some fun at our expense. Teachers should learn to take it in their stride. When anyone attempts a new skill, a few slips here and there are certainly pardonable. However, we must try our best to be up-to-date in terms of our subject knowledge and pedagogy. We, the teaching community should approach online teaching with seriousness to ensure that we win the confidence of the students. Let us not allow it to become a poor substitute for regular face-to-face teaching. We need to find ways and means to improve online teaching and make it an effective alternative, as it will be the ‘new normal’ for some time. We should go ahead with confidence and hope. Teachers are still the hope of the new generation of students. (The writer is Director, Little Rock Indian School, Udupi)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/teachers-step-up-to-the-challenge-of-online-teaching-845761.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Digital touch to Environment Day||As part of the World Environment Day themed around ‘Biodiversity’, the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) has organised a series of digital and print activities. The pollution watchdog recently conducted a quiz programme for high school students. It has also organised a drawing and essay writing competition from June 1 to June 30. Children can upload their drawings and essays on the website www.kspcbwed.platifi.com by June 30. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will symbolically inaugurate the event by releasing posters, handouts and reports on the state’s environment. This apart, the board has also organised blogging activity on biodiversity for youngsters and release Do It Yourself (DIY) videos on recycling and reusing of articles to create awareness among the public. A digital library will also be inaugurated for public use. World Environment Day is celebrated on June 5 every year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/digital-touch-to-environment-day-845378.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: SC issues notice to Hassan MP Prajwal Revanna on plea challenging his Lok Sabha election||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought response from Prajwal Revanna, the grandson of former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda, on a plea challenging his election in 2019 from from Hassan Lok Sabha constituency as a joint candidate of JDS and Congress. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishiksh Roy issued notice to the returned candidate from the high-profile constituency on an appeal challenging the Karnataka High Court’s order by which an election petition against his win was dismissed. In the proceedings held through video-conferencing, the top court issued the notice and tagged the appeal filed by one G Devarajegowda for hearing with other similar pending plea filed by the BJP candidate on the issue. Devarajegowda, in the plea, said that his election petition was dismissed by the High Court on "procedural irregularities". The plea said that Prajwal had resorted to unfair and corrupt practices and his election should be set aside. It said the High Court did not consider the fact that by dismissing the election petition, it was running a risk of having a representative in Parliament who has not got the maximum number of valid votes. The petitioner, an advocate by profession, sought a declaration of rival BJP candidate, A Manju as the winner for having secured the maximum number of valid votes. A separate appeal was earlier filed by Manju against the HC order and the top court had already issued notice to the retuned candidate on that. Manju had challenged the 2019 election of Prajwal on the ground that there was allegedly non-disclosure of assets held by him in his election affidavit. Prajwal was declared as the winner with 6,76,606 votes. Manju came as a first runner up with 5,35,282 votes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-sc-issues-notice-to-hassan-mp-prajwal-revanna-on-plea-challenging-his-lok-sabha-election-845379.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||CM B S Yediyurappa: List departments for Belagavi shift in one month||Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday set a one-month deadline for authorities to identify Bengaluru-based government departments that can be shifted to the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi.  The Suvarna Soudha, which is a replica of Bengaluru's Vidhana Soudha, was made ready in 2012 to bring the administration closer to North Karnataka amid concerns that the region felt alienated. However, the grand structure remains unused, except when the winter session of the legislature is held there. The government spends Rs 20 lakh a month for its upkeep.  Yediyurappa's directive during a PWD review meet comes at a time when several BJP MLAs from North Karnataka are unhappy with allocation for their constituencies.  Yediyurappa instructed officials to complete the construction of Shivamogga airport at Sogane within a year. He also asked officials to review identification of land for Vijayapura airport.  It was decided in the meeting to upgrade 1,650 km village roads as district roads and elevate 10,110 km district roads as state highways. Yediyurappa asked officers to use soil from lakes, ponds and riverbeds for the roads.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/cm-b-s-yediyurappa-list-departments-for-belagavi-shift-in-one-month-845389.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Bus conductor gets notice as passengers take off mask||In the first such incident in the state, a bus conductor was issued a notice after it was found that three passengers in the bus were not wearing masks, triggering a reaction from the employee federation which questioned the move to punish the conductor while sparing the passengers. The incident happened near Ramdurg in Belagavi district. As per a copy of the notice available with DH, conductor I R Angadi has been asked to explain with three days as to why action should not be taken against him for failing to ensure three passengers in his bus were not wearing the mask. The North West Karnataka Road Transport Corporation bus was on its way form Ramadurg to Manuwalli when the inspectors conducted a check. "There were 14 passengers in the bus of which three were not wearing the mask, violating the guidelines issued to check Covid-19 as well as the rules of the corporation," it stated.The State Road Transport Corporation Employees Federation (CITU) questioned the move to punish the driver while exempting the passengers. "No passenger is allowed inside the bus if he/she is not wearing the mask. The conductor cannot help if a passenger takes off the mask during the journey. In fact, passengers should be punished for the offense, not the conductor," Anand, general secretary of the Federation told DH. To a question, NWKRTC Managing Director Rajendra Cholan said he was not aware of the issue and will resolve the same in a day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/bus-conductor-gets-notice-as-passengers-take-off-mask-845407.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown: Belur math in Karnataka to allow in devotees from June 15||The gates of the sprawling premises of the Math set up by Swami Vivekananada at Belur near here was closed since the lockdown was announced in March by the Centre. The Math has devotees from across the globe. The secretary of Belur Math Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, Swami Suvirananda said in a statement that as the easing down of lockdown measures announced by the Centre and the state did not indicate the threat caused by COVID-19 pandemic is over, the authorities thought it prudent to put in place all the measures required before opening the gates of the Math and all RKM centres in the country for the scores of devotees. The statement was issued on June 1, the day religious places of worship were thrown open by the West Bengal government. "We had to think about both aspects - the issue of public health and also the wish of our devotees for having a darshan of the shrines of Swami Vivekananda, Sri Sarada Maa and Ramamrishna Paramahansa. But we believe spirituality and sceintific temparament must go hand in hand," he told reporters on Thursday. "Therefore it is imperative for us to consult experts and put in place adequate arrangement and infrastructure" before opening the (Belur Math) gates," he said. The senior monk said the timing of the opening and closure of the shrine and all other details conforming the health protocol and guidelines will be announced before opening date. The Math complex had become totally out of bound for visitors from March 24 when the lockdown was clamped. There was restricted entry to it since May 16.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-belur-math-in-karnataka-to-allow-in-devotees-from-june-15-845594.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||3 constables test COVID-19 positive in Raichur||Three police constables of Raichur West Police station tested positive for COVID-19, said Superintendent of Polife, C B Vedamurthy.  The infected constables were deployed at the quarantine centre set up at University of Agricultural Sciences-Raichur where migrant workers returned from Maharashtra were quarantined. The west police station will be sealed down, he told. A constable attached to Devadurg police station tested positive for the virus two days ago and the police station has been sealed down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/3-constables-test-covid-19-positive-in-raichur-845605.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Boy under quarantine dies of stomach ache||A 14-year-old boy, who was under institutional quarantine, died of stomach ache at OPEC hospital in Raichur on Thursday.  The deceased has been identified as Mallesh, a resident of Madarakal village in Devadurg taluk. He was quarantined at a quarantine centre set up at PU College in Devadurg after he along with his parents returned from Mumbai on May 16. As he was suffering from stomach ache, the boy was admitted to the hospital but breathed his last as he failed to respond to the treatment. His throat swab has been collected for testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/boy-under-quarantine-dies-of-stomach-ache-845610.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Five test coronavirus positive in Gauribidanur||Five Maharastra returnees from Gauribidanur tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday taking the tally of Covid-19 cases in the district to 148. Out of 316 migrants labourers, who had returned from Maharashtra, 114 had tested positive. The five persons, who tested positive on Thursday, are fresh cases. About 29 cases were reported from different taluks. A total of 52 people have been discharged. At present, 93 patients are under treatment. Till Tuesday, throat swabs and blood samples of 11,099 people were tested.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/five-test-coronavirus-positive-in-gauribidanur-845721.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Four COVID-19 cases recover, discharged in Tumakuru||Four Covid-19 positive patients, who were admitted to the district Covid-19 hospital have recovered fully and were discharged on Thursday. Having said that, a total of 32 Covid-19 cases were reported and 15 cases have recovered and 15 are still active. Two people have died due to the pandemic. As many as 10,649 throat swabs and sputum samples have been tested and 9,799 samples have tested negative.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/four-covid-19-cases-recover-discharged-in-tumakuru-845723.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Leopard attacks girl; seriously injures her||A leopard attacked a girl, who was playing in front of her house, at Theredakuppa village in Kunigal taluk on Thursday.   Police said Rekha (5), daughter of Nagaraju, is the victim of the leopard attack. She was spared from getting further injured when her neighbours heard her cries for help. In the melee, the big cat escaped.  Rekha, who was seriously hurt, was admitted to the general hospital and later shifted to Nimhans in Bengaluru, police added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/leopard-attacks-girl-seriously-injures-her-845726.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Individual green initiatives impact communities in Malur, Srinivaspur||A couple in the town have been teaching the lesson of the significance of individual initiative on how to keep surroundings clean for the last six years. The day of Phalakshaiah and Shailaja, residents of Maruthi Layout, begins at 4 am. After waking up, they come to the street holding brooms and plastic bins and start cleaning a stretch of over one-and-half kilometres in and around their house. They also clean about three streets close to their shop. They have purchased a tiny pushcart, plastic bins and brooms spending from their pocket for their work which has been widely appreciated. Phalakshaiah, who studied till SSLC, has always been passionate about nature. He married Shailaja three years ago. Initially, she was upset with his cleaning business as she felt it was below his dignity. However, she too joined hands with him after realising the importance of her husband’s initiative. “I had begun to develop an inferiority complex. However, I quickly realised how my husband’s initiative protected community health from diseases. I too began cleaning the roads with him,” she says. “Reformation won’t happen merely by speaking. We should stop speaking and start working in that direction. Human beings are facing problems due to environmental pollution. We should focus on preserving the environment,” he explains. The couple plant saplings on important occasions like birthdays, anniversaries and other family rituals. They also turn off street lights after dawn and save electricity. Serving birds and animals Meet an 87-year-old farm woman Venkatamma from Panasamakanahalli in Srinivaspur taluk. The elderly woman has been a virtual lifeline for birds and animals in and around her house. She has grown a wide variety of trees near her house. She has kept containers in trees to keep food, grains and water to the birds and animals. It has been her practice for the last many decades to keep food and water in the containers before consuming meals.  She has protected the trees and birds and animals from hunters. The chirping of birds may often be heard. She offers a variety of food depending upon seasons and weather conditions. Venkatamma’s children, daughters-in-law and grandchildren too serve the birds and animals. “Birds and animals have been victims of man’s cruelty. There is a need to preserve sparrows and squirrels. These birds require fewer quantities of grains daily. We should keep water in the container without fail during summer,” she says.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/individual-green-initiatives-impact-communities-in-malur-srinivaspur-845727.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar award for 10 achievers||The city observed erstwhile Mysore king Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar’s 136th birth anniversary in a simple and significant manner on Thursday. The district administration has decided to give away awards to 10 achievers in the name of Nalvadi. District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar and MLAs G T Devegowda, S A Ramadass, L Nagendra, Mayor Tasneem, and Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar offered floral tributes to the statue of Krishnaraja Wadiyar at KR Circle, here. Somashekar said, “The district administration will identify 10 achievers in different fields and confer them with Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar award. Due to the outbreak of Covid-19, the authorities have not identified them. The achievers will be identified and the awards will be instituted in a few days.” “The contributions of Wadiyar to the region is immense and construction of Krishnaraja Sagar dam was not an easy task. Wadiyar had pledged gold from his Palace to construct the dam,” he recalled. The dignitaries attended a programme organised by Ursu Mandali, later. The minister assured the members of the Mandali of state government’s support in developing the community. The minister said that he will approach Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa seeking support for the community. Members of various organisations like K M Praveen Kumar Charitable Trust paid tributes to Wadiyar, by offering floral tributes to the statue at KR Circle.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/nalvadi-krishnaraja-wadiyar-award-for-10-achievers-845756.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Panchalinga Darshana Mahotsava from December 10||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar on Thursday said that all measures will be taken for Panchalinga Darshana Mahotsava-2020, scheduled to be held at Talakad in the taluk. The minister held a preparatory meeting here and said, “Minister of Muzrai Kota Srinivas Poojary will conduct a meeting with the authorities concerned soon. All necessary measures will be taken for the programme.” The Panchalinga Darshana Mahotsava will commence on December 10 and will conclude on December 19. The actual Panchalinga Darshana will be on December 14. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, “PWD authorities will take care of roads and the gram panchayat will provide drinking water facility.” PWD Engineer said, “The process of tender for road repair works is completed and will be completed in a month.” An officer of the Panchayat Raj department said, “Construction of bathrooms, renovation of temple and other works will be completed soon.” The Taluk Health Officer explained about hospital and medical facilities and the pPolice officials explained about security measures to be taken up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/panchalinga-darshana-mahotsava-from-december-10-845760.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Safaris, treks, jungle resorts can reopen on June 8||In a respite for nature and wildlife enthusiasts, Karnataka on Thursday clarified that safaris, trekking and jungle resorts will be allowed from June 8 in forest areas that fall outside Covid-19 containment zones.  The clarification was issued by Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority member-secretary T K Anil Kumar in response to queries by several organisations that offer hospitality services in the wildlife space.  “Noting that the Ministry of Home Affairs, in its guidelines, has permitted hospitality services to resume from June 8, it is clarified that Jungle Lodges & Resorts and other similar hospitality services offered by private organisations, along with other related activities will be permitted from June 8, including safaris, trekking etc by adhering to social distancing, hygiene and all measures and national directives issued by the Health & Family Welfare department,” the clarification stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/safaris-treks-jungle-resorts-can-reopen-on-june-8-845775.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Government mulls over allowing private companies to hire home guards||If the government has its way, soon private companies can hire the services of home guards, the auxiliary uniformed force assisting the police.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa has directed officials to review a proposal to this effect during a meeting of the Home Department.  It was also decided in the meeting that the services of more than 3,000 home guards who are at the risk of losing their jobs should be continued by deputing them to different departments.  Home guards are often deployed to help the police manage traffic and also assist paramilitary and rescue personnel during natural calamities.  Yediyurappa also instructed officials to strengthen the CEN (cyber crime, economic offices and narcotics) police stations. There are eight CEN police stations in Bengaluru and the government wants to set up one in each district. Yediyurappa said forensic labs will be strengthened to “hasten the investigation of crimes.”  Officials told Yediyurappa that all precautionary measures had been taken in prisons in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and that not a single positive case had been reported. “As per Supreme Court directions, 5,005 prisoners have been released on bail and parole. Overcrowding of prisoners in the prisons has been reduced from 110% to 95%,” the CM was told, according to a statement.  Yediyurappa also asked for a proposal on the development of infrastructure in all the departments that come under the Home ministry. He warned action against officers involved in any misuse of funds, especially those deposited in banks. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar, state police chief Praveen Sood, Additional Chief Secretary (Home) Rajneesh Goel and others were present at the meeting.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/government-mulls-over-allowing-private-companies-to-hire-home-guards-845776.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Secretariat staff protest job cuts, merger of departments||The Karnataka Government Secretariat Employees’ Association staged a protest Thursday opposing the state government’s move to cancel some posts and merge several departments. In a memorandum submitted to the chief secretary following their protest at Gandhi statue in Vidhana Soudha, the employees said that the anti-worker policies of the government caused disappointment among the employees. Opposing the proposal to reduce posts and merge departments, the Association alleged that it would affect the efficiency of the government. “More than three lakh of the 7.2 lakh posts (in government department) remain vacant,” the memorandum read. They also urged the government to withdraw a proposal to cut 562 junior assistant posts. Such hasty proposals have severe consequences on ‘C’ and ‘D’ group employees working at the secretariat. The Association also demanded withdrawal of several orders - such as cancellation of leave encashment scheme - and proposals to amend Karnataka Civil Service rules.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/secretariat-staff-protest-job-cuts-merger-of-departments-845778.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Eight Kyrgyzstan nationals held for violating visa norms||Eight Kyrgyzstan nationals who had arrived in the city after attending a religious congregation at Nizamuddin in Delhi were arrested on Wednesday, in connection with violation of visa norms. They were remanded in judicial custody till June 16. Two others who accompanied them have also been arrested.   They had arrived in the city on tourist visa for religion preaching. Complaints were registered at Gandhi Ganj and Town police stations against Kamal Azgar of Odisha, Abdulla Khuddus and the eight Kyrgyzstan nationals. They were found residing at a mosque in the city on April 3. The medical staff, while conducting door-to-door health check-up in the old city, came across the Kyrgyzstan nationals and informed the police. The two others used to translate their speeches to Urdu and Hindi. Doctors examined those arrested and they were quarantined in the mosque itself, in the wake of the Coronavirus scare. According to police, the Kyrgyzstan nationals came to Delhi in January itself and stayed there till March 8. They arrived in Bidar on March 10.  Before producing them before the court, their throat swab samples were sent to the lab twice for testing and the reports turned out to be negative. They have all been lodged at the district jail now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/eight-kyrgyzstan-nationals-held-for-violating-visa-norms-845787.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Finally, Kodagu flood victims get houses||After waiting for two long years, victims of Kodagu floods got houses of their own on Thursday. The victims, who were doubtful about their future, forgot their pains and distributed sweets among friends and neighbours. Kodagu District In-charge Minister V Somanna and Revenue Minister R Ashoka handed over houses to the beneficiaries during a programme held on Thursday. As many as 383 houses in Jamburu in Somwarpet taluk and 80 houses in Made in Madikeri taluk were provided to beneficiaries. The houses were decorated with flowers and buntings. Some people said that they would perform house warming on Friday itself. The houses have been constructed by Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation. Minor works are pending in 83 houses and will be complete in a week, Engineer Chandan said. M P Veerendra, a beneficiary, said he had a hard time after he lost his house during the floods and landslides in Jodupala. The house provided by the government is nice and in a serene atmosphere. The entire residential layout will be a place of communal harmony,” he added. Another beneficiary Suhasini said that she lived in a rented house with the help of the rent allowance provided by the government. The allowance stopped after a point of time. However, now she is happy as she has got a new house.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/finally-kodagu-flood-victims-get-houses-845790.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hampi varsity is denying us our fellowships: Students||Students of Hampi Kannada University have complained that they were forced to sign bond that would deny them their fellowships and right to protest. A few research students on the condition of anonymity told DH: “The varsity authorities made us take an undertaking that we would not indulge in ragging or other criminal activities before the enrollment for research/doctoral programmes. The bond further said that they (students) would not expect any fellowship and that they would abide by the decisions taken by the varsity.” “The varsity has not given a fellowship of Rs 10,000 a month to about 350 students from 2017-18. The students, most of whom are from rural areas, are finding it tough to carry on without fellowship money. In the past, students had staged an overnight protest demanding their due. We had even approached the elected representatives. The varsity authorities took it personal and scuttled our voices by forcing to sign the undertaking,” an aggrieved student poured out his woes to DH. Meanwhile, Hampi varsity Vice Chancellor Prof S C Ramesh said, “There’s nothing wrong in making students sign bonds. Even engineering colleges do it. The varsity has not received fellowship money for 2017-18. However, as per rules, we have paid fellowship to a few students in 2018-19. We will clear the pending dues once we get the grants.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hampi-varsity-is-denying-us-our-fellowships-students-845800.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Lockdown: State-run buses, autos, cabs to operate during night curfew hours in Karnataka||With the easing of COVID-19 lockdown norms under unlock 1.0, the Karnataka government on Thursday permitted state transport buses to operate even during the night curfew hours 9 pm to5 am. Autos, taxis and cabs have also been given permission to operate during these hours for picking commuting passengers from pickup points or bus stands. Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar in an order said, state transport corporations (BMTC, KSRTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC) buses have been allowed to operate during night curfew hours from 9 pm to 5 am. On the basis of their bus tickets, passengers would be allowed to commute to bus stand or from there to home, in accordance with the COVID-19 control measures, SOPs and other guidelines, it said. Further, during the curfew hours autos, taxis and cabs have been given permission to pick commuters from pickup points or bus stands, it added. Earlier, the government had revised the night curfew time from the previous 7 pm-7 am to 9 pm-5 am, and said the movement of individuals shall remain strictly prohibited between 9 pm and 5 am throughout the state, except for essential activities. The government has also said that jungle lodges and resorts, also private organisations providing similar facilities, along with activities they provide like safari, trekking among others would be permitted from June 8, in compliance with the guidelines and SOP issued and following the social distancing norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-lockdown-state-run-buses-autos-cabs-to-operate-during-night-curfew-hours-in-karnataka-845803.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Drop proposal to bring uniform curriculum in state varsities: Prof Baraguru Ramachandrappa||Litterateur Prof Baraguru Ramachandrappa has raised objection to the Higher Education minister’s proposal to bring in uniform curriculum in all the universities in the state. In a letter to Minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan, Ramachandrappa has said that the idea will affect the autonomy and uniqueness of the universities and urged to drop the proposal. “This will affect the basic goal of the university to achieve something different. It will disturb the autonomy and freedom of the varsities. Also, the study centres set up in the state-run universities will be of no use,” he mentioned in a letter. As explained by Baraguru in the letter, if the uniform curriculum is implemented then the local representation of the subject will be lost. However, reacting to it, Dr Ashwath Narayan said, Ït was just a model syllabus framework and not the entire syllabus change.” It can be recalled that several student organisations and academicians and also vice chancellors have raised objection over the same.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/drop-proposal-to-bring-uniform-curriculum-in-state-varsities-prof-baraguru-ramachandrappa-845819.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dakshina Kannada e-pass: So near yet so far for residents of Kasargod||Residents of Kasargod, asked to report to their workplaces in Mangaluru with the help of e-passes being issued by Dakshina Kannada district administration, faced a harrowing time at Talapady checkpost and were forced to return to Kasargod without the e-pass on Thursday evening. However, residents of Mangaluru travelled to Kasargod and reported at their workplace after obtaining e-pass from Kasargod district administration without any hassles. As a result of intense lobbying, the district administration finally relented and agreed to issue e-passes to those regularly commuting from their home in Kasargod to their workplaces inn Mangaluru. Three people from Kasargod, working in a hospital in Mangaluru, on obtaining the ‘reference number’ had rushed to Talapady checkpost at 9 am. The Karnataka police manning the checkpost however refused to recognise the reference numbers and insisted on the residents of Kasargod to submit e-passes. The three men after hours of waiting returned to Kasargod in the evening after failing to secure the e-passes. Urva Police Station Sub Inspector Srikala, who is serving at the check post, said many residents from Kasargod had arrived at the check post with the reference numbers. “As Deputy Commissioner’s orders were to allow only those with the e-passes, they were sent back,” she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dakshina-kannada-e-pass-so-near-yet-so-far-for-residents-of-kasargod-845825.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi railway platform in Karnataka to be world's longest||The Hubballi railway station will have the world’s longest platform within one year when the existing 550-metre long Platform No 1 will be extended to 1,400 metres. Platform No 1 of South Western Railway's Hubballi railway station which is an inspection carriage line, is being converted into a full platform of 1,400-metre length and 10-metre width. Presently, Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh has the longest platform in the world at 1,366 metres. The Hubballi yard has five platforms, and trains can be dispatched in one direction only at the same time. The Hubballi yard is being remodelled to increase the number of platforms from the existing 5 to 8. This work is being done as part of the Hubballi-Bengaluru line doubling project. A third entrance is coming up for the station too. The cost of the works is Rs 90 crore for yard remodelling, signalling, electrical, building work and other works. Work on the project has began and will be completed in the next one year, said SWR chief public relations officer E Vijaya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-railway-platform-in-karnataka-to-be-worlds-longest-845829.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Muniyappa wanted real estate business using railway project, says MP S Muniswamy||MP S Muniswamy has claimed that local legislator K R Ramesh Kumar was opposed to former MP K H Muniyappa’s proposal for a railway coach factory at Srinivaspur as Muniyappa had planned to grab private land for estate activities in the name of a railway project. “Considering the Lok Sabha elections, Muniyappa brought pressure on the Congress government and got the railway coach factory sanctioned to Srinivaspur. He also got the foundation stone laid,” Muniswamy told reporters. A plan was prepared to acquire an additional 500 acre private land for the project. Muniyappa wanted to use the additional land for the real estate business which was opposed by the local MLA and people, he alleged.  The MP said,”Considering all these developments, the Central government decided to setup a railway workshop. The government land available in Srinivaspur is enough for the project. There is no need to acquire private land.” The Central government had already allocated funds for the project which would be completed by 2023. The project would generate employments to youths, he said. Muniswamy said that the Union Water Resources Minister had already approved inter-linking of Krishna and Godhavari rivers. “The Bharat Gold Mines Limited (BGML) has halted operations in KGF for the last many years. I have requested the Union government to restart the operations. A Central government team has already conducted inspection in this regard. Activities will be resumed soon,” he said. District in-charge Minister H Nagesh, BJP district unit president Dr Venugopal and former president B P Venkatamuniyappa were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/muniyappa-wanted-real-estate-business-using-railway-project-says-mp-s-muniswamy-845736.html
04-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Rajashekhar Shidlaghatta elected taluk panchayat president, Muninarasamma his deputy||M K Rajashekhar, the JD(S) member from Cheemangala constituency and Muninarasamma from Kumbiganahalli constituency were elected as president and vice-president of taluk panchayat respectively. The elections were necessitated following the resignations of B V Narayanaswamy and Muniyappa as president and vice-presidents respectively. The election officer A N Raghunandan declared the elections unanimously as nobody from the Congress entered the fray. The Congress members did not attend the proceedings. Out of 17 seats, the JD(S) has 9, while the Congress 8.  Tahsildar K Arundati, taluk panchayat executive officer B Shivakumar, MGNREGA director Chandrappa and Shirastedar Manjunath were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/rajashekhar-shidlaghatta-elected-taluk-panchayat-president-muninarasamma-his-deputy-845739.html
04-06-2020||Main Article||Will the world change?||Till Covid-19 happened most of us had not heard about the 1918 Spanish flu pandemic. It had been tucked away in the pages of history. It is estimated that about 500 million people were infected with Spanish flu and 50 million died. It was one of the deadliest pandemics in human history, but it has hitherto received only scant referrals. When we say things will become the ‘new normal’, what does it mean? What did we learn from the world phenomena of 1918? Did that change our behaviour then? And will the Covid-19 change our behaviour henceforth? Both pandemics spread mainly through human contact with infected droplets. On June 25, 1918, an Indian newspaper wrote, “To avoid an attack one should keep away from all places where there is overcrowding and the consequent risk of infection such as fairs, festivals, theatres, schools, public lecture halls, cinemas, entertainment parties.” Sounds familiar, doesn’t it? The speed and extent of the fatalities of the Spanish flu were overwhelming in India. The flu killed about 18 million people, more than the casualties in World War I. In Bombay, 768 people died in a single day--on October 6, 1918. A report released by the sanitary commissioner in 1918 documented that all the rivers including the Ganga, were clogged with dead bodies. An interesting fact was that this epidemic came in three waves. The first wave impacted all economic and social segments as it was diagnosed that the soldiers returning from the World War in Europe brought the virus into the country. The second wave showed the stark impact that birth and economic status can have on surviving an epidemic. Over 61 lower caste Hindus of every 1000, succumbed to this virus compared to 18.9 upper caste Hindus and only 8.3 British living in India. The lower caste Hindus then and now, were severely malnourished, engaged as sanitation workers and exposed to unhygienic living conditions. This time too it was the affluent international travellers that brought the Covid-19 virus into the country. It has now slowly entered congested slums. With very little healthcare, sanitation facilities and chronic malnutrition, the slum dwellers are now succumbing to the virus. That is why in the Dharavi slums we see such accelerated deaths. The same story will be replicated in other cities if we are not vigilant. It is interesting that more women died during the Spanish flu than men. This was due to the fact that women usually ate less than men in an average poor household. Moreover, women would often nurse the sick and become more exposed to the disease. It would be interesting to see if the same trend continues today. The realities for the women especially from the underprivileged homes have not changed. They tend to eat less and are the last to get medical treatment. It is documented that during the Spanish flu pandemic in India, the British rulers realized the complexity of governing such a diverse and vast country and began to consult the emerging Indian political leadership. Eventually, it was the NGOs and volunteers that set up dispensaries, treated patients, raised money and ran centres to distribute food, provisions and medicine. “Never before, perhaps, in the history of India, have the educated and more fortunately placed members of the community, come forward in large numbers to help their poorer brethren in time of distress,” quoted a government report. We see the same story in 2020. Reports state in 13 states, NGOs fed more people than the government during the lockdown. In the past few years, the government has displayed a distinct attitude of mistrust towards NGOs. During Covid-19, however, they have reached out for help for the first time. And that is how it should be. We have to build a spirit of collaboration and trust between civic society and the government. What should we have learnt in the last few weeks of lockdown? That we are more privileged than migrant workers who leave their villages seeking jobs in cities and end up with no steady shelter and food. We now know how large the numbers are and that no economic plan should ignore them. Around 41 lakh people in Karnataka do not have any ration cards and are not in the Public Distribution Coverage. We should have learnt that the country’s wellbeing depends largely on how stable and secure the poor are. We need to invest in our public healthcare and welfare system and not in defense to fight mock wars. We have seen for ourselves that during lockdown the air has become cleaner and that the wildlife is safer. We have learnt that it is possible to work from home, buy only what we need and travel less for a few days a year. It is possible for us to join hands to take care of the economically weaker sections and not leave it entirely to the government. Can we consider choosing one week a year for a global voluntary lockdown to clean our air and water and recalibrate our lives? This could be to commemorate the lives lost during Covid-19. We could work from home worldwide this chosen week. We could give our domestic help paid leave. We would not travel and not go out shopping. We would plan this ahead so that the migrant workers can be given advance wages and sent home to be with their families. This voluntary lockdown for a week idea may sound crazy but even a month’s lockdown was considered impossible before. Unless we resolve to think and act differently, this Covid-19 will not have made any sense. (The writer is Founder-CEO, Parikrma Humanity Foundation)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/main-article/will-the-world-change-845759.html
04-06-2020||National||Malegaon blast case: SC asks petitioner to move HC CJ with request to extend tenure of trial judge||The Supreme Court Wednesday asked the father of one of the victims in the 2008 Malegaon blast to approach the Chief Justice of Bombay High Court with his request to extend the tenure of judge, who was conducting trial in the case and had retired in February this year. Seven people were killed and several others were injured in a bomb blast on September 29, 2008 at Malegaon, a communally-sensitive textile town in Nasik district of north Maharashtra. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, which was hearing through video-conferencing a plea seeking to extend the tenure of the trial judge, granted liberty to the petitioner to move the chief justice of high court in the matter. "The petitioner is given liberty to move the Chief Justice of High Court of judicature at Bombay in the instant matter. The Chief Justice may take an appropriate decision," the bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy, said in its order while disposing of the plea. In his plea filed through advocate Gaurav Agrawal, petitioner Nisar Ahmed Sayed Bilal had said that his fundamental right was being violated due to the delay in conclusion of trial in the case. The petitioner, father of one of the blast victims, had said in his plea that he was entitled to speedy trial in the case. Earlier this year, the Bombay High Court had observed that there has not been any "effective progress" in the trial of the Malegaon blast case in which Sadhvi Pragya Singh Thakur, who is now a BJP MP, former Lt Col Prasad Shrikant urohit and others are accused. Thakur was granted bail in April 2017 by the high court which had said that "no prima facie" case was made out against her in the case. Purohit was also granted bail by the apex court in 2017.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/malegaon-blast-case-sc-asks-petitioner-to-move-hc-cj-with-request-to-extend-tenure-of-trial-judge-845370.html
04-06-2020||National||India in touch with the UK over extradition of Vijay Mallya: MEA||India is in touch with the British government over the extradition of fugitive liquor baron Vijay Mallya after he exhausted legal options against New Delhi's request to the UK to extradite him. "The government of India is in touch with the UK regarding the next steps in his extradition process," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said on Thursday. He was replying to a question on Mallya's extradition to India during an online media briefing. Last week, Mallya lost his appeals in the UK Supreme Court against his extradition to India to face money laundering and fraud charges. The UK top court's decision marked a major setback to the 64-year-old businessman as it came weeks after he lost his High Court appeal in April against an extradition order to India. Mallya has been based in the UK since March 2016 and remains on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017. The High Court verdict in April upheld the 2018 ruling by Chief Magistrate Emma Arbuthnot at the end of a year-long extradition trial in December 2018 that the former Kingfisher Airlines boss had a "case to answer" in the Indian courts. Replying to another question on China's growing assertiveness in South China Sea, Srivastava said India has an abiding interest in peace and stability in the area. He said there must be freedom of navigation and overflight in South China Sea and differences, if any, should be resolved through dialogue without resorting to use of force. China's aggressive military posturing in South China Sea is seen by many security experts as an attempt to leverage the situation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic to push its agenda in the region. Following China's rising military presence, the US has sent additional deployment to the South China Sea, a strategically key trade route linking Southeast Asia.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-in-touch-with-the-uk-over-extradition-of-vijay-mallya-mea-845394.html
04-06-2020||National||Apps, YouTube new classroom aids||Mobile apps, phones, educational television and YouTube videos are to play a significant role in imparting education to higher secondary students in the alternative academic calendar unveiled by the HRD Ministry on Wednesday. The Alternative Academic Calendar, developed by the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) also emphasises on learning rather than testing for scores as teachers look for newer avenues to keep students engaged during the Covid-19-induced closure of schools. “The calendar provides guidelines to teachers on the use of various technological and social media tools available for imparting education in fun-filled, interesting ways, which can be used by learners, parents and teachers even while at home,” HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’ said. He said NCERT has also taken into account the varying levels of access of students to different tools and platforms such as mobile phones, radio, television, SMS and various social media. The Minister said the Alternative Calendar will cater to the needs of all children including divyang (children with special needs) and links to audio books, radio and video programmes will be included. It also advises teachers to guide students through SMS or voice calls in case there is no access to mobile internet or television. Initially, this calendar is prepared for four weeks, which may be extended further. In this calendar, the themes/topics have been selected from syllabus and are linked to learning outcomes. “Activities are suggestive, not prescriptive. Teachers may opt for activities the student is interested in,” a statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/apps-youtube-new-classroom-aids-845399.html
04-06-2020||National||Defence secretary Ajay Kumar tests positive for coronavirus: Sources||India's Defence Secretary Ajay Kumar tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday, following which the defence ministry carried out a massive contact-tracing exercise, official sources said. Kumar's condition is stable and he is currently under home-quarantine, they said. At least 35 officials working at the ministry's headquarters in South Block in the Raisina Hills have been sent on home quarantine after reports of Kumar testing positive for the infection emerged on Wednesday morning. There was no official comment on Kumar's health condition. The defence ministry spokesperson refused to comment on the issue. It is learnt that Defence Minister Rajnath Singh did not attend office as part of a precautionary measure. The offices of the defence minister, the defence secretary, the Army Chief and the Navy Chief are on the first floor of the South Block. The sources said all laid down protocols on contact-tracing and quarantining of people are being scrupulously followed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-secretary-ajay-kumar-tests-positive-for-coronavirus-sources-845406.html
04-06-2020||National||Lockdown: SFI moves SC for rent waiver for outstation students||Students Federation of India on Wednesday approached the Supreme Court for a direction to the governments to alleviate the plight of outstation students, who were being forced to pay rent in the National Capital Region and other places, despite them having not used the accommodation during the period of lockdown. In absence of any relief scheme by the government, the students will be left with no option but to pay the rent as per the agreement, even when they did not use the accommodation as there was no clause of non-payment in such extraordinary times, it said. In an intervention application in a Suo Motu matter, examined by the top court on the plight of migrant workers, the CPM's students wing said the outstation students used to manage their financial spreadsheet by giving tuitions and doing part-time jobs. After the declaration of lockdown, many of the students and their parents lost the financial means. In such circumstances, rent was creating an additional burden, the application drawn by Subhash Chandran K R and filed by Biju P Raman said. Though orders were issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on March 29 and April 22 against demanding rent, many landlords were harassing students for non-payment, it alleged. "There is a serious apprehension that students will have to go through such difficulties unless a clear cut rent waiver policy is adopted by the Union as well as state governments for the students," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-sfi-moves-sc-for-rent-waiver-for-outstation-students-845408.html
04-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi-US President Donald Trump talk a plan to counter China||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s discussion with President Donald Trump on India-China border tension was intended to convey to the communist country that New Delhi might have to move closer to the United States if Beijing does not rein in the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). Modi and Trump on Tuesday spoke to each other over the phone and one of the issues they discussed was the escalating tension between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA on the bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh. The issue came up for discussion between the two leaders even as New Delhi just recently rejected the US President’s offer to mediate between India and China. New Delhi also made it public, with the press release issued by the Prime Minister’s Office after the talks between the two leaders did mention it among the topics they discussed, albeit without elaborating. Modi also gave his nod to Trump’s proposal to bring India, Australia, South Korea and Russia into the ambit of the G-7 and turn it into a G-11. He did so although Beijing decried the US-led initiative as a move to contain China. It was even opposed by India’s long-standing strategic partner Russia. New Delhi so far refrained from joining the US in blaming China and the World Health Organization (WHO) for the Covid-19 pandemic. Modi, however, discussed with Trump the need to reform the WHO during the phone-call on Tuesday. Modi apparently wanted to send out a subtle message to Chinese President Xi Jinping. India did join the US-led move to build a coalition of democratic nations to counter China’s hegemony and expansionist aspirations in Indo-Pacific. But it also so far maintained that its own policy on Indo-Pacific was inclusive and not adversarial to China. But the Prime Minister’s talks with the US President on India-China boundary dispute on Tuesday signaled New Delhi might review its position and move closer to the US in the post-COVID-19 world order if the Chinese PLA continued its aggressive posture along the disputed boundary. The tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the disputed boundary between India and China – started escalating on May 5. Though the diplomats and the military officials of the two nations had several rounds of talks over the past four weeks, they could not yet reach a breakthrough. The conciliatory words by the spokesperson of the Chinese Government’s Ministry of Foreign Ministers in Beijing did not translate into any change in the ground situation on the scene. The PLA did not withdraw its soldiers, who had transgressed into India’s side of the LAC in at least three locations along the disputed boundary. Neither did it demolish the bunker nor the moat it built to stop the access of the Indian Army soldiers to an area they had been routinely patrolling before May 5. The Chinese Army also continued to deploy additional troops with heavy logistics and weaponry, and the Indian Army too had to take adequate countermeasures in response||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-us-president-donald-trump-talk-a-plan-to-counter-china-845409.html
04-06-2020||National||Pakistan claims India could launch 'false flag operation' against it||Pakistan on Wednesday claimed that India could launch a "false flag operation" against it and warned that Islamabad will respond with "full might" to any misadventure. Pakistan Army spokesperson Major General Babar Iftikhar said any action by India "will create uncontrollable and unintended consequences". In order to divert attention from the internal issues, India is planning a "false flag operation against Pakistan" but "any such misadventure will be responded with full force", Iftikhar told Geo TV. He also rejected the allegations of "launch-pads and infiltration". Defence Minister Rajnath Singh in April said the Indian Army is carrying out “targeted strikes” on terror launch pads along the Line of Control (LoC) and eliminating the Pakistani infiltrators before they cross over to the Indian side. Iftikhar said Pakistan was ready to give access to the international media to the Line of Control (LoC) as it had done in the past. The ties between India and Pakistan strained following the Pulwama terror attack and the subsequent Balakot airstrikes by the Indian Air Force in February last year. The bilateral relations further nose-dived following the Indian goverment's abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution in August last that revoked the special status of Jammu and Kashmir. The move angered Pakistan, which downgraded diplomatic ties with India and expelled the Indian High Commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pakistan-claims-india-could-launch-false-flag-operation-against-it-845412.html
04-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 4, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-4-2020-edition-845415.html
04-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 4||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,26,078 as of June 4. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 6,338 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 100,303 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-4-845416.html
04-06-2020||National||West Bengal records 10 more COVID-19 fatalities, 340 new cases of infection||West Bengal registered 10 more deaths due to COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking their number to 273 as 340 new cases of the infection surfaced in the state, officials said here. With this, the total number of confirmed cases of the disease in the state rises to 6,508, a state health bulletin said. Of the fresh fatalities, seven were reported from Kolkata and one death each was reported from South 24 Parganas, Howrah and Darjeeling districts. Seventy-two patients have died in West Bengal due to co-morbid conditions where COVID-19 was "incidental", the bulletin maintained. The state now has 3,583 active cases, it added. At least 170 people were discharged from hospitals on Wednesday, taking the total number of people cured of the disease to 2,580, the bulletin said.  It added that with 99 fresh cases, Kolkata topped the list on Wednesday, while other districts that also reported a high number of cases include Howrah (58), North 24 Parganas (42), Hooghly (38), Bankura (15), Cooch Behar (14) and Malda (10). As many as 9,499 samples have been tested in the state since Tuesday, taking the total number of such clinical examinations to 2,32,225, the bulletin said. It said 18,525 people are now placed in 582 government quarantine centres while the number of people under home-quarantine is 1,48,287. The state government has set up special quarantine facilities for migrant workers returning in Shramik Special trains and the number of returnees staying there now is 1,30,594.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-records-10-more-covid-19-fatalities-340-new-cases-of-infection-845419.html
04-06-2020||National||ICCR planning courses on Indian tradition and culture||The ICCR is planning online courses on traditional Indian knowledge systems (TIKS) to inform youngsters and others about Indian culture and traditions, its president Vinay Sahasrabuddhe said on Wednesday. Courses on TIKS will include training programmes on Indian traditional celebration practices such as rangoli and mehendi to those on Indian cookery which will include snacks, desserts and pickles, he said. "There will also be courses on Indian epics, freedom struggle, Constitution and sustainable philosophy of our country among others," the Rajya Sabha MP said. Sahasrabuddhe added that ICCR was exploring the possibility of becoming a single-window source of introductory knowledge of Indian culture and traditions. He also informed that ICCR, along with the Ayush Ministry, was organising an international video blog contest on the upcoming Yoga Day and three awardees will be shortlisted globally. The contest was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday in his Mann Ki Baat programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iccr-planning-courses-on-indian-tradition-and-culture-845423.html
04-06-2020||National||CPI(M) to stage countrywide protests on Jun 16 demanding cash transfers, free foodgrains to poor||CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Wednesday announced countrywide protests on June 16 demanding immediate cash transfers and free foodgrains to the poor. Accusing the Narendra Modi government of using the COVID-19 pandemic as an excuse to replace the secular, democratic and federal structure of the country with a unitary form of theocratic government, Yechury said the Centre has now virtually left the people of the country to fend for themselves in combatting the pandemic. The Left leader addressed reporters via Facebook Live to brief them about the decisions taken by the politburo of the party, which held its meeting on June 1 via a video link. This was the first meeting of the CPI(M) politburo after the nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24. Yechury said the state governments that are in the forefront of the battle against COVID-19 were denied even their legitimate dues such as the GST payout. He alleged that the pandemic is being used for centralisation of authority, which, in turn, is destroying a basic feature of the Constitution -- federalism. "A unitary state is being created by the Modi government that will facilitate the disruption of the secular democratic republic of India and transition of the RSS political project of a theocratic state," Yechury said. The CPI(M) politburo statement said the Gross Tax Revenues (GTR) has fallen by over Rs 70,000 crore and the Corporate Tax Revenue (CTR) by over Rs 1,06,000 crore. "This shortfall in governmental revenues will reduce the share of the states who are already starved of finances," it added. Yechury said the lockdown was imposed arbitrarily and lifted unscientifically. The all-India protest to be observed on June 16 is to raise key demands, including an immediate cash transfer of Rs 7,500 per month for a period of six months to all families outside the income-tax paying bracket, free distribution of 10 kg of foodgrains per individual per month for six months, expansion of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) from the current 100 days to 200 days with enhanced wages. "Extend the employment guarantee scheme to cover the urban poor. Immediately announce an unemployment allowance for unemployed persons," Yechury said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cpim-to-stage-countrywide-protests-on-jun-16-demanding-cash-transfers-free-foodgrains-to-poor-845426.html
04-06-2020||National||SC highlights success of virtual courts, says nearly 3K lawyers appeared in hearings on Wednesday||Amid demands from bar bodies for resuming physical court hearings, the Supreme Court on Wednesday released the data of the day to highlight the "success story" of virtual court proceedings, saying as many as 2,893 lawyers appeared in these hearings through video-conferencing. "Data shows the day-by-day success story of the Virtual Court. Today, 2,893 advocates joined the virtual court hearings before 10 benches of the Supreme Court," an official of the apex court said. Referring to Wednesday's cause list, he said 263 main matters, along with 102 connected ones, were heard by different benches during the day. The apex court has been conducting proceedings through video-conferencing from March 25 as it has suspended the entry of lawyers and other staff into its premises. However, it recently said the lawyers' chambers can be re-opened on an odd-even basis during weekdays with certain safety measures in place. The apex court, on Tuesday, decided to explore the feasibility of "physical appearance" of advocates in real courtroom hearings after strictly following the coronavirus-triggered lockdown and resorting to virtual hearings since March 25. Prior to this, the Bar Council of India and few other bar bodies had urged the top court to consider resuming courtroom hearings on various grounds, including that the virtual court system was not working well in favour of many lawyers, who either did not have access to the technology or were not well-versed with it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-highlights-success-of-virtual-courts-says-nearly-3k-lawyers-appeared-in-hearings-on-wednesday-845435.html
04-06-2020||National||Air India to operate 75 outbound passenger flights to US, Canada from June 9-30||Air India on Wednesday said it will operate 75 outbound passenger flights to select destinations in the US and Canada between June 9 and June 30 under the Vande Bharat Mission. "Those who wish to travel to the United States and Canada and fulfill required-entry conditions can book themselves on these outbound flights. Some foreign airlines have already carried out evacuation flights and are planning to operate more flights. These flights will also take foreign nationals," Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted. He said the aforementioned 75 flights will go to destinations like New York, Newark, Chicago, Washington, San Francisco, Vancouver and Toronto. Domestic passenger flights resumed in India from May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India.  The central government, however, started the Vande Bharat Mission from May 7 to bring back the stranded Indians from abroad through special inbound flights. It is for the first time that outbound flights have been included under the mission. "Under MissionVandeBharat, AI will be operating 75 flights from India to select destinations in USA and Canada from 9th to 30th June 2020. Bookings on these flights, ex India only, will tentatively be open from 1700 Hrs on 5th June 2020 only through Air India website," the national carrier said on its website. Air India and its subsidiary, Air India Express, operated 64 flights under phase one of the mission. They plan to operate around 300 flights in the ongoing phase two of the mission to evacuate a total of 70,000 Indians stranded globally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/air-india-to-operate-75-outbound-passenger-flights-to-us-canada-from-june-9-30-845476.html
04-06-2020||National||Future is bright for India-Australia ties: PM Narendra Modi||India-Australia ties have always been close, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said ahead of his first-ever virtual summit with his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison on Thursday. "Glad to be joining the first India-Australia Virtual Summit with you, PM @ScottMorrisonMP. India-Australia ties have always been close," Modi wrote on Twitter. "As vibrant democracies, from Commonwealth to cricket to even cuisine, our people-to-people relations are strong and the future is bright," he said. Modi was responding to a tweet by Prime Minister Morrison, who said he is looking forward to catching up with his Indian counterpart for the virtual summit. The two leaders are likely to review the broad framework of bilateral strategic ties and explore ways to expand cooperation in areas of trade and defense. The two countries are also expected to finalise a landmark agreement for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support in the summit besides sealing a number of other pacts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/future-is-bright-for-india-australia-ties-pm-narendra-modi-845484.html
04-06-2020||National||HC permits unmarried woman to terminate 23-week pregnancy||The Bombay High Court has permitted an unmarried woman to terminate her over 23-week pregnancy, observing that giving birth to a child out of wedlock would cause her much mental and physical anguish. The Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act prohibits termination of pregnancy beyond 20 weeks. A bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and Surendra Tavade in an order on Tuesday also took note that the 23-year-old woman, a resident of Maharashtra's Ratnagiri district, failed to undergo pregnancy termination within the 20 weeks permissible limit "mainly because she could not consult" a doctor in time due to the coronavirus-enforced lockdown. The bench permitted her to undergo the procedure at a medical facility of her choice by Friday. On May 29, following the woman's petition, another bench of the high court directed a medical board at the civil hospital in Ratnagiri to assess her for any possible health risks, if she underwent the medical termination procedure. The woman is over 23 weeks pregnant, as per the plea filed last week. In her petition, the woman said while the pregnancy was a result of a consensual relationship, she cannot carry it to term since she is unmarried and hence, giving birth would cause her "social stigma". The woman said in her plea that she would not be able to "handle the child as an unmarried single parent". The petitioner also said it would not be possible for her to get married in future because of the social stigma, and that she was mentally not ready to be a mother. She also told the court that she could not get a sonography done and seek an abortion in time as she had been unable to consult a doctor due to the lockdown. The MTP Act permits abortions up to 12 weeks of pregnancy, after consultation with a doctor. For termination of pregnancy between 12 to 20 weeks, medical opinion of two doctors is required. Beyond 20 weeks, exceptions are legally permissible only if continuation of the pregnancy poses a threat to the mothers health and life. In the present case, the high court noted that while the pregnancy did not pose any risks to the petitioner's physical health,it was likely to have an adverse impact on her mental health. The petitioner states that the delay beyond 20 weeks is caused because she could not consult any doctor, mainly due to the prevailing lockdown. She says she has already suffered immense mental and physical anguish due to her unwanted pregnancy, the bench observed. "Keeping in mind the submissions set out by the petitioner in her plea, we are of the view that if the petitioner is compelled to continue with her pregnancy, the same will involve a risk of grave physical and mental injury to her," the court said while allowing the plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-permits-unmarried-woman-to-terminate-23-week-pregnancy-845492.html
04-06-2020||National||India's COVID-19 tally reaches 2,16,919 with record spike of 9,304 cases; death toll 6,075||India stood seventh among the nations worst hit by the COVID-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil, Russia, the UK, Spain and Italy. The health ministry said the number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 1,06,737 while 1,04,106 people have recovered and one patient has migrated. "Thus, around 47.99 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior official said. Of the 260 deaths reported since Wednesday morning, 122 were in Maharashtra, 50 in Delhi, 30 in Gujarat, 11 in Tamil Nadu, 10 in West Bengal, seven each in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Telangana, six in Rajasthan, four in Andhra Pradesh and one each in Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Punjab and Uttarakhand. Maharashtra has reported the maximum 2,587 fatalities till date, followed by Gujarat with 1,122 deaths, Madhya Pradesh 371, West Bengal 345, Uttar Pradesh 229, Rajasthan 209, Tamil Nadu 208, Telangana 99 and Andhra Pradesh 68 deaths. The death toll has reached 53 in Karnataka, 47 in Punjab, 34 in Jammu and Kashmir, 25 in Bihar, 23 in Haryana, 11 in Kerala, eight in Uttarakhand and seven in Odisha. Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh and Jharkhand have registered five COVID-19 deaths each, Assam has recorded four deaths while Chhattisgarh has reported two deaths so far. Meghalaya and Ladakh have reported one COVID-19 fatality each.  According to the ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths were due to comorbidities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-covid-19-tally-reaches-216919-with-record-spike-of-9304-cases-death-toll-6075-845500.html
04-06-2020||National||With a draconian but porous lockdown, India flattened GDP curve instead of COVID-19: Bajaj Auto MD||Bajaj, known for his blunt views on issues, said India looked up to western countries such as Italy, France, UK and the US and used their benchmarks to formulate the Indian response to COVID-19 instead of Japan or Sweden which focused on sanitation, personal hygiene such as wearing masks and physical distancing. “I think, India not only looked west, but it also went to the wild west. We tried to implement a hard lockdown, which was still porous. We have ended up with the worst of both the worlds … the virus still exists.. you have not solved that problem,” Bajaj said in an interaction with the former Congress President. “But, you have decimated the economy. You flattened the wrong curve. It is not the infection curve. It is the GDP curve,” he said. Bajaj also said the manner in which India was emerging from the lockdown was not smooth, concerted or rhythmic, primarily due to the fear that was created about COVID-19 suggesting that infection was equivalent to death. He wanted Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take the lead in removing this fear from the minds of people by telling them that nobody was dying because of the infection. “There has to be a very clear aligned narrative, I would say from the Prime Minister, because, right or wrong, when he says something people seem to follow,” Bajaj said. “I think he (PM) needs to stand up and say to everyone that this is how we are going to move forward, it’s is all under control, do not fear infections, almost nobody is dying, you know and we have to move forward now,” the Bajaj scion said. This was Rahul’s fourth interaction with opinion makers that the Congress has released in a bid to present its former president as an alternative to Modi yet again||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-a-draconian-but-porous-lockdown-india-flattened-gdp-curve-instead-of-covid-19-bajaj-auto-md-845501.html
04-06-2020||National||Indore COVID-19 tally up by 36 to 3,633; death toll 145||Till Wednesday, 3,597 cases were reported in Indore, which is one of the worst affected by the deadly disease in the country. As many as 36 new cases came to light in the last 24 hours, raising the district's tally to 3,633.  Besides, the death toll also went up to 145 as four more people, including a 75-year-old man, succumbed to the viral infection in different hospitals here in the last two days, the official said. Till now, 2,184 people have been discharged from hospitals here after recovery, he said. The COVID-19 outbreak was first reported in Indore on March 24, when four people tested positive for it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indore-covid-19-tally-up-by-36-to-3633-death-toll-145-845504.html
04-06-2020||National||Chhattisgarh COVID-19 cases tally rises to 680||As many as 52 more people, including a government doctor, tested positive for coronavirus in Chhattisgarh, taking the state's COVID-19 tally to 680, a health official said on Thursday. The state reported 34 new COVID-19 cases on Wednesday, but by late night 52 more people tested positive for the disease, taking the total number of cases in a day to 86. "It is the biggest spike in a single day since the first positive case was detected in the state in mid-March," the official said. Of the 52 new cases, 20 were reported from Janjgir- Champa district, 12 from Mahasamund, six from Jashpur, four from Balodabazar, three from Balod, two each from Durg, Rajnandgaon and Raipur districts while one case came from Raigarh, he said. Most of the new patients are migrant laborers, who recently returned to their home districts from different parts of the country and were kept in quarantine centers or those who came in their contact, he said. A doctor posted in the COVID ward of Janjgir-Champa district hospital is among the new patients found there, he said.  So far, 189 patients have been discharged after recovery, the official said. Chhattisgarh COVID-19 figures are as follows: positive cases-680, new cases-52, deaths-two, discharged-189, active cases-489, people tested so far-76,446.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chhattisgarh-covid-19-cases-tally-rises-to-680-845516.html
04-06-2020||National||Killing of elephant in Kerala a meditated murder: Ratan Tata||Industrialist Ratan Tata on Wednesday compared the killing of a pregnant elephant in Kerala to a "meditated murder", and sought justice for the animal. The elephant was allegedly fed a pineapple with firecrackers inside leading to her death in Silent Valley Forest on May 27. The firecrackers exploded in her mouth when she chomped on the fruit. "I am grieved and shocked to know that a group of people caused the death of an innocent, passive, pregnant elephant by feeding the elephant with a pineapple filled with firecrackers," Tata, chairman emeritus of the over USD 100 billion Tata Sons, tweeted. "Such criminal acts against innocent animals are no different than acts of meditated murder against other humans," said the veteran industrialist who is a keen animal lover. "Justice needs to prevail," he said. The Kerala government on Wednesday said a wildlife crime investigation team will probe the brutal killing, while the Centre took a serious note of the incident and sought a report from the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/killing-of-elephant-in-kerala-a-meditated-murder-ratan-tata-845519.html
04-06-2020||National||UP: 3-year-old COVID-19 patient discharged from hospital after recovery||A three-year-old boy of Simnaudi village in the Bharua Sumerpur area here has won the battle against the novel coronavirus, officials said on Thursday. Chief Medical Officer (CMO) R K Sachan said that the child was found COVID-19 positive along with his father on May 25 and was admitted to the medical college in Banda in Uttar Pradesh. "After his reports came negative twice, he was discharged on Wednesday," he said, adding his father is still undergoing treatment. The health officer said eight persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the district, four of whom have been discharged from hospital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-3-year-old-covid-19-patient-discharged-from-hospital-after-recovery-845522.html
04-06-2020||National||AAP asks Maha govt to waive off power bills during lockdown||The Maharashtra unit of Aam Aadmi Party has demanded that the state government waive off electricity bills of up to 200 units for people who have suffered economically due to the COVID-19 lockdown. In a statement issued on Wednesday, the party said that the pandemic and the subsequent lockdown have hit people financially and it was imperative that they receive adequate support at all levels from the state government. The party noted that the Centre's Rs 20 lakh crore special economic package was not going to help the common man directly. "It is thus extremely important that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government immediately take measures to alleviate the economic crisis that has gripped the aam aadmi (common man)," it said. The MVA government should waive off electricity bills for up to 200 units for the last four months, the statement read.  To drive home its point, it said that the AAP-led Delhi government had ensured that bills for power consumption below 200 units are "absolutely free, thus giving respite (to people of Delhi) even prior to the pandemic". The party has already written to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Power Minister Nitin Raut, seeking an appointment to discuss the matter, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aap-asks-maha-govt-to-waive-off-power-bills-during-lockdown-845523.html
04-06-2020||National||68 new COVID-19 cases in Rajasthan; infection tally reaches 9,720||Rajasthan on Thursday reported 68 fresh cases of the novel coronavirus, taking the total number of infections to 9,720. Among the new cases, 16 were reported from Bharatpur, 12 each from Jaipur, Churu and Jodhpur, seven from Kota, five from Jhunjhunu, two from Barmer and one each from Sawaimadhopur and Nagaur, according to an official. No death was reported in the state on Thursday. So far, 209 COVID-19 patients have died in the state, including 100 in state capital Jaipur alone.  A total of 6,819 patients have recovered so far and 6,267 of them have been discharged. There are 2,692 active cases in the state as of now, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/68-new-covid-19-cases-in-rajasthan-infection-tally-reaches-9720-845524.html
04-06-2020||National||Plea in HC to direct PM CARES Fund to divulge info under RTI Act||A plea was filed in the Delhi High Court on Thursday seeking direction to the PM CARES Fund to divulge information, including details of the money received and utilised, under the Right to Information (RTI) Act as it is a public authority. The petition was mentioned for urgent hearing through the web link and it has been listed on June 10, petitioner-advocate Surender Singh Hooda said. The creation of the fund was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 28 and he had urged all Indians to donate to the fund to help the country fight Covid-19, the petition said. After two months, the total corpus of the fund stands at approximately Rs 10,000 crore and the amount has been collected upon strength of the prestige lent by the office of the Prime Minister, it said. The plea referred to the reports published in newspapers on May 31 that the PM CARES fund has refused to divulge information sought by one Harsha Kundakarni under the RTI Act, 2005 by claiming that the fund is not a 'public authority' within the ambit of Act. “Therefore, the petitioner's or anybody else's application would also meet the same fate and hence the exercise of exhausting the remedy by filing another application and then filing an appeal before the statutory authority may be dispensed within the interest of justice,” it said.  The plea, filed through advocate Aditya Hooda, sought a direction to the PM CARES Fund to divulge information under the RTI Act as it is a 'public authority' within the ambit of the Act and also a direction to the trust to display on its website the details of the money received and for what purposes it has been utilised. “The reluctance of the trustees of the fund in divulging information as to the management of the fundraises a profoundly serious apprehension since the fund has been set up to fight Covid-19 which is a public cause. It is further unfathomable as to why such secrecy is desired when the website of the fund clearly states that all persons engaged in the management of the fund are working on a pro bono capacity and shall have no personal interest in the fund,” it submitted. It added that the corpus of Rs 10,000 crores has been created by donations largely from the Public Sector Undertakings, Central Ministries and Departments and even the salaries of armed forces personnel, civil servants, and members of the judicial entities have been compulsorily donated into the fund. “If the PM CARES fund is held not to be a public authority, it needs to be examined as to whether the public authorities at the highest level could prompt the government agencies, public servants to contribute to this fund whose details are now sought to be kept opaque,” it said. The petition said the victims of Covid-19 who desperately need the funds to fight the deadly pandemic are spread all over the country and are not in a position to enforce their fundamental right of being treated and financially supported, by the use of funds collected in the PM CARES fund. The plea has arrayed as party the Prime Minister's Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund, through its Chairman, Prime Minister office. It said the Prime Minister is the ex-officio chairman of the PM CARES fund while the ministers of Defence, Home Affairs and Finance are its ex-officio trustees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-hc-to-direct-pm-cares-fund-to-divulge-info-under-rti-act-845529.html
04-06-2020||National||Not in Indian culture to feed firecrackers and kill: Javadekar on elephant's death in Kerala||It is not in Indian culture to feed firecrackers and kill, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Thursday while taking serious note of the death of a pregnant wild elephant in Kerala after she was fed firecrackers-filled pineapple. Tweeting about the incident that has taken social media by the storm, Javadekar said the government will not leave any stone unturned to bring the culprit to book. "Central Government has taken a very serious note of the killing of an elephant in Mallapuram, #Kerala. We will not leave any stone unturned to investigate properly and nab the culprit(s). This is not an Indian culture to feed firecrackers and kill (sic),” he said in a tweet. In a statement on Wednesday night, Javadekar had promised stern action against those responsible for cruelly killing the pregnant wild elephant in Kerala. Issuing a statement here, Javadekar had said, “Environment Ministry has taken a serious note of the death of an elephant in Kerala. Has sought a complete report on the incident. Stern action will be taken against the culprit(s).” The elephant succumbed to an act of human cruelty after a pineapple filled with powerful crackers offered allegedly by locals exploded in her mouth. The elephant died at Velliyar River on May 27.  According to sources, the post-mortem report revealed that the elephant was pregnant and her jaw was broken. She was unable to eat after she chewed the pineapple and it exploded in her mouth, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-in-indian-culture-to-feed-firecrackers-and-kill-javadekar-on-elephants-death-in-kerala-845532.html
04-06-2020||National||India, Australia open up military bases for each other amid growing belligerence of China||India and Australia on Tuesday opened up their military bases for each other’s army, navy and air force – a move, which could raise the hackles of China.    With Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison holding a virtual summit, New Delhi and Canberra sent out a message to Beijing as they agreed to raise the bilateral relations to a “Comprehensive Strategic Partnership” and to step up defence cooperation by enhancing scope and complexity of joint war drills. They also agreed to “deepen navy-to-navy cooperation and strengthen maritime domain awareness in the Indo-Pacific region through enhanced exchange of information”. The move came amid China’s growing belligerence, not only in the contested waters of South China Sea and East China Sea, but also on its disputed boundary with India. Modi on Thursday told Morrison that the democratic nations like India and Australia had the “sacred responsibility to uphold and protect the values of global welfare, such as democracy, rule of law, freedom, mutual respect, respect for international institutions and transparency.” “It is in a way our heritage for the future. Today, when these values are being challenged in different ways, we can strengthen them by strengthening mutual relations.” Australia’s recent demand for a probe into the origin of the COVID-19 pandemic in China also strained its bilateral relations with the communist country, which retaliated by raising tariff on import of barley from Down Under. China also banned import of beef from four large abattoirs in Australia.   Beijing was also irked after the Australian Navy a few weeks back sent a frigate to join the US warships in South China Sea.      “In a time like this, we want to deal very much with friends and trusted partners, and this is a partnership which has stood the test time and again,” said Morrison.    The signing Mutual Logistics Support Arrangement (MLSA) was announced after Modi and Morrison had the virtual bilateral summit. The pact will set up a framework for the militaries of India and Australia to share logistics and help each other by providing food, water, billet, transport, petroleum, oils, lubricants, clothing, communications and medical services to each other’s personnel. It also allow sharing of military bases, storage, other facilities, training services, spare parts and components as well as providing repair and maintenance and the services at the airports and seaports to each other. It was the second such agreement New Delhi signed with another member of the Quad – a bloc comprising India, United States, Japan and Australia, which was re-launched in November 2017 – ostensibly to bring Indo-Pacific democracies together and build a bulwark against expansionist aspirations of China. The Logistics Exchange Memorandum of Agreement (LEMOA) between India and the United States was signed in August 2016. India is also expected to sign soon a similar military logistics sharing pact – formally known as Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA) – with Japan. Modi and Morrison on Thursday issued a joint India-Australia “Vision for Maritime Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific”. They called for a “free, open, inclusive and rules based Indo-Pacific region”. They underlined the shared interest of the two nations in ensuring freedom of navigation and over-flight in the Indo-Pacific region and maintaining open, safe and efficient sea lanes for transportation and communication. India and Australia have common concerns regarding the strategic, security and environmental challenges in the Indo-Pacific maritime domain. They called for adherence by all nations to international law including the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and peaceful resolution of disputes rather than through unilateral or coercive actions”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-australia-open-up-military-bases-for-each-other-amid-growing-belligerence-of-china-845533.html
04-06-2020||National||'Parts of Raigad witnessed most severe damage due to cyclone'||Maharashtra minister and Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat on Thursday said that the most severe damage due to cyclone Nisarga was reported from Murud and Shrivardhan in Raigad district. The cyclone made landfall near Alibaug, about 110 kms from here on Wednesday afternoon, but spared Mumbai, which is already reeling under the COVID-19 pandemic. "The most severe damage due to cyclone Nisarga was reported from Murud and Shrivardhan. The work of inspecting the damage is underway. Efforts are being made to bring life back to normalcy," Thorat said in a statement. Several trees were uprooted due to gusty winds and led to the disruption of vehicular traffic. At many places, electricity cables were snapped and poles got uprooted, which led to power outages in some places, the state revenue minister added. The administration is making all efforts to bring life back to normalcy, he said. "Even if the threat of the cyclone over Mumbai has reduced, the next few hours are still crucial. Owing to the direction of the cyclone,local administrations in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar are on alert," he said. Citizens should stay indoors and follow the directions given by the administration, Thorat said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/parts-of-raigad-witnessed-most-severe-damage-due-to-cyclone-845536.html
04-06-2020||National||10 policemen hurt in stone-pelting during raid on illegal liquor den in dry Bihar||Ten police personnel, including an officer, have been injured after they were pelted with stones during a raid on an illegal liquor den in Bihar's Vaishali district, police said on Thursday. Consumption, transportation, storage, or sale of liquor is banned in Bihar. The incident occurred in Bundi Chowk in Tisiauta police station area on Wednesday night when the police team reached the area after being tipped-off about the arrival of a liquor consignment, Mahua Sub-divisional Police Officer (SDPO) Nurul Haque said. As the police team reached the spot, it was pelted with stones by people engaged in the illegal liquor trade, causing injuries to 10 personnel, besides damaging a police vehicle, he said. Tisiauta police station SHO Nityanand Prasad and a constable sustained injuries on their heads, hands and legs while the remaining personnel suffered minor injuries, the SDPO said. The police personnel were administered first aid at the Patepur primary healthcare centre and later released, he said. All the accused have managed to escape but a manhunt has been launched to nab them, the officer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/10-policemen-hurt-in-stone-pelting-during-raid-on-illegal-liquor-den-in-dry-bihar-845538.html
04-06-2020||National||Himachal govt decides to set up sixth finance commission||The Himachal Pradesh government on Thursday decided to set up a sixth finance commission, an official spokesperson said. The decision was taken in a meeting of the state Cabinet chaired by Chief Minister Jai Ram Thakur. The commission will review the financial position of panchayats and urban local bodies, he said. The commission will also make recommendations to the governor on measures needed to improve their fiscal health by determination of appropriate taxes, duties, tolls and fees besides the grants in aid to these municipal bodies from the Consolidated Fund of the State. The commission will also be empowered to examine any other issue related to the improvement of finances of the panchayats and urban local bodies, the spokesperson added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/himachal-govt-decides-to-set-up-sixth-finance-commission-845540.html
04-06-2020||National||Elephant killing using explosives not new to Kerala; prominent persons condemn||While the killing of a pregnant elephant in an explosion in Kerala has now hit the headlines with many prominent personalities strongly condemning it, forest officials and animal rights activists maintain that killing of wild animals using crude techniques like use of explosives, poisoning and electric lines have been quite rampant in the state. A fully pregnant elephant aged around 15 was killed on the spot after consuming crackers in fruits in a plantain farm at Upidampara in Malayatoor forest range, around 50 kilometres from Kochi, on October 13, 2010. Investigation revealed that the trap was aimed at wild boars. A case against the plantain farm owner in this regard was still progressing. Another case of an elephant dying due to a wound in mouth in Kollam district was reported in April this year. While forest officials strongly assume that the latest incident could be also of similar nature, animal rights activists tend to consider it as an attempt targeting the elephant itself.  Industrialist Ratan Tata, Indian cricket team captain Virat Kohli, vice captain Rohit Sharma and actor Akshay Kumar are among the celebrities who strongly flayed the incident. Minister of forest and environment Prakash Javadekar said that the central government has taken a very serious note of the incident. "We will not leave any stones unturned to investigate properly and nab the culprits. This is not an Indian culture to feed fire crackers and kill," he tweeted. Forest department sources said that the present explosion that took place on Mannarkkad forests on border areas of Palakkad- Malappuram district was not a high intense one and hence, the preliminary assumptions are that it could have been targeted at wild boar that destroy nearby plantations. The wound got infected by the time it came to the notice of forest officials and it resulted into the death. However, Kerala State Animal Welfare Board member M N Jayachandran said that wild boars were often trapped using explosives packed in meat. In the present case, it was found to be in pineapple and hence, it is strongly suspected that the target was the elephant itself. Encroachments into wildlife habitats and blocking of wildlife corridors were the prime reasons for the man-animal conflicts in Kerala. According to a 2012 wildlife census based on dung count, there are 6,026 elephants in Kerala forest. As many as 3,468 instances of elephants damaging crops and other property were reported during 2017-18 in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elephant-killing-using-explosives-not-new-to-kerala-prominent-persons-condemn-845541.html
04-06-2020||National||India playing 'important part' in stabilising Indo-Pacific region: Scott Morrison||Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison on Thursday described the comprehensive strategic partnership with India as a "new level" of bilateral cooperation based on trust and complemented Prime Minister Narendra Modi for playing an “important part” in “stabilising” the Indo-Pacific region during the difficult times. The two leaders during their first virtual bilateral summit discussed a range of issues including trade, defence, education as well as the COVID-19 crisis. The summit was held after Morrison had to cancel his trip to India in January, 2020 due to the devastating bushfires season in Australia. The online summit took off with Morrison thanking Modi for his leadership and also lauded his role in G20 and the Indo-Pacific, describing him as a leader who played an important part in “stabilising and constructing with wise inputs” in the difficult times. ''These are the incredible difficult times for all of our countries in the region,'' Morrison said, recognising Modi's efforts. ''Our relation is a very comfortable relationship, very natural relation, so much in common, so much as shared, if not in language always certainly in the things and values that matter we hold,'' Morrison said, adding that the two sides needed to champion those values together in the region and independently. Morrison said that the two nations can achieve a lot in the years to come as they have done in the past. ''We are committed to open, an inclusive and prosperous Indo-Pacific…and that India's role in that region will be critical in the years ahead,'' he said. While the two nations shared strong cultural links, Morrison said it was time to further broaden and deepen the relationship. He announced that the two countries would issue a Joint Declaration on a shared vision for a Maritime Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific, amidst China flexing its military muscles in the region. China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in the South and East China Seas. Beijing has also made substantial progress in militarising its manmade islands in the past few years, which it says it has the right to defend. China claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea. But Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan have counter claims. In the East China Sea, Beijing has territorial disputes with Japan. ''We share an ocean and we share a responsibility for that ocean, its health, wellbeing and its security and the relationship we are forming around those issues and our maritime domain,'' Morrison told Modi, highlighting that it was a platform for so many other issues including defence science, technology arrangement, mutual logistic support arrangement. ''These are the opportunities which will provide opportunities to many other commercial opportunities that will come our way,” Morrison said. Morrison said that even though the trade and investment between the two sides were not where they needed to be but they were growing. Stating that the trade relations can grow much faster, Morrison said that 'Comprehensive Strategic Partnership (CSP) was taking the relationship to a whole new level. ''CSP that we are forming today is going to a whole new level of relationship. We will continue to build trust because we want business and trading relationship which are build on trust,'' Morrison said. He also thanked Prime Minister Modi for recognising the efforts of Australian government to look after Indian students in Australia during the COVID-19 crisis. Morrison said India's role in global health scenario was very critical, especially when it is now representing as the Chair of the World Health Organisation’s (WHO) Executive Board. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan last month took charge as the chairman of the Executive Board at the WHO.   Morrison called the agreements between the two countries in the areas of cyber and science, infrastructure, trade and education a grand portfolio of specific and very practical arrangements that will form a substance to the CSP. The Australian Prime Minister also extended his condolences to Modi over the fatalities in India due to COVID-19 and the gas leak at plant in Visakhapatnam, stating that these were the testing times for the country. Referring to the virtual summit, Modi termed it "a new model of India-Australia partnership, a new model of conducting business". It was the first time that Modi held a "bilateral" virtual summit with a foreign leader. The prime minister described his talks with Morrison as "an outstanding discussion", covering the entire expanse of ties between the two strategic partners. The overall focus of the talks was on further broadbasing bilateral ties in a range of areas like healthcare, trade and defence. Modi said India was committed to expand its relations with Australia on a wider and faster pace, noting that it is important not only for the two countries, but also for the Indo-Pacific region and the world. Relationship between the two nations was upgraded to a 'Strategic Partnership' level in 2009. Since then, both countries have expanded their cooperation in a range of key areas. In its White Paper on Foreign Policy in 2017, Australia recognised India as the "pre-eminent maritime power among Indian Ocean countries" and a "front-rank partner of Australia". The bilateral economic engagement too has been on an upswing in the last few years. In the last few years, both the countries have been focusing on expanding maritime cooperation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-playing-important-part-in-stabilising-indo-pacific-region-scott-morrison-845543.html
04-06-2020||National||People with med emergency can get e-pass to enter Delhi, AAP govt tells HC||The Delhi High Court was informed on Thursday by the AAP government that its guidelines for COVID-19 lockdown allow people with medical emergencies to enter the national capital by applying for an e-pass which will be made available to them. The Delhi government said its Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has issued an order on June 1 with regard to prohibited and permitted activities, during the phased reopening - unlock 1, and the guidelines permit entry into the national capital from neighboring states in case of medical emergencies. The submission was made before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan by additional standing counsel Sanjoy Ghose and advocate Urvi Mohan, appearing for the Delhi government. Taking note of the submission and the DDMA order of June 1, the bench disposed of a plea by lawyer Kushagra Kumar seeking immediate de-sealing of Delhi borders to enable citizens in NCR or other states to access central government hospitals and medical facilities in the national capital. While disposing of the matter, the court directed the Delhi government to upload the June 1 order on its various department websites today itself in a prominent manner and have it highlighted for easy access by the citizens. The AAP government has sealed the Delhi borders for one week starting June 1 and Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had said that the moment we open the borders, people from across the country will come to Delhi for treatment. Delhi hospitals should be reserved for the people of Delhi.  Delhi-Gurugram, Delhi-Ghaziabad, and Delhi-Noida borders are shut for a week. Only essential service providers will be allowed and employees could cross the border by showing their identification cards or ID cards, Kejriwal had said. The plea had said those working in Delhi and residing in NCR like Noida and Gurugram or other states are deprived of their right to avail central government's medical facilities like AIIMS in Delhi. "The order of the Delhi government is not only inhumane and illegal but authoritarian in nature. Instead of creating medical infrastructure and working to ensure medical facilities, it is sealing the borders and thereby stopping people from availing medical facilities in central government hospitals in Delhi," it had claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-with-med-emergency-can-get-e-pass-to-enter-delhi-aap-govt-tells-hc-845545.html
04-06-2020||National||After Cyclone Nisarga, Mumbai's air quality improves to year's best||Cyclone Nisarga and its accompanying rains seem to have had a positive impact on Mumbais overall air quality index, which improved to 17 on Thursday, the best reading for this year as of now, an official said. Mumbai continued to receive rainfall on Thursday, a day after the cyclone made landfall near Alibaug in neighbouring Raigad district. The current air quality of Mumbai recorded at noon falls in the good category, that poses little or no health risk, according to the official website of the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). The concentration of PM 2.5, tiny particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in diameter which can enter deep into the lungs and even the bloodstream, was recorded at 15 (good). "This is the best record of the year till now. It is due to the combination of high-speed winds and accompanying rains that the air quality index (AQI) has improved," SAFAR director Dr Gufran Beig said. The overall air quality index (AQI) of the megapolis is likely to be 15 on Friday, SAFAR said. An AQI from 0 and 50 is considered as good, 51 to 100 satisfactory and 101 to 200 as moderate. An AQI between 201 and 300 is considered 'poor', 301 to 400 'very poor' and 401 to 500 'severe', while the AQI above 500 falls in the severe plus category. Cyclone Nisarga, which spared Mumbai after it made landfall near adjoining Alibaug on Wednesday, is now a depression over west Vidarbha region in Maharashtra and will weaken further, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. The cyclone made landfall near Alibaug, about 110 km from here on Wednesday afternoon, sparing India's financial centre which is already reeling under the COVID-19 pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/after-cyclone-nisarga-mumbais-air-quality-improves-to-years-best-845547.html
04-06-2020||National||SC extends order of no coercive action against employers for non-payment of full wages amidst coronavirus lockdown||The Supreme Court on Thursday extended till June 12 its earlier order of May 15 asking the government not to take any coercive action against companies and employers for violation of Centre’s March 29 circular for payment of full wages to employees for the lockdown period.  A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, S K Kaul and M R Shah reserved the verdict on a batch of petitions filed by various companies challenging the circular of the Ministry of Home Affairs issued on March 29 asking the employers to pay full wages to the employees during the nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. In the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, the top court said there was a concern that workmen should not be left without pay, but there may be a situation where the industry may not have money to pay and hence, the balancing has to be done. Meanwhile, the apex court asked the parties to file their written submissions in support of their claims. The top court on May 15 had asked the government not to take any coercive action against the companies and employers who are unable to pay full wages to their employees during the nationwide lockdown due to the coronavirus pandemic. The Centre also filed an affidavit justifying its March 29 direction saying that the employers claiming incapacity in paying salaries must be directed to furnish their audited balance sheets and accounts in the court. The government has said that the March 29 directive was a "temporary measure to mitigate the financial hardship" of employees and workers, specially contractual and casual, during the lockdown period and the directions have been revoked by the authority with effect from May 18.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-extends-order-of-no-coercive-action-against-employers-for-non-payment-of-full-wages-amidst-coronavirus-lockdown-845555.html
04-06-2020||National||Govt advertising employment generation while factories closing down: Priyanka Gandhi||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday attacked the Centre over the reported closure of an Atlas cycles factory, saying while the government was advertising its economic package and employment generation, in reality factories were shutting down and jobs were being lost. "Yesterday on the World Bicycle Day, Atlas cycles' Ghaziabad factory closed down. More than 1,000 people were rendered unemployed," Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet. "We heard in the government's publicity campaign that a package of this amount has been given, these many MoUs have been signed, so much of employment has been generated. But in reality, employment for people is ending, factories are closing," the Congress general secretary said. The government will have to specify its policies and plans to save people's jobs, she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-advertising-employment-generation-while-factories-closing-down-priyanka-gandhi-845561.html
04-06-2020||National||Nine Indian students in Singapore fined heavily for breaching COVID-19 "circuit breaker" rules||A court in Singapore has imposed hefty fines on nine Indian students for gathering at a rented apartment, in violation of the country's "circuit breaker" rules enforced to contain the spread of the coronavirus. The court on Wednesday heard the case and imposed the fines ranging between SGD 2,500 (USD 1,782) and SGD 4,500 (USD 3,208) on the Indian students. It noted that the incident occurred on May 5, during the COVID-19 "circuit breaker" period when it was illegal in the country to have guests at one's household, or to meet other people for social purposes. They were caught after an unidentified person called the police about "an altercation" at the apartment on Kim Keat Road, reported Channel News Asia. When the police responded to a call at about 12.50 pm, they found 17 people inside the apartment. Imposing the fine, District Judge Bala Reddy said that what could and could not be done in Singapore during the circuit breaker had already been widely publicised. The "circuit-breaker" period began on April 7 as part of which all non-essential work places were closed and residents were barred from leaving their house except to buy food and groceries or to exercise alone in the neighbourhood. It ended on June 2. Businesses that operate in settings with low transmission risks were allowed to reopen. Full hairdressing services, motor vehicle servicing, air conditioning servicing, printing, basic pet services and education bookshops and limited school activities have been allowed to resume as part of phase 1 of the reopening. According to the health ministry, there are 36,922 confirmed COVID-19 cases in Singapore. Three of the students fined, Navdeep Singh, 20, Sajandeep Singh, 21 and Avinash Kaur, 27, were tenants at the apartment. Navdeep and Sajandeep were given the highest fines of SGD 4,500 each for inviting three people to the apartment. Their guests, Arpit Kumar, 27, Karmjit Singh, 20, Mohammed Imran Pasha, 26, Sharma Lukesh, 21, Vijay Kumar, 20, and Waseem Akram, 33, were each fined SGD 2,500. Avinash was fined SGD 3,500 (USD 2,496) for inviting one guest. Her guest's case is pending. Six people - including the three accused tenants - are registered tenants of the unit. One person was a sub-tenant who claimed to live there and three others said they were guests who had stayed over since May 4 after being evicted from their own lodging. The police found some of them sleeping in the living room. The remaining seven people were guests of the accused who visited that day. Investigations revealed that some of the students had gathered there to study and attend online lectures, while some were invited over tea.  Navdeep and Sajandeep pleaded guilty to one charge each of breaking a COVID-19 regulation by inviting guests to their unit for a non-exempted reason, with two other charges taken into consideration. Avinash pleaded guilty to one charge of inviting a guest over to the unit. The guests pleaded guilty to a charge of meeting others for a social purpose. Deputy Public Prosecutor Stephanie Koh asked for the fines that were eventually meted out, noting that the unit was "obviously overcrowded". "This is by no means a small number and in fact far exceeds the proper living capacity of the three-bedroom unit, which was only legally tenanted to six persons and already had people sleeping in the living room," she said. She said the offences magnified the potential for COVID-19 to spread within the unit and to the rest of the community. "The guests each spent between one to four hours in the unit which is a lengthy period of time. Moreover, their visits did not have an agreed end-time and would likely have continued had the police not gone to the unit," Koh said. She said the accused met "for a frivolous and completely unnecessary purpose in blatant disregard of the social distancing measures that the rest of society has taken pains to comply with". The hosts committed more severe breaches than the guests as they instigated the visits, with Navdeep and Sajandeep most culpable as they had three guests each. The students were not represented and each gave their own mitigation, with most of them saying that they had taken loans to study in Singapore and could not afford hefty fines. Sajandeep said he took a loan of INR 300,000 (SGD 5,560) to study in Singapore and had a clean record. "Please give me a chance, I am very remorseful for what I have done," he said through an interpreter. "I came to study so that I could brighten my future." Some of them, including Avinash, said they came from poor families in India. For each charge of breaking COVID-19 regulations, they could have been jailed for up to six months or fined up to SGD 10,000 (USD 7,133) or both.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-indian-students-in-singapore-fined-heavily-for-breaching-covid-19-circuit-breaker-rules-845565.html
04-06-2020||National||Atlas Cycles: Enabling humble beginnings, from children to milkmen||Trring trring...our milkman used to sound a bicycle bell early in the morning with two metal milk cans on either side of the rear wheel, signalling my mother to venture out of the house at dawn with a stainless steel utensil to collect our milk for the day.  He used to ride an Atlas Roadster bicycle. I did not know it was called the Roadster till now, when I asked my mother what kind of a bicycle it was, I was told that it might be an “Atlas”. The brand was synonymous with inexpensive bicycles and made the popular U-shaped handlebar popular. Unfortunately, these bicycles were too tall for seven-year-old me and hence, I never got to try the oddly-shaped handlebars and the very simplistic diamond tube frame. Over time, I started to recognise these Atlases on the streets of the then Bangalore and was intrigued about the entire concept of cycling. Now, all I wanted to do was to learn to ride a two-wheeled bicycle. Seeing men and women ride these, trying hard to push down on the pedals and pull flimsy, strange-looking brake levers, forced me to ask my parents for a bicycle. My mother and uncle took me to a store later and got me a small-sized MTB bicycle, a brand under the Altas Cycles company. At first I was forced to ride with trainer wheels on, but I was tired of looking like a little kid and wanted to ride on two-wheels, like a “big boy”. My cousin came to the rescue to make me feel just that, a “big boy”. Once my trainer wheels were removed, he asked me to mount my bicycle and sat on the tube-frame carrier and asked to pedal while he balanced the MTB machine. This went on for an hour or so on the traffic-free road right outside our house. He reassured that he will not dismount the cycle at all, and he kept his promise, well for a while at least. We used to ride till the temple at the end of the street and ride back to our house and I did fall a couple of times and told him I couldn’t do it. After sometime, as dusk approached, he decided it was time I learnt the ropes. My cousin got onto the cycle near our house, halfway between the temple and our house. I wanted to confirm that he was there behind me because it felt weird for some reason, I asked "Anna, are you there?”. There was complete silence except the sound of the chain moving, I rode till the temple and searched for anna but he was in the distance near our house. I was shocked and completely scared, I wondered how I would get back. Mustering up some courage and I hopped on with some difficulty and rode back home on two-wheels. A few months later, my milkman graduated from an Atlas bicycle to a moped and then to a scooter, years later, to a van, I was told. Atlas Cycles has been responsible for the humble beginnings of many. Unfortunately, I’ve not yet had the opportunity to try the oddly-shaped handlebar and brake levers or the simple diamond frame and may not be able to, for the company, Atlas Cycles has shut down.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/atlas-cycles-enabling-humble-beginnings-from-children-to-milkmen-845567.html
04-06-2020||National||SC advises middle path over paying 100% salary during lockdown||The Supreme Court on Thursday suggested finding a middle ground to protect the interest of crores of contractual workers and employees as well as  a group of companies, which vehemently opposed the Union government's order to pay full salary for 54 days during the nationwide lockdown. "Can you run an industry without labour? Therefore, you have to strike a balance. The issue should not be tilted either on side of the employer or the employee," a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan told a battery of counsel representing various companies. The top court directed that no coercive action should be taken against the companies until June 12, when it would pronounce its judgement on a batch of petitions questioning validity of March 29 order issued under the Disaster Manasement Act. It had earlier also on May 15 protected the companies against any prosecution on non compliance of the notification. The bench, also comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah, said there can be negotiation industry wise. It may not be possible to give 100 % wages and the government can play a role of a facilitator. "There is a concern that workmen should not be left without pay... but the concern should also be there that an industry may not have money to pay," the bench said, asking Attorney General K K Venugopal to strike balance between the two sides. Venugopal said in any event they have to pay 50 %. He asserted the government has done good job as it infused Rs 20,000 Crore in the MSME sector.  The bench, however, stressed, "We can find out a via media. Give us a practical solution." Referring to the Industrial Dispute Act, Venugopal said there was a provision of conciliation and settlement. However, the most appropriate thing would be to consider the humanitarian situation due to which the order for full payment of salaries was issued. The March 29 order for payment of wages without any deduction was revoked on May 17. In an affidavit, the Union government said it would neither be in interest of justice nor in public interest to adjudicate upon validity of the notifications which operated only for 54 days to mitigate financial hardships of crores of workers and employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-advises-middle-path-over-paying-100-salary-during-lockdown-845576.html
04-06-2020||National||Haryana's nodal officer for COVID-19, daughter test positive for coronavirus||Haryana's nodal officer for COVID-19 control programme, Dr Dhruva Chaudhary, and his daughter, who is also a doctor, tested positive for the novel coronavirus on Thursday, Rohtak's Chief Medical Officer said. Dr Chaudhary (56), who is a senior professor and head, Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine of Pt B D Sharma, PGIMS, Rohtak, and his 25-year-old daughter, who is a private doctor, have tested positive, CMO, DR Anil Birla, told PTI over phone. Their samples were taken on Wednesday and tests were conducted at the PGIMS Rohtak and both were found positive on Thursday. Dr Chaudhary had been coordinating with doctors in the state for treatment of coronavirus patients. Health Minister Anil Vij had recently ordered an audit of all COVID fatalities in the state and Dr Chaudhary had also been given the charge to investigate the cause, line of treatment adopted for patients who died due to coronavirus infection. Rohtak has so far reported 100 COVID-19 positive cases. On June 2, Rohtak had recorded its highest single-day jump in cases at 45. Dr Birla said the cases reported were of those who had a travel history, mostly from Delhi and Gurgaon, or their contacts. There were a couple of examples where more than ten family members were infected in this manner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryanas-nodal-officer-for-covid-19-daughter-test-positive-for-coronavirus-845582.html
04-06-2020||National||Employers claiming incapacity in paying wages must place balance sheets in court: Centre to SC||In an affidavit filed in the apex court, the government has said the March 29 directive was a "temporary measure to mitigate the financial hardship" of employees and workers, specially contractual and casual, during the lockdown period and the directions have been revoked by the authority with effect from May 18.  The affidavit filed by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said the direction was fully in conformity with the provisions, scheme and objects of the Disaster Management Act and it is not ultra vires. While requesting the top court to dispose of as infructuous the batch of pleas challenging the March 29 notification, the government said the "impugned notifications have outlived their life and adjudication of the same would only entail an academic exercise as it would not be in the interest of public to seek recovery of salaries paid to employees and workers for the said 54 days".  The government said it would neither be in the interest of justice nor in public interest to adjudicate the validity of notification which operated only for 54 days -- from March 25 to May 17 -- to mitigate the financial hardships of crores of workers and employees. "In the event this court is not inclined to dispose of the present proceedings as having become infructuous and is inclined to adjudicate this matter on merits, the petitioners-employers must be directed to furnish proof of their incapacity to pay wages and salaries in terms of the order dated March 29, 2020 by placing on record their audited balance sheets and accounts," the affidavit said.  The affidavit has been filed as the apex court, while hearing the matter on May 26, had asked the Centre to file counter affidavit within a week on the issues raised in the petitions. The MHA had passed an order on March 29 asking all employers to make payment of wages to their workers without any deduction for the period their establishments were under closure during the lockdown. The affidavit filed by the government has said that no material has been placed on record to establish the contentions raised in the petitions that employers are not in a financial position to pay their employees and workers. It said that petitions have raised grounds of "financial hardship, incapacity or lack of desire" of the employers to pay their employees or workers during the lockdown without taking work from them.  "It is respectfully submitted that this ground of financial incapacity is a legally untenable ground to challenge a direction issued by the competent authority in exercise of its statutory power," the affidavit said.  It further said that these measures were proactively taken by the government to prevent "perpetration of financial crisis within the lower strata of the society, labours and salaried employees".  "There was a legitimate state interest in issuance of the said directions. The said directions were neither arbitrary nor capricious. The same were also neither excessive nor disproportionate....," it said, adding that the direction was issued as an economic and welfare measure.  The affidavit said the Centre has regularly assessed the situation and after taking feedback from the experts in the field, it permitted opening up of the commercial activities enabling the employees and workers covered by these directions to resume work.  "It is respectfully submitted that the said decision was taken by the respondent Union of India to ensure that no financial hardship, detriment to the very existence of the employers of such employees and workmen is caused and they are able to resume their commercial activity so that the burden of paying salary without work/business is mitigated," it said.  It also said that through a letter dated March 20 issued by the Secretary (Labour & Employment) to the chief secretaries of all the states, the Centre had said that employers of public/private establishments may be advised to extend their coordination by not terminating their employees, particularly casual or contractual workers, from job or reduce their wages amid the challenging situation of COVID-19 pandemic.  "A bare perusal of the aforesaid advice would reveal that to mitigate the financial hardships which would have been caused to the employees including casual or contractual workers (labours) during the lockdown, a temporary and one time measure was provided to ensure continuous payment to such labours who belonged to the middle or lower strata of the society," the affidavit said. While hearing the matter earlier, the apex court had on May 15 observed that the March 29 notification was an omnibus order and there was a larger question involved which needs to be answered. It has said there may be small industries which are affected due to the lockdown and if they cannot earn, how are they going to pay wages to their workers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/employers-claiming-incapacity-in-paying-wages-must-place-balance-sheets-in-court-centre-to-sc-845593.html
04-06-2020||National||Puducherry CM V Narayanasamy asks entrepreneurs to fill vacancies in industries with locals||Puducherry Chief Minister V Narayanasamy on Thursday called on industrial entrepreneurs in the Union Territory to ensure that 70 percent of the posts in various categories in industries, which are now vacant after migrant workers left for their native places, were filled by employing local youth. Addressing reporters here, the Chief Minister said hundreds of migrant workers stranded in the Union territory during the COVID-19 lockdown had returned to UP, Bihar and several other states following which vacancies had arisen in the industries in different categories of employment. "I have asked the industrial entrepreneurs to fill 70 percent of the vacant posts by recruiting local candidates. If necessary training can be given to the locals," he said. Narayanasamy flayed the Centre for 'letting down' the Union Territory without sanctioning funds to meet its fiscal commitments. The CM said, "I am really surprised to see that neither the Prime Minister, the Union Finance Minister nor the Home Minister have replied to my letters seeking allocation of funds as the territorial administration is hit by fall in revenue due to lockdown during the last two months." He pointed out that a full fledged budget was also going to be presented for the fiscal 2020-2021 in the territorial Assembly. "We are still left high and dry with the Centre turning a deaf ear to our repeated pleas for allocation of funds particularly the one to compensate the loss arising out of GST implementation," he said. Taking strong exception to the Centre's move to privatise distribution of power in Puducherry, he said, "This is utterly unacceptable and the Centre should not take any decision arbitrarily without consulting the Puducherry government." Extending full support of the government to the ongoing protests by the power staff against the plan of the Centre to open up power distribution in Puducherry, the Chief Minister said, "the staff should hold all their agitations only against the Centre and not against Puducherry government. We will always stand in solidarity with the genuine concerns of the power staff."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/puducherry-cm-v-narayanasamy-asks-entrepreneurs-to-fill-vacancies-in-industries-with-locals-845595.html
04-06-2020||National||India's urban COVID-19 outbreak is morphing into a rural health crisis||Rural parts of India have begun to see a surge in novel coronavirus infections, as millions of migrant workers returning from big cities and industrial hubs bring the virus home with them, according to data collected from seven Indian states. Officials said the spike in cases was a fresh challenge for the country's health authorities, even as they struggle to check the outbreak in cities amid the easing of a months-long lockdown. Confirmed cases in India crossed the 200,000 mark on Wednesday. Some experts say that a peak remains weeks away. Dr. Naman Shah, an epidemiologist and physician advising a federal government coronavirus task force, said rural outbreaks could be "devastating" given the inadequate number of doctors and health facilities. "High levels of co-morbidity, high levels of under-nutrition and a weak health infrastructure, that's just the recipe for high mortality," said Shah, who is based in rural central India. In of Bihar, official data showed that of the 3,872 coronavirus cases recorded until June 1, 2,743 were linked to migrants workers who returned after May 3, when the government began to run trains and buses to reduce the exodus on foot. All transport in India was suspended in late March, when Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown in an attempt to contain COVID-19, the lung disease caused by the virus. Most of those workers who tested positive in Bihar came from India's capital New Delhi and the more industrialised states of Maharashtra and Gujarat, the data showed. Workers returning from western India also triggered a massive spike in cases in Jharkhand, its top health official Nitin Madan Kulkarni said. "After May 2, whatever positive cases we have got, almost 90% of them are migrant workers," Kulkarni told Reuters. The state currently has 752 confirmed cases, up from 111 on May 1. As migrant workers fan out to their villages, some states with an existing heavy burden of cases are facing a second wave of infections. In Maharashtra, which at nearly 75,000 infections accounts for a third of the total cases in the country, officials in some rural districts said their state-run health centres were struggling with the influx. "If this pace continues for the next few weeks, then we will have no choice but to take control of private hospitals to treat severe patients," an official in the rural western district of Satara said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indias-urban-covid-19-outbreak-is-morphing-into-a-rural-health-crisis-845603.html
04-06-2020||National||102 more test positive for COVID-19 in Tripura||At least 102 more people have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tripura, taking the number of such cases in the state to 622, officials said. A total of 173 patients have recovered so far. The number of active cases in the state stands at 449. All active patients are undergoing treatment at GP Pant Hospital here. In a tweet late on Wednesday, Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb said, "Out of 728 samples tested today, 102 people found COVID-19 positive. Most of them have travel history and contacts." A statement issued by the government on Thursday said as many as 35,254 people in the state were made to undergo 14 -day quarantine so far. Currently, 13,267 people were placed under home surveillance, it said. A total of 30,481 samples have been examined for COVID-19 in Tripura till Thursday, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/102-more-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-tripura-845607.html
04-06-2020||National||French President Emmanuel Macron expresses solidarity with PM over death, destruction in cyclone Amphan||French President Emmanuel Macron has expressed his solidarity with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the death and destruction caused by cyclone Amphan in West Bengal and Odisha, diplomatic sources said. In a letter, Macron communicated to Modi that France was ready to extend any support that India might consider necessary to come to the aid of those directly affected by the cyclone, they said. The cyclone hit parts of West Bengal and Odisha on May 20 leaving a trail of death and devastation. It claimed 98 lives in West Bengal and at least six crore people were directly affected by it. Amphan also left lakhs of people affected in Odisha. "In the aftermath of cyclone Amphan in India, President Emmanuel Macron wrote to Prime Minister Modi. On behalf of the French people, President Macron conveyed his heartfelt condolences and his full solidarity," a source said. The French Development Agency has finished finalising a concessional loan of 200 million euros, which will bolster the World Bank in providing additional social protection to the most vulnerable in India, the sources said. In the letter, Macron also underscored the importance of the cooperation between the two countries at a multilateral level, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/french-president-emmanuel-macron-expresses-solidarity-with-pm-over-death-destruction-in-cyclone-amphan-845609.html
04-06-2020||National||Humane depiction of common man was Basu Da's strength: Sharad Pawar||NCP chief Sharad Pawar expressed grief over the death of veteran filmmaker Basu Chatterjee and said humane depiction of the urban common man was the strength of his movies. Chatterjee, known for his relatable, light as souffl brand of cinema with films such as "Rajnigandha" and "Chitchor, died on Thursday following age related health issues. The 93-year-old filmmaker died in his sleep at his Santacruz residence. Expressing grief, Pawar in a tweet said, "Saddened to know about the demise of legendary filmmaker Basu Chatterjee. The strength of Basu Da's film was a humane depiction of urban common man. My condolences to the family members." Maharashtra Home Minister and NCP leader Anil Deshmukh also expressed his condolences and hailed Chatterjee for presenting realistic and light-hearted cinema about the middle-class and its struggles". NCP MP Supriya Sule also paid tributes to Chatterjee. Saddened to hear about the demise of Basu Chatterjee - Veteran Filmmaker. My thoughts and prayers with his family. My Heartfelt Condolences. May He Rest in Peace. #BasuChatterjee," Sule tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/humane-depiction-of-common-man-was-basu-das-strength-sharad-pawar-845611.html
04-06-2020||National||CLC's data of stranded migrant wrokers raise more questions than answers||After a rap from the Central Information Commission (CIC), the Chief Labour Commissioner has put out details of stranded migrant labourers on its website but it raises more questions than answers. Chhattisgarh topped the list with 10.85 lakh migrant workers followed by Kerala with 2.86 lakh and Maharashtra 2.01 lakh. Karnataka had counted 88,852 stranded migrant labourers, including 1,664 in relief camps. Also read:  Since May 1, the government has run scores of Shramik Special Trains to transport stranded migrant workers to their home states. As on Wednesday, Railways had run 4,197 special trains and transported over 58 lakh migrant labourers. The office of the CLC had on May 5 said that it has “no such details” to an RTI query raised by transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak, who sought information on April 21 regarding stranded migrant workers after the order on the survey was issued. Following this, he approached the CIC, which pulled up the Chief Public Information Officer in the office of the CLC who said they did not have data on stranded migrant labourers. Nayak said the information provided by the CLC was inadequate and it hides more than what it reveals. "We do not know how the numbers are collected. We don't know when this data was collected. We can only assume that it was collected as part of the survey but no such detail is provided. In the name of complying with CIC order, they have uploaded some data but that is not complete data," he told DH. He said category and sector-wise segregated data about blue collared and white collared migrant workers have not been provided despite the data collection template and guidelines having been designed to collect such information also. Nayak is also considering going back to the CIC with a complaint about inadequate compliance with its advisory.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/clcs-data-of-stranded-migrant-wrokers-raise-more-questions-than-answers-845615.html
04-06-2020||National||SP gives financial aid of Rs 50 lakh to migrant workers, labourers||The Samajwadi Party has so far distributed around Rs 50 lakh to migrants and their families as financial assistance, including Rs one lakh each to the next of the kin of workers who died in Uttar Pradesh due to various reasons, a senior party leader said. The leader said the relief was granted on the directions of party chief Akhilesh Yadav. "SP chief Akhileshji has announced Rs 1 lakh to families of those migrant labourers who died in the state due to mishap or other reasons. The party has so far given about Rs 50 lakh to 47 people," the SP leader said. The list of beneficiaries included family of journalist Pankaj Kulshresth who died due to coronavirus in Agra. Besides, the party provided financial assistance of Rs 1 lakh to Jyoti Kumari, who cycled almost 1,200 km to Darbhanga in Bihar from Gurgaon carrying her injured father on pillion.  "An amount of Rs 1 lakh was transferred into the account of Phulo Devi, the mother of Jyoti Kumari, by the party," he said.  Saluting the courage of the 15-year-old, Akhilesh Yadav had on May 21 announced Rs 1 lakh assistance for her.  In Lalitpur, a pregnant migrant labourer, Rajabeti, gave birth to a girl child before reaching her village Barkhiria.  "As the news became viral on media, the party chief sent a local worker and ensured immediate assistance to her family. When, he later came to know about birth of the girl child, he sent Rs one lakh assistance for the girl's future," the party leader said. Besides them, in cases of deaths due to mishap or other reasons, the party provided one lakh each in various districts including Agra, Bhadohi, Kushinagar, Muzaffar Nagar, Ghazipur, Unnao, Gonda, Hardoi, Etawah, Mahoba, Hardoi, Pratapgarh, Lakhimpur Kheri, Allahabad, Jaunpur, Azamgarh, Deoria, Basti, Fatehpur and Sant Kabir Nagar, the list said. When asked, Akhilesh Yadav told PTI, "We are doing whatever we can to provide help to the migrants and common man in this coronavirus pandemic. Party workers and leaders are helping people on their own and the list is vast." In Baharaich, a financial assistance of Rs 50,000 was provided for family of a baby boy named ''Border'' who was born in the no man''s land between India and Nepal. The money was provided to the newborn''s family residing in Prithvipura village in Motipur tehsil. A woman named Jantara had given birth to the child in the no man''s land between India and Nepal following which the family named her child ''Border''.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sp-gives-financial-aid-of-rs-50-lakh-to-migrant-workers-labourers-845619.html
04-06-2020||National||Supreme Court questions RBI on order of levying interest on loans during moratorium||The Supreme Court on Thursday(June 4) questioned the RBI for levying interest on loans during the period of moratorium, saying it would be detrimental to the people. The court also pointed out that the economic aspect is not higher than the health of people. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul, and M R Shah expressed its displeasure on the way the RBI treated the persons who had taken loans and wanted a waive off on the rate of interest during this moratorium period in the times of COVID-19 pandemic.  "These are challenging times. It is a serious issue as on the one hand moratorium is granted and on the other hand, interest is charged on loans," the court said. On Wednesday (June 3), in a reply to a PIL filed by Gajendra Sharma, the RBI has told the court that its decisions granting a moratorium on loan repayment was only to "defer the payment obligations and it cannot be construed to be a waiver".  The banking regulator declined to grant any "forced" interest waiver on loan moratorium, saying it would risk not only the financial viability of the banks but would also put the interests of the depositors in jeopardy. Further, it would hurt banks by as much as Rs 2 lakh crore (1% of GDP). On Thursday, the court asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to file a joint affidavit by June 12 as he said a meeting would take place on officials of the Union Finance Ministry and the RBI to discuss the matter. The court also said there were two aspects of charging of interest on the loan during the moratorium and no interest in interest. Sharma's counsel senior advocate Rajeev Dutta said the cat was out of the bag as the RBI's affidavit showed that banks should continue to earn even though the rest of the country went down under. He also sought permission to file a rejoinder.  The court also ticked off the RBI for leaking the affidavit in media a day before the hearing in the matter. Circulars were issued on March 27, April 17 and May 23 by the RBI for an initial three-month moratorium period on loan repayment which now stood extended till August 31.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-questions-rbi-on-order-of-levying-interest-on-loans-during-moratorium-845623.html
04-06-2020||National||Legal issue needs to be resolved before Mallya's extradition: UK govt||Fugitive businessman Vijay Mallya is unlikely to be extradited anytime soon with the UK government on Thursday saying that there is a legal issue that needs to be resolved before his extradition can be arranged. Last month, Mallya lost his appeals in the UK Supreme Court against his extradition to India to face money laundering and fraud charges. A spokesperson in the UK High Commission said the issue is "confidential" and added: "we cannot estimate how long this issue will take to resolve." "Vijay Mallya last month lost his appeal against extradition, and was refused leave to appeal further to the UK Supreme Court. However, there is a further legal issue that needs resolving before Mr Mallya's extradition can be arranged," the spokesperson said. "Under United Kingdom law, extradition cannot take place until it is resolved. The issue is confidential and we cannot go into any detail. We cannot estimate how long this issue will take to resolve. We are seeking to deal with this as quickly as possible," the official added. On May 21, the spokesperson in the external affairs ministry said India was in touch with the British government over Mallya's extradition after he exhausted all legal options against New Delhi's request to the UK to extradite him. The UK top court's decision marked a major setback to the 64-year-old businessman as it came weeks after he lost his high court appeal in April against an extradition order to India. Mallya has been based in the UK since March 2016 and remains on bail on an extradition warrant executed three years ago by Scotland Yard on April 18, 2017. The high court verdict in April upheld the 2018 ruling by Chief Magistrate Emma Arbuthnot at the end of a year-long extradition trial in December 2018 that the former Kingfisher Airlines boss had a "case to answer" in the Indian courts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/legal-issue-needs-to-be-resolved-before-mallyas-extradition-uk-govt-845628.html
04-06-2020||National||Anti-China sentiment maximum in world since Tiananmen Square crackdown: RSS-backed magazine||The Anti-China sentiment prevailing now is at its highest in the world since the Tiananmen Square crackdown on this day in 1989, the Oragniser, a weekly magazine linked to the ruling BJP's ideological mentor RSS, claimed citing a Chinese think-tank report. Amid a border standoff between India and China, the weekly in its latest edition recalls the Tiananmen Square event in the present context of COVID-19 crisis, unrest in Hong Kong and territorial dispute with India. The cover page of the magazine has a famous photograph from 1989 of a lone Chinese student standing in front of a column of tanks going to break up the student protests at Tiananmen Square. The magazine in its cover story, titled 'Revisiting Tiananmen Square', has said globally the anti-China sentiment is at its peak since 1989 students' protests. The publication has made this claim citing an assessment report of the China Institute of Contemporary International Relations (CICIR), a think tank affiliated to the Ministry of State Security, which happens to be China's top intelligence body. "As per the assessment report of top leadership of Chinese Communist Party (CCP), including President Xi Jinping, generated by the Institute in April 2020, global anti-China sentiment is at its highest since the 1989 Tiananmen Square crackdown,” the magazine said in its cover story. On June 4, 1989, the Chinese army had attacked the students and protesters gathered at the Tiananmen Square in Beijing demanding democracy, freedom of press and greater accountability among others. In an editorial in the Organiser, its editor Prafulla Ketkar writes that globally, the anti-China, or a rather anti-Maoist regime in China, sentiments are on the rise. "China is shamelessly defending the irresponsible behaviour of hiding or perhaps spreading the COVID-19 pandemic by blaming others,” Ketkar wrote. He further said that the muscle-flexing in the South China Sea to reassert the unfulfilled maritime aspirations, and curbing of the freedom and identity of Hong Kong are also going on at the same time. “China is even trying to use the same high-handed approach against Bharat when we are trying to strengthen our border infrastructure, the long overdue project,” he wrote.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anti-china-sentiment-maximum-in-world-since-tiananmen-square-crackdown-rss-backed-magazine-845633.html
04-06-2020||National||MHA repatriates CEO of CAPF canteens after 'Swadeshi' products list goof-up||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has removed CRPF DIG R K Meena as the CEO of the Central Police Canteen and repatriated to the paramilitary force, days after he prepared a controversial list of "foreign" products to be banned for sale in the facilities contained 'Made in India' articles. The MHA had withdrawn the order banning 1,026 articles for sale in these canteens as part of the 'Atma Nirbhar Abhiyan' after it was found that 'swadeshi' products like Sleepwell mattresses, manufactured by a company founded by former BJP MP late Sheela Gautam, the popular VIP suitcases as well as products of Dabur, Bajaj and TTK Prestige found a place in the list. According to an office memorandum, Meena has been called back by the CRPF. DIG Rajeev Ranjan Kumar will function as CEO of Kendriya Police Kalyan Bhandar (KPKB) for a period of three months in place of Meena with immediate effect. Meena had issued the order on May 29 after Home Minister Amit Shah on May 13 directed that all canteens should sell only 'swadeshi' products from June 1, taking a cue from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'be vocal about local' appeal. However on June 1, the MHA withdrew the order saying Meena issued it without the approval of his superiors after a controversy arose as the new order de-listed products that were manufactured by Indian companies as well as those made by foreign companies in India. CRPF Director General and Welfare and Rehabilitation Board Chairman A P Maheshwari had then said the order was issued “erroneously” at the level of the CEO and the action has been initiated for the lapse. According to the now withdrawn list, all products of companies like Skechers, Red Bull and Ferrero India Pvt Ltd were also de-listed. Products like Colgate Palmolive's body wash and mouth wash, Havells India products like hair straightener, GlaxoSmithKline's Horlicks and Hindustan Unilever's Kwality Magnum chocolate ice cream were also de-listed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-repatriates-ceo-of-capf-canteens-after-swadeshi-products-list-goof-up-845635.html
04-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Manish Sisodia says Delhi govt's entire focus is on saving lives||The Delhi government's entire focus is on saving people's lives and ensuring adequate facilities for COVID-19 patients who need hospital care, without getting entangled in data or any competition with other states, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday. He said private hospitals that have been asked by the government to reserve 20 per cent beds for coronavirus patients will be converted into dedicated COVID-19 facilities if they fail to comply with the order by Friday. Earlier, the Delhi government had asked 61 private hospitals to reserve 20 per cent beds for COVID-19 patients. In a joint virtual press conference with Delhi Heath Minister Satyendar Jain, Sisodia also urged people who are infected with coronavirus but asymptomatic to remain at home and isolate themselves. Sisodia said, "We already have our dedicated COVID-19 facilities. Three more private hospitals were added yesterday (Wednesday). And if those private hospitals with mixed use (20 per cent reserved beds) are facing logistics issues, then they will be fully converted into dedicated COVID-19 facilities." He said private hospitals have time till Friday to reserve beds for coronavirus patients. The idea behind the move is to make sure that no hospital refuses to treat patients suffering from coronavirus, the deputy chief minister said. "We do not have to get into data or any competition with other states, our focus is to save the lives of the people. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal also believes that our attention should be more on helping people recover by providing them with proper medical facilities," Sisodia said. He said COVID-19 cases are on the rise in Delhi and the government has started focusing on ensuring that those who need hospitalisation get beds and proper treatment facilities. Five government and three private hospitals -- Moolchand Hospital, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital and Saroj Super Speciality Hospital -- are dedicated COVID-19 facilities. Many private hospitals have followed the instructions to start the mixed system, but others are facing problems in complying with them, Sisodia said. The government has asked asymptomatic patients not to be scared and rush to hospital. Home isolation is a very good option for patients with no or very mild symptoms, he said. Jain said asymptomatic patients with no or very mild symptoms -- slight fever and mild cough --  can be treated and recover in home quarantine. Patients with moderate (respiratory rate of more than 15 per minute and oxygen level below 94 per cent) and severe symptoms (respiratory rate of more than 30 per minute and oxygen level below 90 per cent) require hospitalisation, he added. A record single-day jump of 1,513 COVID-19 cases on Wednesday took Delhi's tally to 23,645, while the death toll due to the disease climbed to 606, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-manish-sisodia-says-delhi-govts-entire-focus-is-on-saving-lives-845639.html
04-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Mahatma Gandhi statue vandalised in Washington DC||From the Newsroom is a DH podcast that brings to you the major developments of the day.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-mahatma-gandhi-statue-vandalised-in-washington-dc-845640.html
04-06-2020||National||MHA blacklists 2,550 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, bans entry into India for 10 years||The government has blacklisted 2,550 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, revoked their tourist visas and banned them from entering India for the next 10 years on charges of indulging in missionary activities by violating norms. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued the orders against these people, who were staying in the country during the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown in violation of visa rules. The action came after the MHA received reports from state governments about those found illegally living in mosques and religious seminaries across the country. The Tablighi Jamaat had landed in controversy after a large number of COVID-19 cases in the country were linked to attendees of a mid-March religious congregation in south Delhi's Nizamuddin. The authorities had then evacuated over 2,300 people, including 250 foreigners, from the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters in Nizamuddin to hospitals and quarantine centres. The leaders of the Tablighi Jamaat, including its chief Maulana Saad Khandalvi, were accused of going ahead with the congregation violating the restrictions put by the Delhi government about large gatherings. Delhi Police also invoked charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder against Maulana Saad Kandhalvi and others besides issuing Look Out Circulars against at least 1,890 followers of Tablighi Jamaat for visa violations. The lockdown from March 25 was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to combat the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mha-blacklists-2550-foreign-tablighi-jamaat-members-bans-entry-into-india-for-10-years-845643.html
04-06-2020||National||Shashi Tharoor moves HC to direct police to preserve Sunanda Pushkar's Twitter account, tweets||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor Thursday approached the Delhi High Court seeking direction to the police to take steps to preserve the Twitter account and tweets made by his wife Sunanda Pushkar prior to her death in 2014. The application, which is likely to come up for hearing on June 8, said the tweets and Twitter timeline of Pushkar is of utmost importance in the case and as she is not alive, there is an apprehension that the account and the tweets may be deleted. They are a crucial right of Tharoor to exonerate himself from the alleged false charges levelled against him, it said. Tharoor, the sole accused in the death case of his wife, sought direction to the police to ask 'Twitter India' to preserve Pushkar's account till the pendency of the proceedings before the trial court. The former Union minister was accused by Delhi Police under Sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. The plea referred to Twitter's policies as per which it can delete the accounts of users who have been inactive for a long period of time. “Further, in certain cases, if some authorised person or close relative of a deceased person contacts Twitter, the account of such deceased person can be deactivated. In such cases of deletion of account or deactivation of account, the tweets and contents of the Twitter timeline are lost forever,” it said. The application was filed in a pending petition seeking direction to the police to place before the trial court certain tweets of Pushkar. Tharoor has claimed that the tweets clearly indicate that Pushkar was not having any "suicidal ideation" as is sought to be alleged by the prosecution. The police had earlier told the court that Pushkar was suffering from mental agony due to a strained relationship with her husband. She had a scuffle with her husband and had various injury marks a few days before her death, it had said. Police has accused Tharoor of torturing his wife which led her to commit suicide. The maximum punishment for the offence listed in the charge sheet is 10 years of imprisonment. However, if convicted for 302 (murder), the maximum punishment is death penalty while the minimum is life imprisonment. Pushkar, 51, was found dead in a suite of luxury hotel Leela Palace in Delhi's Chanakyapuri on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying at the hotel as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/shashi-tharoor-moves-hc-to-direct-police-to-preserve-sunanda-pushkars-twitter-account-tweets-845644.html
04-06-2020||National||BMS says govt has no moral right to sell PSUs, to organise dharna on June 10||Citing that the government has "no moral right" to sell national assets, the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) will organise nationwide day-long dharnas on June 10 against "aggressive" privatisation of public sector on the pretext of running the country. The decision to hold dharna came at a meeting of the National Coordination Committee of Public Sectors of BMS unions in sectors like coal, non-coal, defence, railway, postal, banking, insurance, steel, marine, telecom, power, heavy engineering, oil and gas and aviation among others on June 2 and 3. BMS General Secretary Virjesh Upadhyay said the unions will hold a day-long dharna, protest meetings and campaigns under the banner 'Save Public Sector, Save India' against commercialisation of coal sector, corporatisation of defence ordnance factories board and Railway, strategic sale of PSUs, merger and privatisation of banks, Insurance and increasing FDI cap. "Government is justifying the dire need of money to run the government machinery. However, it has no moral right or authority to sell national assets created by its predecessors," he said. Vowing to fight the imposing of "unjust decisions" on the workers, he said the BMS is committed to fight until it stops the government from taking the anti-public sector and anti-worker decisions. "The advisors to the government have a dearth of ideas to generate revenue, hence the only way out they provide to the Government is 'corporatise and privatise'. Such predatory advisors are working against the interest of the nation and are keen to keep real experts away from the government even in times of difficulties," he said. He reminded that the government was earlier trying to make "a strategic move" in the name of selling loss-making units but there were no takers for such units. "Since no sensible purchaser was ready to take up loss-making units, now the government is forced to move to their main motive of selling highly profitable sectors like Maharatna/Navaratnas to lure the purchaser," he said. The government should shed its reluctance and hold social dialogue to find out other means to address fiscal deficit and revenue generation, he added. After the June 10, BMS will also be organising seminars on June 13 and 14 on issues like corporatisation of defence production units, PSU in strategic sectors and providing livelihood to lakhs of migrant workers.  From June 16 to 30, according to the BMS action plan, its leaders would contact MPs on issues confronting workers due to COVID-19 and to pressurise the governments to change its "perceptions and policies".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bms-says-govt-has-no-moral-right-to-sell-psus-to-organise-dharna-on-june-10-845649.html
04-06-2020||National||Ravi Kishan demands death penalty for those responsible for elephant’s death in Kerala||Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan on Thursday condemned the incident of a pregnant wild elephant being fed firecrackers-filled pineapple in Kerala leading to its death, and demanded death sentence for the guilty. "It is a brutal murder of an innocent animal who cannot even tell about her offenders. It is inhuman, brutal and disgusting. How can a person do such a thing with an innocent animal?” he said here. “I am an animal lover and elephants are worshipped in Hindu religion. I demand the Kerala government to arrest and hang the criminal who killed the elephant in such a brutal way,” the actor-politician said. The elephant succumbed to an act of human cruelty after a pineapple filled with powerful crackers offered allegedly by locals exploded in her mouth. The elephant died at Valliyar River on May 27. According to sources, the postmortem report revealed that the elephant was pregnant and her jaw was broken. She was unable to eat after she chewed the pineapple and it exploded in her mouth, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ravi-kishan-demands-death-penalty-for-those-responsible-for-elephant-s-death-in-kerala-845650.html
04-06-2020||National||Internship for fresh graduates in urban local bodies||Fresh graduates have opportunities to do an internship in urban local bodies and smart cities across the country as the Centre on Thursday(June 4) launched an urban learning internship programme -TULIP. Housing and Urban Development Minister Hardeep Singh Puri and HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal ''Nishank'' jointly launched the programme and an online portal of TULIP (The Urban Learning Internship Programme) through which fresh graduates can apply for internship from eight weeks to maximum one year to work in different areas including project management, urban planning, building bridges and roads, slum improvement, sanitation, financing, environmental engineering, sanitation and infrastructure. Though the maximum stream of internships open for engineering graduates, there is some opportunity available for BA, BCA, BCom and law graduates also. Fresh graduates are eligible for applying for an internship in all 4400 urban local bodies and 100 smart cities across the country. Puri said that both ULBs and smart cities can utilise youths in improving services, adding youth will bring fresh ideas on how to function local bodies effectively. On his part, Pokhriyal said the government has an aim to provide internship to one crore youths in the next five years in various sectors. Housing and Urban Secretary Durga Shanker Mishra said that the ministry is working on producing "specialised cadre" that can be utilised in different sectors. He said that the online portal will provide a common platform to interested candidates, ULBs and Smart Cities which will post details as per their requirements. "This is a flexible programme. We have set a target of providing 25,000 fresh engineering graduates in the next one year. An applicant will also have liberty in choosing his or her interesting subject like sanitation, urban planning, infrastructure and financing," Mishra said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/internship-for-fresh-graduates-in-urban-local-bodies-845657.html
04-06-2020||National||Steps taken but onus on healthcare workers to protect themselves from COVID-19: Centre to SC||The Centre on Thursday told the Supreme Court that though hospitals are responsible for implementing the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) activities, the final responsibility lies with the healthcare workers to protect themselves from COVID-19. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare told the top court that it is the responsibility of healthcare workers to adequately train themselves and take all possible measures for preventing the infection which not only include COVID but other diseases as well. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah allowed petitioner Dr. Arushi Jain’s counsels advocate Mithu Jain and Arjun Syal to file the rejoinder affidavit to Centre’s reply within a week and posted the matter for June 12. Arushi Jain, a private doctor, in her plea has questioned the Centre's new Standard Operating Procedure of May 15 for front line COVID-19 Healthcare Workers (HCWs) by which it has ended the 14-day mandatory quarantine for them. In its reply to the plea, the ministry said, “It is submitted that while the Hospital Infection Control Committee (HICC) in the health facility is responsible for implementing the Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) activities and for organising regular training on IPC for HCWs, the final responsibility lies with the HCW to prevent infection and to protect himself/ herself”. It said that it is also his/her responsibility to adequately train himself/herself and take all possible measures for preventing the infection and if adequate measures are scrupulously observed, the HCWs chances of contracting the infection would not be higher than that of any other person. “…It is submitted that the current pandemic of COVID-19 is unprecedented and there is no time tested and universally acceptable protocol pertaining to COVID preparedness. Furthermore, the biggest challenge to deal with this pandemic is that there are currently no proven therapeutics or vaccines or rapid point of care diagnostic tests, risk assessment and management protocols for COVID-19 and here are major research gaps in many other key areas of COVID patient and hospital management”, the ministry said. Justifying the advisory and SOPs of May 15, the health ministry said that it is a step in right direction and the guidelines emphasizes the role of taking adequate preventive measures by all HCWs working in the hospital setting against the likelihood for contracting infection at their work place. It added that the risk profiling of those exposed has been deliberated in detail in the technical body under the Directorate General of Health Services, the Joint Monitoring Group (JMG), which also has representative of World Health Organisation. “This risk assessment approach is also in line with guidelines issued by Centre for Disease Control, Atlanta, USA that only high risk exposure needs to be quarantined for 14 days. Hence, mandatory quarantine for 14 days, after rostering duty of healthcare workers of 7/14 days is therefore not justified and warranted,” it added. The ministry in its reply affidavit said that healthcare workers are properly protected by PPEs in workplace settings carries no additional risk to their families or children. It said that grievances raised by the petitioner with regard to the infirmities in the new guidelines dated May 15, issued by Ministry of health and family welfare are completely presumptuous, vacuous, ill-founded and sans any empherical or medical evidence. “It is most respectfully submitted that number of cases of COVID-19 are constantly increasing and at some point of time in near future, apart from existing hospitals, large number of temporary make-shift hospitals will have to be created in order to accommodate COVID-19 patients requiring admission, medical care and treatment,” it said. The government said that to successfully create optimum infrastructure to provide best medical care to the COVID patients, the Central government will also have to adequately address human resource issue for this envisaged surge capacity scenario. “Hence, conserving healthcare work force is the need of the hour in order to cater to the anticipated patient load in the hour of distress”, it said. The top court on May 26, had asked the Centre to file a reply on the affidavit filed by Dr. Jain raising questions on the May 15 advisory which ended the 14-day mandatory quarantine for all healthcare workers in COVID and non-COVID areas. As per the advisory, quarantine of healthcare workers, other than the two categories -- in case of high exposure to COVID-19 and in cases of healthcare workers showing symptoms of COVID-19 -- is not warranted, the plea had said. On April 8, the apex court had observed that the doctors and medical staff are the "first line of defence of the country" in the battle against COVID-19 pandemic, and directed the Centre to ensure that appropriate personal protective equipment (PPE) are made available to them for treating coronavirus patients. While passing a slew of interim directions to ensure safety of doctors and healthcare professionals, the apex court had expressed concern over the recent incidents of attack on them and directed the Centre, all states and Union Territories to provide necessary police security to the medical staff in hospitals and places where patients, who are either quarantined, suspected or diagnosed with COVID-19, are housed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/steps-taken-but-onus-on-healthcare-workers-to-protect-themselves-from-covid-19-centre-to-sc-845669.html
04-06-2020||National||INX Media corruption case: SC rejects CBI's review plea against bail granted to P Chidamabaram||The Supreme Court has dismissed a review petition filed by the CBI against the October 22, 2019 judgement, that had granted bail to former Finance Minister P Chidambaram in a corruption case. A bench of Justices R Banumathi, A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy also rejected the plea for oral hearing in the matter. Review petitions are considered by judges inside the chamber without assistance from counsel. In an order passed on Tuesday, the bench said, "We have perused the review petition and the connected papers carefully and are convinced that the order, of which review has been sought, does not suffer from any error apparent warranting its reconsideration." On October 22, 2019, the court had granted bail to Chidambaram in the case. It had then set aside the Delhi High Court judgement of September 30, 2019 that had rejected his bail plea and stated that possibility of him influencing witnesses cannot be ruled out. Even after the bail by the top court, Chidambaram, at that time, could not walk free since he was by then arrested by the Enforcement Directorate on October 17, 2019 in a separate money laundering case. The CBI had lodged an FIR on May 15, 2017 for irregularities in a Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance to INX Media group for receiving overseas funds of Rs 305 crore in 2007, during his tenure as the Finance Minister.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/inx-media-corruption-case-sc-rejects-cbis-review-plea-against-bail-granted-to-p-chidamabaram-845671.html
04-06-2020||National||India reports 9,304 new coronavirus cases; sees third fastest daily increase globally||India’s COVID-19 count witnessed a record single-day increase as 9,304 new cases were reported from across the country on Thursday, taking the total cases to 2,16,919. The death toll also spiked sharply by 260 to cross the 6,000-mark to settle at 6,075, while the active cases continued to grow rapidly to touch 1,06,737. According to experts, the number of active cases which were doubling every 23 days till Wednesday are now adding up faster. The number of patients recovering from the infectious disease also increased by 3,804, pegging the recovery rate at 47.99 per cent, which is marginally less than that of Wednesday. The Worldometer.info statistics showed that India is the third fastest country in terms of new COVID-19 infections world over after Brazil and the US. According to the website, Brazil added 27,312 new patients on Wednesday, followed by the US (20,578) and India (9,633). The COVID-19 cases continued to increase unabated in Maharashtra with a total of 74,860 cases reported so far, followed by Tamil Nadu with 25,872 cases, Delhi with 23,645 cases and Gujarat with 18,100 cases.    Maharashtra has also reported the highest number of deaths from the disease, at least 2,587, followed by 1,122 in Gujarat and 606 in Delhi. Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday voiced concern over the high positivity rate and low testing levels in the national capital. He said while the average testing per million population for Delhi was 2018, at least two districts – north-east and south-east were testing far less samples. Last week, more than 25 per cent of the samples tested across the capital turned to be positive for COVID-19, the minister said, asking the UT administration to step up contact tracing and surveillance. District officers in the national capital said people are getting complacent with physical distancing measures during the Unlock 1.0 phase which was a factor in the recent surge in infections. Also, the officers pointed out challenges in maintaining the sanctity of containment zones, given the density of the population in some parts of the capital. According to a separate DH COVID-19 Tracker, the total confirmed cases across the capital was 2,16,853 and the death toll was 6,076 at 6:15 p.m. on Thursday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-reports-9304-new-coronavirus-cases-sees-third-fastest-daily-increase-globally-845677.html
04-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi's private secretary Rajeev Topno moves to World Bank||Senior bureaucrat Rajeev Topno, private secretary to the prime minister, has been appointed as senior advisor to the Executive Director (ED), World Bank, a personnel ministry order issued on Thursday said. Besides him, Brajendra Navnit who served in the Prime Minister's Office (PMO) has been appointed as Ambassador and Permanent Representative of India to the World Trade Organisation (WTO), Geneva, Switzerland. Topno is a 1996 batch IAS officer of Gujarat cadre. Navnit, a 1999 batch IAS officer of Tamil Nadu cadre, served as joint secretary in the PMO between July 2014 and September 2019. These appointments assume significance as India is grappling with an economic crisis due to coronavirus pandemic and these organisations play an important role in deciding different trade-related activities. Five other officers have been appointed to different economic and trade-related posts abroad. Senior IAS officer Ravi Kota will be Minister (Economic) at the Indian embassy in Washington. He is a 1993 batch IAS officer of Assam-Meghalaya cadre. Lekhan Thakkar, a Central Secretariat Service (CSS) officer, has been appointed Counsellor (Economic) at the Indian Embassy in Beijing, China. H Atheli, a 2000 batch officer of the Indian Civil Accounts Service (ICAS), will be Advisor (Director level) to ED, Asian Development Bank, Manila, Philippines. Anwar Hussain Shaik has been appointed Counsellor, Permanent Mission of India to the WTO. He is an Indian Railway Traffic Service officer of 2000 batch. N Ashok Kumar will be Advisor (Industry and Engineering), Embassy of India, Brussels, Belgium. He is a 2004 batch IAS officer of Manipur cadre. All these officers will have a tenure of three years, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modis-private-secretary-rajeev-topno-moves-to-world-bank-845678.html
04-06-2020||National||Complete Cyclone Nisarga damage reports in 2 days, restore power: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday asked officials to complete panchnamas or inspection reports of losses due to cyclone Nisarga in Raigad district within two days. Speaking at a video conference to take a stock of damage caused by the cyclone in the coastal district which is adjacent to Mubai, Thackeray also directed that electricity supply be restored quickly. Six people died in Maharashtra due to cyclone-related incidents and 16 were injured, while six cattle were also killed, said a statement from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO). Crops, trees or houses over 5,033 hectares of land were also damaged, it added. Thackeray directed the authorities to provide aid of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of those killed, the CMO statement said, adding that he asked for panchnamas to be completed in two daysso that assistance can be provided to farmers and others. Mahavitaran, the electricity distribution company was asked to restore electricity supply by repairing the electricity poles damaged by the cyclone. Since there is shortage of water for cooking purposes in some areas of the district, people should be provided food, the CM said. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, the people who were shifted to temporary shelters should be tested for coronavirus before they are allowed to go back home, he said. Cyclonic storms are common on the eastern coast but not on the western coast, the chief minister observed. "We need to be prepared to meet such eventualities in future," he was quoted as saying in the CMO statement. Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat who was present at the meeting stressed the need to start relief operations at the earliest. Cyclone Nisarga, which made landfall near Alibaug on Wednesday afternoon, felled over one lakh tress in Raigad district. Shrivardhan andMurud tehsils were worst hit with all communication being paralyzed, the CMO statement said. There was panic among people as mobile and landline networks were down, officials said in the meeting, it added. Ten fishing boats were partially damaged while fish farms over 12 hectares also suffered due to the nature's fury, it was informed. In Ratnagiri district, south of Raigad, 3,000 trees were uprooted and 14 power substations and 1,962 transformers were badly damaged. In Mumbai city, trees were uprooted in 25 places while in suburbs trees were uprooted at 55 places and two houses were damaged, it was informed in the meeting. The cyclone dumped 72.5 mm of rain in Maharashtra while 78,191 people were shifted to safer places, the CMO statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/complete-cyclone-nisarga-damage-reports-in-2-days-restore-power-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-845679.html
04-06-2020||National||Over 1.07 lakh Indians returned to India after launch of Vande Bharat mission: MEA||Over 1.07 lakh stranded Indians have returned to the country from abroad since the government launched the 'Vande Bharat' evacuation mission on May 7, the Ministry of External Affairs said on Thursday. It said the government has started preparation for the third phase of the mission after completion of the second phase of the evacuation on June 13. "Around 38,000 persons are expected to be repatriated under this phase in 337 international flights from 31 countries," External Affairs Ministry Spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. In the first phase of the mission from May 7 to 15, the government evacuated around 15,000 people from 12 countries. The second phase of the evacuation mission was scheduled from May 17 to 22. However, the government has extended it till June 13. Air India has operated 103 flights under the second phase to bring back stranded Indian nationals from abroad, Srivastava said, adding the Indian Navy has also made sorties to bring back Indians from Sri Lanka and the Maldives. "After the commencement of the Vande Bharat mission on May 7, a total of 454 flights, including foreign carriers, have brought back stranded Indians. As of date, 1,07,123 Indians have returned," he said. Those who have returned to India included 17,485 migrant workers, 11,511 students and 8,633 professionals. He said over 32,000 Indians have returned through land border checkpoints from Nepal, Bhutan and Bangladesh. A total of 3,48,565 people registered requests with Indian missions for repatriation to India on compelling grounds. As per the government's policy for evacuation, Indians having "compelling reasons" to return like pregnant women, elderly people, students and those facing the prospect of deportation are being brought back home. The MEA spokesperson said the third phase will cover more sectors and will create additional hubs in remote regions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-107-lakh-indians-returned-to-india-after-launch-of-vande-bharat-mission-mea-845685.html
04-06-2020||National||India able to conserve biodiversity because of its culture, ethos to be with nature: Javadekar||Despite a huge human and animal population on a limited habitation area, India has been able to maintain 8 per cent of the world's biodiversity because "our ethos is to live with the nature", Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said Thursday. In a video message on the eve of the World Environment Day, Javadekar said there are many constraints for India in conserving the biodiversity, like 16 per cent of world's human population and 16 per cent of cattle population living on 2.5 per cent of world's land. "Still we have maintained biodiversity of 8 per cent of the world," he said. “India's culture is to be with the nature. We are the only country which worships trees, animals, birds everybody. We love nature. Our ethos is to live with nature,” he added in his video message shared for a webinar hosted by the think-tank TERI. The theme of the World Environment Day this year is 'Biodiversity', which is described as the variety of life in a particular habitat or ecosystem, where each species has an important role to play. Upsetting this balance, including through over exploitation of the natural resources, can have enormous consequences. Experts say loss of biodiversity can lead to emergence of new infectious diseases like COVID-19. Javadekar also said India is among the "very few countries walking the talk" on the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs). “We have put good targets on our own through our NDCs about reducing emission intensity, having renewable energy component in our installed capacity to the extent of 40 per cent, 2.5-3 billion metric tonnes of carbon sequestration, sustainable lifestyle, climate change adaptation and technology and capacity building. TERI is our partner in all these accounts. We value this partnership,” he said. The Energy and Resources Institute held the webinar as a prelude to the World Sustainable Development Summit in New Delhi, its flagship event in February next year. "As we step into the circles of new normal, it is absolutely important that climate change and biodiversity stay at the top of our sustainable development agenda. The COVID-19 crisis has forced governments and businesses to plan for 'green recoveries'. The road to economic recovery can no longer ignore climate priorities,” said TERI Director General Ajay Mathur. World Environment Day is celebrated on June 5 every year. Because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the environment ministry will hold virtual celebrations with a focus on Nagar Van (Urban Forests). The ministry officials said 40 acres of forest land has been developed in Pune with more than 65,000 trees and 5 ponds. Many trees have grown up to 30 feet. "This year more trees would be planted. Today, the forest is rich in biodiversity with 23 plant species, 29 bird species, 15 butterfly species, 10 reptiles and 3 mammal species," an official said. Not only the Urban Forest project is helping maintain ecological balance, but also provides Pune residents a good, green walkway. "The Wajre Urban Forest is now a role model for the rest of the country,” the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-able-to-conserve-biodiversity-because-of-its-culture-ethos-to-be-with-nature-javadekar-845695.html
04-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: PM Narendra Modi pledges $15 million to global vaccines alliance GAVI||India on Thursday pledged $15 million to Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance, as Prime Minister Narendra Modi participated in a virtual summit of world leaders hosted by his United Kingdom counterpart Boris Johnson. The leaders and other representatives of over 50 countries, business leaders, United Nations agencies and civil society organisations took part in the summit. The participants pledged funding of altogether $7.4 billion to support the Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance, to help it save up to eight million lives around the world over the next five years. The Prime Minister said that India recognised and valued the work of the Gavi and that was why it had become a donor to the alliance while still being eligible for receiving its support. He said that India’s support to Gavi was not only financial in nature. He added that India’s huge demand also brought down the global price of vaccines for all, saving almost $400 million for the Gavi over the past five years. He reiterated that India stood in solidarity with the world along with its proven capacity to produce quality medicines and vaccines at low cost of by using its own domestic experience in rapidly expanding immunisation and its considerable scientific research talent. “India not only has the capacity to contribute to the global health efforts, but also has the will to do so in a spirit of sharing and caring,” said the Prime Minister. The Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, is a public–private global health partnership with the goal of increasing access to immunisation in poor countries. It has immunised over 760 million children in the poorest countries of the world, saving more than 13 million lives. The Gavi’s routine immunisation efforts, including during the course of the coronavirus pandemic, help stop the spread of infectious diseases and the resurgence of other epidemics. “If a safe and effective coronavirus vaccine is developed, it will also have a role in its delivery around the world,” the British High Commission in New Delhi stated after the conclave on Thursday. “Global access (to the COVID-19 vaccine) will ensure a collective international recovery”. Modi said that India’s civiliSation taught it to see the world as one family and that it had tried to live up to the teaching during the COVID-19 pandemic. He said that India did so by sharing the country’s available stocks of medicines with over 120 countries, by forging a common response strategy in its immediate neighborhood and by providing specific support to countries that sought it, while also protecting its own vast population. The Prime Minister said that the COVID-19 pandemic, in some ways, has exposed the limitations of global cooperation and that, for the first time in recent history, the human kind faced a clear common enemy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-pm-narendra-modi-pledges-15-million-to-global-vaccines-alliance-gavi-845702.html
04-06-2020||National||Cyclone Nisarga weakens into low pressure area on day 2||Cyclone Nisarga, which weakened into a depression earlier in the day further weakened into a "well marked low pressure area" and lay over central parts of Madhya Pradesh on Thursday evening, said the India Meteorological Department. The cyclone made landfall in Raigad district on Wednesday afternoon, blowing in from the Arabian sea, with an intensity of severe cyclonic storm with wind speeds of 100-110 kmph peaking at 120 kmph. But it spared Mumbai, the country's financial capital which is already struggling to cope up with the coronavirus pandemic. Damage to houses and crops was reported mainly in coastal Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts of Maharashtra before the storm weakened. As per a Maharashtra government statement, six persons lost lives in incidents related to the cyclonewhile 16 suffered injuries in the state. Six cattle were also killed, the statement said. Trees and electricity poles were uprooted in many areas. Parts of Raigad district plunged into darkness and telephone connectivity too was hit in the area. "The depression (remnant of the severe cyclonic storm Nisarga) over south Madhya Pradesh and adjoining Vidarbha (in Maharashtra) moved north-northeastwards, further weakened into a Well Marked Low Pressure area and lay over central parts of Madhya Pradesh at 1730 hrs IST of today," the IMD said. "It is very likely to weaken gradually into a Low pressure area," it added. The Harnai observatory of the IMD in Ratnagiri recorded 121 mm rainfall between 8:30 am and 5:30 pm on Thursday. In Mumbai, the Colaba weather station recorded 50 mm rainfall, while the Santacruz station registered 47 mm rainfall during this period. Coastal district of Ratnagiri and north Maharashtra district of Nashik recorded 30 mm and 1 mm rainfall, respectively. "Moderate rain/thundershowers" were likely in the city and suburbs of Mumbai and "heavy falls likely at isolated places over the next 24 hours", the IMD forecast added. The gusty winds and rains seem to have had a positive impact on Mumbai's air quality index, which improved to 17 on Thursday, the best reading for this year. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asked officials to complete panchnamas or inspection reports of losses due to the cyclone in Raigad district within two days. Speaking at a video conference to take a stock of damage, Thackeray also directed that electricity supply be restored quickly, said a statement from the chief minister's office. Thackeray directed the authorities to provide aid of Rs 4 lakh to the kin of those killed. Cyclone Nisarga, which made landfall near Alibaug on Wednesday afternoon, felled over one lakh tress in Raigad district. Shrivardhan and Murud tehsils were worst hit with all communication being paralyzed, the CMO statement said. The cyclone dumped 72.5 mm of rain in Maharashtra while 78,191 people were shifted to safer places, the CMO statement added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cyclone-nisarga-weakens-into-low-pressure-area-on-day-2-845710.html
04-06-2020||National||As criticism on coronavirus lockdown and migrants' crisis mount, government raises ‘gaon, gareeb kisan’ pitch||As the Opposition seeks to put the blame on Centre for “messy management of the migrant crisis,” the NDA government has gone into an overdrive to take home its ‘gaoon, gareeb kisan” message, besides countering the criticism on the handling migrant movement during lockdown by launching direct people contact programmes and reeling out details of how the Opposition-ruled state governments put impediments in letting migrants come back to their homes. With the economy in doldrums and middle classes voicing disenchantment, the Govt is in overdrive to woo 'gaaon gareeb kisan'.  From the emotive slogan of ‘igniting the spirit of Jai Kisan’ to describing caring for the poor as top focus of Government, Centre has reached out to the rural masses in a big way in the last few days. This was after Modi penned a personal letter which BJP will reach to 10 crore homes in the month of June telling people how the government created a buffer for the poor and the labourers during COVID-19 crisis and provided food to nearly 80 crore people. During the first cabinet meeting after completion of the first year of Modi 2.0,  Government cited it as ‘historic first” claiming this is for the first time in India’s history that street vendors from peri-urban and rural areas have become beneficiaries of an urban livelihood programme. “These steps are only the latest in a series of measures taken by the government, which shows its continuous commitment to championing the cause of welfare of the hardworking farmers of India, said the government. Announcing the measures, the government said they will lay the foundation for ensuring “golden harvests for our hard-working farmer”, who will now get the freedom to produce, hold, move, distribute and supply after they have been empowered to engage with processors, aggregators, wholesalers, large retailers, exporters. Raising the pitch further, these steps are only the latest in a series of measures taken by the government, which shows its continuous commitment to championing the cause of welfare of the hardworking farmers of India. When Modi chaired the first Cabinet meeting on Monday after completion of the first year of his second term in office on May 30, the government chose to stress “caring for the poor is the top focus of the government”. Clearly as Opposition has realised the potential of the campaign built around ‘messy management of migrant issues” and electoral gains accruing from it in times to come when three agrarian belt states Bihar, West Bengal and UP go to polls (in 2020, 2021 and 2022), the government is also aware of the dent it can make in BJP’s carefully cultivated base among OBC, Dalits and the poor. Projecting the humble ‘chaiwalah’ origin of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who belongs to the EBC community, BJP has breached the support base of many parties in the last few years, particularly in the Hindi belt. Modi himself has said a number of times that the true growth of India is in development of the ‘daridranaryana (the poor God). The poor backed him resoundingly when he took the demonetisation decision in August 2016 and BJP had a record victory in Uttar Pradesh assembly polls in 2017, decimating the alliance of SP-Congress on the one and Mayawati’s BSP on the other hand, with huge chunks of OBC and Dalit youths voting for him and his Gujarat model of development, which they will usher in the Hindi belt state, where massive unemployment and resultant migration mark their lives. UP with 80 Lok Sabha seats and Bihar with 40, have resoundingly voted for BJP both in 2014 and 2019 elections. It is this constituency which is at stake now, having returned from diamond city of Surat and other industrial township of Gujarat, the dream city of Mumbai or the national capital. Agriculture is a field where a large number of these youths who returned due to reverse migration can be re-employed if an out of box thinking was done.  And hence the corrective measure has to be in place. “The poor and vulnerable are at the top of the priorities of the Government led by the Prime Minister. During the Coronavirus pandemic, right from the day of announcement of the lockdown, the government has been sensitive to the needs of the poorest of the poor. This was seen in the announcement of the Pradhan MantriGaribKalyanYojana package on 26th of March 2020, within two days of the start of lockdown. From ensuring coverage of around 80 crore people with food security to direct cash transfers into the bank accounts of 20 crore women, from putting money into the hands of senior citizens, poor widows and poor Divyangs to front-loading of the PM-KISAN instalment to crores of farmers, steps were announced. These covered a wide range of vulnerable sections who would have borne the brunt of the lockdown if not for the immediate intervention of the government. At every step, the Government of India has shown compassion and alacrity in serving the needs of the most vulnerable,” the Centre said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/as-criticism-on-coronavirus-lockdown-and-migrants-crisis-mount-government-raises-gaon-gareeb-kisan-pitch-845712.html
04-06-2020||National||Pensioners lodged 5,000 complaints using toll free call centre: Govt||Over 5,000 complaints have been lodged by central government pensioners through an integrated grievances cell and call centre, an official statement issued on Thursday said. It said that soon after the formation of the new government, a series of welfare measures for pensioners were carried out such as opening of an ‘Integrated grievance cell & call centre’ with toll free number 1800-11-1960 to facilitate elderly pensioners in registering their grievances and provide information of pending grievances. “The call centre has come as a huge relief to those elderly who live alone and are not digitally savvy. 5,000 grievances have been registered through this mode till May 31, 2020,” said the e-booklet on achievements of the Department of Pension and Pensioners’ Welfare (DoPPW) in the past one year. The e-booklet was launched by Jitendra Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions through video conferencing. Singh, while addressing all the officers of the department, congratulated the team for carrying out a series of reforms. He said the reforms "not only highlighted the sensitivity of the Modi government but also the dedication of the team during the trying times of the pandemic". He stated that the department went outside its call of duty to organise a webinar on COVID-19 by bringing in leading doctors to address the anxiety and fears of the pensioners. Among a series of reforms in pension policy, the most notable was the amendment of Rule 54 of CCS Pension Rules, 1972 to provide enhanced family pension in the event of death of a government servant before completion of 7 years of service, the statement issued by the Personnel Ministry said. Earlier, only those families were eligible for enhanced family pension (@50% of last pay drawn) wherein the deceased government servant had completed 7 years of service, it said. Another landmark order was extending the old pension scheme to those employees who joined on or after January 1, 2004 but whose result for recruitment had been declared before January 2004. “This was a long standing demand of employees covered under the National Pension System (NPS) and was the cause of several court cases and anxiety among such employees,” the statement said. The other welfare activities carried out in the last one year include facilitating doorstep service for submission of life certificate with the help of pension disbursing banks. Kshatrapati Shivaji, Secretary DoPPW, thanked the Union Minister for consistently guiding the department to make pension reforms which hugely affected the lives of the pensioners. He stated that this is one of the few departments which even prior to the pandemic was 100% on e-office and therefore the transition to work from home at the height of the pandemic was easy to implement. “All officials have been provided with a VPN which enables them to work from wherever they are and therefore the working of this department remained unaffected during the pandemic,” Shivaji said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pensioners-lodged-5000-complaints-using-toll-free-call-centre-govt-845713.html
04-06-2020||National||Contempt plea against Arvind Kejriwal over alleged non-compliance of HC order on water motors||A contempt plea has been moved in the Delhi High Court against Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in his capacity as Delhi Jal Board chairperson, claiming that the civic authority wilfully disobeyed judicial orders to look into allegations in a plea regarding over-use of water motors in the national capital. The matter was listed before Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva on Thursday who adjourned it to June 12 as advance notice about the petition was not sent by the registry to the lawyer representing the Delhi Jal Board (DJB). The plea, by advocate S B Tripathi, has contended that the DJB on June 27, 2016 had undertaken before the high court to look into the allegations made in his petition with regard to use of water motors and boosters, and take appropriate actions. However, the DJB took no action despite several communications sent to it by him, Tripathi has claimed in his contempt plea. More recently, there was no water supply in the petitioner's flat in Dwarka and despite sending emails and making phone calls to DJB for arranging water, nothing was done, the contempt petition has claimed. Apart from seeking contempt action against Kejriwal and various DJB officials for allegedly not complying with the high court's June 2016 direction, the plea also wants removal of private water boosters from across the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/contempt-plea-against-arvind-kejriwal-over-alleged-non-compliance-of-hc-order-on-water-motors-845719.html
04-06-2020||National||Jammu & Kashmir records biggest single-day spike with 285 coronavirus cases||Jammu and Kashmir recorded the highest single-day jump of 285 confirmed COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday, taking the total tally to over 3,100 with 35 deaths. The number of active cases stood at 3,142 with 2,059 active positives and 1,048 recoveries. The recovery rate has declined in the past week due to the growing number of cases. From 500 cases on April  28 to 1,000 cases on May 15, it took J&K 17 days to double its COVID-19 cases. However, in the last 19 days the cases have more than tripled. Over the past week, the number of positive cases in J&K has been on a rise. Since May 29, 1106 cases have added up to the tally. Over the week, the proportion of pregnant women among total cases is also increasing. On Wednesday, 26 out of the 109 total cases reported from Kashmir division were pregnant women. According to the daily Media Bulletin, of the 285 new cases, 222 were reported in Kashmir while 63  were reported from Jammu division. Fresh cases were reported from all the 10 districts of Kashmir valley, taking the total tally in the division to 2,407. The highest jump was in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district that registered 49 new cases including six people with travel histories, while neighboring Shopian district recorded 35 new cases, followed by Baramulla , Anantnag and Srinagar that registered 29, 27 and 25 cases respectively. In the Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in nine out of ten districts, taking the division’s tally to 735. So far, 1048 cases have recovered with 888 of those are from Kashmir and 160 from the Jammu division. Earlier in the day, a 60-year-old man from Noorbagh area of Srinagar died due to COVID-19 on Thursday, becoming the eighth Srinagar resident and 35th in the Union Territory to die of the novel coronavirus disease. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest COVID-19 case density areas in the country which is over 250 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million. The national average per million population so far is 160. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus outbreak.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-kashmir-records-biggest-single-day-spike-with-285-coronavirus-cases-845733.html
04-06-2020||National||Ficci suggests rational costing framework for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals||Industry body Ficci on Thursday said it has suggested a rational costing framework for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals to allay fears of the patients and the community as a whole. Ficci COVID-19 Response Taskforce, with representatives from leading private hospitals in India, has recommended that patients who are paying out of their own pocket should pay Rs 17,000 per day for treatment in an isolation ward, the industry chamber said in a statement. The task force has recommended that the patient should pay Rs 45,000 per day for ICU with ventilator, it said. These rates include medicines, consumables and basic diagnostics, but exclude PPE costs, high-end drugs and any co-morbidities, the industry body said in the statement, adding these are indicative rates and there may be individual variations to the extent of 5-10 per cent. The taskforce has categorised the cost of treatment according to "government referred patients, patients paying from out of pocket and for patients who are covered by TPAs". It has further been sub-categorised into three levels depending on the severity of the case -- patients who do not require intensive care but must be kept in isolation ward, patients requiring intensive care but are not ventilated and patients requiring intensive care and ventilator support, Ficci said. "In these difficult times, the private healthcare sector is doing its best to serve with high standards of ethics, transparency, professional competency and compassion," Ficci President Sangita Reddy said. Ficci Health Services Committee Chair Alok Roy said there is an imperative need to acknowledge that COVID-19 treatment cost is difficult to rationalise essentially due to the unknown nature of treatment required and various co-morbidities associated with it. The chamber is working with the government to resolve this evolving and dynamic issue and has submitted the costing framework to the Union Health Ministry and state health departments, it said. "Ficci member hospitals have pledged to adopt these cost recommendations and display it transparently on their hospital website in their endeavour to fight this war against COVID-19," it added. "At the same time, Ficci also urged it is important that the government considers and adopts a scientific, plausible and coherent reimbursement criterion for any treatment, that is viable for the providers," the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ficci-suggests-rational-costing-framework-for-covid-19-treatment-at-private-hospitals-845737.html
04-06-2020||National||Terrorist killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||A terrorist was killed in an encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Thursday, sources said. The Army and police launched a cordon and search operation in Kalakote belt of the district on Thursday following specific information about the presence of infiltrating terrorists there, they said. As per the reports, two-three terrorists are likely trapped, the sources said.  One of them has been reportedly killed in the encounter, they said, adding the operation is on.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/terrorist-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-845740.html
04-06-2020||National||1 out of 3 Indians watches online video: Google||One out of every three Indians watches online video with average daily watch time being over an hour, according to a report by Google. Hindi emerged as the most preferred language when watching online videos (54 per cent), followed by English (16 per cent), Telugu (7 per cent), Kannada (6 per cent), Tamil (5 per cent) and Bengali (3 per cent), the report said. This year, India's online video viewing population is expected to grow to 500 million people from different regions, demographics and socio-economic backgrounds, it added. About 37 per cent of India's online video viewers come from rural areas, it said. The report titled 'Understanding India's online video viewer' is based on interviews of over 6,500 viewers. About 73 per cent of them were between 15-34 years of age. It noted that the average daily watch time was 67 minutes. "Even new internet users who've had access for over a year are watching a daily average of 56 minutes...About four platforms are used regularly and another 3 occasionally," it added. While most video viewing happens at home (79 per cent), 'watching on the go' also appeared to be a strong trend (21 per cent), according to the report. "The '4Ps' of motivation for watching were pleasure (56 per cent), Power (20 per cent), Purpose (14 per cent) and People (11 per cent)," it said. While entertainment continues to be a favourite, 43 per cent of online video viewing occasions in India are learning based, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1-out-of-3-indians-watches-online-video-google-845744.html
04-06-2020||National||Jammu and Kashmir L-G assures all help to sarpanches from Kashmir valley||Beginning his outreach programme in Kashmir valley, Lieutenant Governor Girish Chandra Murmu on Thursday interacted with representatives of block development committee chairpersons and sarpanches of the region through video conference and assured them all help from the administration. Amid the COVID-19 challenges, Murmu has met 12 delegations including Kashmiri Pandits, PoK displaced persons, West Pakistan refugees, Valmikis, Gurkhas, Rajputs, SC-ST communities, youth and Gujjars during the last fortnight. In the latest meeting, a delegation of BDC chairpersons and sarpanches from Kashmir division led by Gulam Mohideen Sof and Gulam Hassan Panzoo apprised the L-G of various issues regarding their rights and protocol, coordination with various departments, security cover on threat perception basis and official accommodation, an official spokesman said. They also raised the issues of desilting irrigation channels, extension of PMAY benefits to the deserving beneficiaries and construction of border bunkers, he said. The delegation complimented the UT administration for adept handling of the prevailing situation due to COVID-19. The Lt Governor, during the interaction, assured the delegation of full support of the government in protecting their legitimate rights and entitlements and further urged them to continue working towards empowering the common masses. Meanwhile, a public delegation headed by Advocate Shah Mohd expressed their gratitude to the Government of India and J&K administration for introducing a new domicile law in the UT. The delegation put forth various demands related to the welfare of SC-STs and OBCs including reservation in promotions, representation in J&K socially and educationally backward classes commission, implementation of the Forest Rights Act, tribal sub-plan and streamlining of Gujjar-Bakarwal hostels, the spokesman said. They further drew the L-G's attention towards the issue of posting local tribal officers in the district administration of predominantly tribal areas of Poonch-Rajouri. Murmu gave a patient hearing to the delegation and observed that the government is committed towards the welfare of every section of the society. "A comprehensive mechanism has been rolled out for the revision of recruitment rules and proper implementation of reservation roster, he added. He further assured the delegation that all the genuine issues raised by them would be addressed on priority", the spokesman further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jammu-and-kashmir-l-g-assures-all-help-to-sarpanches-from-kashmir-valley-845753.html
04-06-2020||National||Bar Council of India to file complaint against news article's author, publisher for defaming its chairman||The Bar Council of India Thursday said it will file a complaint with the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting against an advocate for writing “malicious” and “derogatory” article against its chairman as well as the online news portal that published it. The BCI, which is an apex body of lawyers regulating the legal profession, termed as “defamatory” the allegations made by advocate Vikas Bhadauria in a June 1 article against its chairman Manan Kumar Mishra, and said that it was a “brazen attack not only on the Chairman, but, on the Bar Council of India as an Institution.” The article had accused Mishra of misusing his position at the BCI for his personal and political gains. In the resolution passed on Thursday, the council termed the article as “reckless and motivated” wherein “malicious, mischievous, derogatory and baseless imputations” have been made against Mishra. “It is appalling to note that news portal has allowed its platform to be used for a defamatory story prompted by ill-will and malice to make personal allegations against Mishra. “We take it as a brazen attack not only on the Chairman, but, on the Bar Council of India as an Institution,” the resolution, passed in a meeting presided by BCI Vice-Chairman Satish A. Deshmukh, said. It added that Bhadauria “has done cherry picking to suit his false story and has made reference to selective portions of certain statements and communications of Mishra without giving full text and proper purport which has always been to advance the cause of the bar.“ “The story by Bhadauria is only scandal mongering and vilification campaign against Mishra and we resolve to condemn and reject it with all contempt it deserves. “We further resolve to make a complaint to the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting against Bhadauria and the news portal for their acts of misreporting, omission and commission,” it said. It added that the council will take the decision about lodging criminal case for defamation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bar-council-of-india-to-file-complaint-against-news-articles-author-publisher-for-defaming-its-chairman-845764.html
04-06-2020||National||Women IPS officers targeted with abusive, obscene content on Twitter; FIR filed||After some women IPS officers were targeted with abusive, derogatory and obscene content on Twitter by certain accounts, a Mussoorie-based premier training institute for civil services on Thursday lodged an FIR with the local police to look into the matter. “Today some lady IPS officers have been targeted with abusive, derogatory and obscene content by certain twitter accounts. The academy strongly condemns this malicious and derogatory tweet and has lodged an FIR with Uttrakhand Police in this regard,” Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) said in a tweet. The news evoked sharp reactions from the associations of Indian Police Service (IPS) and Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officers, demanding expeditious investigation into it to bring the culprits to book. “We strongly condemn the abusive & derogatory remarks on Twitter regarding lady IPS officers. We believe the concerned police agencies will do thorough investigation to expeditiously bring culprits to book. We solemnly resolve to protect the dignity of lady officers,” the IPS (central) association tweeted. The IAS (central) association has asked Twitter to remove such posts and handles from its platform. “We agree and condemn abusive posts and comments against #IPS officers and demand strong action be taken against such perverted minds. We have reported such handles and request @TwitterIndia to remove such posts and handles,” it tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/women-ips-officers-targeted-with-abusive-obscene-content-on-twitter-fir-filed-845763.html
04-06-2020||National||3 men, 2 juveniles held for snatching mobile phones||Three men have been arrested and two juveniles apprehended for allegedly snatching mobile phones in Delhi, police said Thursday. The accused have been identified as Sannaullah (24), Shafique (24), both residents of Bawana, and Irshad (22), a resident of Narela, they said. Irshad was recently released from jail and needed money for his marriage, so he recruited Sannaullah and Shafique for committing the crime, police said. On Tuesday evening, police noticed two persons on a motorcycle behaving suspiciously near a temple on Narela-Bawana Road. They tried to flee when confronted. "Police chased them for 2 km and apprehended Sannaullah, while his accomplice Shafique escaped," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said. Sannaullah led the police to Shafique later that evening. A juvenile was also nabbed with Shafique, they said. Irshad was arrested from Ghoga Mod in Narela. On Wednesday, another juvenile was apprehended, a senior police officer said. One of the juveniles would sell the phones to his brother-in-law, the officer said. Three bikes, 12 mobile phones and one country-made pistol, along with one cartridge, were recovered from their possession, police said, adding that efforts are being made to arrest others involved.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-men-2-juveniles-held-for-snatching-mobile-phones-845765.html
04-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: ICMR comes out with list of antibody detection kits to be used for serosurveys||The Indian Council of Medical Research has released a validated list of IgG ELISA kits to be used for serosurveys to understand the proportion of population exposed to COVID-19 including asymptomatic individuals. The IgG ELISA kits are the first indigenous antibody detection kits for coronavirus. The apex health research body has so far approved three batches of ‘COVID Kavach ELISA IgG kits’ developed by Zydus Cadila Healthcare Ltd, Ahmedabad, Gujarat. Besides, one batch of Euroimmun Anti- SARS-COV-2 ELISA IgG manufactured by Euroimmun US Inc, USA, and a batch of Erbalisa COVID-19 IgG ELISA manufactured by Calbiotech Inc, USA have also been approved. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) also mentioned the batch number, stating "responsibility for batch to batch consistency lies with the manufacturer". The IgG ELISA tests are recommended for serosurveys to understand the proportion of population exposed to the infection, including asymptomatic individuals. "Depending upon the level of seroprevalence of infection, matching public health interventions can be implemented for prevention and control of the disease," the research body said. Further, it should be used for survey in high-risk or vulnerable populations like healthcare workers, frontline workers, immune-compromised individuals, individuals in containment zones, to know who have been infected in the past and have now recovered. The ICMR has also provided details of seven pharma companies to whom it has transferred the technology to undertake the production of indigenous COVID Kavach ELISA IgG kits which help in the antibody detection for COVID-19. These test kits have the advantage of testing 90 samples in a single run of 2.5 hours so that healthcare professionals can proceed quickly with necessary next steps. "The ELISA tests have been validated in the laboratory. However, the performance of the test may be subject to variation under field conditions," the ICMR added. The IgG ELISA/CLIA tests which are US-FDA approved can be used directly after due marketing approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-icmr-comes-out-with-list-of-antibody-detection-kits-to-be-used-for-serosurveys-845767.html
04-06-2020||National||Govt releases SOPs for offices, religious places, hotels and malls for Unlock 1.0||As India emerges from the lockdown, the health ministry on Thursday issued guidelines for a new normal that prescribes staggered office hours, a ban on touching idols and holy books at religious places, encouraging takeaways at restaurants and closure of gaming arcades, cinema halls, children’s play areas in shopping malls. The Health Ministry issued standard operating procedures (SOP) for offices, religious places, restaurants, shopping malls, and hotels and other hospitality units with stress on maintaining physical distancing, use of face masks, and adherence to respiratory etiquette. As a general preventive measure, the SOPs make it mandatory to have sanitiser dispensers and thermal screening provisions at the entrance of all establishments, with entry allowed only to asymptomatic patients. The government, while announcing the Unlock 1.0 guidelines on Sunday, has left it to the Health Ministry to issue SOPs to re-emerge from the two-and-a-half month lockdown to arrest the spread of COVID-19. According to the SOPs for offices, officers and staff residing in containment zones have been asked not the attend office and choose work from home, entry to offices would be permitted only on wearing of face masks which has to be worn all the time. The SOPs also encourages holding meetings through video conferencing, staggered office hours, lunch hours and coffee breaks and regular cleaning of offices and frequently touched surfaces. At religious places, the SOPs have banned use of common prayer mats, physical contact while greeting, and choir and singing groups to minimise the threat of spread of infection. It also bars physical offerings such as prasad, distribution or sprinkling of holy water inside a religious place and directs maintaining phyical distancing norms at community kitchens and langars. Restaurants have been asked to use disposable menu cards, only 50 per cent to the total occupancy, use of paper napkins instead of cloth napkins and sanitisation of tables each time a customer leaves. For shopping malls, the SOPs have asked shops to keep the number of customers at a minimum to ensure physical distancing, 50 per cent occupancy at food courts and adequate crowd and queue management. At hotels, the SOPs encourage room service or takeaways instead of dine-in at restaurants and use of intercom or mobile phones as the preferred mode of communication between guests and in-house staff. For air-conditioning, the SOPs have prescribed setting the temperature in the range of 24-30 degrees with relative humidity in the range of 40 per cent-70 per cent, with emphasis on intake of fresh air and adequate cross ventilation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-releases-sops-for-offices-religious-places-hotels-and-malls-for-unlock-10-845768.html
04-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: Retd officials, PAs of MPs can't enter Parliament for now||Parliament House will be out of bounds for retired officials, personal visitors of officers below the rank of Joint Secretary and Personal Assistants of MPs till further orders with authorities taking steps to ensure that the complex remains less crowded during COVID-19 pandemic. In an order, Director (Security) B C Joshi said there is a heightened need for officials to take utmost care and precaution to prevent the spread of the disease at all places including Parliament. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic and to ensure social distancing, safety and security of MPs and officials, he said retired officials and personal guests of the officers below the rank of Joint Secretary will not be permitted inside Parliament House complex till further orders. In a separate bulletin, Lok Sabha Secretary General Snehalata Shrivastava said the entry of Personnal Assistants' of MPs need to be restricted in view of the pandemic. "A total of more than 800 PAs' presence during Session time will make the situation vulnerable. In compliance of the social distancing norms, it is decided to restrict the entry of PAs of MPs inside Parliament House till further orders," she said. On May 28, a Director-level officer of the Rajya Sabha Secretariat has been found COVID-19 positive.  Along with the official, his wife and children have also tested positive for the virus infection. He had attended office till May 28, the day his test results returned positive following which his office and the floor in Parliament House Annexe was sanitised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-retd-officials-pas-of-mps-cant-enter-parliament-for-now-845770.html
04-06-2020||National||India and Australia decide to boost cooperation in dealing with terrorism||In an effort to effectively counter terrorism, India and Australia on Thursday resolved to address potential risks associated with virtual assets and new financial technologies that may be abused for money laundering and terrorist financing, officials said. The two sides, during an online summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Australian counterpart Scott Morrison, also vowed to take steps to ensure that virtual assets service providers are subjected to anti-money laundering and counter terror financing regulations, they said. A joint statement issued after Modi-Morrison talks said the two countries recognised that terrorism remains a threat to peace and stability in the region and strongly condemned the menace in all its forms and manifestations. The two sides asserted that there can be no justification for acts of terror on any grounds whatsoever, and called for early adoption of a Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism (CCIT). In the talks, both the countries pitched for a comprehensive approach in combating terrorism, including by countering violent extremism, preventing radicalisation, disrupting financial support to terrorists and facilitating prosecution of those involved in acts of terror, according to the joint statement. "Both sides reiterate the resolve to work with internet companies to strengthen transparency to prevent online terrorist activity consistent with the G20 Osaka leaders' agreement on preventing exploitation of the internet for terrorism and violent extremism conducive to terrorism," it said. In the talks the two countries elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership and signed seven pacts including a landmark agreement for reciprocal access to military bases for logistics support.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-and-australia-decide-to-boost-cooperation-in-dealing-with-terrorism-845782.html
04-06-2020||National||33 fresh COVID-19 cases in Jharkhand, tally goes up to 797||The number of COVID-19 cases rose to 797 in Jharkhand as 33 new infections were reported on Thursday, health department officials said. The 33 fresh cases were reported from Koderma (13), Garhwa (10), Hazaribag (four), Khunti (three), Simdega (two) and Palamau (one), they said. The disease has claimed five lives in the state so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/33-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-jharkhand-tally-goes-up-to-797-845783.html
04-06-2020||National||FICCI fixes rates for COVID-19 treatment in associated private hospitals||The COVID-19 response taskforce of FICCI and leading private hospitals associated with the industry body have developed an accounting methodology to bring in standardisation of cost of coronavirus treatment in the national interest. Given the rising cases of COVID-19 infection, the need for more hospitalisation and owing to the overloading of public health system, increasing number of private healthcare providers have been admitting and treating COVID-19 positive cases, a statement said. The COVID-19 treatment cost has been categorised with respect to government-referred patients, patients paying from out of pocket and those who are covered by third party administrators (TPAs). It has further been sub-categorised to three levels depending on the severity of the case such as patients who do not require intensive care but must be kept in isolation ward, patients requiring ICU without ventilator and those requiring ICU with ventilator. Beds reserved for government-referred patients in isolation wards will be charged Rs 13,600, in ICU without ventilator Rs 27,088 and in ICU with ventilator will be charged Rs 36,853 per patient, the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) said. For COVID-19 cases treated by private hospitals, rates in isolation wards will be Rs 17,000, in ICU without ventilator Rs 34,000 and in ICU with ventilator will be charged Rs 45,000 per patient, it said. The industry body said for patients covered by TPAs, rates in isolation wards will be Rs 20,000, in ICU without ventilator Rs 55,000 and in ICU with ventilators will be charged Rs 68,000 per patient, it said. These are FICCI recommended rates for per patient - average revenue per occupied bed in the private hospitals associated with it. According to FICCI, hospitals’ standard rates will be applicable for expensive/high-end medicines, and the estimated personal protective equipment (PPE) count is applicable only when the patients are cohorted in an area. It said that these are only an illustration on the basis of basic tests that may be needed for the treatment of COVID-19 patients during their stay in wards and coronary care unit, with or without ventilator support. The actual average length of stay and tests may vary on the basis of condition of the patients. It said that these rates are indicative and there may be individual variations to the extent of 5-10 per cent. The clinical teams of large hospitals consisting of intensivists, pulmonologists, critical care specialists as well as infectious disease specialists have given their inputs in developing the above models, it said. These models include the costs of materials such as consumables, medicines and basic diagnostics; but exclude the cost of PPEs, high end drugs and any comorbidities, it said. FICCI said all the hospitals are struggling with declining revenues on account of decreased outpatients and falling in-patient occupancy levels which have resulted in significant cash flow challenges, including managing payroll, material and finance costs. "We, therefore, request the government to create individual escrow accounts for each hospital and pay the treatment amounts in advance to ease the liquidity challenges during this difficult period," the body added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ficci-fixes-rates-for-covid-19-treatment-in-associated-private-hospitals-845786.html
04-06-2020||National||Coronavirus cases cross 25,000 mark in Delhi||COVID-19 cases in Delhi crossed the 25,000-mark on Thursday as 1,359 cases were reported while the death toll climbed to 650. The national capital now has 25,004 cases. On Wednesday, five deaths were reported while 39 other deaths that took place in the previous days were added to the toll. According to latest medical bulletin, 14,456 people are still under treatment, including 9,473 in home isolation. In the past 24 hours, 356 people were discharged taking the total recoveries to 9,898. Delhi has so far tested 2.36 lakh samples out of which 6,361 were fresh samples. Delhi government also directed all private hospitals of Delhi to reserve 20 per cent beds for patients undergoing COVID-19 treatment.  "The focus behind this order was to make sure that no hospital refuses to treat patients suffering from coronavirus. There are a few private hospitals which are facing difficulties in reserving 20 per cent of their bed capacity for COVID-19 patients. If they find it difficult to do so, then we will have to convert them into fully dedicated COVID-19 hospitals,” Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said. “Those private hospitals, which are facing difficulties in following the mixed system, will be completely converted into COVID-19 designated hospitals. They have time till tomorrow. Moolchand, Gangaram and Saroj hospitals have been converted into fully COVID-19 hospitals,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-cases-cross-25000-mark-in-delhi-845793.html
04-06-2020||National||Veterinary scientists join drug hunt against coronavirus||India’s veterinary scientists have now joined the hunt for a drug for the treatment of COVID-19. Scientists at the Hisar-based National Centre for Veterinary Type Cultures are screening their library comprising 94 small molecule chemical inhibitors for anti-virals for coronavirus. The Science and Engineering Research Board (SERB) has approved support for the study, an official statement said on Thursday. “All the drugs for treatment of the virus were designed to hit the viral protein. But when a virus mutates, the drug becomes ineffective, as it won't bind on the viral protein,” Naveen Kumar, senior scientist at NCVTC told DH here. Kumar said he was exploring an alternative strategy of targeting the proteins in the host cell that would be used by the virus to replicate. “We are targeting proteins that are not used by the host (human) cell to replicate, but are used by the virus to grow,” he said adding that the host-directed anti-virals have less tendency of becoming resistant to drugs Kumar believes that the institute’s collection of small molecule inhibitors will be the resource to find this anti-viral weapon targeting cellular proteins, protein-protein (virus-host) interaction, or epigenetic regulators for COVID-19. Kumar would now study how these molecule inhibitors work against coronaviruses. “The targets of these inhibitors are well characterised in cancer, however, their role in the virus life cycle is not known. The selected candidates (hits) with anti-coronavirus activity will be subjected to study their molecular mechanism of action, besides examining generation of potential drug-resistant virus variants,” Kumar said. “Chemical library screening in medicinal chemistry research is a useful methodology that considerably shortens drug discovery and development cycle, especially for newly identified etiologic agents, such as SARS-Cov-2,” Prof. Sandeep Verma, Secretary, SERB said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/veterinary-scientists-join-drug-hunt-against-coronavirus-845797.html
04-06-2020||National||Reverse migration during pandemic will increase poverty, discrimination: SC Judge||Supreme Court Judge Justice N V Ramana Thursday said that the “reverse migration” is the most predominant issue  during pandemic caused by Coronavirus and will lead to increase in ”poverty“, ”inequity” and ”discrimination”. Justice Ramana, who is next in seniority after the Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, also said that during the lockdown due to Coronavirus there has been a rise in violence within the family as well as child abuse. He said that pursuant to the lockdown, thousands of people have lost their lives and livelihood and large scale migration has taken place. “This pandemic has presented before us, multiple emerging issues. The most predominant one is that of reverse migration. Massive reverse migration will invariably lead to increase in poverty, inequity and discrimination. “This pandemic has also affected rights of women, children and senior citizen. This calls for a persistent and target orientation action plan, which we all have to work out together,” he said, adding that “the future is going to be challenging. Let's stay committed.” Justice Ramana was speaking in a webinar while releasing 'Handbook of Formats: Ensuring Effective Legal Services', which was organised by National Legal Services Authority (NALSA). “Unfortunately, even though three months have passed, the situation is still not under control. Pursuant to the lockdown, thousands of people have lost their lives and livelihood, large scale migration has taken place. The lockdown has itself created psychological issues and violence within the family. Women have been burdened with more work; children have unable to go to schools. Adding, to that working of home has also had it impact on the family life," the judge said. “But now we have to work with constraints,” he said. Justice Ramana, who is also the Executive Chairman of NALSA, further said, “One of the critical areas which has come to our notice was rising violence within the family itself. We also saw increasing rise in the number of instances of child abuse. During such times, when the victims cannot reach us, it imperative for us to reach them.” “Acknowledging the urgency of the situation we have established One Stop Centres (OSCs). Persistent efforts have been taken to provide legal assistance, through teleservices of female Panel Lawyers in every district. In other matters, petitions have been filed under the Domestic Violence Act,” he said. He said that another focus area for the Legal Services Authorities across the country was to ensure the reduction of over-crowding in prisons. “As per the directions of the Supreme Court, the State Legal Services Authorities have actively assisted High Powered Committees to identify and complete the necessary formalities for the release of prisoners, both undertrials and convicts, during the pandemic,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/reverse-migration-during-pandemic-will-increase-poverty-discrimination-sc-judge-845805.html
04-06-2020||National Politics||Government claims on Shramik train not on right track: Congress||As the Congress mounted a massive campaign against the Centre over the alleged hunger deaths of migrants in Shramik special trains, the ruling BJP was quick to get into damage control mode, revealing details of the reasons which led to these and slammed the Opposition party of ‘politicising unfortunate deaths”. “None of the deaths which have happened in Shramik Special Trains have been caused by hunger or starvation as per the post mortem reports. Natural Deaths have occurred on the trains in the past too but the manner in which unfortunate deaths of Shamika have been politicised is unprecedented without waiting to know about the exact cause of deaths,” the party said issuing a statement condemning “petty politics” on the issue. This was hours after Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi accused the central government of ‘distorting’ facts about rail travel of migrants not only on cost-sharing but also deaths due to mismanagement of trains and cited the case of death of a woman in Muzaffarpur. Singhvi highlighted the “statistics of 81 deaths” of those travelling in Shramik special trains and flagged the mismanagement related to food and water supply and inordinately delayed running of trains. Demanding the resignation of Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Singhvi said Goyal should either resign or be removed as Railway Minister. Singhvi highlighted "contradictions" in claims of the government on providing subsidy, food and facilities in these trains, which, according to Railways ferried over 57 lakh migrants. BJP on Wednesday gave details of passengers, who died due to other reasons. “Dashrath Prajapati, a 30-year-old man at Manduadih Station was suffering from Chronic Kidney Disease. Ram Ratan Ground, 63-Year-old was a Divyang since childhood and his condition was deteriorating as per the video statement given by his family member. Ibrar Ahmed as per post-mortem report, the death of passengers was due to brain stroke and not due to dehydration.    Arbina Khatoon was suffering from the pre-existing mental ailment as per the statement of her relative,” the BJP said. Dismissing Singhvi’s criticism, BJP also stressed that the Ministry of Railways is bearing 85% of the total cost of getting the migrants back to their home states while the remaining 15% is charged as the fare from the state governments. The party, though, included in it the 43% subsidy given by railways on an average on the travel cost. BJP claimed more than 98 percent of Shramik Special Trains ran on their scheduled route and only 71 trains were diverted which is 1.75 % of the total trains run by Railways.  Singhvi alleged that 40 percent of trains ran late and the average delay was eight hours while 78 trains were delayed by more than one day and 43 trains more than 30-35 hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/government-claims-on-shramik-train-not-on-right-track-congress-845410.html
04-06-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus Lockdown: Politics heats up over migrants||Full-blown politics has erupted on the issue of migrants, a majority belonging to states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha. The politics is palpable in states which will ace polls before the next general elections in 2024. Uttar Pradesh, which has 80 Lok Sabha will go to polls in 2022, West Bengal with 42 Lok Sabha seats is going to polls in 2021 and Bihar with 40 Lok Sabha seats will see polls in October this year. The BJP and the Congress were found racing against each other over the issue, in Uttar Pradesh. While Yogi Adityanath government set up a migrant commission and mulled seeking permissions from other states that need labour, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi announced running of special buses to ferry migrants.  An apparently irked Mayawati, whose vote base constitutes of Dalits forming a major chunk of the migrant population, accused both the parties of engaging in politics. She said that the BSP was born to take up the issue of the deprived and the Dalits caused by the policies of the Congress, which are now being carried forward by the BJP. Recently, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced plans to address the problems of joblessness and poverty in the eastern states. He said the agony, pain and ordeal of the underprivileged labourers and workers cannot be expressed in words and indicated that plans are on the anvil for the holistic development of eastern India. According to the 2011 census, India has 45.36 crore internal migrants, most moving in search of jobs from the Hindi heartland and eastern states. Most migrants go back to their state of origin to cast votes. Realising this, in last West Bengal assembly polls, political parties had arranged special trains from cities like Delhi to bring them back to vote. Verbal attacks by ministers like Amit Shah and Piyush Goyal on Mamata Banerjee over “not showing interest” in running Shramik Special trains also fit into the pattern. Bihar has also seen a big fight on migrant issues. The voters from Eastern UP and adjoining Bihar have played a key role in forming governments in Delhi. Not surprisingly AAP was quick to announce it would pay the train fare of migrants going back to Bihar, which irked JDU leadership that sprang into damage control mode.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-politics-heats-up-over-migrants-845443.html
04-06-2020||National Politics||Crisis in Gujarat Congress ahead of RS polls as two more MLAs resign||Days after the date for Rajya Sabha polls was announced, the Gujarat Congress on Thursday suffered yet another blow after two of its MLAs tendered resignation, while another legislator is speculated to follow the suit. Earlier, in March, five of its MLAs had resigned forcing the Congress to take its flock to Jaipur to avoid further crisis in the party. MLAs returned after polls were postponed in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The development holds significance in view of the fact that Congress has fielded two of its most senior leaders-Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki. With seven of its party men ceasing to be MLAs, it is said to be an impossible task for winning both the seats. BJP has fielded three candidates Abhay Bharadwaj, an advocate, Ramila Bara, a tribal leader from Sabarkantha district and Narhari Amin who switched to BJP from Congress in 2012.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/crisis-in-gujarat-congress-ahead-of-rs-polls-as-two-more-mlas-resign-845551.html
04-06-2020||National Politics||Political egos should be kept aside: Sena on varsity exams row||Amid the confrontation between Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and the state government over the issue of final year university exams, the Shiv Sena on Thursday said political egos should be kept aside at a time when the country is facing the COVID-19 crisis. Taking aim at leaders of the opposition BJP in the state a day after a cyclone hit Maharashtra, an editorial in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' said Koshyari should be cautious of the "mad storm" hitting the Raj Bhavan gates frequently. Koshyari on Tuesday criticised the Uddhav Thackeray- led state government's decision to cancel the final year university examinations on account of coronavirus outbreak, and said the decision would jeopardise the future of students. He also asserted that the chancellor of universities -- a position which governor holds ex-officio -- has the final authority over all university matters, as per the Maharashtra Public Universities Act. Noting that there has been a public display of differences between the government and the governor over the issue of final year university examinations, the Sena on Thursday said, "Political egos and oneupmanship should be kept aside in times of crisis." "The COVID-19 pandemic has created an unprecedented situation in the state and the country. The 'Sword of Damocles' is hanging over the future of a generation. Should their lives be endangered or should a consensus decision be taken on clearing the confusion over exams?" the Sena asked. It said the government's decision to cancel the final year exams and give marksas per the aggregate of last semester was "welcomed by all". "But, opposition leaders immediately met the governor to register their protest and objected to the decision. The governor immediately wrote to the government and said examinations will be held according to the Universities Act," the Marathi daily pointed out. "We trust the governor's intellect, but some mad storm frequently hits the Raj Bhavan gates. The governor is a fine gentleman and he should be cautious of such storms, otherwise the future of lakhs of students will be at stake," it said. The governor is of the view that he, as chancellor of all universities, should have been taken into confidence. But it has been widely reported that state higher and technical education minister Uday Samant had met the governor in this regard," it pointed out. The Sena asked whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken RBI governor and Union finance minister into confidence while announcing demonetisation, or the President while announcing the lockdown to contain spread of COVID-19. "We believe the Modi government has the mandate to take decisions. It is constitutionally illegal for the governor to bless the opposition's moves to oppose all decisions of the government," it said. Such "tactics" of the opposition will not destabilise the three-party Maha Vikas Aghadi government (comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) in the state, it said. "Union Home Minister Amit Shah has himself said the government will collapse only if the three-party alliance breaks. Hence, the opposition party must come out of the illusion that the government will become unstable if it continues to oppose everything what the government does," the Shiv Sena said. The governor is the chancellor of universities and he is entitled to havehis views. "Butin the wake of thecoronavirus spread, how can examinations be held, endangering lives of 10 lakh students? The stand taken by the government is practical," it said. On concerns raised BJP leader Ashish Shelar over the issue of exams, the Sena said the government, after discussing with vice chancellors and education experts, will take a decision on how to give aggregate marksto the ATKT (allowed to kep term) students. ATKT is a process to allow students of pre-graduation and graduation to study in the next grade if they have failed in one to four subjects. On Shelar's reported remark that whether students passing on aggregate marks will be called "corona graduates", the Sena said there are "several big people inpolitics with bogus degrees". "Bogus degrees are dangerous than corona degrees," it quipped. On the governor'sstand that examinations will be held as per the Universities Act, the Sena said laws are applicable not just for universities but other areas also. "If laws had been followed, an illegal swearing-in wouldn't have taken place by lifting the President's rule whenpeople were still asleep," the Sena said. It was referring to the hush hush early morning ceremony held at Raj Bhavan after the state Assembly polls last year, when BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis was sworn in as chief minister after the Shiv Sena parted ways with the BJP over the issue of sharing the chief ministerial post.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/political-egos-should-be-kept-aside-sena-on-varsity-exams-row-845575.html
04-06-2020||National Politics||Gujarat BJP to hold virtual rallies to mark Modi govt anniversary||The Gujarat BJP has decided to organise virtual rallies and other events in the state this month to highlight the work carried out by the Narendra Modi government at the Centre during the first year of its second term in office. These programmes are in line with what the party's central leadership has decided, Gujarat BJP president Jitu Vaghani said on Thursday. Key highlight will be virtual rallies to be addressed by party president J P Nadda in four different zones of Gujarat, Vaghani said in a video message. "Four virtual rallies will be held in four different zones between June 8 and 17. We will use different digital and social media tools as well as cable TV to reach out to at least one lakh people in each rally, to be addressed by Nadda and other central and state BJP leaders," he said. Prior to these virtual rallies, party leaders like Mansukh Mandaviya, I K Jadeja and Ganpat Vasava will address press conferences across the state. Between June 15 and 28, party workers will visit booths to distribute a copy of PM Modi's letter to the countrymen, Vaghani said, adding that booth-wise WhatsApp group will be made to connect around 47 lakh new workers of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarat-bjp-to-hold-virtual-rallies-to-mark-modi-govt-anniversary-845585.html
04-06-2020||National Politics||West Bengal BJP gives key posts to turncoats to quell discontent||West Bengal BJP’s recent major organisational reshuffle, where several turncoats from other parties, especially, the Trinamool Congress (TMC), were allotted key posts is aimed towards quelling the discontent among them. According to state BJP insiders, the party leadership wants to ensure that these leaders from other parties, known for their organisational capabilities, can be uitlised fully during the 2021 Assembly elections. Former TMC MLA Arjun Singh who later became MP on a BJP ticket has been made a vice president. Congress MLA Dulal Bar who joined BJP has been made president of the state wing’s SC Morcha. Another turncoat former TMC MP Soumitra Khan switched over to the saffron party ahead of the Lok Sabha elections and has been made president of State unit’s Yuva Morcha. Former CPI(M) MLA and currently a BJP MP Khagen Murmu has been made president of state BJP’s ST Morcha. Sabyasachi Dutta, a TMC MLA who switched to BJP soon after the Lok Sabha elections was given the post of state secretary. The development comes at a time when the influx of leaders from other parties to BJP has significantly reduced. BJP sources revealed that another objective behind giving key posts to turncoats was to send a message that leaders who join BJP from other parties will be given due respect. “Leaders from other parties who joined BJP have been given due respect and recognition in the recent reshuffle in the state committee for their performance. Same will apply to other party leaders who will join BJP in future,” said state BJP leader and former TMC general secretary Mukul Roy. However, the move has ruffled a lot of feathers in the old guard of the Bengal BJP. They said that instead of allotting key posts in the party to turncoats they could have been “shown respect” in other ways. “For instance if disgruntled TMC leaders contact us after not being fielded from the seat of their choice in the 2021 Assembly elections, we could reward them by giving party ticket from the same seat,” said a senior state BJP leader.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/west-bengal-bjp-gives-key-posts-to-turncoats-to-quell-discontent-845663.html
04-06-2020||National Politics||Inhuman conditions at quarantine centres behind spike in COVID-19 cases in West Bengal: Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury||Senior Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury alleged on Thursday that most of the quarantine centres in West Bengal do not have proper facilities, which is the cause behind the recent spike in the number of COVID-19 cases in the state. He claimed that due to the "unhealthy and inhuman" living conditions, incidents of people running away from quarantine centres have come to light. "In the last few days, there have been reports of people running away from quarantine centres, complaining about unhealthy and inhuman living conditions. The situation is so bad that if a normal person is quarantined at a centre, he or she is bound to get infected," Chowdhury, an MP from Murshidabad district, said. The state government, during the last two months of lockdown, should have taken measures to set up more quarantine centres and firm up the facilities there, he said. "But it did just the opposite. It kept on doing politics on the issue of migrant labourers. Initially, it was hesitant to bring them back and now, when they were forced, they have just left them to fend for themselves," he said. The situation is so bad that due to the poor facilities at the quarantine centres, the number of positive cases is rising in the state, the Congress leader in the Lok Sabha said. His comments come in the backdrop of the state witnessing a steep rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in the last few days with over 1,600 detections since May 31. Several incidents of people running away from quarantine centres have been reported from Birbhum, South 24 Parganas, Malda and Murshidabad districts as the migrant labourers lodged there complain of a "lack of proper facilities". Referring to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's statement that over 8.5 lakh migrants workers have returned to the state, Chowdhury said the "figures only reflect the grave situation of unemployment in the state". The Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal has failed to create job opportunities and that is why lakhs of people have to go out of the state in search of livelihoods, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/inhuman-conditions-at-quarantine-centres-behind-spike-in-covid-19-cases-in-west-bengal-adhir-ranjan-chowdhury-845738.html
04-06-2020||National Politics||BJP indulging in horse trading in Gujarat: Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday accused the BJP of indulging in horse trading in Gujarat ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections. "The BJP is again using its time-tested tactic, which is horse trading, in Gujarat ahead of the Rajya Sabha elections," Gehlot tweeted. He said the party can go to any extent for winning seats. "Luring opposition MLAs is the party's only game plan in order to grab seats or power by hook or by crook," he said, in reaction to resignation of two Gujarat Congress MLAs.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-indulging-in-horse-trading-in-gujarat-ashok-gehlot-845766.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||J&K L-G launches 'MeraVetan' app for government employees||Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor Girish Chandra Murmu on Wednesday launched a salary tracker mobile app 'MeraVetan' aimed at providing salary-related information to government employees, an official spokesman said. With the launch of the MeraVetan App (Version-1), the employees will easily be able to access their salary and other details anytime, the L-G said, while adding that this would especially be useful for those posted in remote and rural areas with no access to the drawing and disbursing officers (DDOs). He called for more automation of various functions and schemes of the government to facilitate employees as well as the general public. Murmu said a similar application may be developed for pre and post-matric scholarship and integrated social security schemes run by the social welfare department so that the beneficiaries are able to track the scholarship and pension disbursement details. He also hoped that the app gets upgraded in future to help in income tax calculations and generation of Form-16. It was informed that the MeraVetan mobile app has been developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC) J&K on the Android platform for providing end-to-end computerisation of JKPaySys application. The app is available on JKPaySys main page and instructions for installation and use of the app are available on JKPaySys portal. After installing the app, the employees need to enter their centralized personnel information system (CPIS) ID, date of birth, GPF and NPS subscription number. In case they don't have this information, they can obtain it from their DDO. The app enables employees to view details of their salary anywhere at anytime. It provides information on pay scale, GPF/NPS subscription, allowances, deductions, GPF/NPS statement, income tax statement, SLI statement, etc. The details of the employees' salary shall be updated every month after payment from the treasury. After drawing the salary bill, employees can view their salary information from the app. It will facilitate the employees to get the salary slip quickly, thereby, reducing the load on DDOs, the spokesman further said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-l-g-launches-meravetan-app-for-government-employees-845375.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Deep rooted conspiracy behind killing of IB officer during Delhi riots, police tells court||Delhi Police on Wednesday filed its charge sheet in a court here in connection with the killing of Intelligence Bureau official, Ankit Sharma, during violence in north-east Delhi asserting that there was a deep rooted conspiracy behind the February riots and his ”murder” as he was “specifically targeted” by a mob led by suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain. The autopsy revealed that there were 51 sharp injuries on his body, the charge sheet said adding that the way Sharma was killed by the “cold blooded rioters” has shaken the social fabric of the society and instilled a fear in the minds of the residents of the area. In the 50-page charge sheet, Hussain has been named as one of the main accused along with nine others -- Anas, Firoj, Javed, Gulfam, Shoaib Alam, Salman, Nazeem, Kasim, Sameer Khan for the murder of Sharma. Two of the accused persons -- Sabir and Musa-- are absconding at present. All the arrested accused are in jail and they have been charged with various offences for the killing of Sharma by around 20-25 rioters who were equipped with stones, rod, lathi, knife etc. The charge sheet said they came from the side of Chand Bagh Pulia, caught hold of him on the instigation of Hussain from the political leader’s house and dragged him and beat him to death by inflicting sharp and blunt injuries and after killing him, threw his dead body in the drain. The dead body was fished out the next day in the morning. “A witness standing on a terrace had captured a video on his mobile phone, in which a group of persons are seen dumping the dead body in the drain. During post mortem, the doctors found 51 sharp and blunt injuries on Ankit’s body,” the charge sheet said. The Crime Branch of Delhi police filed the charge sheet before Metropolitan Magistrate Richa Parihar, who fixed the matter for consideration on June 16. The charge sheet was filed under various sections of the IPC for the offences including murder (302), kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine person (365) rioting (147 and 148), 153-A (Promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race etc) (153-A), criminal conspiracy (120-B) and destruction of evidence (201). The minimum punishment for the offence of murder is life imprisonment and maximum is death penalty. The charge sheet said “Investigation has revealed that there was a deep rooted conspiracy behind the riot and murder of Ankit Sharma, who was a familiar face in the area. He was specifically targeted by a mob led by Tahir Hussain, a politician of Aam Aadmi Party and sitting councillor in East Delhi Municipal Corporation, Delhi.It has been found that Tahir Hussain is the main person who had been instigating the mob, both on February 24 and 25, in the Chand Bagh area,” the charge sheet said. The police have listed 81 witnesses in the chargesheet to buttress its investigation against the accused persons including Hussain. The chargesheet stated that during investigation, witnesses have stated that on February 25, Sharma had moved ahead from the crowd of Hindu people standing a few distance away from Hussain’s house to pacify the people of both sides. “The rioters numbered in 20-25, equipped with stones, rod, lathi, danda, knife etc came from the side of Chand Bagh Pulia, caught hold of him on the instigation of Hussain from the political leader’s house and dragged him and beating him to death by inflicting sharp and blunt injuries and after killing him, threw his dead body in the drain,” it said. “Other accused persons were well known to Hussain as well as to each other and most of them are close relatives to each other and well known to each other prior to these riots. Due to which, meeting of minds took place very quickly and on the basis of logistics support as well as support extended by a public representative like Tahir Hussain involved them to commit heinous offence to the extent of murder of a young IB Officer, namely, Ankit Sharma. “The 51 sharp injuries on the body of deceased Ankit Sharma caused by sharp edged weapons as well as blunt objects clearly indicates how the cold blooded rioters brutally killed him in furtherance of a well hatched conspiracy. These kinds of incidents have shaken the social fabric of the society and a sense of fear in the mind of the residents of the area, particularly in north-east Delhi and generally all over the country,” it stated. It added that “during investigation, the blood stained knife used to stab Ankit Sharma and the blood stained clothes of the killer (with Ankit’s blood) were recovered. Another knife used in the crime was also recovered. Tahir Hussain’s licensed pistol was seized in a separate case.” “An accused Haseen alias Salman was instrumental in the murder of Ankit. He is the person who had assaulted him with a knife. During his interrogation, he revealed that he had heard about the killing of a 4 years old Muslim Boy by a Hindu, he became angry and took a knife and along with his accomplices, Sameer, Kasim, Sabir and others came to Chand Bagh Pulia on February 25,” the police said. The charge sheet said that “Salman further disclosed that he had stabbed Ankit Sharma a number of times with a knife which he was carrying. His accomplices also stabbed with knife and hit him with dandas and after killing him, threw his dead body in the nala.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/deep-rooted-conspiracy-behind-killing-of-ib-officer-during-delhi-riots-police-tells-court-845385.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Army top brass in Leh for India, China talks||Three days prior to the high-level meeting between the military leaders of India and China, some of Indian Army's most experienced officers have reached Ladakh to work out the strategies for the crucial talks amid border tension. From the Indian side, talks will be led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, commanding officer of the Leh-based 14 Corps. The venue will be the Chushul-Moldo junction in eastern Ladakh, which is one of the designated meeting points between Indian and Chinese troops. On Wednesday, Lt Gen Y K Joshi, who heads the Indian Army's Northern Command, also reached Leh to review the situation with Lt Gen Singh and other senior officials. The inputs from Lt Gen Joshi — a Kargil hero — will be crucial to resolve the month-long border crisis because of his understanding of the terrain and knowledge about the People's Liberation Army (PLA) of China.  Lt Gen Joshi preceded Lt Gen Singh in the 14 Corps. He was also India's Defence Attaché in Beijing. Lt Gen Joshi also had two stints at the Directorate of Military Operations in the army headquarters. The current tension between the Indian Army and the PLA  along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh had its origin in China’s unease over the construction of infrastructure by India in the border areas.  Beijing apparently perceived such constructions as a prelude to a military move by New Delhi towards Aksai Chin — a disputed area India claims as its own and accuses China of illegally occupying. Among the infrastructure under scanner is the strategically vital 255-km Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road that can bring Indian troops close to the Aksai Chin area, which is part of Jammu & Kashmir and under illegal occupation of China.  Incidentally, the construction of the road began nearly a decade ago during the UPA era. The Lt Gen-level meeting between the two armies on Saturday will seek to dispel some of the misconceptions that the Chinese had, and address the ground issues related to Pangong Tso and other sites. The Pangong lake area had seen several confrontations in the past due to differing perceptions about the LAC between the two neighbours. There are eight finger-like spurs on the northern bank of the mighty lake. Going by the Chinese perception of the LAC, the disputed boundary runs through Finger 4 on the western side. But according to the Indian Army's perception, the LAC runs through Finger 8. As a result, the Indian Army goes patrolling up to Finger 8 and if a PLA patrol party comes from the other side, confrontation takes place. This was the case this time too. The picturesque lake lies on the disputed border, with China claiming two-thirds of the 135-km long lake and India, a third. Besides Pangong Tso, the current face-off also happened at Gogra post and Galwan valley presumably also due to construction of border infrastructure on the Indian side.  At Galwan, which never was a contested area, the Chinese objection is to the construction of a feeder road to the DSDBO road.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/army-top-brass-in-leh-for-india-china-talks-845400.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Students, activists demand release of anti-CAA agitators||Student bodies across the country on Wednesday held virtual as well as symbolic protest demanding the release of activists arrested for protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, even as a scheduled demonstration at the Delhi University had to be cancelled after police denied permission. Apart from the virtual protest, some students also held symbolic protests inside JNU and Jamia Millia Islamia campuses with some students holding placards. At Jamia Millia Islamia, the police were deployed in anticipation of the protest but only two to three students turned up, sources said. At DU, the call for organising a protest was given by students of the varsity's Arts Faculty but the police denied permission, citing restrictions in place owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The members of Students' Federation of India alleged that they were threatened by the police against holding protest demonstration, a charge denied by police. During the virtual protest, students and activists carrying placards which read 'Sab Yaad Rakha Jaayega' and 'Down with CAA-NPR-NRC' took to Twitter and posted images expressing solidarity with Jamia Millia Islamia students Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar and Pinjra Tod activists Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, who have been accused of being involved in the conspiracy behind the northeast Delhi riots in February and arrested. Members of Jawaharlal Nehru Students' Union, Left-affiliated All India Students' Association (AISA), women's collective Pinjra Tod and others participated in the protest on Twitter. "Stop Arresting Students & Activists! Stop charging fabricated cases on anti-CAA protestors! Repeal draconian UAPA! Release all political prisoners! Arrest the real perpetrators of Delhi Riots - the likes of Kapil Mishra & Anurag Thakur!" AISA tweeted. The left outfit also shared pictures of how students, not only in India, but also abroad expressed solidarity with the protest. The student bodies had given a call for protest asking participants to maintain social distancing and carry placards and posters in their locality and share videos and pictures on social media. AISA member Damni Kain tweeted, "We have received solidarity from Greece, UK , Barcelona! The government needs to see that people across the world are standing against injustice and in solidarity with the oppressed. Release all political prisoners! No CAA, No NRC, No NPR!" Meanwhile, the activists of Students'' Federation of India (SFI) had given the call for the protest at the DU's Arts Faculty and had asked students to follow the guidelines. The SFI alleged that their student leaders and members were repeatedly threatened by officials of Maurice Nagar police station for the last couple of days and had been asked not assemble in the Arts Faculty as there would be heavy police deployment. They were also told that section 144 will be imposed and the students will get arrested and face serious charges, the SFI alleged. State committee member Varkey said, "Due to the repeated threats we scattered even more and held small gatherings near Meera Bai park and Vijay Nagar, which is a residential area for all the university students. "The government is using the COVID-19 situation to clamp down voices of dissent and shift the narrative from its own failure to contain the spread of the virus and flatten the curve to the Anti CAA- protesters and how anti-national they are." Anticipating protests from the students' organisations, the police had deployed forces at the Arts Faculty of the Delhi University. Refuting the allegations made by the student group, the police said they contacted the organisers of the protest and requested them not to assemble as section 144 is force in the wake ofCOVID-19 pandemic and any such gathering would be a violation. In university campuses of Delhi, students observed symbolic protest demonstration following the physical distancing norms, the AISA said. Similarly, students from Telangana, West Bengal, Bihar and other places protested at their homes against targeting of students. Few students of Jamia Millia Islamia assembled and raised their concerns over arrest of their fellow students. Students raised placard with demands of "Release All Political Prisoners". Students of other Universities, including Ambedkar University also raised similar concerns.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/students-activists-demand-release-of-anti-caa-agitators-845403.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||RML Hospital giving out erroneous COVID-19 test results: AAP||The AAP on Wednesday claimed that the Centre-run RML Hospital was giving out “erroneous” COVID-19 test results and violating government norms of submitting the same within 48 hours. Addressing a press conference here, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Delhi government re-tested 30 samples from Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital which were declared COVID-19 positive. He said 12 of these samples were found to be negative and the result of two samples was inconclusive. The RML Hospital, in a statement, said the dates of sampling were different and there was a gap of 7-14 days when resampling was done. It said quality checks are being done with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the results are concordant. The hospital also maintained that there was no backlog anymore and regular quality checks were being done. "We are doing quality checks with AIIMS and NCDC and the results are concordant. Our positivity is more as all hotspot cases, family clusters and high-risk contacts of lab confirmed cases are more in our screening centre. Also we do not have any backlog now. The problem existed earlier when adequate testing kits were not available," it said in a statement. AAP leader Raghav Chadha earlier alleged that there was an error of 45 per cent in RML's coronavirus testing. "As per the protocol and to maintain the certainty of the tests, the Delhi government checks the test results of the hospitals by re-testing some samples time and again. Recently, the Delhi government took 30 samples from RML Hospital which were declared to be positive (by the hospital) and sent for re-testing,” he said. “You will be surprised to know that the result of 12 samples out of the 30 came negative and results for two samples were inconclusive," he said. "The tests were done within 24 hours after the samples were declared (COVID-19) positive by the RML Hospital. This means that there was an error of 45 per cent in RML's testing. Such a huge variation in the result of COVID-19 test is unacceptable. Such false and erroneous results are highly condemnable and this exposes the negligence of the hospital," Chadha said. The AAP leader said the Centre, Delhi government and the high court have clearly stated that COVID-19 test results should be submitted within 48 hours of the testing and preferably within 24 hours. "But unfortunately, the RML Hospital has completely violated these protocols. They have submitted the results after 72 hours, six days, seven days, 10 days and even after 31 days," he said. “Around 281 patents got their results after three days, 210 people after four days, 50 people after seven days, four people after nine days, and some reports were submitted after 31 days," he claimed. "On behalf of the AAP, I will request the Delhi government to take stringent action against the RML Hospital for giving out 45 per cent erroneous COVID-19 test reports and for violating the government rules of submitting test results within 48 hours," Chadha added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rml-hospital-giving-out-erroneous-covid-19-test-results-aap-845404.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||New Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta says expansion his focus, hints at overhaul of organisation||Adesh Gupta in his maiden media briefing after being appointed as the Delhi BJP chief said on Wednesday that he will focus on expansion of the party and hinted at an overhaul of the organisation in coming days. He is likely to take charge as new president of BJP's Delhi unit on Thursday. Gupta, a former North Delhi mayor and first-time councilor from West Patel Nagar, surprised many in the party after he was declared by the BJP as a replacement for the incumbent Manoj Tiwari on Tuesday. "The morale of ordinary workers is natural to go up with my appointment. It encourages them to work hard believing they can also reach the top," said Gupta, who began his political career as a member of the RSS-affiliated Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) in 1986. Citing his priorities, he said he will work for the expansion of Delhi BJP among the sections of society it has not been able to make inroads, especially in the slum clusters. However, the current priority is to help out people amid the coronavirus pandemic and "expose" the Kejriwal government that has "failed" in ensuring proper medical facilities to COVID-19 patients, he claimed. "We will play the role of a constructive opposition to ensure the interests of people are not hurt due to failures of the government," he said. He said changes in the party organisation will be effected in coming days in consultation with senior leaders of the party. He hinted that he will prefer "active members" in his team and get rid of "non-performers" as and when an overhaul comes about. "Not everyone will be replaced but hardworking workers will definitely be given their due," he said. Gupta, who faces a daunting task of securing the confidence of top leaders in Delhi, who are way much senior to him, said he will employ the formula of communication and respect, to ensure their contribution for the growth and expansion of the party.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/new-delhi-bjp-chief-adesh-gupta-says-expansion-his-focus-hints-at-overhaul-of-organisation-845405.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus count in Uttar Pradesh rises to 8,870||A coronavirus patient died while 141 more infection cases surfaced, taking the Uttar Pradesh’s COVID-19 count to 8,870 on Wednesday. According to a health bulletin, the fresh death was reported from Mau. So far, 230 people have died of the infection in the state, with the maximum 45 deaths taking place in Agra. Among the 141 fresh cases reported on Wednesday, the maximum 19 surfaced in Bulandshahr; 16 Hardoi; 10 in Jaunpur; nine in Siddharthnagar; and eight in Agra, the bulletin said. Principal Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad appealed to people to promptly inform the authorities in case of virus symptoms.  He said the number of active cases in the state is now 3,383 as 5,257 have recovered from the disease. He said on Tuesday, 9,322 samples were tested and till now 3,08,398 tests have been conducted in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-count-in-uttar-pradesh-rises-to-8870-845411.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Indore, Ujjain on alert as Cyclone Nisarga likely to enter Madhya Pradesh||Authorities in Indore and Ujjain divisions in the western part of Madhya Pradesh have been asked to be prepared to deal with the impact of Cyclone 'Nisarga', which is likely to hit the state on Thursday, an IMD official said. The cyclonic storm is likely to enter Khandwa, Khargone and Burhanpur districts in the state between 7 am and 11 am on Thursday, the official said. Rains have already been reported from some places of the state due to the impact of the cyclonic storm, he said. The weather condition is likely to affect Indore and Ujjain divisions for the next two to three days, he said, adding that some places may witness thunderstorms with heavy rains and lightning during this period. Strong winds ranging from 50 to 60 kmph are expected in some areas in the western part of the state, the official said. Meanwhile, officials in Indore and Ujjain divisions have been asked to be prepared and alert citizens about the storm through public announcement systems and social media. The government procurement of wheat and gram from the farmers is currently underway at some centres in both the divisions and authorities have been instructed to store the purchased grains at safe places. Meanwhile, Indore collector Manish Singh said in a meeting that according to the IMD, the cyclonic storm is likely to hit the district between 11 am and 1 pm on Thursday. The collector appealed to the citizens to stay indoors as a precaution during this period. A control room has also been set up by the Indore Municipal Corporation to deal with effects of cyclonic storm, it was stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indore-ujjain-on-alert-as-cyclone-nisarga-likely-to-enter-madhya-pradesh-845414.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: 7-day home quarantine for all asymptomatic passengers arriving in Delhi||The Delhi government has now changed its quarantine norms for asymptomatic passengers reaching the national capital. They will have to confine themselves to their homes for seven days, according to the new order. So far, asymptomatic persons reaching the capital were permitted to head home with an advice that they should self monitor their health for 14 days and reach out to district surveillance officer or the state or national call centre 1075 in case they develop symptoms.  The change in norms came as Delhi is recording more than 1,000 cases daily since May 28, except for a day. On Wednesday, the capital had recorded 1,513 cases, the biggest spike in a single day, taking the total to over 23,465 cases since the first case was reported on March 2 while 606 people have died so far. With domestic flights started functioning and more trains reaching the capital, the Delhi government fears that there could be further rise in cases if passengers are allowed to move freely. Already, Delhi is reeling under a huge surge in the number of COVID-19 cases. According to the new order issued by Chief Secretary Vijay Dev, "All asymptomatic passengers who enter/de-board in National Capital Territory of Delhi shall home quarantine themselves for seven days (in place of 14 days self-monitoring of health..." Authorities in airport, Railways and transport have also been directed to provide passenger manifest to the Principal Secretary (Revenue)-cum Divisional Commissioner on a daily basis. These lists will then be forwarded to concerned District Magistrates under whose jurisdiction the passenger resides. The District Magistrates will ensure that these passengers residing in their jurisdiction remain in home quarantine for the stipulated period. Delhi Disaster Management Authority Special CEO K S Meena has been designated as the nodal officer for this task.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-7-day-home-quarantine-for-all-asymptomatic-passengers-arriving-in-delhi-845427.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Amidst tension on borders, IAF building emergency airstrip in Kashmir||Amidst prevailing tension on borders with China and Pakistan, Indian Air Force (IAF) has started construction of an emergency three-kilometre-long runway parallel to a stretch of Srinagar-Jammu National Highway in southern Anantnag district. The construction work started on Monday and is going at a fast pace. Currently, the earth filling work is being done on the stretch which is being executed by a lesser-known local construction company - Fetch Constructions. Sources said that work on the runway adjacent to the National Highway (NH-44) in Bijbehara area is going on at war footing. “On completion, it will serve as an alternate runway facility for fighter jets in case of any emergency,” they said. On completion, it will be the third airstrip in the Kashmir Valley, after those in Awantipora and Srinagar, that will be used by the IAF for its exercises. Major General, A Sengupta, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of Awantipora-based Victor Force said the runway is being constructed by the IAF. However, he declined to further comment on the issue. Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) also confirmed that the ‘emergency landing and runway strip’ was under construction. They said they did not have operation details. No IAF official was available for comment. A senior Army official said the construction of the runway had nothing to do with a stand-off with Chinese troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh Union Territory. “Future highways could be the latest force multiplier for the Air Force,” he said, adding that some public roads had been designed to serve as runways for its warplanes to “provide an alternative for launching operations if key airfields are bombed out by the enemy”. The IAF, he said, had firmed up an ambitious plan for emergency airstrips in “important sectors”.  “This (construction of the runway) is part of that plan,” the officer added. “The decision was taken in June last year. This strip is among the 13 other such strips to be constructed across the country,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amidst-tension-on-borders-iaf-building-emergency-airstrip-in-kashmir-845479.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||20-year-old woman raped by neighbour in Muzaffarnagar||A 20-year-old woman was allegedly raped by a neighbour at pistol-point when she was alone in her house in Muzaffarnagar district, police said on Thursday. Charthawal police station SHO Sube Singh said a case has been registered based on a complaint filed by the woman's father and the accused arrested. The woman has been sent for medical examination. According to a complaint filed by the woman's father, the accused entered into their house on Wednesday when her daughter was alone and raped her at pistol-point.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-year-old-woman-raped-by-neighbour-in-muzaffarnagar-845508.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Only 3% migrants returning to UP test COVID-19 positive: Report||Of more than 3.7 lakh samples that have been tested, 24 percent are of migrants who have been returning to the state since the last two months. A total of 8,729 samples tested positive, out of which 27.5 percent are of migrants. The state’s overall positivity rate stands at 2.85 percent, which remains close to the positivity rate among migrants. Over the last ten days, the average has largely remained the same. However, though Uttar Pradesh is the top destination of migrants, the positivity rate in the state stands in clear contrast to states like Maharashtra (15 percent), Gujarat (8 percent), and Delhi (9 percent).  The heavy influx of migration has spread the virus to 75 districts in the state. Quoting the President of Public Health Foundation of India and a member of the high-level committee of public experts for COVID-19, K Srinath Reddy, the publication suggested that there has been no exponential growth in the coronavirus cases due to migration.  “I have been saying from the beginning that the migrants did not pose a threat. They should have been assisted in being sent back right at the beginning of the lockdown. The reasons are that, basically, people who brought in the virus are foreign travellers. They spread the virus and their primary contacts were the people who secondarily spread the virus,” Reddy told the publication. He stressed that migrants have a very low exposure rate to the virus because of the nature of their occupation and that the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme data confirms it. “Migrants are not the population, in sense of their occupation and place of residence, who would have come in contact with these people. The nature of their occupation was very different like construction sites or in very low-income dwellings. Their likelihood of having the virus by March 25 was very remote. If they had been assisted with being sent back, we would not have seen this problem. But having kept them in urban hotspots, for almost eight weeks, there was a danger they might have actually carried the virus. However, compared to others, their exposure rates would have been much less. The data now confirms that,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/only-3-migrants-returning-to-up-test-covid-19-positive-report-845515.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||BJP leader's brother shoots self to death in UP||The brother of a BJP leader killed himself by shooting from his licensed pistol in Muzaffarnagar district of Uttar Pradesh, police said on Thursday. The police said Ajay Kumar Agarwal, a transport financier, had been suffering from depression and shot himself dead with his pistol on Wednesday evening at his house in the North Civil Lines area. Agarwal is the elder bother of Uttar Pradesh BJP leader Sanjay Agarwal. As the news spread, several BJP leaders, including Uttar Pradesh minister Kapil Dev Agarwal, Budhana MLA Umesh Malik and BJP district president Vijay Shukla, visited the residence of the deceased. The police said the body has been sent for post-mortem.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leaders-brother-shoots-self-to-death-in-up-845518.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Supreme Court for common platform to facilitate people's movement in Delhi-NCR||The Supreme Court on Thursday told the Centre, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments to come up with one policy and portal to facilitate the movement of people in the National Capital Region. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah gave one week to the states to make an endeavour to find a common programme and portal for interstate movement within the NCR.  The court directed the three states of Delhi-NCR to hold a meeting along with the central government to formulate a common plan or policy and platform regarding the regulation of movement of individuals.   A PIL was filed earlier last month by Rohit Bhalla, questioning unconstitutionality of the decisions of Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi administrations to restrict the movement of individuals for permissible activities and the necessity of applying for passes for each of these states on various state government portals.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-supreme-court-for-common-platform-to-facilitate-peoples-movement-in-delhi-ncr-845521.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Militants open fire at cops in J&K's Kulgam, civilian injured||A civilian was injured when militants fired upon a police party in Jammu and Kashmir's Kulgam district on Thursday, police said. Militants fired upon a police party near Yaripora Chowk in the south Kashmir district in the afternoon, a police official said. He said a civilian was injured in the firing and he has been taken to a hospital. There are no reports of injuries to any police personnel, the official said, adding the area has been cordoned off and a hunt launched to nab the attackers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/militants-open-fire-at-cops-in-jks-kulgam-civilian-injured-845583.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Entire focus of Delhi govt is on saving lives of people: Sisodia||The entire focus of the Delhi government is on saving lives of people and providing adequate facilities for COVID-19 patients who need hospital care, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday. Jain said an order had been issued to have 20 per cent beds reserved in 61 private hospitals. "We already have our dedicated COVID-19 facilities. Three more private hospitals were added yesterday. And, if those private hospitals with mixed use (20 per cent reserved beds) are facing logistic issues, then they can be fully converted to dedicated COVID-19 facilities," Sisodia said. A record single-day spike of 1,513 fresh cases took the COVID-19 tally in Delhi to beyond 23,000-mark on Wednesday and the death toll due to the disease climbed to 606, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/entire-focus-of-delhi-govt-is-on-saving-lives-of-people-sisodia-845606.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand govt announces Rs 1 lakh relief for kin of coronavirus victims||The Uttarakhand government on Thursday announced a compensation of Rs 1 lakh to the next of kin of those who die of COVID-19 in the state. The announcement was made by Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat while reviewing the coronavirus situation in the state through a video conference with officials. The chief minister also asked officials to ensure strict compliance of the Union government guidelines for containment zones and take stern action against violators. He asked them to create awareness among people about the necessity of using masks and social distancing. Rawat underlined the need for field surveillance to ensure strict adherence to the norms by people. Reviewing the situation, the Chief Minister said all necessary facilities should be made available at quarantine centres and surprise checks should be conducted to see if the norms are being followed by people in home quarantine. Funds should be provided to gram pradhans to upgrade facilities at quarantine centres in villages, Rawat said. Rawat asked the district magistrates to do infrastructure and logistic gap analysis in their areas in terms of the situation that may arise in the coming days and take preparatory steps accordingly. The battle against COVID-19 can be fought only with cooperation of people, he said, adding that strictness and awareness are the two main weapons in this battle. Rawat also ordered a complete sanitisation of Dehradun by closing down the city on Saturdays and Sundays. The chief minister ordered closure of the Dehradun's Niranjanpur vegetable market from where several people tested positive for the infection recently. He said the market should be closed and an alternative arrangement be made.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-govt-announces-rs-1-lakh-relief-for-kin-of-coronavirus-victims-845608.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Court reserves order on bail plea of jailed AAP MLA||A Delhi Court will pronounce on Friday it's order on the interim bail plea of AAP legislator Prakash Jarwal, arrested in connection with a case of alleged suicide of a doctor in south Delhi in April. The MLA has sought bail as his father-in-law, who was suspected to be COVID-19 positive, has died. Rajendra Singh, 52, allegedly committed suicide in Durga Vihar in south Delhi on April 18. In his suicide note, the doctor held Jarwal responsible for his death. Additional Sessions Judge Sanjeev Aggarwal heard arguments from the accused as well as the prosecution and reserved order on the application for tomorrow. The lawyer appearing for the accused MLA said that the deceased had breathing problem since last two days and he was admitted in LNJP hospital. ”The father in law of the accused had some breathing problem since last two days consequently he was admitted in hospital. He expired in LNJP hospital where he was under treatment. He was suspected with COVID-19 virus and his samples has been taken by LNJP hospital doctors,” the application, moved by advocate Mohd Irshad, said. The plea further said that Jarwal's wife and son, 11-month old, were also residing with her father for last several days. “There is apprehension that the wife and the child of the accused are also suffering from COVID- 19,” the application said, adding that both of them are currently in quarantine. It further said, as per Hindu rites the presence of son-in-law is must at time of cremation of his father in law. “There is apprehension that wife and son of the accused are COVID-19 positive and the old aged parents of the accused were also in touch with wife of Applicant. ”The presence of the accused is must at his home to look after his 11 months old baby, his wife and his parents who are senior citizens... Even two before Covid-19 patience were found positive in Tihar Jail,” it said, seeking bail on “humanitarian ground”. The accused said he will co-operate with the police authorities in the investigation as and when he is called by the them.  While opposing the bail application, the public prosecutor said that the allegations against the accused were serious in nature. “The investigation is at a crucial stage and if granted the relief, the accused may likely to hamper the probe,” the prosecution said. The court had on May 28 denied him bail, saying probe was at a crucial stage and that the accused was an influential person and could hamper the ongoing probe. According to police, like Jarwal, deceased Singh was also involved in the business of water supply with the Delhi Jal Board since 2007, and police alleged that the MLA and his associates were extorting money from other water-tanker owners, including the doctor. Jarwal, who represents the Deoli assembly constituency, was arrested on May 9, after a case of extortion and abetment to suicide was filed against him and others based on a police complaint by the doctor's son -- Hemant. The FIR says Singh had been threatened and intimidated by Jarwal and others. "During investigation it was found that there was a big nexus between water-tanker owners and the accused person," the police said in the remand application. Police said their investigation showed the money extorted from water-tanker owners was routed through the MLA's brother Anil Jarwal and invested in several properties and farm-houses in Delhi, Gurugram (Haryana) and Jaipur (Rajasthan). They also claimed that Jarwal had got allotted many water borewells in his constituency by influencing the Jal Board and one water borewell was illegally given after taking Rs 10 lakh as "gratification money". Police said complaints against the accused were filed to various authorities but action was never taken. They said they have found a WhatsApp group in the name of tanker-owners whose administrator is Kapil Nagar, a co-accused and Jarwal's close aide. Jarwal is one of its members. The chat details clearly show the direct involvement of both the accused in running the tanker mafia in Sangam Vihar and Tigri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/court-reserves-order-on-bail-plea-of-jailed-aap-mla-845616.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||SC asks Centre to convene meeting with NCR states for easing inter-state movement at borders||The Supreme Court Thursday asked the Centre to convene a meeting of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for easing inter-state movement at all borders in the National Capital Region (NCR) amid certain restrictions imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan, hearing a plea on restriction for permissible activities in the NCR, said the states should have a common programme and a common portal for inter-state movement. "We are of the view that in the facts of the present case, the Government of India shall convene a meeting of concerned State officials/UTs and endeavour to find out a common programme, common portal for easing the inter-state movement on all state borders in the National Capital Region," the bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and M R Shah, said in its order. The bench, which heard the matter through video-conferencing, noted the submissions advanced by the petitioner's counsel who said that in the NCR there should be "one policy, one portal and one pass which shall be recognized by all the governments". The bench further noted the submissions of counsel that due to difference in the decision taken by different governments, lot of confusion and difficulty are being caused to the common man. "Needful be done within a week," the bench said and posted the matter for hearing on June 12. During the hearing, the bench observed that there should be a consistent policy in this regard for the NCR. The counsel appearing for the Centre referred to the May 30 order of the Ministry of Home Affairs. The MHA's May 30 order had guidelines for phased re-opening which included that there shall be no restriction on inter-state or intra-state movement of persons and goods. The counsel appearing for Haryana informed the bench that the state has lifted the restrictions on movement at its borders.  The petitioner's counsel told the bench that though the standing counsel for the state of NCT of Delhi has been served, no one has put in appearance in the matter. The plea, filed through advocate Anindita Mitra, has alleged that "complete sealing of borders" within the NCR and restrictions imposed on movement of citizens was in violation of the new guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). On May 15, the apex court had sought responses from the Centre and governments of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Delhi on the plea. The petition has sought to declare as unconstitutional the measures by the district administrations of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh which allegedly restrict movement for permissible activities in areas falling within the NCR due to "blanket orders of sealing borders without reasonable exceptions". It has referred to the April 29 order of district administrations in Haryana, which is applicable to Gurugram and Sonepat, and May 3 public statement by the district administrations of Uttar Pardesh about Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad. It has alleged that these measures are in violation of the MHA's May 1 guidelines which allow movement for permissible activities and has been adopted by these states. It has also sought to declare as illegal such measures which restricts movement in the NCR. The plea has also sought directions to governments of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to set up and maintain a common portal or mechanism for movement passes within the NCR for permissible activities as per MHA's guidelines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-asks-centre-to-convene-meeting-with-ncr-states-for-easing-inter-state-movement-at-borders-845641.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Haryana: 143 held on drug charge during lockdown till May 31||The Haryana Police has arrested 143 people and seized 3,853 kg of narcotics during the coronavirus lockdown period between March 23 and May 31, a statement said here on Thursday. While 2,179 kg of narcotics were seized between March 23 and May 22, another 1,674 kg were recovered from May 23 to May 31, it said, adding that 143 people were arrested in this connection. The Haryana government had imposed the coronavirus lockdown on March 23, two days before it was clamped in the whole nation. The seizure of narcotics included over 1,160 kg of poppy husk, 38-kg ganja, 5.8-kg opium, 4.2-kg heroin and 66 kg of poppy plants besides 3,500 prohibited tablets, the statement said. Of the total 94 cases, the maximum 31 cases under NDPS Act were registered in Rohtak where 52 people were arrested. Similarly, 21 cases were registered in Sirsa, eight in Fatehabad, and four each in Karnal and Palwal.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-143-held-on-drug-charge-during-lockdown-till-may-31-845658.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Man burnt alive by Muslim mob targeting Hindu properties during Delhi violence: Police tells court||Delhi Police told a court here on Thursday that a man was allegedly burnt alive inside his sweets-shop when a Muslim mob targeted properties of Hindus during the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. The fifth charge sheet filed in connection with the February riots during protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) named 12 persons as accused in the murder case of Dilbar Negi who worked at the shop. The Crime Branch of Delhi Police filed the charge sheet before Metropolitan Magistrate Richa Parihar who has put up the matter for further hearing on June 18. All the accused, who have been charged for offences of murder, rioting, promoting enmity between groups on the ground of religion and criminal conspiracy, are in judicial custody. According to the charge sheet, a mob of Muslim community came from Brijpuri Pulia side in northeast Delhi and started rioting, targeting properties of Hindus and continued torching them till late night on February 24. One of the properties torched by the mob was a shop named Anil Sweets from where the police had recovered the charred body of Negi on February 26, it said. Negi had gone to the godown of the shop for having lunch and taking rest, the police said. “During the recent riots in north-east Delhi, active rioting took place in different areas of north-east district starting from Kardampurir Maujpur, Chand Bagh and Shiv Vihar Tiraha near DRP School and Rajdhani Public School. At about 3.00 pm a mob of Muslim community came from Brijpuri Pulia side and started rioting. “The rioting mob targeted the properties of Hindus, that is, M/S Anil Sweets, Anil Dairy, pastry shop, book shop, DRP School and godown of M/S Anil Sweets etc by torching them till late night and the mob of the same rioters community remained dominant till late night,” the charge sheet said. The charge sheet has been filed under various sections including 147 and 148 (rioting and punishment for rioting), 149, 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race etc), 302 (murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/man-burnt-alive-by-muslim-mob-targeting-hindu-properties-during-delhi-violence-police-tells-court-845659.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||With 367 new infections, Uttar Pradesh's coronavirus cases cross 9,000 mark; death toll at 245||The number of COVID-19 cases crossed the 9,000 mark in Uttar Pradesh on Thursday with 367 fresh infections being reported in last 24 hours, while the death toll rose by 15 to 245. The total number of COVID-19 cases went up to 9,237, principal secretary of health Amit Mohan Prasad said. The number of those recovered and discharged from hospitals stood at 5,439, while 245 people died due to the virus, Prasad said. The number of active cases was 3,553. He said the tracking of migrant labourers returning to the state has been continuing with the help of ASHA workers who have till now tracked over 12 lakh such people. Prasad appealed to the aged, pregnant women and those having morbidity to maintain utmost care and adopt all necessary precautions to safeguard themselves from infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-367-new-infections-uttar-pradeshs-coronavirus-cases-cross-9000-mark-death-toll-at-245-845660.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||CBI books Delhi jeweller for Rs 53 crore bank fraud||The CBI has booked a Delhi-based jeweller, Ginni Gold Pvt Ltd, and its five directors for alleged bank fraud causing loss of Rs 53 crore to Union Bank of India, officials said Thursday. Along with the company, the CBI has also named guarantor company  S K G Doors Pvt Ltd and its two directors, panel advocates of the bank in the case, they said. "It was alleged that the said borrower company, engaged in the manufacturing and trading of gold/diamond-studded jewellery had obtained cash credit facilities and bank guarantee and standby Line of Credit limit from Union Bank of India, East Patel Nagar, New Delhi," CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said here. It is alleged that the guarantor company submitted false title deeds of sold-out properties as a mortgage for the credit facilities enjoyed by the company, he said. "It was also alleged that the said accused (borrower company) did not repay the loan amount, and the same was declared as NPA, which has resulted in a loss to the tune of Rs 53 crore to the bank, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cbi-books-delhi-jeweller-for-rs-53-crore-bank-fraud-845720.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Panic grips border residents as Pak Rangers fire at civilian areas||Panic gripped the people living in Kathua-Samba belt along the International Border (IB) in the Jammu region on Thursday after Pakistan Rangers pounded the residential areas with heavy firing, damaging over a dozen houses, officials said. Many villagers had a narrow escape as they ran helter-skelter to protect themselves from the unprovoked Pakistani firing, they said. Pakistan Rangers targeted the civilian areas with small arms and medium weapons in the Hiranagar sector, they said. Around a dozen houses suffered damages and bullets entered the bedrooms of the people, the officials said. The BSF troops guarding the borderline retaliated strongly to the Pakistani firing, they said. The incident triggered fear among the people in Chandwan hamlet as they began leaving homes to take shelter at safer places, the officials said. A resident said they demand that the government should teach Pakistan a lesson. "We want that the government should direct the security forces to give a befitting reply to Pakistan. This has been going on for decades," Rano Devi said. In the Arnia sector of Jammu district, Pakistan Army fired at people engaged in constructing a road, connecting a cremation ground situated near the IB. JCBs and tractors used for ferrying dug out soil from the area were targeted, the officials said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/panic-grips-border-residents-as-pak-rangers-fire-at-civilian-areas-845725.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Court dismisses Jamia Coordination Committee member Safoora Zargar’s bail plea||When you choose to play with embers, you cannot blame the wind to have carried the spark a bit too far and spread the fire, a Delhi court said on Thursday while dismissing bail plea of Jamia Coordination Committee member Safoora Zargar, booked under the UAPA in a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi during protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in February. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana said that during the course of investigation a larger conspiracy was discernible and if there was prima evidence of conspiracy, acts and statements made by any one of the conspirators, it is admissible against all. The court said that even if there was no direct act of violence attributable to the accused (Zargar), she cannot shy away from her liability under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. “The acts and inflammatory speeches of the co-conspirators are admissible under the Indian Evidence Act even against the accused,” it said. It further said that there was prima facie evidence to show there was a conspiracy to at least blockade the roads (chakka jaam). Keeping in mind her “precarious medical condition” the court asked the Tihar Jail Superintendent to provide adequate medical aid and assistance to her. Zargar, M Phil student of Jamia Millia Islamia University, is more than four months pregnant. During the hearing held through video conferencing, police told the court that she had allegedly given “inflammatory speeches” to instigate a mob that led to the riots in February. Zargar’s counsel claimed that she has been falsely implicated in the case and had no role in the alleged criminal conspiracy in the case. The counsel claimed that the investigating agency is in fact creating a "false narrative" to implicate innocent students who do not approve of the government’s policy or legislation. The police had earlier claimed that Zargar allegedly blocked a road near Jaffrabad metro station during the anti-CAA protests and instigated people that led to the riots in the area. It further claimed that she was allegedly part of the “premediated conspiracy” to incite communal riots in northeast Delhi in February. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and scores injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-court-dismisses-jamia-coordination-committee-member-safoora-zargar-s-bail-plea-845746.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||HC grants bail to man accused of making derogatory remarks against UP CM Yogi Adityanath||The Allahabad High Court on Thursday granted bail to a man arrested for allegedly posting derogatory remarks against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on a social networking site. Justice Siddhartha granted bail to accused Tanveer Ahmad Khan after hearing his counsel’s plea, denying his client’s involvement in the alleged incident. The counsel argued that Khan is a Ghazipur resident and working as a constable in Bihar police. He was on duty at the time of the alleged incident, the counsel pleaded. Khan was arrested on May 3 from Deep Nagar area in Nalanda district of Bihar for allegedly making derogatory remarks against Adityanath. An FIR in this connection was registered at Dildar Nagar police station of Ghazipur, Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-grants-bail-to-man-accused-of-making-derogatory-remarks-against-up-cm-yogi-adityanath-845748.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||SAD-BJP to seek independent probe into liquor, seed 'scams'||The Shiromani Akali Dal and the BJP on Thursday decided to seek an independent investigation into the alleged liquor and seed scams in Punjab. At a meeting of their coordination committee, both parties decided to submit a memorandum in this regard to Punjab Governor V P Singh Badnore. The meeting was jointly presided over by Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma. During the meeting, leaders from both parties slammed the Congress-led government for the alleged liquor and seed scams, a release said. Both parties held that the government had tried to “cover up” the Rs 5,600-crore liquor “scam”. “The issue of the loot of the state treasury remains. It is of utmost important to order an independent inquiry into the scam to ascertain how the spoils were shared between different Congress leaders,” the leaders noted in the meeting. The Akalis had earlier alleged that the liquor mafia in league with some Congress leaders and legislators had caused a loss of Rs 5,600 crore to the exchequer by allowing liquor from distilleries without payment of excise duty. The leaders of both parties also took a note of the inter-state ramifications of the alleged Rs 4,000 crore seed scam under which farmers had been “duped” through the supply of “spurious seeds” of PR-128 and PR-129 paddy varieties. It said though few arrests had been made belatedly after an uproar by farmers, the “political patronage” given to the “scamsters” could be unmasked only by a central probe. Badal and Sharma noted that the government was not only “discriminating” against farmers, but also “mistreating” them. They demanded that pending dues of Rs 680 crore be released to sugarcane farmers immediately. The leaders also asked the Congress led government to tell why it had not done any disbursal from the Rs 6,000 crore accumulated under the disaster management fund. They said the government should come out with an audit report of the money spent under this head in the past three years and explain why the funds had been “misappropriated”. A huge quantity of ration sent by the Centre for 1.4 crore people of the state has also been “misappropriated” by Congressman, they alleged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sad-bjp-to-seek-independent-probe-into-liquor-seed-scams-845773.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||50-year-old man held for rape attempt on baby girl in Madhya Pradesh||A 50-year-old man was arrested for allegedly trying to rape a baby girl on Thursday morning in Indergarh town of Madhya Pradesh's Datia district, police said. The victim, aged less than two years, is granddaughter of the accused man's friend, they said. In the morning, the accused lured the girl by offering chocolate and took her to his house where he tried to rape her, said Indergarh police station in-charge Raju Razak. When the girl started crying, the accused fled the spot, but was later arrested, Razak said. On the complaint of the victim's family, a case under relevant sections of the IPC and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, was registered against the accused, the official added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/50-year-old-man-held-for-rape-attempt-on-baby-girl-in-madhya-pradesh-845789.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Reconsider decision to use hotels for hospitalisation COVID patients: CII to Delhi govt||Industry chamber CII has urged the Delhi government to reconsider its decision to use select hotels for the purpose of hospitalisation of COVID-19 patients.  In a letter to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, CII National Committee on Tourism & Hospitality Advisor Dipak Haksar said the identified hotels are neither designed nor equipped to deal with cases of this nature where ailing patients would need careful supervision in a sanitised environment. "Most hotels are carpeted and will find it difficult to follow the hospital protocols to sanitise areas as periodical sanitisation is required due to contagious nature of the disease," the letter added.  Moreover, dedicated nursing stations are a must to keep a check on all patients and should be strategically located to cater to patients who require immediate help and should be visible from the nursing station.  "Other important aspects are the right size elevators, hospital beds and supporting broader care like oxygen support in the rooms," it added.  Another concern is that hotels are not designed for direct room exhaust potential to accommodate negative pressure and HEPA filtering. This can  further spread the disease to the patients in the other room. To further add to this, garbage disposal system to dispose the garbage related to COVID-19  is currently not available with hotel as it requires professional handling and any error can spread infection in the community, Haksar said in the letter.  Stating that COVID-19 has deeply impacted the Indian tourism and hospitality sector, the letter also said the industry estimates a loss of almost Rs 5 lakh crore and job losses of around 3 crore.  Therefore, the recent guidelines by the Ministry of Home Affairs of allowing the hospitality industry to go for a graded opening is indeed a welcome step.  Haksar asked the Delhi government to also allow the opening of this sector saying, "we are confident that this will act as a catalyst to kick start business activity and the resultant revenue accruals will act as a lifeline in these times of hardship".  "We were therefore taken in by surprise by the administration's notification of requisitioning hotels for purpose of hospitalization of COVID positive cases and as an extension of designated hospitals," he said in the letter.  This decision of the state government has caused deep consternation within the industry and has come as a major blow to the hospitality industry that is already reeling under the pressure of both revenue and job losses, he added. The purpose of managing and providing critical care to COVID-19 patients will be best served by containing them in specially designed  sites including stadiums, exhibition halls where pooled resources can provide the necessary care to meet the requirements of this epidemic, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/reconsider-decision-to-use-hotels-for-hospitalisation-covid-patients-cii-to-delhi-govt-845801.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Over one lakh COVID tests conducted in Punjab: State health minister||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Thursday said more than one lakh samples have been tested for COVID-19 infection in the state so far. He said Punjab has increased its testing per million to 3,259, which is higher than the national average of 3,046. "Punjab has completed testing of over 1,00,000 samples for COVID-19," the minister said in an official release here. Sidhu added that the state was conducting around 4,500 tests per day. The minister said the state government has decided to provide special training to community health workers, staff nurses and pharmacists for collection of swab samples to increase sample collection capacity. The state government has also decided to conduct free testing for samples sent by empanelled private hospitals or clinics, he added. The minister said instructions have been issued to civil surgeons to enlist private hospitals, clinics and laboratories which are willing to get empanelled. These facilities should have separate isolated spaces for suspected cases of COVID-l9 where samples will be taken, he said.  They shall arrange the required logistics, collect samples, pack them and send to the nearest government health facility as per protocol, Sidhu said. He said the private hospitals and clinics availing this facility should not charge more than Rs 1,000 from patients for sample collection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/over-one-lakh-covid-tests-conducted-in-punjab-state-health-minister-845804.html
04-06-2020||North and Central||Construction of airstrip near Jammu-Srinagar NH not in response to tension with China: Def officials||Construction of a 3.5-kilometre air strip along the Srinagar-Jammu national highway in Anantnag district has fuelled speculations that the emergency landing strip was being constructed in response to the stand off between Indian and Chinese armies in Ladakh region. However, defence officials said there was no link between the stand off in the Ladakh region and the construction of the emergency landing strip in Bijebhara area of south Kashmir. "This is a project being constructed by the National Highway Authority of India and had been planned since last year. It has nothing to do with the Ladakh incident," a defence official said here on Thursday. The official said the emergency landing strip was part of the operational requirements and several such strips have been constructed across the length and breadth of the country. Civil administration officials also said the air strip was an old project and the work going on for it was stopped before the onset of winter. The work was resumed recently and as the lockdown for curbing the spread of coronavirus was in place, special passes had to be issued to the work force for ensuring their smooth movement to the project site, the officials said. There are at least two full fledged Indian Air Force air bases in Kashmir with one located less than 15 kilometres from Bijbehara, where the emergency landing strip in coming up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/construction-of-airstrip-near-jammu-srinagar-nh-not-in-response-to-tension-with-china-def-officials-845811.html
04-06-2020||Opinion||Understanding India's complex relationship with China||It is disappointing to find Indian websites not easily yielding the text of the epoch-making 1993 “Agreement on the Maintenance of Peace and Tranquility along the Line of Actual Control in the India-China Border Areas”. Consequently, one has to search foreign sites like the UN or the Stimson Center. The agreement was the direct result of the successful 1988 Rajiv Gandhi visit to China and his meeting with paramount leader Deng Xiaoping.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/understanding-indias-complex-relationship-with-china-845418.html
04-06-2020||Opinion||Why Bengal doesn’t need a political slugfest right now||A counterproductive political situation Therefore while from a purely political standpoint, this is a story that is playing out on expected lines, in the larger context, what is essentially transpiring is a political game that is completely counterproductive to the situation on the ground in Bengal. The state, on June 2, registered the highest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases, with 396 new cases taking the total number to 5,772. The recent lockdown 5.0 announcements came with a set of relaxations to open a bottled up economy grasping for breath, but with the steady stream of returning migrants and the daily addition of cases unlikely to dip soon, the state is confronted with an immense challenge to conjure up an effective exit-route out of the lockdown. The situation is worse in the rural interior, as large tracts of South Bengal struggle to recover from damaged agricultural lands and settlements. Several reports have emerged of agricultural lands inundated due to broken embankments near the Sundarbans and elsewhere. The state government has proactively announced financial tranches for relief and rehabilitation, but the damage, which Mamata Banerjee deemed greater than that due to the pandemic, could take years to scrape off. The third problem that could arise from the above two is a financial paucity in the near future. Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced relief of ₹1000 crore immediately after he surveyed the state in the aftermath of the cyclone, and several organisations and banks have committed large sums to the state’s relief fund. But with the health sector expected to need sizable financial support until the crisis eases, the cash-strapped state might soon face a tricky situation with regard to fund disbursement. Lack of trust The final problem is more of a psychological problem that has been slowly but gradually permeating: A complete distrust of the populace in the administrative system. The misgivings first arose in April 2020 when the Centre and the State clashed over the number of COVID-19 cases and a central team flew down to Kolkata much to the chagrin of the state government. A lack of transparency left the common man in the lurch as to the extent of the health crisis in the state. The problem was amplified when, right after the cyclone, the city embraced its oft-quoted ‘andolon’ appetite and took to the streets to vociferously raise its grievances against political inaction. What all stakeholders in the state’s political hemisphere need to understand is that this is possibly the worst crisis that West Bengal has faced since the anguish of partition, the pangs of which are still felt with a sickening lurch. The economic hit from the pandemic lockdown has fatally harmed the urban buzz and the business dreams of the near future, while the damage from the cyclone is a knockout punch to the state’s major production centres and supply lines. The effects have already begun to show in the prices of vegetables and food grains due to hampered supply. The economically disadvantaged, largely rendered without a living and a home, suffer the dual entrapment of the virus and inescapable starvation. Need for political coordination What is needed today is dedicated political drive. Political bickering is an unnecessary fallout of a multi-party democracy, more so after placing the nearby elections in context. But those at the top have to understand that if there is a time which requires political coordination, it is now. Disagreements and disputes over crucial issues will only cause delays that will aggravate the problems mentioned above. The government, the opposition and the governor need to keep their disagreements aside and build a much more conducive and united environment to tackle the graver challenges that lie ahead.  (Debdut Mukherjee is a student at the Indian Institute of Management, Indore) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/why-bengal-doesn-t-need-a-political-slugfest-right-now-845581.html
04-06-2020||Second Edit||Private space travel on the horizon||Elon Musk’s SpaceX made history last weekend when its Falcon 9 rocket launched NASA astronauts Robert Behnken and Douglas Hurley into low-earth orbit on Saturday (early Sunday, Indian time), on their way to the International Space Station (ISS), in a SpaceX Crew Dragon capsule that chased the ISS in orbit and docked with it 19 hours later. For America, the launch was historic because it was the first time in nine years, after NASA ended the space shuttle programme, that astronauts were launched on an American rocket from American soil. It must have rankled the world’s leading space power that for nine years, it had been dependent on Russia to launch its astronauts into space. The SpaceX launch was also important because the feat came, much like the achievements of the Apollo moon landing programme in the 1960s, amid social turmoil across America and the loss of its global sheen. The launch itself was spectacular and, like all SpaceX launches, it was made into a spectacle that people all over the world watched. Until SpaceX came along, one could utmost watch a rocket launching from its pad, an awesome sight as it is, but as it rose skywards, it would become a smaller and smaller dot and disappear completely within a few minutes. SpaceX came along and put up cameras on its rockets and crew module. For the first time last weekend, the world watched not just the rocket throughout its flight into space and the rocket stages falling back gracefully and precisely as SpaceX recovered them for reuse, but also the astronauts in their crew capsule throughout the ascent and then as they manoeuvred it to the ISS and docked with it. For the whole world, too, SpaceX’s feat is important and exciting. It is the first time that a private space company has launched astronauts into space, and that, too, on a high-risk mission that required a precise rendezvous in orbit. By evolving and mastering reusable rocket technology, SpaceX has been able to dramatically bring down the cost of space launch per kilogram of payload. By demonstrating its ability to safely launch humans into space – and it will hopefully bring them back home safely -- it has brought the prospect of private space travel closer. It will add momentum to the rise of the space industry, which is already happening in America, with states andcity governments -- from Colorado to California to Florida -- competing with each other to draw space industries to them. Sooner or later, entrepreneurs and governments in India, China, Europe and elsewhere will follow suit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/private-space-travel-on-the-horizon-845757.html
04-06-2020||South||Kerala wild elephant death: Forest dept says probe making 'significant headway'||Significant headway has been made in the investigation into the recent gory death of a pregnant wild elephant in a suspected man-animal conflict in a forest area in Palakkad district in Kerala, the Forest department said on Thursday. A Special Investigation team set up for probing the death of the elephant, which drew widespread condemnation, was questioning several suspects, it said. The elephant had consumed a pineapple filled with powerful fire crackers which exploded in the animal's mouth in the Silent Valley Forest and it died about a week later on May 27. The forest department also said it would leave no stone unturned to ensure maximum punishment to the culprits. "In the offence registered as per the sections of WL (P)A for hunting the elephant, several suspects are being interrogated. SIT formed for the purpose is making a significant headway in this regard. Forest Dept will leave no stone unturned to ensure max punishment to the offenders," the Department said in a tweet. In the offence registered as per the sections of WL(P)A for hunting the elephant, several suspects are being interrogated. SIT formed for the purpose is making a significant headway in this regard.Forest Dept will leave no stone unturned to ensure max punishment to the offenders However, it also said there was no conclusive evidence that injury to the animal's lower jaw was caused by pineapple stuffed with cracker and this might be a possibility. "There's no conclusive evidence that injury to lower jaw was caused by pineapple stuffed wd cracker. However this may be a possibility. Dept. has booked offence against unknown offenders, whose identity is being established," another tweet said. There's no conclusive evidence that injury to lower jaw was caused by pineapple stuffed wd cracker. However this may be a possibility. Dept. has booked offence against unknown offenders, whose identity is being established. As the incident triggered an outrage, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday said a wildlife crime investigation team from Kozhikode has been dispatched to the place of the incident in Mannarkad Forest division in Palakkad district. The Centre, which took serious note of the incident, has sought a report from the state. Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday said the Centre has sought a complete report and assured stern action will be taken against the culprits involved. "We have sought a complete report on the incident. Stern action will be taken against the culprits," he had said. In a tweet on Thursday, the Minister condemned the incident, saying "This is not an Indian culture to feed fire crackers and kill." "We will not leave any stone unturned to investigate properly and nab the culprit(s)," the Minister said in a tweet. The elephant died at Velliyar River on May 27 after efforts by forest personnel to bring it to the river bank using two other trained elephants failed. "Her jaw was broken and she was unable to eat after she chewed the pineapple and it exploded in her mouth," a senior forest official had said earlier. The post-mortem revealed that the pachyderm was pregnant. Voicing concern over the incident, Bollywood celebrities including Anushka Sharma, Shraddha Kapoor, Randeep Hooda demanded strict action against animal cruelty. The pachyderm's tragic end in the Silent Valley forest came to light after Mohan Krishnan, a forest officer, posted an emotional note on his Facebook page, narrating it. "When we saw her she was standing in the river, with her head dipped in the water. She had a sixth sense that she was going to die. She took the Jalasamadhi in the river in a standing position," Krishnan, who was deputed to bring the elephant back to the shore, wrote. He had also posted the photos of the elephant standing in the river water.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-wild-elephant-death-forest-dept-says-probe-making-significant-headway-845570.html
04-06-2020||South||Woman tests COVID-19 positive after death in Kerala||An aged woman, who died on Tuesday at Palakkad district in Kerala, tested COVID-19 positive on Thursday. Meenakshi Ammal, 73, a native of Kadampazhipuram, in the rural parts of the district, came down from Chennai on May 25. She was hospitalised with diabetes and later developed pneumonia also. She was shifted to COVID-19 ward where she died on Tuesday night. With this, the COVID-19 deaths in Kerala reached 13, of which one was a native of Mahe that comes under Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/woman-tests-covid-19-positive-after-death-in-kerala-845589.html
04-06-2020||South||Shramik trains remains elusive for guest workers' groups||A visit to the central railway station here has become a routine for stranded guest workers like S Sethi from Odisha who are clueless about the process to return home by the Shramik specials, yet hopeful their day will come. Despite operation of a number of Shramik specials that have ferried thousands of such workers to various states from Tamil Nadu, several others, left jobless due to COVID-19 lockdown and eager to return home, have been visiting the station as they are not aware of the procedure for getting selected for the train journey. "We have no money and nothing to eat. We want to go home. We hope the government will come to our rescue and help us reach home soon," Sethi told PTI outside the Puratchi Thalaivar Dr MGR Central Railway Station here, summing up his precarious position. Besides him, over 30 others from his home state, mostly construction workers scattered at nearby Semmancherry and Sriperumbudur, have come together and been trying to board a train back home. The motley group also includes about eight women and three children and had been hanging around the station for the past few days. Another native of Odisha, Chittaranjan, who is also part of the group, said he too was eager to return home, adding language problem added to their woes. "I had even approached the local police for help. They could not respond as they could not understand Hindi," he claimed. "I am even willing to arrange for Rs 1,000 towards the cost of train ticket to return home, if the officials facilitate my return," Chittaranjan added.  "Jo bhi tha, sab khatam ho gaya hai. Ab hum ghar jana hai, (whatever money we had has been exhausted. Now we want to go home) said Rabi Behera, also from Odisha. Six migrant workers from West Bengal working in a construction company here, are also making daily trips to the railway station here hoping to catch a train. They visit the "Amma Canteen" near the station for free breakfast and dinner while spending the nights in the by-lanes in areas a short distance away. According to Wasim from West Bengal, they had even approached the police and provided their details, including identity proof. "Our attempts to board the special train have failed," he said. The Southern Railway has been operating a number of Shramik Express specials to cater to stranded guest workers reach their destinations in Odisha and Jharkhand among others at the request of state government who select the passengers based on registration done through district administrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/shramik-trains-remains-elusive-for-guest-workers-groups-845613.html
04-06-2020||South||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan alleges of hate campaign by BJP over elephant killing||Irked with the attack on Kerala by the Centre, especially BJP leader and animal rights activist Maneka Gandhi, over the killing of an elephant with explosives, Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that attempts were made to bring in bigotry into the incident. "It is an organised campaign against Kerala, especially Malappuram. Unfortunately, some union ministers were also joining it. It could be an attempt to tarnish Kerala's image as it was effectively resisting COVID-19," he told reporters. Maneka stated that the killing of elephant took place in Malappuram district and the district was known for such murders and it is India's most violent district. "It's murder, Malappuram is famous for such incidents, it's India's most violent district, for instance, they throw poison on roads so that 300-400 birds and dogs die at one time," she told a news agency. The Chief Minister said that the elephant was found in part of Palakkad district only, while there were misleading reports initially that it was in Malappuram district.  Three persons were suspected to be involved in the elephant's killing. Vijayan strongly reacted through a series of tweets also. "Having said that, we are saddened by the fact some have used this tragedy to unleash a hate campaign. Lies built upon inaccurate descriptions and half-truths were employed to obliterate the truth. Some even tried to import bigotry into the narrative. Wrong priorities." Despite strong criticism in the social media that Maneka was targeting Malappuram district as it was a Muslim dominated area and parts of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's Wayanad constituency comes under the district, Maneka further tweeted that Malappuram was know for its intense criminal activity especially with regards to animals. No action has ever been taken against a single poacher or wildlife killer so they keep doing it. Meanwhile, forest department sources said that even as the elephant died at Mannarkkad on Palakkad - Malappuram border area, the elephant was part of the Silent Valley National Park in Palakkad district. Hence the elephant could have suffered the explosion most likely in parts of Palakkad district only, said forest department sources. Sources also said that there was no even conclusive evidences that the explosion suffered after biting cracker in pineapple. That was just an assumption as there used to be crude practice among farmers to target wild animals using crackers in pineapple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-alleges-of-hate-campaign-by-bjp-over-elephant-killing-845680.html
04-06-2020||South||Hyderabad animal lover announces Rs 2 lakh reward for information on Kerala elephant killers||While the nation, outraged by the killing of a pregnant elephant in Kerala, is demanding harshest punishment for the perpetrators, a Hyderabad man went a step ahead and announced Rs two lakh reward for those who can help the authorities catch the culprits. B T Srinivasan, an entrepreneur, and a farmer, said that he is enraged by the inhumane act, especially, seeing the photos of the female elephant’s autopsy showing the foetus. “It is absolutely unacceptable. The offenders should be punished at any cost. Normally, the police announce a reward for information to solve some big cases involving murder, robbery. So, I thought such reward could make someone come forward with information towards solving the case and punishing the offenders,” Srinivasan told DH. The Humane Society International (India), an animal welfare group, has announced Rs 50,000 reward for such information. The wandering elephant from the Silent Valley forest was reportedly fed a firecracker-laced-pineapple, causing her eventual death in a water body in Palakkad district on May 27. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that a high-level probe is on and that stringent action would be taken against the culprits. Srinivasan has also tweeted his offer, tagging the Kerala CM - “I want to offer a reward of Rs 2 lakh from my personal savings to the person who gives information about the miscreants who made a pregnant elephant eat a pineapple stuffed with crackers. The elephant, which died in Kerala’s Malappuram.” Srinivasan, who is also General Secretary, United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations, Greater Hyderabad, says he would transfer the amount to the Kerala government bank account once someone comes forward with a genuine lead. “I’ll leave it to the Kerala state officials to hand it over to the deserving person. But the reward should be given only after the elephant killers are put behind the bars,” Srinivas insists. Several prominent persons from the two Telugu states have expressed their anguish over the pachyderms’ tragic death. “Heartbreaking. We, Humans, have failed you!” TDP chief and former Andhra Pradesh CM Chandrababu Naidu had tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-animal-lover-announces-rs-2-lakh-reward-for-information-on-kerala-elephant-killers-845686.html
04-06-2020||South||DMK MLA tests positive for COVID-19; currently on ventilator support||DMK MLA J Anbazhagan, a close confidante of party chief M K Stalin, has tested positive for Coronavirus and is currently on ventilator support at a private hospital here. With this, Anbazhagan, MLA from Chepauk-Triplicance constituency here, becomes the first politician in the state to contract COVID-19. Already, three IPS officers and one IAS officer have tested positive for the virus in the state. 61-year-old Anbazhagan, a three-time MLA, was at the forefront of DMK’s Ondrinaivom Vaa (Let us come together) campaign aimed at providing relief to those affected by the COVID-19 lockdown in the city. Anbazhagan, also secretary of DMK’s Chennai West district, has his ears to the ground and also known his organizational skills. Anbazhagan was admitted to Dr. Rela Institute of Medical Centre here on June 2 with “severe acute respiratory distress” and he subsequently tested positive for Coronavirus. “Initially, he was managed with oxygen therapy through a facemask, and later on, he was put on ventilator support as his respiratory distress worsened. He is currently getting 80 percent oxygen through the ventilator and his condition remains unchanged for the last 24 hours,” Dr. Ilankumaran Kaliamoorthy, Chief Executive Officer of the hospital, said in a statement. Party sources said Anbazhagan has a few co-morbid conditions and that they were praying for his recovery. “He was at the forefront of the relief activities taken by the DMK in Chennai for the past 2.5 months. He was on the field till early this week and was actively coordinating with party cadre,” a DMK leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-currently-on-ventilator-support-845687.html
04-06-2020||South||DMK MLA tests positive for COVID-19, on ventilator support||A DMK legislator has tested positive for coronavirus and he is on ventilatory support battling severe acute respiratory distress, a hospital said here on Thursday. The 61-year-old, a senior party leader in the state capital, was admitted on June 2, Dr Rela Institute and Medical Centre said in a statement. He was having severe acute respiratory distress and his COVID PCR test was positive at the time of admission, hospital's Chief Executive Officer Dr Ilankumaran Kaliamoorthy said. Initially, he was managed with oxygen therapy through facemask and later on, he was put on ventilator support as his respiratory distress worsened, the hospital said. "He is currently getting 80 per cent of oxygen through the ventilator and his condition remains unchanged for the last 24 hours." The legislator is a well-known DMK leader and he is also among the party's district secretaries here. An articulate member in the Tamil Nadu Assembly, he has successfully organised a slew of DMK events and is close to party president M K Stalin||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dmk-mla-tests-positive-for-covid-19-on-ventilator-support-845688.html
04-06-2020||South||Kerala witnesses highest COVID-19 spike, three deaths||Three more COVID-19 deaths and 94 fresh cases, which is the highest in a single day, were reported in Kerala on Thursday. An aged woman who died on Tuesday at Palakkad district in Kerala after returning from Chennai was tested COVID-19 positive on Thursday. Another person hailing from Malappuram district returned from Abudhabi died, while a person brought dead to the hospital was later tested to be COVID-19 positive. Among the 94 fresh cases, 84 were persons from other districts and states. Seven persons got infected through a local contact. As many as 39 got recovered from COVID-19 on Thursday. The number of active patients now is 884. With the three deaths, the number of COVID-19 deaths in Kerala reached 15. One among them was a native of Mahe that comes under Puducherry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-witnesses-highest-covid-19-spike-three-deaths-845724.html
04-06-2020||South||COVID-19: Violators of curbs in containment zones will be put under institutional quarantine, says Tamil Nadu official||People violating curbs in containment zones and endangering the health of others will be put under institutional quarantine to help prevent the spread of coronavirus, a senior official said here on Thursday amid rising COVID-19 infections in Chennai. Seeking "constructive support" from the public to break the chain of virus spread, J Radhakrishnan, special nodal officer to tackle COVID-19 in Chennai, rued that some people who had opted for home quarantine could be seen roaming around in cars. Tamil Nadu had reported 1,286 new positive cases yesterday with Chennai accounting for 1,012 of the fresh infections, its highest in a day so far. It was also the fourth successive day the state was reporting 1,000 plus cases. Citing an instance of people breaking the cordon in containment zones and moving out freely without masks, he told reporters here that such people could endanger the health of others as well. "They are not only deceiving themselves, but the virus is spreading to others as well through such behaviour. If people behave like this, we will put them under institutional quarantine and we may also lodge cases against them as others should not be affected by such people." Answering a question, he said if positive patients who had opted for home isolation voluntarily were found violating norms endangering public health, they will also be put under institutional quarantine, he said. If a locality was officially declared as a containment zone, people should come forward to cooperate and follow the safety norms outlined by the government, he appealed. He also listed out localities where the spread of the contagion has been curtailed due to cooperation of people in containment zones and sought a similar response from the rest of public. Describing as a big challenge several people not wearing masks, especially in congested urban areas, he said wearing masks, following hand hygiene and other government stipulated norms were the only effective steps against the spread of the virus. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G Prakash said a scheme to provide Rs 1,000 assistance to weaker sections to help offset loss of income during their institutional quarantine period has become operational. People were being provided a mattress, two pillows, blanket and a bucket for use during institutional quarantine, he said. Besides Rs 1,000 assistance, people will be allowed take things like mattress home, he said. The civic body chief said while about 85 per cent of people in home quarantine followed norms diligently to help avoid the spread of the virus, the rest were not doing so. The issue of some people not following home quarantine norms was being deliberated officially, he said and indicated tightening of regulations for people who violated stipulations. To a question on some firms allegedly insisting on a "COVID-19 negative certificate" from employees for resuming work, he said such a demand is illegal. People who have recovered from COVID-19 are eligible for all work, he said. Some private labs allegedly engaged agents and had tie-ups and "separately we are taking action against them" he said, adding action will be taken if complaints were lodged with authorities on "tests done by private labs on the basis of commercial interests."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-violators-of-curbs-in-containment-zones-will-be-put-under-institutional-quarantine-says-tamil-nadu-official-845780.html
04-06-2020||South||Tamil Nadu ramps up testing but still sees 1,373 fresh coronavirus cases and 12 deaths||Five persons, including a 17-year-old girl, below the age of 50 are among 12 people who were reported dead in Tamil Nadu on Thursday after testing positive for coronavirus, even as the state ramped-up its numbers  by testing over 16,000 samples in a single day. And for the fifth consecutive day, Tamil Nadu crossed the 1,000-mark with 1,373 persons testing positive for coronavirus on Thursday with 1,241 of them belonging to Chennai and Chengalpattu districts alone. While Chennai reported 1,072 positive cases, its neighbouring district of Chengalpattu also reported a massive spike with 169 cases on Thursday. The state also saw ramped up its testing numbers as 16,447 samples were tested on Thursday alone, which is 2,000 samples more than the numbers tested on Wednesday. The Health Department came under severe criticism for not increasing its testing numbers despite having 74 labs even as cases were increasing.    The state’s tally now stands at 27,256 including 14,901 discharges and 220 deaths – 12 of which were reported on Thursday. The daily bulletin released by the Health Department showed five persons below the age of 50 died and their deaths were attributed to various co-morbid conditions. The state has been classifying deaths due to coronavirus into co-morbid and exclusive of COVID-19 deaths – a study done by the Health Department also claimed 84 percent of the deaths were due to co-morbidities, while only the remaining 14 percent died because of coronavirus infection. A 25-year-old woman from Vellore died due to respiratory failure after being admitted with bronchial asthma, while a 17-year-old girl, the youngest patient to lose her life in the state, who was admitted with Type I Diabetes Mellitus passed away on Wednesday night due to cardiopulmonary arrest. Others who died were 46, 47 and 33 years old. As Chennai grappled with 18,693 cases, the city administration has asked people to compulsorily wear face masks for the next one month at least to contain further spread of the virus. Special Nodal Officer for Chennai city and Revenue Commissioner J Radhakrishnan told reporters that fever camps have been set up at all 140 urban primary health centers and at another 100 locations to screen people for any coronavirus symptom. He also said the administration will shift to institutional quarantine anyone who is found violating the rules within the containment zones. “We appeal to the people of Chennai to wear masks for at least the next one month. If you wear mask and follow all the precautionary measure, we can contain the spread,” Radhakrishnan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tamil-nadu-ramps-up-testing-but-still-sees-1373-fresh-coronavirus-cases-and-12-deaths-845781.html
04-06-2020||South||Goa COVID-19 positive tally crosses 100 mark||Goa's tally of active coronavirus patients crossed the three-figure mark on Thursday. According to Goa Health Secretary Nila Mohanan, the state's tally of active COVID-19 cases now stands at 109, with 40 new cases being reported in the state on Thursday. The key reason for the sudden spike in the rate of infections, is the quick spread of the viral infection in the Mangor hill cluster of houses in South Goa's Vasco town, in which 72 persons have tested positive in the last 48 hours. "Today, we have 40 new cases, 32 of which were from the Mangor hill area where extensive testing is being carried out in Ward 11 and 17 of Mormugao Municipal Council. One male health worker who was active in Mangor hill area has also tested positive," state Health Secretary Mohanan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/goa-covid-19-positive-tally-crosses-100-mark-845802.html
04-06-2020||South||Congress leaders detained on way to Manjeera reservoir||Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy and other party leaders were taken into preventive custody in this district on Thursday while proceeding to the Manjeera reservoir to highlight water scarcity in the region, police said. The Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president, also an MP, and others were detained as the lockdown norms do not allow political congregation and they did not seek permission as required in view of enforcement of the Police Act, they said. Reddy later accused the TRS government of trying to muzzle the voice of opposition. Police stopped the vehicles in which Reddy and others were travelling near Patancheru, took them into preventive custody. They were taken to BDL Bhanoor police station and released in the evening, police said. Arrested by the police while I was en route to assess the situation of the Manjeera irrigation project which has now gone dry leading to the distress of people, farmers & industrial labour. The leaders had announced the visit to the reservoir across Manjeera River, tributary of Godavari, party sources said. Talking to reporters after being released, the TPCC chief alleged the TRS government was trying to suppress the voice of opposition. The police cited Union Home Ministrys notification to stop them. It only barred large congregations, but Congress sought to visit the reservoir with only a few leaders by maintaining social distancing, he added. On Tuesday too, Reddy and other party leaders and workers were detained by police when they attempted to visit ongoing irrigation projects to inspect the progress of the work. Reddy had then claimed TRS government had not completed projects started before 2014 (prior to formation of Telangana) during the then Congress regime.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/congress-leaders-detained-on-way-to-manjeera-reservoir-845808.html
04-06-2020||State||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa directs officials to strengthen CEN stations, forensic labs||Assuring support to reform the police department, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday directed officials to strengthen Cyber Crime, Economic Offences & Narcotics (CEN) stations and forensic labs in the state. The Chief Minister who held a review of the Home Department, lauded the work of police personnel during the COVID-19 crisis, and promised necessary help to reform the department. Pointing at the changing scenario, the Chief Minister instructed officials to give priority to strengthen CEN stations, his office said in a release. Similarly, for quick detection of crimes, necessary action will be taken to strengthen forensic labs, he added. During the meeting it was also decided to continue more than 3,000 home guards, who were in the fear of losing jobs, and to deploy them to various departments. Yediyurappa directed officials to take necessary steps to make home guard services available to private organisations also. Officials informed the Chief Minister that all necessary COVID-19 related precautions have been taken at prisons and no case has been reported so far at jails. They said as per Supreme Court directions, 5,005 people were released on bail and parole, and congestion of prisoners at prisons has been reduced from 110 per cent to 95 per cent. Yediyurappa also asked the officials to submit a proposal based on facts towards development of basic amenities that comes under the Home Department.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-directs-officials-to-strengthen-cen-stations-forensic-labs-845578.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Experts say no to institutional quarantine||Institutional quarantine is not a good idea, say the experts in the Covid-19 advisory committee who warn that healthy individuals may contract the virus at such facilities. The fact that more than 40% of patients in Karnataka are those from quarantine centres is enough, they say. Sources said the government will issue an order giving powers to respective districts to determine the duration of institutional quarantine, depending on the influx of travellers. For example, Hassan insists on 14 days' institutional quarantine for Maharashtra returnees, whereas according to the state SOP, it is seven days. Dr Giridhar Babu, a member of the Covid-19 expert committee, said, "We should limit institutional quarantine facilities to only those who don't have homes. We should home quarantine everyone who can afford it. I have said at every meeting that institutional quarantine is the reason for the infection spreading faster." The healthy are getting infected from a few in quarantine, he added. Another member of the expert committee said on condition of anonymity that it's mostly the symptomatic who infect others. "One can safely be sent home as long as one is checked for symptoms everyday. It's been a month since the Union government issued guidelines that the mildly symptomatic and pre-symptomatic can be treated at home. But we are still dilly-dallying on sending asymptomatics and contacts home." People in quarantine centres become Covid-19 suspects only if they show symptoms. If they have merely come from virus-affected areas and are healthy, they are contacts. "We can take swab samples of those who have symptoms. The state decided not to follow the revised discharge policy of the Centre because of sufficient hospital beds, but that theory should be applicable to hospitals and not to those in quarantine centres," he said.   Under the given circumstances, if a person is asymptomatic, 14 days' home quarantine is the best option. "We can send the person home with instructions to stay away from others," he added. In BBMP and other urban areas, a home quarantine poster is stuck on the door. Information is given to two neighbours and resident welfare /apartment owners' associations to ensure strict enforcement, which is also monitored by a three-member booth level team. A flying squad also filed FIRs against those who violate home quarantine and shifts them to institutional quarantine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-experts-say-no-to-institutional-quarantine-845383.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Not appropriate to open schools in Karnataka for two more months, says Siddaramaiah||He also advised Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa and Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar not to take any hasty decisions in this regard. "As corona infection is spreading in the state beyond limits, it is not appropriate to open schools for at least two more months. Chief Minister and Suresh Kumar should not make any hasty decisions," Siddaramaiah tweeted. Stating that Suresh Kumar has placed a proposal to reopen schools in July, he said the chief minister has to take note of worried parents opposing this proposal.  "There are reports about students getting infected by coronavirus after reopening of schools in countries like Britain, France and Italy. It is appropriate to think about reopening schools on analysing the situation after two months," he said in another tweet. The state government has sought an opinion from parents and stakeholders regarding reopening of schools in the state, with the easing of the COVID-19 lockdown norms. Amidst worries and concerns expressed by parents across the state, the Education Minister on Wednesday had assured that the government would not take any hasty decisions regarding reopening of schools. The Union government, in its recent guidelines, had asked state governments to hold consultation at school, college, training and coaching institutions-level with parents and other stakeholders, and based on the feedback, a decision on reopening them would be taken.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-not-appropriate-to-open-schools-in-karnataka-for-two-more-months-says-siddaramaiah-845525.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Hubballi railway station to have world's longest platform within a year||Hubballi railway station will have the world's longest railway platform within one year, when the existing 550 metre long Platform No 1 will be extended upto 1,400 metre. At present, the Platform No 1 of the SWR's Hubballi railway station is 550 metres long, and the inspection carriage line is being converted into full platform with 1,400 metre length and 10 metre width. Presently, Gorakhpur has the longest platform in the world, with 1,366 metre length. Presently, Hubballi yard has five platforms, and trains can be dispatched to one direction only at once. Remodeling of Hubballi yard is in progress, to increase the number of platforms from existing 5 to 8. This work is being done as part of doubling between Hubballi and Bengaluru. Along with two entries to the station, another entry is coming up. Cost of the works is Rs 90 crore for full yard, signaling, electrical, building and other works. Work is in progress and will be completed in next one year, said SWR chief public relations officer E Vijaya.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/hubballi-railway-station-to-have-worlds-longest-platform-within-a-year-845654.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka mulls allowing pvt companies to hire home guards||If the government has its way, then private companies can get the services of home guards, the auxiliary uniformed force assisting the police.  Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa directed officials to review a proposal to this effect during a meeting to review the Home Department.  It was also decided in the meeting that the services of more than 3,000 home guards, who are at the risk of losing their jobs, should be continued by deputing them to different departments.  Home guards are often deployed to help the police manage traffic, and also assist paramilitary and rescue personnel during natural calamities.  Yediyurappa also instructed officials to strengthen the CEN (cyber crime, economic offices and narcotics) police stations. There are eight CEN police stations in Bengaluru and the government wants to set one up in each district. Yediyurappa also said that the forensic labs will be strengthened to “hasten the investigation of crimes.”  Officials told Yediyurappa that all precautionary measures has been taken in prisons in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and that not a single positive case has been reported. “As per Supreme Court directions, 5,005 prisoners have been released on bail and parole. Overcrowding of prisoners in the prisons has been reduced from 110 per cent to 95  per cent,” the CM was told, according to a statement.  Yediyurappa also asked for a proposal on the development of infrastructure in all the departments that come under the Home Department. He warned action against officers involved in any misuse of funds, especially those deposited in banks.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-mulls-allowing-pvt-companies-to-hire-home-guards-845681.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Safaris, treks, jungle resorts can reopen from June 8: Karnataka govt||In a respite for nature and wildlife enthusiasts, Karnataka on Thursday clarified that safaris, trekking and jungle resorts will be allowed from June 8 in forest areas that fall outside COVID-19 containment zones.  The clarification was issued by Karnataka State Disaster Management Authority member-secretary TK Anil Kumar in response to queries received by several organisations that offer hospitality services in the wildlife space.  “Noting that the Ministry of Home Affairs, in its guidelines, has permitted hospitality services to resume from June 8, it is clarified that Jungle Lodges & Resorts and other similar hospitality services offered by private organisations, along with other related activities will be permitted from June 8, including safaris, trekking, etc. by adhering to social distancing, hygiene and all measures and national directives issued by the Health & Family Welfare department,” the clarification stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/safaris-treks-jungle-resorts-can-reopen-from-june-8-karnataka-govt-845707.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Committed efforts pay off, vegetation revived on Channarayana Betta||The Channarayana Betta was a devastated hilly region till a year ago. Uncontrolled mining activities in the area had adversely affected the vegetation. The Betta at survey number 17 at Kanive Narayanapur lies towards the north-west side of the famous tourist destination Nandi Hills.   The Betta presents a totally contradictory picture now, thanks to committed efforts by the district administration to give a new lease of life to the environment.   Anirudh Sravan, who served as deputy commissioner of Chikkaballaur district, implemented many drives to revive water bodies and preserve nature during his tenure. One of his ambitious projects was to revive the vegetation on the Betta. He prepared a Rs 16 lakh project to revive the Betta. Funds under District Mineral Foundation Trust were used for the purpose. It was decided to implement the project in 125 acre land on section 4 of the forest area. A year ago, about 10,000 samplings of different types were planted. The forest department officials nurtured the saplings, besides watering and protecting them. The saplings have now grown upto six feet in height. According to the officials, all 10,000 saplings have survived and are growing strong. These small trees have changed surroundings of post graduate centre of Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) at Muddenahalli. The Betta is turning out to be a home town for wildlife. Beer, wolf, fox, leopard, peacock, deer and various birds are thronging the area enjoying the environment. Considering the success of the project, the forest department has decided to develop the similar forest area in 125 acre land in the second phase. The officials are confident that the region will remind people of malnad area in a few years. “The uncontrolled mining and dust generated by crushing units had taken a toll on the Betta. After the project was implemented, ground water table has been recharged. There is fresh air and breeze,” says Chikkaballapur deputy conservator of forests Vikram Reddy.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/committed-efforts-pay-off-vegetation-revived-on-channarayana-betta-845730.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Solar-powered cane juicer for sustainable rural livelihood||A solar-powered sugarcane juicer, installed as part of Balepuni Madari Grama Abhiyana in Balepuni Gram Panchayat limits, aims at promoting sustainable rural livelihood through the use of solar energy. The Abhiyan is carried out by Jana Shikshana Trust, Selco Foundation and Balepuni Gram Panchayat, that promotes solar energy, greenery in surroundings and cleanliness. Selco had come out with such solar-powered solutions to help generate more than 60 livelihood options. A beneficiary, Vidya, had installed one such compact sugarcane juice machine with a desire to earn a living and become self-employed. The cost of the machine is Rs 93,000 and 50% of the price is borne by Selco Foundation. With an aim to promote sustainable rural livelihood through the use of solar energy, Selco Solar Light Private Limited, a social enterprise and Selco Foundation, have helped in the installation of the solar-powered equipment. It is also hygienic and the place is not swarming with flies. The solar-powered machine is more cost-effective than the diesel-powered machine which incurs expenses every day. Vidya said, “The sugarcane gets crushed easily, it is eco-friendly and there are no electricity bills too." The juicer is supported by 300-watt solar panel, two 100Ah batteries and 1400 watt capacity inverter. The juicer’s capacity is 40 litres of juice perday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/solar-powered-cane-juicer-for-sustainable-rural-livelihood-845734.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Avoid name 'Dalit' in all official transactions: Karnataka||The Karnataka government has asked all its departments and authorities to avoid during all official transactions the nomenclature "Dalit" for members belonging to the Scheduled Castes. "All the departments and authorities of government of Karnataka are requested that (use of name Dalit) for all official transactions, matters, dealings, certificates, among others," the official circular said. The Constitutional term Scheduled Caste in English and its appropriate translation in other national languages should alone be used for denoting the persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes/ Scheduled Tribes notified in the presidential orders issued under Article 341 of the Constitution, the circular said. The circular issued on May 20 notes instructions issued by the Central government in 2018, with reference to the order of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, Gwalior Bench. "That the Central government/state government and its functionaries would refrain from using the nomenclature "Dalit" for the members belonging to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes as the same does not find mentioned in the Constitution or any statute," the order had said. Pointing out that the Central government had earlier issued instructions that the words "Harijan" and "Girijan" should not be used, the circular said accordingly the Karnataka government also had issued a Government Order in 2010.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/avoid-name-dalit-in-all-official-transactions-karnataka-845769.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cost-conscious Karnataka government looks to cut bureaucratic, ministerial flab||The government’s move to merge departments and “redundant” posts has gathered steam with Tourism Minister C T Ravi proposing the merger of tourism, sports, Kannada & Culture and Information & Public Relations. This is expected to do away with more than 900 positions and save the government over Rs 100 crore annually.  Ravi has submitted this proposal to a Cabinet sub-committee headed by Revenue Minister R Ashoka.  “Subjects under literature, art, culture, tourism, youth empowerment & sports and information & publicity departments are directly or indirectly similar. Also, the nature of programmes and their implementation are alike,” Ravi said in his proposal.  At the secretariat level, the four departments are managed by an IAS officer each, burdening the government with the salaries of four ministers and other personnel, Ravi pointed out.  Under these four departments, there are seven wings that include directorates and commissionerates. “The administrative costs come up to Rs 113.47 crore. Besides, of the total 1,768 sanctioned posts across the seven wings, only 865 are filled up. There are 903 posts - 60% - vacant.  Merging the four departments at the secretariat level will require only 40 posts as against the current sanctioned strength of 116. Bringing all the seven wings under one roof will need 821 posts against 1,768, Ravi has explained in his proposal.  Further, Ravi pitched that the Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation and Jungle Lodges and Resorts can be clubbed into one body, which will save more costs.  “Earlier, the departments of Tourism, Kannada & Culture and Information & Public Relations functioned as one unit at the secretariat level. For various reasons, they were separated,” Ravi said.  According to sources, there are plans to merge agriculture, horticulture and sericulture into a single department. The government may also consider moving the medical education department under Health & Family Welfare.  The Cabinet sub-committee was constituted in February because of rising costs towards salaries and other committed expenditures. In 2019-20 fiscal, the government incurred Rs 33,611 crore towards paying salaries. In all, the government’s committed expenditure is almost 90% of its revenue receipts, leaving little fiscal room to take up new schemes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cost-conscious-karnataka-government-looks-to-cut-bureaucratic-ministerial-flab-845772.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DK Shivakumar's daughter to marry S M Krishna's grandson?||KPCC President D K Shivakumar is in talks with the family of late founder of Cafe Coffee Day, V G Siddhartha, for an alliance for his daughter. The wedding is on cards, according to sources close to the family.  Last Sunday, S M Krishna's daughter Malavika is said to have visited Shivakumar's house for talks on the wedding. Shivakumar and S M Krishna are known to share a tight bond. Sources said the two families had broached this proposal even before the demise of VG Siddhartha last year. However, after his death, the family had not taken it forward until now. Siddhartha's son and S M Krishna's grandson Amarthya Hegde (26) is taking care of the family's Cafe Coffee Day business after his father's demise, while Shivakumar's daughter Aishwarya (22) is managing the family-owned Global Academy of Technology.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dk-shivakumars-daughter-to-marry-s-m-krishnas-grandson-845774.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||76 contacts of five COVID-19 patients test positive in Raichur||Raichur district continued to report a flurry of COVID-19 cases. Of the 88 fresh infections reported on Thursday, a total of 76 cases are the contacts of the five previously diagnosed patients. This includes three police constables attached to Raichur West police station. All three cops were deputed to the institutional quarantine centre at the hostel of University of Agricultural Sciences. On Wednesday, a constable from Devadurg had tested positive for COVID-19 Patient 2612 has emerged as a super spreader. As many as 30 contacts of P-2612 have tested positive for novel coronavirus on Thursday. Further, 17 primary and secondary contacts of Patient 2608 have contracted the virus. Likewise, 14 contacts of Patient 2939 and nine of 2641 have tested positive for Covid-19. Six people, including four in the age-group of 12 to 18 years, are said to have contracted the virus from Patient 2936. Of the remaining 11 fresh cases, eight are Maharashtra returnees while one has travel history to Telangana. While a 60-year-old man is presented with the severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARI), contact tracing for a 35-year-old woman is underway. With this, the district’s total case count has shot up to 356. Of these, 318 are undergoing treatment at OPEC Hospital. The explosion of cases has led to an acute shortage of beds in the hospital. The district administration is planning to add more beds to the lone designated Covid-19 hospital in the district. More cases are likely to surface in the district as 1,456 people are still under institutional quarantine. Udupi records 92 fresh cases Meanwhile, Maharashtra returnees continue to haunt the Udupi district. The coastal district saw a whopping 92 cases in the last 24 hours (ending 5 pm on Thursday). With this, Udupi district’s tally went past 500 mark (564 cases to be precise). As many as 62 people, who tested positive for coronavirus on Thursday, are in the age group of 25 to 45 years. Five patients with symptoms have been shifted to TMA Pai Hospital while the remaining are admitted in government hospitals, according to Deputy Commissioner G Jagadeesha. Mandya district brings cheer amid the Covid-19 gloom. On Thursday, as many as 52 patients walked out of the designated Covid hospital, after recovery. The district, as on June 4, has 184 active cases. Belagavi, Davangere and Hassan recorded cases in the two-figure mark. Hassan saw 15 new infections while Belagavi and Davangere registered 12 and 13 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/76-contacts-of-five-covid-19-patients-test-positive-in-raichur-845788.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Talakad Panchalinga Darshana from Dec 10||District In-charge Minister S T Somasheakar on Thursday said that all measures will be taken for Panchalinga Darshana Mahotsava-2020, scheduled to be held at Talakad in the taluk. The minister held a preparatory meeting here and said, “Minister of Muzrai Kota Srinivas Poojary will conduct a meeting with the authorities concerned soon. All necessary measures will be taken for the programme.” The Panchalinga Darshana Mahotsava will commence on December 10 and will conclude on December 19. The actual Panchalinga Darshana will be on December 14. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G Sankar said, “PWD authorities will take care of roads and the gram panchayat will provide drinking water facility.” PWD Engineer said, “The process of tender for road repair works is completed and will be completed in a month.” An officer of the Panchayat Raj department said, “Construction of bathrooms, renovation of temple and other works will be completed soon.” The Taluk Health Officer explained about hospital and medical facilities and the pPolice officials explained about security measures to be taken up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/talakad-panchalinga-darshana-from-dec-10-845796.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Districts told to keep five SSLC exam centres on standby||The district administrations have been instructed by the Department of Public Instruction to keep ready at least five additional centres at every district during the SSLC examinations. The Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) exams are set to be held from June 25 to July 4.  As the number of containment zones keep changing with the emergence of new Covid-19 cases, the Department of Public Instruction has directed the district administrations to be ready with alternative arrangements by keeping additional centres on standby. During the video conferencing with district authorities on Thursday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said, “The district administrations should consider conducting SSLC exams as an opportunity as well as challenge during this crisis.” For this year’s exam, the district administrations will setup helplines to assist students in any emergency during the exams. “In case if the area where the examination centre is alloted is declared as containment zone, then the officials concerned should change the centre. So, the district administrations should keep at least five centres ready,” he mentioned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/districts-told-to-keep-five-sslc-exam-centres-on-standby-845798.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Bandipur: Forest department's novel ideas help to prevent wildfire||The Forest department has been successful in averting forest fires this year, by taking into confidence the people living in villages on the periphery of forests and chalking out various programmes for their benefit. The department, which learnt a lesson, due to a major fire mishap in Bandipur Tiger Reserve, last year, planned several programmes to maintain a cordial relationship with the people living there. Thus, no fire mishap was reported this year. Bandipur has maintained its greenery, with the region receiving a good spell of rain. Around 11,400 acres of forest was destroyed under Bandipur, Kundukere, and Gopalaswamy Hill ranges due to the forest fire. The discord between Forest department personnel and locals was said to be the reason behind the miscreants setting fire. The probe conducted by the department revealed that locals had set fire to prevent wild animals from straying into their lands and villages. Programmes The programmes organised by the Forest department were giving permission for tribals to run canteens in Bandipur camp, 'Chinnara Darshana' programme organised for tribal children and allowing them for a free safari inside the forest. Around 52 children got an opportunity. The children were also educated on the importance of protecting the forest and its resources and wildlife. Several campaigns were conducted in tribal hamlets on preventing wildfire. All these initiatives yielded good results, opined Forest officials. Bandipur Project Tiger Director T Balachandra said, "Everyone's support and cooperation is required to protect the forest. We should work with them in tandem and respond to their problems immediately, to build up their confidence. Several programmes were conducted this year to give priority to locals that helped a lot in protecting the forest."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bandipur-forest-departments-novel-ideas-help-to-prevent-wildfire-845809.html
04-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Online classes have reached maximum students, claims VTU||Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU), Belagavi, has stated that digital interactions have reached maximum students with 70% to 75% syllabus being completed by the affiliate colleges.   Vice-Chancellor Dr Karisiddappa, in a press release, informed that with lockdown to prevent spread of Covid-19 coming into effect, affiliated and autonomous engineering colleges conducted online classes. A few students have been repeatedly representing in the media that online teaching has not served the purpose because of various reasons such as no connectivity or device. However, statistics related to online teaching as reviewed by the VTU with its affiliated and autonomous engineering institutes tell a different story that in Karnataka, engineering students have participated wholeheartedly in these online learning sessions,he said. Report facts Reports reflect that more than 70% of students attended the online classes and around 95% of students have successfully attended the Continuous Internal Evaluation (CIE) i.e. internal examinations and submitted the assignments as well, online. This has been confirmed by many principals across the state, including from rural places, Dr Karisiddappa stated.  As per the data received related to the completion of syllabus, it’s observed that, prior to lockdown 25% to 30% of the syllabus was covered. During the lockdown, 40% to 45% has been completed online. Hence, 70 to 75% of the syllabus has been completed by the end of May. Online classes will continue up to June 15, he informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/online-classes-have-reached-maximum-students-claims-vtu-845817.html
04-06-2020||West||No major impact in Gujarat after 'Nisarga' makes landfall in Maharashtra||No untoward incident has been reported in southern coast of Gujarat so far on Wednesday due to the severe cyclonic storm 'Nisarga', which has made landfall in neighbouring Maharashtra, a senior official said. Authorities have so far shifted more than 63,700 people living close to the coast in eight districts to safer places as a precautionary measure, he said. The cyclone made landfall near Alibaug in coastal Raigad district of Maharashtra around 12:30 pm. As per Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Palghar in Maharashtra will feel the impact of gusty winds and heavy rains being caused by the storm. "Wind speed remained normal in Valsad and Navsari districts, located close to the Arabian Sea. However, the wind speed may increase up to 60 to 70 kmph in the next three hours as the cyclone is moving towards north-east Maharashtra," state Relief Commissioner Harshad Patel told reporters. He said no untoward incident or human injury has been reported so far. "Valsad and Navsari received rainfall of 2 mm and 7 mm, respectively, since this morning. The situation is under control," Patel said. As a precautionary measure, over 63,700 people living close to the coast in eight districts have been evacuated to safer places, said Patel. While 33,680 of them were evacuated from Valsad district, 14,400 people were evacuated in Navsari, 8,727 in Surat, 3,066 in Bhavnagar, 2,086 in Amreli, 1,2020 in Bharuch, 761 in Anand and 228 in Gir-Somnath. 18 teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and six teams of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) have been deployed at different locations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-major-impact-in-gujarat-after-nisarga-makes-landfall-in-maharashtra-845393.html
04-06-2020||West||Maharashtra govt opposes amendment to Electricity Act||The Maharashtra government has opposed the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill, 2020, saying that it clearly violates the Constitutional mandate and undermines its federal structure. Maharashtra's Energy Minister Dr Nitin Raut says the intent should be towards decentralisation of power for transparency and efficiency. Expressing his grave concern over the proposed amendments in the EA 2003, Dr Raut said that the Centre intends to override and dominate the state government's responsibility in the administration of power generation, transmission and distribution of electricity. Dr Raut,  a senior politician from Vidarbha, said the Constitution of India under Seventh Schedule, provides the powers to both the central as well as state governments to make appropriate laws on matters related to electricity. However, with proposed amendments, the central government with an intention to centralise the power in its hand proposed the amendment which makes states weaker in the matters related to the power sector. The subject is now in the concurrent list and provides equal opportunities to both Centre and State. Dr Raut, a senior Congress leader, said by effecting the amendment, the Centre was trying to privatise distribution, transmission and generation as it was now taking various measures and policy decisions to privatise the PSUs under various pretexts. However, its objectives were to benefit some business houses at the cost of common people on whose money the PSUs were created, he added.  While elaborating the first Electricity Policy of India framed in 1943, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar, the then power minister in-charge, specified that the power sector in India should be under government control and not ruled by the private sector.  While addressing the Power Committee on October 24, 1943, Dr Ambedkar strongly advocated the power sector to be kept under state government control totally to serve the common people of the nation. This vision is of paramount importance to the present times, adds Dr Raut. The Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India empowers both, the central and state governments, to enact laws on matters related to electricity as it is included in the concurrent list.However, with proposed amendments, it is obvious that the Federal Structure of Electricity, wherein the Centre and State Governments are responsible, is being interfered.  "By centralising the powers, the basic intent of the Constitution is being violated and centralisation of power is not desired. The intent should be towards decentralisation of power for transparency and efficiency. Therefore, existing provisions empowering state government as well as state commission to take appropriate decisions/make rules and regulations after considering the state-specific issues need to be continued," he added. Hence, Dr Raut has requested the Center to withdraw draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 proposed by the Ministry of Power, Government of India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-opposes-amendment-to-electricity-act-845436.html
04-06-2020||West||Cyclone Nisarga leaves 4 dead in Maharashtra||The cyclone Nisarga has left a trail of destruction and claimed four lives in Maharashtra.  On Wednesday, Nisarga made its landfall off Alibaug coast in Raigad district and then swept through the Pune district's city areas and urban landscape.  As on Thursday morning, the cyclone system is over Nashik and North Maharashtra region. Both Raigad and Pune districts have reported two deaths each. In Raigad, a 16-year-old boy died when a tree collapsed and fell on him in Srivardhan, while a 53-year-old shopkeeper died when an electric pole snapped and crashed in Alibaug. In Pune, a 65-year-old woman died when the house in which she was staying caved in Khed, while a 52-year-old person died when a tin-roof blew off in Haveli. There are no reports of deaths from Mumbai, South Konkan twin districts of Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg and North Konkan areas of Thane and Palghar. After hitting the Raigad district in North Konkan, it crossed to Pune in Western Maharashtra. In Mumbai, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray asked damage assessments and panchanamas to be done immediately. Meanwhile, Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said that crops particularly grapes have suffered extensive damage in Nashik-Ahmednagar belt. The Vasai-Virar belt is receiving heavy downpour now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-nisarga-leaves-4-dead-in-maharashtra-845447.html
04-06-2020||West||Cyclone turns into depression over Vidarbha, to weaken further||Cyclone Nisarga which spared Mumbai after it made landfall near adjoining Alibaug is now a depression over the west Vidarbha region in Maharashtra and will weaken further, India Meteorological Department(IMD) said on Thursday. Cyclone Nisarga made landfall near Alibaug, about 110 km from here on Wednesday, sparing India's financial centre which is already reeling under the COVID-19 pandemic. "Deep Depression weakened into a Depression over west Vidarbha (Maharashtra) at 0530 IST of 4th June, to move east- northeastwards and weaken into a Well Marked Low-Pressure Area (WML) by today evening," the department tweeted. The cyclone had the coastal districts of Maharashtra from the Arabian Sea with wind speeds of up to 120 kilometres per hour (kmph) on Wednesday afternoon. Mumbai was on edge as it braced for the cyclone after a gap of 72 years. The neighboring coastal districts of Raigad and Palghar bore the brunt of the storm experiencing strong winds, heavy rainfall and raging sea surge. Tidal waves measuring up to 6-8 feet lashed parts of the coastal areas. Tin roofs erected on the terraces of residential apartments flew away in some places and several trees and electricity poles were also uprooted. A 58-year-old man died after a power transformer fell on him while he was rushing home to escape the cyclone fury in Raigad district, while a 65-year-old woman and a 52-year-old man died in house collapse after the tin sheets on the roof were blown in separate incidents in Pune district, officials said. Mumbaikars heaved a sigh of relief as the cyclone's damage appeared limited to the uprooting of trees in some areas that led to vehicles being crushed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-turns-into-depression-over-vidarbha-to-weaken-further-845451.html
04-06-2020||West||Over 3,500 frontline workers infected by COVID-19 in Maharashtra||The majority of the doctors, nurses, ward boys, paramedics, police personnel and conservancy staff who had tested positive are from Mumbai, the worst Coronavirus-affected city in India. In the state, more than 500 doctors have tested positive, officials of Maharashtra Medical Council and Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra chapter, confirmed to DH on Thursday. At least five doctors have died in the state, they said, however, adding that the recovery rate too has been good. If one looks at Wednesday's update of Maharashtra police, a total of 1,526 cops have tested positive of which 29 have died.  The 1,527 cops include 190 officers and 1,326 form the constabulary. The deceased include one officer and 28 men.According to Jan Swastha Abhiyan, they have come across reports that nearly 1,500 frontline workers within the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) limits have been found COVID-19 positive including nurses. They are living in hostels that are often poorly maintained with no clean bed sheets or locker facilities, to keep their families safe from infection while carrying out their duties. "In many cases, nurses have ended up in crowded facilities which lack basic services like water, sanitation and medical facilities. "There have been reports that nurses are kept in the dark about their test results and are often told not to reveal to other staff members that they have tested positive. This adds to the fear, stigma and discrimination surrounding COVID-19 disease and must be discouraged. Denial of information regarding one’s care is also a violation of patients’ rights as outlined by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India. It is the duty of the treating physician and hospital to ensure that patients receive information regarding the nature of the illness, provisional/confirmed diagnoses, and records and reports including investigation reports," says a memorandum addressed to Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal by Jan Swasthya Abhiyan - Mumbai, Clinical Nursing Research Society, Trained Nurses Association of India- Maharashtra State Branch, Association of Nursing Teachers Maharashtra, Municipal Nursing and Paramedical Staff Union- Mumbai, and United Nurses Association Maharashtra  Nearly 200 nurses from Kerala have resigned from hospitals and left for their home state due to the fear of getting infected from COVID owing to continued issues they have been facing while on duty. There are also reports of private hospitals cutting paid leaves and salaries of nurses in quarantine thereby indirectly penalising them for getting infected with COVID 19 - something totally out of their control, the letter states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-3500-frontline-workers-infected-by-covid-19-in-maharashtra-845488.html
04-06-2020||West||30 Maharashtra Police personnel died of COVID-19 so far||At least 30 police personnel, including an officer, have so far died due to COVID-19 in Maharashtra, while over 2,500 have tested positive for the disease, an official said on Thursday. Nearly 18 of the total 30 victims were working in the Mumbai Police force and contracted the deadly infection while implementing the lockdown orders, he said. "Till now, over 2,500 state police personnel have tested positive for the coronavirus and 30 of them, including an officer, have died," the official said. As of now, the number of active cases in the police force stands at 1,510, including 191 officers, he said. Since the lockdown, the Maharashtra Police registered 1,22,484 offenses under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and arrested 28,820 people in this connection, he said. More than one lakh calls were handled by various police control rooms across the state in connection with queries and complaints related to COVID-19 during the lockdown, he said.  Besides, the police seized 77,435 vehicles, which were found moving on roads in violation of the lockdown norms. The police also collected fine worth Rs 6.38 crore for various offenses during the lockdown, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/30-maharashtra-police-personnel-died-of-covid-19-so-far-845537.html
04-06-2020||West||Ashok Chavan recovers from COVID-19, discharged||Maharashtra PWD Minister and senior Congress leader Ashok Chavan, who tested positive for coronavirus last month, was discharged from a hospital here on Thursday after recovering from the disease. After being discharged, the former chief minister reached his home to a warm welcome from his family members. Chavan was admitted to a private hospital here on May 25 after his test report came out positive for coronavirus. The minister was discharged on Thursday after recovering from the disease, his office said. He was in Nanded when he tested positive for the infection last month and was brought to Mumbai for treatment. Chavan is an MLA from Bhokar constituency in Nanded district. Earlier, state Housing Minister and NCP leader Jitendra Awhad also tested positive for COVID-19 and was hospitalised for some days. He was later discharged after recovery. Till Wednesday, the state reported 74,860 COVID-19 cases and 2,587 deaths due to the disease. So far, 32,329 patients in the state have been discharged after recovery, as per official figures.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ashok-chavan-recovers-from-covid-19-discharged-845560.html
04-06-2020||West||Lockdown: Travel restrictions within Mumbai-MMR eased||After close to three months, on Wednesday, the Maharashtra government eased restrictions on travel between Mumbai and the larger Mumbai metropolitan region (MMR). However, there would not be any movement of suburban local trains of Central Railway (CR) and Western Railway (WR). Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray took the call to partially ease COVID-19 lockdown as part of his 'Mission Begin Again' plan. Mumbai comprises of two districts of Mumbai City and Mumbai Suburban and spread over nearly 603 sq kms. The MMR includes Mumbai, and also comprises Thane completely and the larger part of Palghar and Raigad districts which are spread over 6,355 sq kms. The population of Mumbai-MMR is around two crore and is currently the worst COVID-19 affected region with over 56,000 COVID-19 positive cases and 1,750 deaths. According to a notification issued by chief secretary Ajoy Mehta: ".....the inter-district of movement of persons within the municipal corporations under MMR shall be allowed without any restrictions. The movement of standard labour,  migrant workers, pilgrims,  tourists,  etc will continue to be regulated as per SOPs issued." It is noteworthy to mention here that the MMR has nine municipal corporations including the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The Mumbai-MMR also has nine municipal councils and district areas,  which,  however,  is not covered in the order. The.notification makes it clear that offices/staff of educational institutions - schools,  colleges and universities - can operate only for the purpose of non-teaching purpose like development of e-content, evaluation of answer sheets and declaration of results. The notification said that municipal commissioners along with police commissioners should actively involve  market, shop owner associations for making arrangements and smooth enforcement of social distancing and traffic management. From 8 June, private offices will be able to operate with up to 10 percent capacity or ten people, whichever is more, with remaining persons working from home. "All the employers should take sensitization programme to educate the employees about adequate precautions on returning home so that the vulnerable group especially the elderly is not infected," it said. From 7 June, home delivery of newspapers will be done with the knowledge of the receiver and the delivery personnel will wear masks and use hand sanitizer and maintain social distancing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/lockdown-travel-restrictions-within-mumbai-mmr-eased-845599.html
04-06-2020||West||Can coronavirus be transmitted by touch, Bombay HC asks expert panel||The Bombay High Court on Thursday sought to know from an expert committee, set up by the Ministry of Civil Aviation to review public health care protocols for air travel, if coronavirus can be transmitted by mere touch of a person who is a carrier of the virus. A division bench of Justices S J Kathawalla and S P Tavade was hearing a petition filed by Air India pilot Deven Kanani, who claimed the airline was not keeping the middle seats vacant in flights bringing back stranded people to India. Counsels of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) pointed out to the court minutes of the meeting held on May 26, 2020 by the expert committee under the chairmanship of the civil aviation secretary, by which it reviewed and strengthened public health related protocols of air travel. As per the minutes of the meeting, physical distance between two persons helps in minimising transmission through an inadvertent touch, and if persons sitting next to each other could be provided a protective suit which could help in preventing spread of virus either by droplets or by touch. "We seek clarification from the expert committee as to whether by mere touch of a person carrying COVID-19 virus, it can be transmitted to the person so touched, the court asked and posted the matter for further hearing on Friday. On Thursday, other air carriers like Spicejet, GoAir and IndiGo also filed applications seeking to intervene in the matter, and sought the court to hear their contentions also. The court said it would hear all of them on Friday. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the DGCA, on the last hearing on Tuesday told the court that DGCA issued a circular on May 31, asking air carriers to try to keep the middle seats on flights vacant and provide wraparound gowns to passengers who are allotted such seats.  Kanani in his plea claimed the Air India was violating the guidelines laid down in a circular dated March 23 by the Centre, to prevent the spread of COVID-19 during air travel. The Air India, however, had opposed the plea, and informed the court last week that the March 23 circular was superseded with a new circular issued by the government on May 22, while permitting domestic flights to operate from May 25. As per the airline, the new circular does not say the middle seat needs to be kept empty. The high court last week noted that a cursory glance at the May 22 circular showed it applied only to domestic flights and not the 'Vande Bharat' international flights operated by Air India. The court had then directed Air India and DGCA to clarify their stand. The Air India later approached the Supreme Court which, while allowing the national carrier to keep operating its scheduled flights with middle seats filled till June 5, observed that the government should be more worried about the health of citizens than the health of commercial airlines.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/can-coronavirus-be-transmitted-by-touch-bombay-hc-asks-expert-panel-845630.html
04-06-2020||West||Number of coronavirus patients in Palghar crosses 1,000||With 42 new patients found since Wednesday night, the number of coronavirus patients in Maharashtra's Palghar district crossed 1,000, the administration said. The number of virus patients reached 1,002 on Thursday, while the death toll due to the pandemic in the district stands at 33, it said. 878 patients have been found in Vasai-Virar Municipal Corporation limits, 50 in Palghar taluka, 24 in Dahanu taluka, two in Jawhar taluka, six in Wada taluka and 42 in Vasai Rural, it said. The VVMC area also accounts for 29 deaths. There are 558 patients who are active, i.e. they are being treated, while 412 have been discharged after recovery.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/number-of-coronavirus-patients-in-palghar-crosses-1000-845634.html
04-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Bombay HC seeks info on disposal of COVID-19 victims' bodies||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the state government and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation to file an affidavit with details about how bodies of deceased COVID-19 patients were handled and disposed. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Amjad Sayed was hearing a petition filed by BJP MLA Ashish Shelar raising concerns about the manner in which bodies of deceased COVID-19 patients were handled at the civic-run Sion Hospital in central Mumbai. Shelar, in his plea, sought a direction to the government and civic authorities to immediately stop the practice of keeping bodies of deceased coronavirus patients in wards where people are being treated for the infection. The petitioner claimed that several videos had surfaced from the hospital, which showed bodies of deceased patients lying on beds or on ground, right next to people who were undergoing treatment for the deadly infection. Shelar sought an inquiry into the incident and a direction to the government and civic body to follow procedure laid down by the Centre and World Health Organisation (WHO) for safe handling and disposal of bodies of deceased patients. The bench directed the government and BMC to file their affidavit and posted the matter for further hearing next week.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-bombay-hc-seeks-info-on-disposal-of-covid-19-victims-bodies-845646.html
04-06-2020||West||NCP chief meets partymen to review damage caused by cyclone Nisarga||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday held a meeting with party ministers and leaders to take stock of the damages caused by cyclone Nisarga, a day after it made landfall in Raigad district of Maharashtra. State Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil, party MPs Sunil Tatkare and Praful Patel attended the meeting at the NCP president's residence here, a statement said. The coastal belt of the state, particularly Raigad district, was hit by the cyclone, which has now weakened into a depression. Pawar had on Wednesday urged the partymen to engage in relief work along with the administration.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ncp-chief-meets-partymen-to-review-damage-caused-by-cyclone-nisarga-845647.html
04-06-2020||West||Mahaharashtra's COVID-19 tally touches 77,793 with 2,933 new cases||Maharashtra on Thursday registered the highest single-day spike of 2,933 COVID-19 cases, which took the tally of patients in the state to 77,793, the state health department said. As many as 123 coronavirus positive patients died during the day, while 1,352 patients were discharged after recovery, it said. With this, the death toll in the state grew to 2,710, while the number of recovered patients rose to 33,681, the health department said in a statement. The number of active cases is 41,402, it said, adding that as many as 5,10,176 people have been tested so far.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mahaharashtras-covid-19-tally-touches-77793-with-2933-new-cases-845735.html
04-06-2020||West||Nisarga leaves trail of destruction, 6 dead||The Nisarga cyclone has left a massive trail of destruction and claimed six lives in Maharashtra. The worst-affected district was Raigad,  where thousands of trees were uprooted and houses were damaged. The power and telecommunication services are yet to be restored as cables got snapped and poles uprooted in nature's fury. On Wednesday,  Nisarga had made its landfall off Alibaug coast in Raigad district in coastal Konkan belt and then swept through the Pune district's city areas and rural landscape in Western Maharashtra. As on Thursday morning, the cyclone system is over Nashik and North Maharashtra region and then moved towards Marathwada and Vidarbha. In Mumbai,  there were heavy rains on Thursday for two hours during which low-lying areas like King's Circle,  Dadar,  Matunga, Sion,  Kurla, and Chembur was water-logged briefly. Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray,  who took a review meeting,  asked power and telecommunications systems to be restored on war-footing and organise food for those whose houses were damaged. Meanwhile, Relief and Rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar informed that around 13-14 districts – or more than one-third of Maharashtra’s 36 districts – have been affected by Nisarga and he would go on a tour from Saturday for a spot assessment of the damages. State energy minister Dr Nitin Raut is in Raigad for an on-spot assessment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/nisarga-leaves-trail-of-destruction-6-dead-845751.html
04-06-2020||West||Maharashtra Deputy CM Ajit Pawar reviews damage caused by cyclone Nisarga in Pune district||Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Thursday reviewed damage caused by cyclone Nisarga in Pune and instructed district administration to conduct immediate spot inspections to assess the quantum of losses. According to an official statement, Pawar, also guardian minister of Pune, interacted with local public representatives and officials to know details regarding the losses caused in urban and rural parts of the Western Maharashtra district. He (Pawar) has instructed the local administration to carry out spot inspections immediately to assess the losses caused by the cyclone, the statement said. It said the cyclone caused losses in Maval, Ambegaon, Junnar, Khed, Velhe and Mulshi talukas of the district. Schools, peoples homes, vegetable crops and orchards have suffered damage, while electricity wires got snapped and poles fell due to the cyclone, which made landfall in coastal Raigad district on Wednesday afternoon. Pawar also thanked policemen, NDRF teams, life guards, civic staffers, health workers, NGOs and other personnel who took part in the relief work, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-deputy-cm-ajit-pawar-reviews-damage-caused-by-cyclone-nisarga-in-pune-district-845806.html
04-06-2020||West||Goal of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's life was to create Hindu empire: RSS leader||To create "Hindu empire" was the goal of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's life, senior Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) leader Bhaiyyaji Joshi said on Thursday. He was speaking through a Facebook video on the occasion of `Hindu Samrajya Diwas' (Hindu Empire Day) observed by the RSS. "As (lord) Srikrishna's life was about establishing a rule of religion and that of Ram was to slay Ravan, in the same way, the goal of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj's life was to transform this country into a Hindu empire...that was the message of his life," he said. Shivaji Maharaj was an impartial ruler and such rulers win people's trust, the RSS general secretary said. If common people do not trust the ruler, then the ruler can not work in the interest of society or a country, Joshi said. Shivaji Maharaj was crowned as sovereign king on June 6, 1674. The RSS celebrates the anniversary of this ceremony as per the Hindu calender as `Hindu Samrajya Diwas/Din'. Joshi further said that Shivaji Maharaj was a selfless leader and served the people as a "sevak" (servant). He had a nationalist view and did not believe in expansion, the RSS leader said. "Shivaji Maharaj was impartial and took along everyone and created trust among common people. He always spoke about ensuring the security of women and was against any violence against women in his Samrajya. He spoke about security of farmers and never troubled them....He ensured that none faced injustice," Joshi added. There was no place for nepotism in Shivaji Maharaj's rule, Joshi said, adding that though he held some 300 forts, he did not give the command of any of those forts to his relatives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goal-of-chhatrapati-shivaji-maharajs-life-was-to-create-hindu-empire-rss-leader-845810.html
