05-06-2020||Comment||Black & White, North & South: Americans show the way||News about how huge masses of protesters are taking to the streets in the US are being broadcast on almost all media platforms. Police chiefs are leading their forces in taking a knee in honour of George Floyd, along with the protesters. The geographical spread of the protests in the US, as mapped by the news site Al Jazeera, indicates an almost country-wide prevalence with more than 300 cities listed. This is as heart-warming as it is surprising. The occurrence of the protests across the US for a matter of police brutality against a black person, not just in the supposedly more liberal east and west coasts (with cities like New York, Washington DC, Los Angeles), but in America’s heartland (Iowa, Ohio, etc) and in the American South as well -- in Alabama, Mississippi and Texas -- is unprecedented. Till recently, the American South, seen as more conservative than the North, was a battleground over its continued respect for the symbols of the Confederate States. These states had “seceded” from the political Union of the United States in 1860-61. This led to the American Civil War between the South and North, with the latter prevailing. But the spirit of that Confederacy and its symbols, such as the flag and statues or busts of certain personalities is still very strong. These symbols often adorn state government buildings and fairly recently, many African-American activists have been trying to have them removed. The administrations have been quite adamant, yielding only after a lot of pressure. Now, in the midst of the Floyd protests, comes the news that the southern state of Virginia has offered to take down the statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee. There have been numerous protests over the years over a host of issues that have affected black communities. But one has not witnessed a groundswell like the one right now. A 2013 incident, that of the killing of black teenager Tryavon Martin and the eventual letting off of the security personnel who shot him, saw the beginning of the Black Lives Matter movement. Then, 2014 saw two egregious instances of police brutality almost back-to-back. In July, Eric Garner died in a chokehold by a white policeman in New York, even as he kept saying “I can’t breathe.” He was accused of selling loose cigarettes. This cry of his as he was choked became symbolic of the oppression and suffocation that black folk face in general and found resonance in the George Floyd case. In August of the same year, an unarmed Michael Brown was shot dead in Ferguson, Missouri, on suspicion of shoplifting from a convenience store. The town of Ferguson erupted in fiery protests and the state government had to bring in the National Guard in the form of extra forces -- and heavily armed -- to control the protests. Ferguson gave rise to a lot of soul-searching. The protests saw the rise of several groups dedicated to fighting racism and police brutality. Representatives from labour, education, anti-urban-displacement (gentrification), and faith-based organisations drew closer. What Ferguson also engendered was some sort of rethink among the white population on confronting racism in the white community. Many predominantly white churches proudly hung Black Lives Matters banners, and organisations like Showing Up For Racial Justice (SURJ), which sought to “undermine white support for white supremacy,” became more active. Several other local efforts at fighting racism, with increasing participation by white members, came to the fore. Another crucial change has been in the attitude of younger white folk towards issues of racism and the structures of economic oppression. According to a 2019 Pew Center survey, “Younger whites, especially those younger than 30, also tend to be more likely to see inequality in the way blacks are treated. For example, 77% of whites younger than 30 say blacks are treated less fairly by the criminal justice system…” The election of President Trump and his actions like trying to build a wall along the southern border of his notorious travel ban for some incoming travellers, termed the “Muslim ban,” only brought diverse groups, including minority religious groups, together. Actual organising for some of the original demands of BLM, including police reforms, indictment, etc., faded over time. There was no let-up in instances of police targeting black folks. In November 2014, 12-year-old Tamir Rice was shot by a white police officer; in 2015 Freddie Gray died in police custody in Baltimore; and in 2016, Philando Castile was shot in broad daylight by a white police officer in Minneapolis, the very city where George Floyd met his end a few days ago. There were protests over most of these incidents -- and also against the Confederate symbols -- but the response was often lukewarm from much of America, especially the US South. In fact, in 2017, white nationalists marched with lit torches through the University of Virginia (Charlottesville) campus. The coronavirus has had a disproportionate impact on African-Americans and other minorities (including Native Americans), giving the lie to any claims of an equal society. In fact, it has once again revealed what a deeply divided society the US is in terms of socio-economic factors. It is against this background that one must see the extraordinary nature of the current protests. Here is a country torn between ideologies, led by a polarising president and now afflicted by a pandemic that has put the fear of socialising in everyone. Yet, casting aside all advisories, precautions and selfish concern, the protesters have gathered and stood together. They have resisted in shows of strength and they have made known their severest outrage and anger in no uncertain terms. The egregious nature of the killing of George Floyd has touched everyone irrespective of race, religion and ethnicity. The disparate instances of solidarity that have been cropping up finally found occasion to stand together. The decision and inspiration by the masses in America to take to the streets, uncaring of their health, is a heartening display of people’s power. Their determination to rise up against injustice is an inspiration for all of us around the world. (The writer, currently based in Delhi, was earlier involved in the struggle against police brutality and racism in the US)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/black-white-north-south-americans-show-the-way-846208.html
05-06-2020||First Edit||A tragedy and the tragic responses to it||The death of a pregnant wild elephant in Kerala’s Palakkad district after it bit into concealed explosives that exploded in its mouth is a gut-wrenching incident which again draws the focus to man-animal conflict. While the forest department and environmentalists blame any unnatural death of wildlife on man-animal conflict, the bigger question of why such encounters are increasing and how they can be stopped remains unaddressed. In the instant case, the elephant tragically turned out to be a case of collateral damage as the explosive was actually intended for wild boars ravaging fields with standing crops. Though this is no justification for the painful death of the elephant, it cannot be denied that wild boars account for almost 70% of crop loss in some parts of the country. While electric fencing is expensive, opposition from conservationists to the culling of small wild animals has left the farmer in the lurch, forcing him to protect his crop and livestock through unconventional means, often leading to the death of some endangered species. India is home to over 27,000 elephants and their population has remained stable over the years. The southern states of Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh account for about 45% of elephants. As elephants are heavily concentrated in some areas of these states, it is becoming difficult for the ecosystem of certain districts to withstand this huge population, leading to man-animal conflict. The living space for large animals is shrinking because of human activities and encroachment. While constriction of forest land is a cause for worry, the question that needs to be asked is, why do elephants leave their habitats and stray from their traditional paths in search of food and water. The forest department should be blamed for failing to plant fodder-bearing fruits like jackfruit or to desilt water bodies within jungles. Unless each state adopts an integrated approach instead of taking shelter under the excuse of man-animal conflict, tragic incidents like the one in Kerala will only continue to occur. The elephant’s death rightly caused widespread outrage, but it was also sought to be communalised. Initial reports had said that the incident happened in the Muslim majority Malappuram district. BJP leader Maneka Gandhi immediately jumped up to call it a “murder” that happened in “India’s most violent district” which was “famous for such incidents’’. Union environment and forest minister Prakash Javadekar grabbed the opportunity to order an ‘investigation’ and proclaimed that it was “not Indian culture’’ to feed animals firecrackers to kill. It actually happened in another district. The attempt to communalise and politicise such an incident is gross and condemnable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/a-tragedy-and-the-tragic-responses-to-it-846206.html
05-06-2020||In Perspective||Coronavirus: The vaccine race is on||A global race is on to develop the first vaccine to counteract the coronavirus. Multinational pharmaceutical companies (‘Big Pharma’), publicly and privately funded research labs, hospitals and universities from the US, UK, China, Israel and elsewhere are in the race. Indian drug companies will not be competing in the race in any meaningful way since their primary focus is on being the world’s chief supplier of generic drugs. Generic drugs can be sold only after the patents on the original drugs have expired. While some patented drugs are also manufactured in India under licence from the patent-holders to be primarily sold in the US or elsewhere -- India accounted for 24% of drugs imported into the US in 2018, according to the US Food and Drug Administration -- these same drugs when sold in India typically turn out to be very unaffordable, even for the middle class. Huge amounts of money and instant fame await the winner(s), who will instantly patent the vaccine. The more prescient ones have been busy since last December. Given America’s vast pool of resources, it is more than likely that the winner will be from the US. Of the top 15 biotechnology companies in the world, nine are from the US, the rest from Europe. Likewise, of the top five pharmaceutical companies selling prescription drugs, four are from the US, the other from France. To give you an idea of the profits that a successful coronavirus vaccine can generate, I have done a comparative cost study of several drugs sold in the US and used in the treatment of a variety of ailments such as malaria, HIV, diabetes, obesity, and leukemia. The data shown in the table below has been obtained from publicly available web sources and copies of pharmacy receipts sent to me by patients. There have been recent press reports that it costs only 12 cents to manufacture one dose of BCG vaccine; it retails for $142 in the US and around $8 in India. The most expensive item in the table below is the generic drug Exjade (see last row) which even in India sells for $700. The drug has been around for 40 years, but the price has yet to come down. In the US where laissez-faire economics is the norm, drug companies, hospitals and doctors set their own prices. Unlike in many other countries, most hospitals in the US are for-profit entities, as are ancillary health services such as ambulances and diagnostic testing companies. Quite often, a single umbrella organisation owns a set of hospitals, specialty doctors, pharmacies and labs, thereby exerting monopoly power. As of June 5, more than 6.7 million people have been infected worldwide and there have been nearly 400,000 fatalities. And infections are just beginning to rise in many countries, including India. Let us hope that the winner does not subscribe to US President Donald Trump’s perspective on money, immigration and race, or his handling of the pandemic. Also, the winner may wish to take note of the sentiments expressed in two well-known quotes. Gandhi said, “There is enough in this world to satisfy everyone’s need, but there will never be enough to satisfy even one man’s greed.” And then there is former US Ambassador to India Daniel Patrick Moynihan: “What has India exported other than communicable diseases?” Moynihan’s quote and Trump’s derogatory “shit hole countries in Africa” hide an ugly truth born of racism: that significant amount of testing of experimental drugs is conducted by multinational pharmaceutical companies on uninformed or under-informed citizens of developing and under-developed countries in Asia and Africa. Given such attitudes among world leaders, when a successful vaccine is developed, it is imperative that all rights associated with the vaccine should be given to the World Health Organisation (WHO) for country-specific pricing and distribution in a non-discriminatory manner. Factors such as income disparity, racism, xenophobia, political or religious leaning, etc., would not then enter the picture. After all, genome data, patient health data, and bodily fluids have been provided by different countries from a globally infected populace. Of course, in all fairness, apart from the WHO’s administrative costs, all revenues accruing from the worldwide sale of the vaccine should be given to the entity that created the vaccine. The WHO is a repository of worldwide health data, especially as it pertains to epidemics and vaccines. The WHO has 196 member countries and it is divided into six regions of equal-size populations. The smallest region has 11 countries while the largest region has 52. There are WHO offices in every region of the world and in some cases, every country in that region has a WHO office. The staff of WHO is mostly comprised of medical professionals, many of whom are top epidemiologists in their own countries. The existing infrastructure of WHO is uniquely capable of pricing, distribution and administering vaccines in every country in the world. Also, WHO has a wealth of experience dealing with diseases such as HIV, SARS and malaria. Of course, if WHO is given possession of the Covid-19 vaccine, it will need to set prices based on country-specific affordability. For example, using WHO data for 2014, the yearly per capita expenditure on health in Burundi was $58 compared to $9,403 in the US. How likely is my suggestion to be taken up? Not very, but one can always hope. India currently chairs the Executive Board of WHO. (The writer is a computer scientist based in the US)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/coronavirus-the-vaccine-race-is-on-846207.html
05-06-2020||Kalaburagi||Karnataka govt mulling increasing working days to 150 under MGNREGS||Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department Minister K S Eshwarappa on Friday said the state government is mulling increasing working days under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) from 100 days to 150 days. Speaking to reporters after inspecting a work taken up under the MGNREGS at Honnakiranagi village of the district, he stated that hike in working days is pondering as the Union Government had set aside about Rs 40,000 crore to MGNREGS while announcing a special package. Disgruntlement true Admitting that dissent is brewing among BJP MLAs for power and positions in the party, Eshwarappa said, it will be sorted out at a suitable platform. Responding to a query on holding Gram Panchayat poll, Eshwarappa said the government had sought an opinion from all deputy commissioners in this regard. They wrote back advising the government to put off the polls in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Hence, the election has been postponed. A final call in this regard will be taken at the cabinet meeting, he said. A decision on fielding candidates to the ensuing polls to Legislative Council will be taken at a core committee meeting to be held on Saturday, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/kalaburagi/karnataka-govt-mulling-increasing-working-days-to-150-under-mgnregs-845937.html
05-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka: Government survey puts 58.87 lakh households in COVID-19 risk category||The government has done surveying 1.36 crore households until Wednesday on their level of vulnerability to COVID-19, which is 80.64% of the 1.68 crore households it set out to survey in the state. The survey found 58,87,023 households under the risk category. At least one member of 1.67 lakh households have COVID-19 symptoms like fever, cough or cold. It also revealed that 56,07,783 households have senior citizens and 15,05,824 of them have seniors with comorbidity conditions such as high blood pressure, diabetes, or a cardiac problem. The number of households with pregnant and lactating women are 4,66,882. If the household has any of the four categories of people, it is deemed vulnerable and needs follow-up on the condition of its members. The households having both senior citizens and pregnant women are recorded in both those categories, but they are counted only once in the risk category needing follow-up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-government-survey-puts-5887-lakh-households-in-covid-19-risk-category-845842.html
05-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa warns of legal action against illegal BPL ration card holders||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday said government employees and owners of tractors and other vehicles must return the BPL ration cards immediately, failing which stringent legal action would be initiated against them. The CM issued directions in this regard to officials as he conducted a review meeting of the Food and Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs department today. Proper supply of ration must be ensured to eligible beneficiaries and action has to be taken to prevent misuse of the facility by those not eligible, Yediyurappa was quoted as saying by his office in a release. Nearly 63,000 ration cards were cancelled before the COVID-19 outbreak, he noted and directed officials to initiate a campaign to cancel all illegal ration cards. "this campaign would help in curtailing the financial burden on the State's reserves," he added. In the backdrop of coronavirus pandemic, both the Central and State governments have distributed sufficient quantities of ration, and about 95 percent ration cardholders have availed the benefit, the release said. Under the Chief Ministers Anila Bhagya Scheme, 98,079 beneficiaries have been given 3 gas cylinders free of cost, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-warns-of-legal-action-against-illegal-bpl-ration-card-holders-845857.html
05-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Locust species found in Dakshina Kannada is endangered, not harmful||Spotted Coffee Grasshopper or aularches miliaris found in different parts of Dakshina Kannada district is not harmful, but an endangered species. After the locusts were found in Shirlalu, Noojibalthila and other areas in Dakshina Kannada, there was fear among farmers on losing the farm produce. The Agriculture Department in the district had identified through entomologists that the swarms of locusts that arrived in various parts of Belthangady and Kadaba were aularches miliaris.  The department had sent species collected from Shirlalu village of Belthangady taluk to Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI), National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources (NBAIR) and Gandhi Krishi Vigyan Kendra (GKVK), Bengaluru for analysis. The reports from these institutes have confirmed that the locusts found in the district are aularches miliaris. Agriculture Department's Joint Director M C Seetha said that Spotted Coffee Grasshopper is found in Western Ghats of South India and it is one of the endangered species as per the International Union for Conservation of Nature. The insects are usually found in plantations of coffee, banana, cashew, coconut, areca nut, cardamom and paddy fields. The locusts are not harmful. It can be eradicated while ploughing the land in its egg stage. The nymph can be caught and released to other places. One needs to be cautious while managing the endangered species.   It can be destroyed by spraying neem-based insecticides or by 1.5ml of lambda cyhalothrin 5 EC per litre of water, she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/locust-species-found-in-dakshina-kannada-is-endangered-not-harmful-845945.html
05-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: BJP leader asks govt to install HEPA filters for ACs in Parliament, Vidhan Soudha||Terming that sessions of Parliament and Vidhan Soudha are most dangerous for the spread of virus-like COVID-19, former MP and BJP leader Vijay Sankeshwar has urged the union and state governments to make installation of HEPA filter for air conditioners or air filters in Parliament, Vidhan Soudha and five-star hotels mandatory, to drastically bring down the virus threat. "Air in an AC room is 17 times more dangerous than the natural air. I will write letters to union and state governments in this regard, also urging to make a provision for compulsory installation of HEPA filter for AC devices used in small places like restaurants, and to remove carpets everywhere. HEPA filters are used in ACs at operations theatres to prevent infection for patients, and they eliminate over 99% of pollution," he said.  We have to change our lifestyle to a simpler way to be protected from COVID-19 and more dangerous diseases which are likely to emerge in coming days. Instead of alcohol-based sanitiser, sanitiser made of neem oil and aloe vera are more healthy, and they are harmless even if consumed by chance. Use of imported products should also be reduced, Sankeshwar noted. He also suggested a total ban of crackers and lockdown for 15 days every year to check the spread of any contagious disease. Regarding the possibility of him becoming a Rajya Sabha member, Sankeshwar said, "I am an honest party worker, and I will do what the party says'". I have permanently donated Rs 32,000 I used to get monthly as pension for being former MP and former MLC for COVID-19 care, he said. Vijay Sankeshwar, who is also VRL Group Chairman, noted that VRL is not running AC buses though there is permission, and is not allowing people above 65 years and below 10 years to travel. "We are running buses with only 20 seating capacity, and buses are not going to Mumbai. Transport business was almost nil for two and half months, and now it is 20%," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-bjp-leader-asks-govt-to-install-hepa-filters-for-acs-in-parliament-vidhan-soudha-845997.html
05-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||36 more test COVID-19 positive in Belagavi||Another huge spike in increase of COVID-19 positive cases was reported in the district with 36 persons including four children less than ten years old testing positive for the pandemic on Friday. The total positive cases in the district increased to 252. Among the 36 who tested positive, 34 are returnees from Maharashtra and 2 from Haryana. Its for the first time that returnees from Haryana have tested positive. Four children P-4561 female aged 9 years, P-4563 female aged 2 years, P-4570 male aged 9 years and P-4571 male aged 5 years, all returnees from Maharashtra were among the positives. District Surveillance Officer Dr B N Tukkar informed all those tested positive were from institutional quarantine at different places in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/36-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-belagavi-846066.html
05-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Union health minister lauds Covid-free Ch'nagar dist||Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan has appreciated the Chamarajanagar district administration for taking all necessary measures to ensure the district remains Covid-free. Minister Harsh Vardhan had called Deputy Commissioner M R Ravi over phone on Thursday evening and lauded the efforts of the DC and his team of officials for ensuring that the district remains free from Covid cases. “Please convey by greetings to your team and the people of the district,” Minister Harsh Vardhan had said. The minister also told the DC to meet him whenever he comes to Delhi, Ravi explained. Speaking to DH, the DC said, “It was a pleasant surprise for me to receive the call from the Union Health Minister, which was unexpected. I feel very happy. He lauded the team for taking all necessary steps to keep the district free from covid cases. All the appreciation goes to the people of the district. They all play a major role.” “The district has grabbed attention of the country. District-in-charge Minister Suresh Kumar too has pointed out this at a programme in Kollegal. All efforts will be on to maintain Chamarajanagar as a district with green zone tag,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/union-health-minister-lauds-covid-free-chnagar-dist-846166.html
05-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Covid-19: IGP fetes head constable for speedy recovery||Head Constable Nagaraju of KR Pet town police station, who recovered from Covid 19, was accorded a send off by IGP (Southern Range) Vipul Kumar, during his discharge at the Covid hospital here on Friday. Nagaraju, who was posted at a quarantine centre, was found to be infected by the virus, on May 21. He was immediately admitted to the Covid hospital in Mandya. After 14 days of treatment, his blood and swab samples were tested thrice. The samples tested negative all three times. Following this, he was discharged on Friday. The police band was played to honour him for his speedy recovery and for defeating the virus, instilling confidence among others. IGP Vipul Kumar participated in the programme and felicitated him. Vipul Kumar said, “It is important to be fearless and fight coronavirus with self-confidence. The speedy recovery of our personnel against Covid-19 has instilled confidence among all. Hence, I came to congratulate him on his speedy recovery.” Another frontline worker, Child Development Protection Officer Kumar, who was on duty at the containment zone in Malavalli, is also recovered. He was discharged, along with 12 other patients from the Covid hospital. Mandya district has confirmed 317 positive cases and 147 have recovered and are discharged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-igp-fetes-head-constable-for-speedy-recovery-846167.html
05-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Decision on online classes today: edu minister||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that an order on conducting online classes for schoolchildren would be issued on Saturday. Addressing media persons here, on Friday, the minister said, “The parents have given mixed opinion on online education system. They have opposed online classes for small children and were also against reopening schools until the Covid crisis comes under control.” Suresh Kumar said, “We had sought the opinion of the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS) director on the impact of online educationon small children. He has given a comprehensive explanation.” “According to the suggestions, it is not good to conduct online classes for children up to six years, as it would have an impact on their mind. Taking all these into consideration, an order will be issued on Saturday, on the do’s and don’ts of conducting online classes,” he added. The minister clarified that the government has not yet taken a decision on reopening of schools. As per the Union government’s directions, we are collecting the opinion of parents. The schools across the state would conduct a parents’ meeting on June 10, 11 and 12. We will collect their opinion and decide the future course of action, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/decision-on-online-classes-today-edu-minister-846168.html
05-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||1L saplings to be planted on Chamundi Hill: minister||District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar said that the government has planned to plant one lakh saplings on Chamundi Hill, here, in order to increase the green cover. After planting saplings, as part of World Environment Day celebration, he said, “The Forest Minister will be invited to hold a meeting to discuss about planting of saplings. A decision about maintenance and monitoring the saplings will be taken during the meeting.” Somashekar said, “A programme to plant 27 lakh saplings has been commenced and the officials concerned will inspect all saplings after a month.” The Police department, Mysuru City Corporation, district administration, University of Mysore among others have obtained the saplings. The minister asked the stakeholders to maintain the saplings at least for three years. Replying to the transfer scam allegations, leveled by JD(S) MLA Sa Ra Mahesh, the minister said, “The Excise Deputy Commissioner was transferred as there were allegations against him. The process of transfer has not commenced. Neither any MLA nor former minister A H Vishwanath has played a role in any transfer.” It has to be noted that Mahesh had alleged that there is a transfer scam in the district and district in-charge minister is not aware of it. Mahesh said, “Mysuru has two in-charge ministers. While one is acting, another is legal.” However, Somashekar claimed that he is the only District Minister for Mysuru. Prime Minister Narenda Modi has given good administration in the last six years and the Union government has earmarked Rs 40,000 crore for Karnataka through Rural Development and Panchayat Raj. The Union government is handling Covid-19 in an effective manner and the PM has announced a special package of Rs 20 lakh crore to fight Covid-19, he said. The minister distributed a booklet containing details of the achievements of Modi’s government during the first 100 days of the second term. The copies were distributed among residents of Krishnaraja Assembly segment of S A Ramadass.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/1l-saplings-to-be-planted-on-chamundi-hill-minister-846174.html
05-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||'Reopen schools only after three months'||Former chief minister Siddaramaiah advised the state government to reopen schools in October, in the wake of the outbreak of Covid-19. Speaking to reporters here, he said, “The government must reign in private education institutions and should not allow them to reopen till October.” Siddaramaiah suggested to conduct classes in two shifts. The government must take all precautionary measures before reopening classes. Siddaramaiah alleged that the Union and state governments have filed to contain the spread of Covid-19. Though the first positive case in the country was reported on January 30, the government failed to suspend air services and allowed many people to enter the country. He claimed that the lockdown was not effective as many people suffered. The Union government announced immediate lockdown and did not allow people to settle down. Lakhs of migrant workers had to face difficulty as the government failed to take care of them. The government made free transportation facility for migrant workers only after Congress leaders raised a voice. Siddaramaiah criticised the Union government for not averting a spiritual gathering at Tablighi Jamaat Mosque in Nizamuddin of Delhi from February 5 to 13. Why did the government allow mass gathering and what was the Police department doing? he questioned.   Siddaramaiah criticised Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman for rejecting the recommendations of the 15th Finance Commission Chairman for Karnataka. The chairman had recommended the Finance Minister to allot Rs 5,490 crore to Karnataka, but, Sitharaman, who is elected from the state, declined to release the amount and has written back to the chairman, he said. The state government, headed by Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa is unethical, un-constitutional and anti-democratic. Even though the state is under crisis, the government failed to protect the interest of the people. Any party or government must act as per provisions of the Constitution. Siddaramaiah said that he has suggested Congress leader Mallikarjuna Kharge’s name for the upcoming Rajya Sabha (RS) election. The party high command will decide on extending support to JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda in the election, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/reopen-schools-only-after-three-months-846182.html
05-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||D K Shivakumar plans ‘ghar wapsi’ to bring leaders back to Congress||The D K Shivakumar-led Congress has planned a political ‘ghar wapsi’ to bring back leaders who quit the party and also rope in those from other parties.  Shivakumar, the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, has constituted a 12-member committee headed by former minister Allum Veerabhadrappa to liaise to anchor this effort to bring back people into the party fold.  This move comes more than a year after over a dozen Congress MLAs defected and joined the BJP, leading to the collapse of the Congress-JD(S) coalition government. Also, several influential leaders quit the party ahead of the Lok Sabha elections last year.  The constitution of this committee also coincides with disgruntlement brewing within the ruling BJP.  “Many people who left the party and others have applied (to join Congress). Many have met me also. I felt it wouldn't be right for me to make a decision. So, this committee has been constituted,” Shivakumar said. “They will process all applications and send it to the KPCC.”  According to Shivakumar, any person wanting to join the Congress should accept the party’s leadership and its ideology. “Importantly, they should be first accepted by the cadre. If there's no acceptance from the cadre, then what's the point?” he said.  In the past, onboarding some leaders from other parties backfired, Shivakumar admitted. “Someone we take at the state-level shouldn’t misfire at the block-level. We’ve seen this happen before,” he said.  Shivakumar, who was appointed as the state party chief in March, has started an ambitious exercise to make the Congress a cadre-based party, an attempt that has not been successful in the past. “The formation of this committee is more like structural programming,” he said.  The 12-member committee headed by Veerabhadrappa has former MLAs B A Hasanabba, Ajaykumar Sarnaik, Abhaychandra Jain, Satish Sail, Prafulla Madhukar, former MPs R Dhruvanarayan and BN Chandrappa, MLA V Muniyappa, former mayor Sampath Raj, Mahila Congress leader Kripa Alva and former KPCC general secretary V Y Ghorpade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/d-k-shivakumar-plans-ghar-wapsi-to-bring-leaders-back-to-congress-846012.html
05-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) MLAs push for HD Deve Gowda to contest Rajya Sabha polls||JD(S) legislators are keen on pushing for the candidature of former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda for the upcoming Rajya Sabha polls.  In the JD(S) legislature party meeting on Friday, legislators are said to have unanimously pushed for his candidature, while also passing a resolution in this regard, with a belief that a seasoned politician like Deve Gowda would do justice to Rajya Sabha seat.  Speaking to mediapersons after the meeting, party's state president HK Kumaraswamy said the legislators were of the opinion that the party supremo would be the right candidate for the position. "There is crisis brewing at state, national and international levels. At such a time, a person like Deve Gowda, who has his pulse on ground level issues is the right candidate for the position. This was the opinion of all the leaders."  A few other legislators told DH that the reason they were pushing for his candidature also stemmed out of resentment that Karnataka was being sidelined by the BJP national leadership. The party members were of the opinion that a strong voice from the state was needed in New Delhi.   However, JD(S) legislature party leader HD Kumaraswamy clarified that his father had not yet given his consent. "In the current situation, the Congress party is in a position to win one seat while the BJP can win two seats. Neither the Congress nor the BJP is in a position to win more than this number. There is still time to decide on the candidature. There's no hurry," Kumaraswamy said.  The last date for candidates to file nominations is June 9 and elections will be held on June 19.  The biennial elections will be held as the term of four incumbents - D Kupendra Reddy (JDS), Prabhakar Kore (BJP), MV Rajeev Gowda and BK Hariprasad (both Congress) will end June 25.  Sources said Deve Gowda had earlier expressed some reservations considering the age factor. The party supremo recently celebrated his 87th birthday. If Deve Gowda agrees to contest and wins, it will be his second stint in Rajya Sabha after his first in 1996-98.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-mlas-push-for-hd-deve-gowda-to-contest-rajya-sabha-polls-846143.html
05-06-2020||National||Indian diplomats in Pakistan harassed||India has lodged a complaint with Pakistan after its diplomats were harassed by the agents of the neighbouring country’s military spy agency Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) in Islamabad. New Delhi lodged the complaint after the ISI agents on bikes aggressively followed the official car of India’s acting envoy to Pakistan, Gaurav Ahluwalia, on the streets of Islamabad. The ISI agents also surrounded the residential complex of the officials of the High Commission of India in the diplomatic enclave of the capital of Pakistan – apparently, in a bid to intimidate them, sources said in New Delhi. The ISI agents apparently resorted to harassing India’s diplomats in Pakistan in retaliation to the expulsion of two officials of the neighbouring country’s High Commission in New Delhi after they were found to be involved in espionage activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-diplomats-in-pakistan-harassed-845845.html
05-06-2020||National||Guidelines prepared for 14 days quarantine of healthcare workers, Centre tells SC||The Union government has told the Supreme Court that its guidelines issued on May 15 recommended for 14 days quarantine for healthcare workers in case of high-risk exposure or if they showed symptoms suggestive of COVID-19. Maintaining that it was taking adequate measures for quarantine of doctors, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said, "novel COVID-19 pandemic poses a very fluid situation". "Current COVID-19 pandemic is unprecedented and there is no time-tested and universally accepted protocols, pertaining to COVID-19 preparedness. There are currently no proven therapeutic or vaccine or rapid point of care diagnostic test, risk assessment and management protocols for Covid-19 and there are major research gaps in many other key areas of COVID-19 patients and hospital management," it said. The Centre said the number of COVID-19 cases are constantly increasing. In near future, apart from existing hospitals, a large number of temporary make-shift hospitals will have to be created in order to accommodate patients requiring admission, medical care and treatment. It maintained that the best protocol for the treatment of COVID-19 has been adopted in guidelines issued on May 15 after a joint monitoring group meeting of WHO, Directorate General of Health Services, ICMR, AIIMS and other officials. The government's response was filed on a notice issued on May 15 by the top court in a PIL filed by a doctor, Aarushi Jain. She has sought direction for making available quarantine facilities for the doctors outside the hospitals, at hotels, guest house etc, among others. On Thursday, a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan allowed Jain to file a rejoinder to the government's response within a week and put the matter for consideration on June 12. In its reply, the Union government asked the court to reject a contention that the doctors were being diagnosed with COVID-19, even after using adequate PPE kits, saying that the contention lacked any empirical evidence. The risk profiling of those exposed has been deliberated in detail by the technical body under the Directorate General of Health Services, the joint monitoring group, having members from the WHO. So far 99.34 PPE kits, certified by designated labs of Ministry of Textile and Defence have been distributed by the central government to the states. Similarly, 123.08 lakh N95 masks have been distributed as on June 1, it said. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said it issued detailed guidelines as 'advisory for managing health care workers in COVID and Non-Covid areas of the hospitals' assessing risk of frontline healthcare workers and recommending them 14 days quarantine period.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/guidelines-prepared-for-14-days-quarantine-of-healthcare-workers-centre-tells-sc-845846.html
05-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 5, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-5-2020-edition-845859.html
05-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 5||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,35,710 as of June 5. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 6,609   Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 100,303 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-5-845860.html
05-06-2020||National||Earthquake of magnitude 4.0 hits Karnataka's Hampi||An earthquake with a magnitude of 4.0 on the Richter Scale hit Hampi in Karnataka today at 06:55 am. Meanwhile, in Jharkhand, an earthquake with a magnitude of 4.7 on the Richter Scale hit Jamshedpur in Jharkhand, according to the National Center for Seismology. More details awaited||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/earthquake-of-magnitude-40-hits-karnatakas-hampi-845863.html
05-06-2020||National||DH Toon: Killing of pregnant elephant draws ire across the country||In a gruesome incident, a pregnant wild elephant was killed after it was fed a cracker-packed fruit in the forest area of Mannarkkad bordering Palakkad and Malappuram districts. Significant headway had been made in the investigation, the Forest department said on Thursday. It also said it would leave no stone unturned to ensure maximum punishment to the culprits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-killing-of-pregnant-elephant-draws-ire-across-the-country-845864.html
05-06-2020||National||5-hr duration for online open book exam for differently abled students: DU||Delhi University on Thursday said the total duration of the online open book examination exam for the differently-abled students will be five hours. The varsity has decided to go for open book exams (OBE) in view of the situation due to coronavirus pandemic, despite opposition from students and teachers. The colleges and departments have been provided specific guidelines to ensure that students belonging to the PWD category who wish to avail the ICT infrastructure facilities for downloading question papers and uploading answer sheets should be allowed the same following the guidelines of social distancing, the varsity said. The students can request for scribes from their respective colleges and departments, it said. In case the students are taking exams at Common Service Centres (CSC), under the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, they can bring scribes of their choice, the varsity said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-hr-duration-for-online-open-book-exam-for-differently-abled-students-du-845870.html
05-06-2020||National||Not right to do politics over COVID-19 situation: Vardhan||It is not right to do politics over the COVID-19 situation in Delhi as it weakens the fight against the disease, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday, a day after the AAP claimed that the Centre-run RML Hospital here was giving out "erroneous" coronavirus test results. Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain should strengthen health services in the national capital instead of making "baseless" allegations on a distinguished institute like the RML Hospital and its testing lab for "cheap media publicity", Vardhan tweeted in Hindi. Doing politics over the novel coronavirus induced situation will weaken India's fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, Vardhan said on Twitter after chairing a meeting through video conference to review the preparedness for prevention and control of the novel coronavirus in Delhi. According to sources, Jain had apparently raised the issue of wrong test results and delayed test reports by the RML Hospital during the meeting. Vardhan also expressed concern over rising COVID-19 cases and low testing levels in many districts of the national capital. The AAP on Wednesday had claimed that the Centre-run RML Hospital was giving out “erroneous” COVID-19 test results and violating government norms of submitting the same within 48 hours.  Addressing a press conference here, AAP spokesperson Raghav Chadha said the Delhi government re-tested 30 samples from Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital which were declared COVID-19 positive. He said 12 of these samples were found to be negative and the result of two samples was inconclusive. The RML Hospital, in a statement, said the dates of sampling were different and there was a gap of 7-14 days when resampling was done. It said quality checks are being done with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the results are concordant. The hospital also maintained that there was no backlog anymore and regular quality checks were being done. "We are doing quality checks with AIIMS and NCDC and the results are concordant. Our positivity is more as all hotspot cases, family clusters and high-risk contacts of lab-confirmed cases are more in our screening centre. Also, we do not have any backlog now. The problem existed earlier when adequate testing kits were not available," it said in a statement. AAP leader Raghav Chadha earlier alleged that there was an error of 45 per cent in RML's coronavirus testing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/not-right-to-do-politics-over-covid-19-situation-vardhan-845874.html
05-06-2020||National||This Environment Day, Mumbai joins hand to seek healthy air to breathe post-lockdown||The campaign demands that the Government put in place measures to ensure that the PM 2.5 levels in cities is 60 micrograms per cubic metre (μg/m3), which is the safe limit (for 24 hours) as prescribed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). This will ensure a safe and healthy environment as well as boost the fight against COVID-19 post lockdown. Mumbai is listed as one of the 122 non-attainment cities (that don't meet the National Ambient Air Quality Standards) under the National Clean Air Programme by the CPCB and has been asked to reduce air pollution by 20 to 30%. Citizens, including celebrities and activists, will be joining the campaign on June 5 by sharing their images holding placards demanding ‘Clean Air for All’ and #SaalBhar60 on social media including Twitter and even tagging MOEF&CC as well as State Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray.     According to Shikha Kumar, Campaigns Manager, Jhatkaa.org, while Mumbai witnessed clean air and blue skies in the lockdown period, it’s ironic that it came at the cost of a pandemic, and that citizens couldn’t actually be outdoors to enjoy or breathe freely. “With this in mind, #SaalBhar60 - a pan-India digital campaign was launched by Haridwar-based climate activist Ridhima Pandey, 12, in association with multiple organisations working across India on the issue of clean air. The idea for it was to culminate on June 5, celebrated as World Environment Day,” she said. Kumar added that the images received from people across India will be compiled on Jhatkaa.org’s website and a poster collage will be created to be sent to Environment Minister Prakash Javdekar, Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan as well as the environment ministers of all the states. As per the data by Urban Emissions Mumbai witnessed a major dip in PM 2.5, Nitrogen Dioxide (NO2) as well as PM10 levels during the lockdown period.“On May 20, Mumbai recorded its AQI as 28, which is the cleanest air the city saw so far this year. It’s not possible once everything is back to normal that we simply abandon cars and shut industries to achieve clean air. However, good and healthy air quality can be achieved with stricter policies and its stringent implementation, which is what Mumbai needs,” said Bhagwan Kesbhat, Founder of Waatavaran Foundation is supporting this campaign. Sarath Guttikunda, director of Urban Emissions (India) an independent research group on air pollution voiced, “We know the air pollution sources and now, we have to take that extra step to make these sources clean. Achieving #SaalBhar60 is very much in our hands, it’s hard work but very much possible,'' he said adding that we need to clean every source- transport, industry, waste, cooking, heating, lighting, and roads. “The rising number of COVID-19 cases in Mumbai has left the city in gloom and despair, it's only the clean air and reduced noise that has brought some respite. We need a strong public movement and collectively demand that Mumbai needs to set its priorities in terms of reducing emissions and paving way for cleaner and greener transport,” said Sumaira Abdulali, Convenor of Awaaz Foundation and member of Maharashtra Clean Air Collective.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/this-environment-day-mumbai-joins-hand-to-seek-healthy-air-to-breathe-post-lockdown-845905.html
05-06-2020||National||Centre launches programme to increase forest cover in urban areas||There is a need to increase forest cover in urban areas to create and enhance their lung capacities, Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar said on Friday at an event to mark World Environment Day virtually due to the COVID-19 pandemic. During the virtual celebration of World Environment Day 2020, themed as 'Nature and Biodiversity', Javadekar launched the Nagar Van or Urban Forests with 200 corporations and cities across India while urging people to actively participate and increase the tree cover in their areas. "Our lifestyle is with nature. Rural areas have forests but urban areas don't have as much. We have decided to launch today the Nagar Van program with 200 corporations. "Urban forests will work as urban lungs. I appeal to people to work together and make it a people's movement. We will reward people who participate and make it a success. Plant trees and increase their number as they are oxygen tanks," the minister said.  Also present at the celebration was Minister of State for Environment Babul Supriyo, who said that the government has set a target of planting 145 crore trees this year. "Tree plantation is a very important step. This year's target for tree plantation is 145 crores. We should take a serious pledge to protect forests and minimise the use of natural resources. Mother earth and nature have given signals which must not be ignored,” Supriyo said.  He also said these trying times can be overcome if everyone understood their responsibility towards nature.  World Environment Day (WED) is celebrated on June 5 every year. In view of the prevalent situation due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the ministry held virtual celebrations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-launches-programme-to-increase-forest-cover-in-urban-areas-845910.html
05-06-2020||National||Goa CM to probe incident of COVID-19 patient skipping test||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has said he would conduct an inquiry into the incident where a woman managed to skip the mandatory COVID-19 test upon her arrival from Mumbai and but later tested positive for the infection. An elderly woman living in North Goa's Calangute town tested positive for COVID-19 after she complained of breathlessness on Thursday. Talking to reporters on Thursday evening, Sawant admitted that the woman had "skipped the COVID-19 test" upon her arrival from Mumbai. Goa has made it mandatory for everyone entering the state to undergo a COVID-19 test and swab samples are being collected at state borders, railway stations and Dabolim airport. "It is true that she entered the state without undergoing a test. She was admitted to the dedicated COVID-19 hospital after she tested positive," the chief minister said.    An inquiry will be conducted into the case, he said. "At least 3,000 persons enter the state every day, so it is difficult to know how she skipped the test," he added. As on Thursday, Goa has recorded 166 cases of COVID- 19, of which 109 patients are undergoing treatment, while 57 have recovered from the infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/goa-cm-to-probe-incident-of-covid-19-patient-skipping-test-845914.html
05-06-2020||National||SSB personnel succumbs to COVID-19; ninth death in CAPFs||A 55-year-old official of the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) has succumbed to COVID-19, the first death from the pandemic in the border guarding force. Officials said on Friday that the deceased was a head constable rank official and was posted in the 25th battalion of the force based in Delhi. The official, who was also suffering from some kidney ailments, succumbed to COVID-19 on Thursday, they said. This is the first death from the virus in the about 80,000 personnel strong force that is tasked to guard the 1,751 km open Indian front with Nepal and 699 km border with Bhutan.  This is the ninth death among the Central Armed Police Forces or paramilitary forces that work under the command of the Union home ministry for rendering a variety of internal security duties apart from border guarding. The Central Industrial Security Force has reported four COVID-19 deaths, while the Central Reserve Police Force and the Border Security Force had recorded two personnel each succumbing to the disease. The National Security Guard (NSG) and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have also reported few cases of coronavirus infection.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ssb-personnel-succumbs-to-covid-19-ninth-death-in-capfs-845917.html
05-06-2020||National||35 migrants injured as bus falls into ditch in UP||At least 35 migrant labourers were injured, 10 of them seriously, when a bus carrying them from Rajasthan to Hamirpur fell into a ditch, police said on Friday. The incident took place on Thursday at about 11 pm when the bus driver lost control and the vehicle fell into a roadside ditch, Circle officer, Massa Singh, said. Hearing screams of passengers, villagers rushed to the scene and pulled them out. Later, police reached the spot and rushed the labourers to a hospital, where condition of 10 of them is stated to be serious.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/35-migrants-injured-as-bus-falls-into-ditch-in-up-845927.html
05-06-2020||National||India to host 2022 AFC Women's Asian Cup 2022||The Asian Football Confederation has awarded the hosting rights of the 2022 Women's Asian Cup to India for the first time since 1979. The decision was taken at the AFC Women's Football Committee meeting. In February, the AFC Women's Football Committee had recommended India to be hosts. In a letter to the All India Football Federation, Dato Windsor John, General Secretary, AFC wrote: "The Committee awarded the hosting rights of the AFC Women's Asian Cup 2022 Finals to the All India Football Federation." The tournament will likely be held in the second half of the year. In the 1979 edition, India had finished as runners-up. "I need to thank the Asian Football Confederation for finding us suitable to host the AFC Women's Asian Cup in 2022," AIFF President, Praful Patel said. "The tournament will galvanise the aspiring women players and bring in a holistic social revolution as far as women's football in the country is concerned," he added. The tournament will feature 12 teams, expanded from the previous slot of eight teams.  India qualifies directly as hosts. The event will also serve as the final qualification tournament for the 2023 FIFA Women's World Cup. The tournament comes as the latest boost to AIFF as India is slated to host the FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup next year. India had also hosted the AFC U-16 Championships in 2016 and the FIFA U-17 World Cup in 2017. "The tournament will play a huge role in further popularising women's football in India. The Women’s Asian Cup 2022 comes on the back of the FIFA U-17 Women's World Cup India 2020, and will help us sustain, and build on the momentum gained," AIFF General Secretary, Kushal Das said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-to-host-2022-afc-womens-asian-cup-2022-845935.html
05-06-2020||National||Maha: Elderly man commits suicide over fear of COVID-19||The fear of contracting COVID-19 infection allegedly forced a 65-year-old man to commit suicide in Maharashtra's Beed district, police said on Friday. The incident occurred at Mangewadi in Patoda on Thursday, when a passerby found the body of Asaram Pote hanging from a tree in his farm, an official said. The police were immediately alerted and Pote's body was brought down in the presence of his relatives and locals, he said. A suicide note was found on the deceased's person, in which he said that he had taken the extreme step as he was scared of contracting COVID-19 infection and no one should be held responsible for his death, the official said. A case of accidental death was registered in this regard and further probe was underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maha-elderly-man-commits-suicide-over-fear-of-covid-19-845940.html
05-06-2020||National||68 fresh cases of COVID-19 in Rajasthan||Rajasthan reported 68 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Friday, taking the total number of positive cases in the state to 9,930, an official said. While 23 cases were reported from Jhalawar, 20 people tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Bharatpur. Jaipur reported 16 cases, 4 were from Baran, two from Kota, two people from other states and one from Sawaimadhopur also tested positive, the official said. So far, 213 COVID-19 patients have died in the state including 101 in Jaipur alone. A total of 7,162 patients have recovered so far and 6,551 of them have been discharged. There are 2,555 active cases in the state as of now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/68-fresh-cases-of-covid-19-in-rajasthan-845944.html
05-06-2020||National||Nine people killed in SUV-container truck collision on Lucknow-Prayagraj highway||Nine people were killed when an SUV collided head-on with a container truck on the Lucknow-Prayagraj highway in Uttar Pradesh on Friday, police said. A youth suffered serious injuries in the accident and has been hospitalised. The SUV was going from Rajasthan to Bhojpur in Bihar when the accident took place near Wajidpur village in the Nawabganj area, about 70 km from here. Those killed are three women, two children and four men, said Radheyshyam Maurya, the Police Circle Officer of Kunda. They are yet to be identified, he said. The driver of the container truck managed to flee from the spot after the accident. Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed his condolence to the families of the deceased and directed officials to ensure proper treatment of the injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nine-people-killed-in-suv-container-truck-collision-on-lucknow-prayagraj-highway-845950.html
05-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: No new schemes till March 2021, says Finance Ministry||The Centre on Friday said it will not float any new public-funded scheme for the next one year and suspend all new schemes costing up to Rs 500 crore till March 2021, seeking to channel more financial resources to fight the Covid-19 pandemic which has cast a shadow over the economy. The central ministries have been asked to send a list of schemes costing up to Rs 500 crore to the department of expenditure falling under the Ministry of Finance. The Union government’s decision will not affect Prime Minister’s Garib Kalyan package and the announcements made under the Atmanirbhar Bharat policy, which was announced recently to fight the coronavirus outbreak. “There is an unprecedented demand on public financial resources, and a need to use resources prudently in accordance with emerging and changing priorities,” a government order said. The focus, the order said, should be on the schemes announced as part of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana or Atmanirbhar Bharat campaign. The order also said that any exception to these new rules would need to be approved by the Department of Expenditure. It is not yet clear which schemes would be suspended, but a close look at the Union Budget papers suggest that most of the expenditure under the central sector schemes are too small. There are 235 line items in the central sector schemes where allocation is less than Rs 50 crore. An impact analysis done by former economic affairs secretary Subhash Chandra Garg suggests the government can do away with quite a few of them. For example, the department of agriculture’s budget has as many as 18 central sector schemes, with budgets of some of the schemes as low as Rs 50 crore. These include: the National Project on Agro-Forestry (Rs.50 crore), Sub-Mission on Plant Protection and Plant Quarantine (Rs 50 crore), Integrated Scheme of Agriculture Cooperation (Rs 85 crore) and Scheme of Information Technology in Agriculture (Rs 40 crore). According to Garg, it would make no difference even if these schemes were clubbed. Similarly, the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying implements an umbrella scheme called ‘White Revolution’, whose total allocation is small (over Rs 2,240 crore) but still has 9 schemes under this umbrella. The move comes after the government announced spending curbs of up to 20% by most ministries and departments in the April-June quarter. Subsequently, the Centre also announced a freeze on dearness allowance hike for its employees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-no-new-schemes-till-march-2021-says-finance-ministry-845952.html
05-06-2020||National||Yamuna river regains sparkle as COVID-19 lockdown banishes waste||The sparkle has returned to the Yamuna river flowing through India's capital of New Delhi, residents say, after decades of filthy and stinking waters, matted with garbage and polluted with toxic effluent from industry. In a feat that eluded years of government cleanliness efforts, a nationwide lockdown against the coronavirus has brought about the transformation of a river many Hindus consider holy, with a halt in industrial activity since late in March. Sanjay Gir, a 55-year-old Hindu monk who spends his time on the riverbank, said he could not remember when he had last seen the river so clean. "Ever since the lockdown, we can take Mother Yamuna's water in our hands and offer it for prayer, as well as drink it," said the beared Gir, clad in traditional white dhoti. "Because everything is closed right now - all the factories, industries are shut...their waste is not coming into the river." From its source among Himalayan peaks, the river meanders 1,376 km (855 miles) through a clutch of northern states to join the river Ganges in the city of Allahabad, where Hindu tradition says the two merge with a third, the mythical Saraswati. One of the world's toughest lockdowns against the coronavirus, which has caused nearly 217,000 infections and more than 6,000 deaths in India, kept out most of the industrial waste that normally clogs the Yamuna. That was the key reason for the better water quality, said Anshuman Jaiswal of city research body the Energy and Resources Institute. "The industrial discharge which was going into the Yamuna actually stopped and that, for sure, has reduced the pollution load," he added. But the waters will deteriorate again, Jaiswal warned, as the lockdown lifts and industries re-open. Nevertheless, while it lasts, a clean, revitalised Yamuna also augurs well for the environmental condition of the Taj Mahal, India's famed monument to love that stands on the riverbank in the northern city of Agra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/yamuna-river-regains-sparkle-as-covid-19-lockdown-banishes-waste-845955.html
05-06-2020||National||India spells out priorities for UNSC seat campaign; Country can play positive role amid testing times, says EAM||India on Friday laid out the priorities of its campaign to secure an elected seat on the UN Security Council with External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar asserting that the country can play a "positive global role" at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic and its grave economic repercussions will test the world like never before. Jaishankar launched a brochure at an event here outlining India's priorities for its forthcoming campaign to secure an elected seat on the UN Security Council at the elections slated for June 17, 2020. As a single endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group, India's candidature is very likely to succeed, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement. If elected, it would be India's eighth term on the UN Security Council and this two-year tenure will start in January 2021. "Ten years since we were last elected to the Security Council, we are facing four very different challenges to international peace and security – the normal process of international governance has been at an increasing strain as frictions have increased, traditional and non-traditional security challenges continue to grow unchecked -- terrorism is the most egregious of such examples," Jaishankar said. "Global institutions remain unreformed and under representative, they are therefore less able to deliver, the COVID-19 pandemic and its grave economic repercussions will test the world like never before," he said.  In this extraordinary situation, India can play a positive global role, Jaishankar asserted. "We have always been a voice of reason and a votary of international law. We advocate dialogue, consultation and fairness in our approach to global issues," the minister said. "As a rule-abiding democracy and a positive contributor to the security of the global commons, India will work constructively with partners to overcome old and new faultlines and offer innovative and inclusive solutions, help developing countries obtain the necessary support to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, help focus more on development, support greater involvement of women and youth in shaping a new paradigm and finally enhance transparency, credibility, representation and effectiveness of the council," Jaishankar said. India emphasises global development addressing climate change and eradicating poverty as central to the planet's future, he said. The priorities paper, issued as a brochure by the minister, set out the key priorities for India -- new opportunities for progress, an effective response to international terrorism, reforming the multilateral system, comprehensive approach to international peace and security, and promoting the technology with a human touch as a driver of solutions. "India's approach will be guided by 'five S’s' as set out by the Prime Minister -- Samman (Respect), Samvad (Dialogue), Sahyog (Cooperation), and Shanti (Peace), to create conditions for universal Samriddhi (Prosperity)," Jaishankar said. India's overall objective during this tenure in the UN Security Council will be the achievement of N.O.R.M.S -- a New Orientation for a Reformed Multilateral System, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-spells-out-priorities-for-unsc-seat-campaign-country-can-play-positive-role-amid-testing-times-says-eam-845961.html
05-06-2020||National||To do well at the Olympics is the only goal: Indian women's hockey Arjuna award nominees||Arjuna Award nominees Vandana Katariya and Monica on Friday said the Indian women's hockey team has a good balance of experience and youth and remains confident of achieving its goal of doing well at the Tokyo Olympics. The Indian team sealed a second consecutive berth in the now postponed Tokyo Olympics after beating USA 6-5 on aggregate in November. "We are certainly moving in the right direction at the moment. The balance of the side is brilliant and we have to just keep moving forward," Vandana said in a release issued by Hockey India. "The confidence of our team is high and I am sure we will be able to put up good performances on the big stage. We are evolving very well as a team and have a great mindset at the moment." Monica said that the team has worked on sharpening its skills and is ready to deliver the goods at the Olympics. "All of us have only one goal and that is to do well at the Olympics. We have fine-tuned many of our skills in the recent past and we are ready to give everything we have to put up excellent performances at the quadrennial event next year. "We have a good balance of experience and youth in our team and we are technically sound as well. We are eager to do well for our country," she added. Earlier this week, Hockey India announced the nomination of Indian women's team captain Rani for the prestigious Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award while Vandana, Monika and men's team defender Harmanpreet Singh were nominated for the Arjuna Award. Vandana, who has over 200 international caps and Monika with 150 International Caps have played key roles in the Indian team's sensational wins last year which include the FIH Series Finals in Hiroshima, Tokyo 2020 Olympics Test Event and the FIH Hockey Olympic Qualifiers in Bhubaneswar. Vandana thanked her teammates for their undying support. "It's amazing to be nominated for the Arjuna Award. I am sure this nomination will be a huge motivation factor for us in the upcoming years. I couldn't have performed at my best if I didn't have wonderful teammates. They have always been on my side and the entire credit for my performances goes to them," said the 28-year-old. Monika said the nomination will motivate her to perform better. "I am extremely honoured to be nominated for the Arjuna Award. The nomination will surely motivate me to perform even better for my team. We produced fantastic results in 2019 and hopefully, we will continue our form once we start playing matches," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/to-do-well-at-the-olympics-is-the-only-goal-indian-womens-hockey-arjuna-award-nominees-845965.html
05-06-2020||National||Over 13 lakh migrants have returned to Rajasthan: official||More than 13 lakh migrants have returned to Rajasthan through Shramik special trains and buses, while over six lakh have gone to their home states from the desert state, a senior official said. With this, the movement of migrants is almost over in the state, Additional Chief Secretary, Industries, Subodh Agarwal, said. “A total of 13.43 lakh migrants who were stuck in various states have arrived in Rajasthan from different states in buses and Shramik special trains and 6.13 lakh have reached their states from Rajasthan so far,” he said. The last Shramik special train departed from the state on June 1.  “We conducted a smooth movement and ensured relief to migrants. The movement of migrants is almost over now. However, we still have 100 camps ready in various parts of the state to accommodate migrants,” he said. The officer, who is looking after movement of migrants, said the registration for arrival and departure was much higher in initial days of lockdown relaxation but many migrants in the later stage also cancelled their movement and stayed back. Migrants have returned to districts like Dungapur, Pali, Sirohi, Jalore, Nagaur, Bikaner and Barmer among others.  The maximum number of arrivals has been from Maharashtra, where Rajasthani migrants were running small businesses, while in Gujarat the migrants were working as labourers. Similarly, migrants from West Bengal and southern states like Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh have also arrived.  The officer said the crisis of migrants was tackled in a systematic manner. “Shelter, food, medicines, safe screening, transport facilities were arranged in a systematic manner which helped us in smooth movement. The transportation cost was borne by the state government. Apart from buses, other vehicles, even personal vehicles in some cases, were provided to those walking on foot,” he said. District administration officials kept a check on roads and migrants walking home were provided transport, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/over-13-lakh-migrants-have-returned-to-rajasthan-official-845970.html
05-06-2020||National||Adesh Kumar Gupta takes charge as Delhi BJP chief||Adesh Kumar Gupta took charge as the Delhi BJP president at the party office here on Friday in the presence of senior leaders, including Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, and his predecessor Manoj Tiwari. The BJP had on Tuesday appointed Gupta, a sitting councilor and former mayor of North Delhi, as its Delhi unit chief. "I am thankful to the party leaders for appointing an ordinary worker like me as the president of Delhi BJP. I will try to live up to their expectations and strengthen party organisation," Gupta said on the occasion. On behalf of his party unit, he also offered help to the Delhi government to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic and save lives. Welcoming his successor, Tiwari described Gupta as a hardworking party worker. The former Delhi BJP chief said he hoped Gupta will discharge his duties skillfully and take the party unit to new heights. In view of the pandemic, only a limited number of party leaders and office-bearers were invited to the program. Gupta had urged party workers not to gather at the office for the function and assured them that he would meet them soon. BJP national vice presidents Shyam Jaju and Dushyant Gautam; former Union minister Vijay Goel; party MPs Ramesh Bidhuri, Meenakshi Lekhi and Parvesh Verma; MLAs Ramveer Bidhuri, Abhay Verma, O P Sharma, Mohan Singh Bisht, Vijender Gupta; and Delhi BJP organisation secretary Siddharthan, among others, attended the programme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adesh-kumar-gupta-takes-charge-as-delhi-bjp-chief-845979.html
05-06-2020||National||Kamal Hasaan launches campaign to sensitise people on COVID-19||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) on Friday (June 5) launched Naame Theervu (We are the solution) campaign to get this metropolis out of the COVID-19 Red Zone by sensitising people on the need to maintain personal hygiene like wearing masks and washing hands frequently. MNM President and actor Kamal Haasan registered as the first volunteer of the campaign that would also help the needy as coronavirus cases multiply in this Tamil Nadu capital. He said volunteers can register by dialing a mobile number (6369811111), while people in distress can also use the same number to seek help. “If not for Good Samaritans who provided food to the needy and took care of them, hunger would have taken over coronavirus in killing the people. We are launching this movement to reclaim Chennai and convert it into a Green Zone from the current Red Zone,” Kamal Haasan told a virtual press conference. He said the Naame Theervu campaign will ensure the distribution of masks to the general public and placing hand sanitisers at public places, besides asking people to make washing hands a perpetual habit. Kamal Haasan said the movement would volunteers to donate things needed for the poor, to deliver them to the needy and to distribute masks to the general public.  In a video released to announce the launch of the movement, Kamal Haasan takes on Prime Minister Narendra Modi by subtly telling that “banging the plates” will not help anyone get food on them, before talking about the Naame Theervu programmee. During the course of the interaction with journalists, Kamal Haasan also said governments in Kerala, Karnataka, and Odisha were performing well in alleviating the sufferings of the people during the Covid-19 pandemic, besides bringing the spread of the virus under control.  “This is an initiative to resurrect the city that nurtured the dreams of many people, including mine into reality. With your participation and people’s contribution, we can seek a simple solution to every problem. This is putting into action the thought that has fuelled us through such tough times,” Kamal Haasan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kamal-hasaan-launches-campaign-to-sensitise-people-on-covid-19-845989.html
05-06-2020||National||Priyanka Gandhi slams UP govt over farmer's suicide||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday slammed the BJP government in Uttar Pradesh over the alleged suicide by a farmer in Muzaffarnagar, saying that the Yogi Adityanath dispensation now does not mention a word about the non-payment of sugarcane dues to farmers. The farmer committed suicide by hanging himself from a tree in Muzaffarnagar district allegedly due to the non-procurement of his sugarcane produce amid the coronavirus-induced lockdown, according to his family. The suicide triggered a protest by farmers on Friday who demanded that a case be registered against sugar mill officials for failure to procure sugarcane from farmers. Tagging a media report on the incident, Priyanka Gandhi tweeted, "Seeing his sugarcane crop drying in the field and not getting the slip, a sugarcane farmer from Muzaffarnagar committed suicide." The BJP claimed that full payment would be given in 14 days, but the sugar mills have been closed with payment worth thousands of crores of rupees still due, she said.  "I had brought it to the notice of the government two days ago. Imagine the plight of these sugarcane farmers' families not getting their dues during this financial crisis. But now the BJP government does not even mention a word about the payment of sugarcane dues within 14 days," the Congress general secretary in charge of UP East said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/priyanka-gandhi-slams-up-govt-over-farmers-suicide-845991.html
05-06-2020||National||SC mulls granting 15 days to Centre, states for transporting migrant workers||The Supreme Court Friday said it intends to give 15 days to the Centre and states for transporting all stranded migrant workers to their native places, commencing hearing on their plight during the COVID-19 lockdown period. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, SK Kaul, and MR Shah was informed by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta that till June 3, over 4,200 ‘Shramik Special’ trains have been deployed to transport migrant workers to their native places. Mehta said that till now over one crore migrant workers have been transported to their destinations and most of the trains ended up in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. He said state governments can tell as to how many more migrant workers need to be shifted and how many trains are required for that purpose. The hearing in the case, which has been taken cognizance on its own by the top court, is underway. On May 28, the top court had directed that the migrant workers wanting to return to their home states will not be charged train or bus fares and those stranded across the country will be provided food free of cost by the authorities concerned.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-mulls-granting-15-days-to-centre-states-for-transporting-migrant-workers-845995.html
05-06-2020||National||Delhi HC declines to interfere with Centre's order setting max and minimum limits on air fare till August 24||The Delhi High Court has declined to interfere with a central government order fixing minimum and maximum airfares of various sectors for three months till August 24, saying it was a policy decision and a "stop-gap arrangement" during the Covid-19 crisis. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan further said that the May 21 order of the Ministry of Civil Aviation for a period of three months clearly stated that a minimum fare was fixed to restrict travel only to the performance of essential journeys.   "It ought to be kept in mind that, in the present circumstances when various restrictions have been placed on the airline operations, and maximum limit for air fare is given by the government, the minimum fare is also prescribed so as to strike a balance between the passengers as well as the airlines agency," the bench said in its order delivered on Thursday. The bench said that in the present situation of the COVID-19 pandemic, the exercise of this power by the government "cannot be said to be arbitrary or unreasonable". It further said that it has to be kept in mind that problems being faced during the pandemic are unique and requires experimental solutions. "There cannot be any mathematical solution for a problem like this. Government has to be given a degree of free movement in joints. We are, therefore, not going into the merits of this case," it said. The observations of the bench came while disposing of a plea challenging the May 21 order of the ministry by Veer Vikrant Chauhan, who was aggrieved by the minimum cap on the air fare. Chauhan, represented by advocate Vishal Gohri, had contended that there should be no minimum limit on airfare so that there would be competition between airlines and a much lesser ticket price would be available. The high court disagreed with the contentions in the petition and said that "the exercise of tariff fixation, and economic matters in general, are issues on which the writ court would generally refrain from exercising jurisdiction, unless found to be totally arbitrary or unreasonable". "We are not sitting in appeal against such fixation of minimum and maximum fare. It ought to be kept in mind that this fixation of minimum and maximum fares is for the journey to be performed only for essential purposes," it added. The high court said that the May 21 order would be in operation only for three months and thus, it was "a stop gap arrangement by the government, for which the present public interest litigation is not tenable at law".  It also said that if any aggrieved party approaches the competent authority, a decision shall be taken in accordance with law, rules, regulations and government policy applicable to the facts of the case and without being influenced by the court's observations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-hc-declines-to-interfere-with-centres-order-setting-max-and-minimum-limits-on-air-fare-till-august-24-846013.html
05-06-2020||National||Prioritise, include children in disaster risk reduction, climate change adaptation: NGO||Child rights body Save the Children has called for prioritising and including children in disaster risk reduction and including child sensitivity to further strengthen programmes and policy frameworks. In a statement, the child rights NGO underlined some of the focus areas that need to be prioritized as identified by children themselves. It called for ensuring that schools remain safe so that education is not interrupted, making child protection a priority before, during and after a disaster, making community infrastructure safe, and relief and reconstruction must help reduce future risk. "Save the Children reiterates for a stronger commitment from governments, donors and agencies to provide appropriate platforms and meaningful engagement for children in programmes related to resilience and climate change adaptations. Further, to strengthen programmes and policy frameworks by bringing child sensitivity into them," it said. With 68 per cent of India's land prone to drought, 60 per cent to earthquakes, 12 per cent to floods and 8 per cent to cyclones, India is one of the most disaster-prone countries in the world, affecting overall 85 per cent of Indian land and more than 50 million people, according to the statement. "We are witnessing an unprecedented time as a lived collective experience. Our resilience as individuals, organisations, communities and most importantly of children are being challenged continuously demanding new solutions and creative thinking," Bidisha Pillai, the CEO of Save the Children, said. "In the ongoing situation of extreme disaster, as we approach development, climate and disaster risk and preparedness, response and recovery and resilience as a continuum, it is important that we rethink what children think and want for a secure future," she said. The perspectives of children within the field of climate change adaptation have remained largely under-represented and children's needs, voices and capacities can and should be integrated across adaptation efforts as this leads to the establishment of longer-term and more robust community and institutional frameworks, Pillai said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/prioritise-include-children-in-disaster-risk-reduction-climate-change-adaptation-ngo-846015.html
05-06-2020||National||Coronavirus Lockdown: Migrant labourers still in misery, says survey||A third round of survey conducted by researchers among migrant workers have once again highlighted the troubles they are facing with 63 per cent of those who participated in the exercise saying that they have less than Rs 100 left with them while more than three-fourth still not have access to rations. The report by the Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN), after analysing 821 distress calls corresponding to 5,911 migrant workers it received and telephone chats with 1,963 others during May 15 and June 1 showed that a large proportion who left for their homes in buses and Shramik Special Trains.  According to the report 'To Leave or Not to Leave: Lockdown, Migrant Workers, and Their Journeys Home', 11 per cent of those surveyed through calls from SWAN took trucks, lorries and other such modes of transport while 6 per cent percent made the journey on foot.  "The 68 days of lockdown have resulted in an unprecedented humanitarian crisis. In the first half of the lockdown, migrant workers were coerced to be stranded with no food and money. In the second half the workers’ woes got compounded with a series of chaotic travel orders and gross mismanagement of the repatriation process," the report said. "While a part of the government’s response is possibly due to the lack of priorities towards the unorganised workforce, a part is also the result of inefficiencies resulting from unilateral decision making. Consequently, the government has created an archive of distress and a museum of misery," it added. Based on calls by SWAN to 1,963 migrant labourers, it said 62.3 per cent of them spent more than Rs 1,500 for their travel back home but 14.6 per cent did not spend any money. While 4.4 per cent spent Rs 1,000-1,500, 13.8 per cent Rs 500-Rs 1,000 and 4.8 per cent less than 500. With work being suspended, the report said, 48 per cent of the people surveyed through calls had taken loans between Rs 2000 and Rs 5000. Another 30 per cent took loans of more than Rs 5000. There were 15.1 per cent who took more than Rs 8,000 loans.  Debunking claims that a large number of people have reached their homes and there is no need now to run special trains as economic activities have re-started, the report said 55 per cent of those stranded still want to go home. This is higher than the proportion of 33 per cent in April-end when SWAN reached out to them earlier. "The desire to return home immediately is not being driven by ‘sentiment’ alone as the narrative that has been whipped up by some media houses and officials. suggests. 75 per cent who are still stuck in places they have migrated to for work, do not have any employment," it said. Based on 821 distress calls the SWAN received, the report said 80 per cent of them did not have access to government rations. About 76 per cent of people who made the distress calls said they have less than Rs 300 with them while 72 per cent had less than Rs 200 and 63 per cent of people have less than Rs 100 left with them during the second half of May. About 57 per cent of the people sent in ‘SOS’ calls (representing 820 people) with no money or rations left or had skipped the previous meal, the study said adding it was a "sharp increase" of 7 percentage points from the second phase of lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-migrant-labourers-still-in-misery-says-survey-846024.html
05-06-2020||National||SC seeks Centre's response on plea for uniform COVID-19 treatment costs at private hospitals||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Union government to respond to a PIL seeking framing of guidelines, including fixing uniform costs, for treatment of COVID-19 patients at private hospitals. Avishek Goenka, the petitioner who's a social worker from Kolkata, also wanted the constitution of a joint expert committee to examine and recommend the best global practices for treatment of COVID-19 and make its recommendations binding on all states. He sought a direction to the government to allow availing facilities of private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment and quarantine by those who can very well afford it. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, M R Shah and V Ramasubramanian agreed to examine the matter. The court asked the petitioner to serve a copy of the petition to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who would take instructions and respond in a week's time. The petitioner sought a direction to the Centre to immediately enroll more private hospitals, for post COVID-19 infection treatment.  He raised a question of law whether a person who is willing and has means to afford quality healthcare could be forced to go to a government owned or aided - quarantine center or hospital, against his choice denying him quality of life in the name of a pandemic. The petitioner contended that absence of policies or guidelines for availing facilities in private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment was violative of Article 14 (equality) and 21 (right to life and liberty) for being manifestly arbitrary.  He sought a direction to the Centre to immediately frame and advertise the mechanism to avail private hospitals facility as per the choice and affordability of the patient. Among other pleas, Goenka said the government should direct the insurance companies to immediately settle, full claims, which were raised as per government specified rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-response-on-plea-for-uniform-covid-19-treatment-costs-at-private-hospitals-846031.html
05-06-2020||National||Interviews for civil service aspirants to resume from July 20||The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) will resume the personality tests for remaining candidates of Civil Services from July 20. Candidates will be informed individually. The decision was taken at a special meeting here on Friday to review the prevailing COVID-19 situation. The UPSC had earlier deferred all recruitment exams due to the COVID-19 lockdown. "Taking notice of the opening of lockdown and progressive relaxations being announced by the Central Government and various States, the Commission decided to issue a revised schedule of Examinations/ Recruitment Tests (RTs). Details of the revised calendar of Examinations/ RTs have been published on the UPSC website," an official statement said. "Recruitment Test for the posts of EO/AO in the Employees’ Provident Fund Organization earlier scheduled to be held on the October 04, 2020 has been deferred. New date for conduct of this RT will be published on the website of the Commission at the time of issue of calendar of Examinations/ Recruitment Tests for 2021," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/interviews-for-civil-service-aspirants-to-resume-from-july-20-846039.html
05-06-2020||National||COVID-19 crisis will test the world like never before: S Jaishankar||The COVID-19 pandemic and its grave economic repercussions will test the world like never before, External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar said on Friday, as he launched India’s campaign as a candidate for one of the five non-permanent seats of the United Nations Security Council. The election to the five of 10 non-permanent members of the UN Security Council is scheduled to take place on June 17 next. India, being the single endorsed candidate of the Asia-Pacific Group, is sure to win one of the seats unopposed and commence its two-year-term on the Horse Shoe Table in January 2021. Jaishankar launched a brochure outlining India’s priorities during what is going to be its eighth term as a non-permanent member of the UNSC. “Ten years since we were last elected in the UN Security Council, we are facing four very different challenges to international peace and security,” he said. He noted that that firstly, the normal process of international governance had been under increasing strain as frictions had increased, secondly, traditional and non-traditional security challenges continue to grow unchecked with terrorism was the most egregious of such examples, thirdly global institutions remain unreformed and under-representative and hence less able to deliver and fourthly and finally the COVID-19 pandemic and its grave economic repercussions would test the world like never before. “In this extraordinary situation, India can play a positive global role. We have always been a voice of reason and a votary of international law,” said the External Affairs Minister. “We advocate dialogue, consultation and fairness in our approach to global issues. And we emphasize global development, addressing climate change and eradicating of poverty as central to planet’s future.” He said that India, as a non-permanent UNSC member, would seek a ‘New Orientation for a Reformed Multilateral System’ or NORMS through a 5S mantra - Samman (Respect), Samvad (Dialogue), Sahyog (Cooperation), Shanti (Peace) and Samriddhi (Prosperity).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-crisis-will-test-the-world-like-never-before-s-jaishankar-846040.html
05-06-2020||National||SC asks pvt hospitals if they can provide COVID-19 treatment on Ayushman Bharat scheme charges||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the private hospitals to tell if they could provide treatment of COVID-19 patients on charges fixed under the Ayushman Bharat scheme.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-asks-pvt-hospitals-if-they-can-provide-covid-19-treatment-on-ayushman-bharat-scheme-charges-846042.html
05-06-2020||National||Two die as part of old house collapses amid rains in UP||Two persons died and five others injured when the portico of an old house in Lalganj area here fell amid heavy rains, police said on Friday. The incident took place on Thursday night, killing Bilkis (55) and Muni (50), said Superintendent of Police Dharmveer Singh. The injured have been admitted to the local hospital, where their condition was stated to be stable.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-die-as-part-of-old-house-collapses-amid-rains-in-up-846048.html
05-06-2020||National||UP teacher worked in 25 schools 'simultaneously', raked in Rs one crore salary||At a time, when thousands of people were struggling to save their jobs, a lady teacher in Uttar Pradesh was accused of working 'simultaneously' in as many as 25 government schools and drawing more than Rs one crore as salary in the past 15 months. The teacher, Anamika Shukla, who was accused of being on the staff list of 25 Kasturba Gandhi Girls Schools (KGGS), residential schools for the girls, in various districts, has been absconding after a case was lodged against her in this regard. Officials of the basic education department refused to confirm or deny the accusations and said that the matter was being probed. ''We are trying to ascertain the facts,'' said a senior official here on Friday. The officials found himself in a quandary as the photographs of Anamika Shukla were found to be different at some of the schools. According to the sources, Anamika Shukla, a resident of Mainpuri district, got herself appointed as a contractual science teacher at KGGS in Ambedkar Nagar, Baghpat, Raebareli, Saharanpur, Aligarh, Prayagraj and some other districts. Interestingly she was shown to be present at all the schools and taking classes there. The matter came to light last month, when the department began preparing a database of the teachers, sources said. It was found that money had been flowing into her bank account as salary from 25 schools.  Sources said that the lady teacher sent in her resignation from one of the schools last month after the forgery came into light and had gone missing. ''We are trying to verify the facts....a probe has been launched...an FIR was also lodged with the police,'' remarked a senior basic education department official here, when asked about the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-teacher-worked-in-25-schools-simultaneously-raked-in-rs-one-crore-salary-846050.html
05-06-2020||National||Civil services prelims on October 4: UPSC||The civil services preliminary examination 2020, postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic, will be held on October 4, the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) announced on Friday. It said the personality test of the candidates selected through the last year's civil services preliminary and main examinations will resume from July 20. Minister of State for Personnel Jitendra Singh said the announcement of fresh date for the civil services preliminary exam would allay apprehensions in some quarters of it being cancelled. "It would also allay apprehension from the minds of some quarters who thought that they would become overage by the next year in case the exam was postponed. Candidates need not worry. The examination will be held as per the UPSC's schedule," he told PTI. The civil services examination is conducted annually in three stages – prelims, main and interview -- by the UPSC to select officers for the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), the Indian Foreign Service (IFS) and the Indian Police Service (IPS), among others. Lakhs of aspirants take the examination every year to be part of the country's coveted civil services. The decision on announcement of fresh date was taken in a meeting held by the Commission to review the prevailing situation due to COVID-19 lockdown. "Taking note of the opening of lockdown and progressive relaxations being announced by the Central government and various states, the Commission decided to issue a revised schedule of examination/recruitment tests," the UPSC said in a statement. According to the revised calendar, the civil services preliminary examination 2020 will be held on October 4 (Sunday). The main examination 2020 will begin from January 8, 2021 (Friday) for five days, it said. "The dates of notification, commencement and duration of examinations/recruitment tests are liable to alteration, if the circumstances so warrant," the Commission said. Personality tests for civil services (main) examination, 2019, for remaining candidates are being resumed from July 20, it said, adding "candidates will be informed individually." A common examination for both NDA& NA Exam (I) and NDA&NA Exam (II), 2020 will be held on September 6, 2020, the UPSC said. The recruitment test for the posts of Enforcement Officer/Accounts Officer in the Employees’ Provident Fund Organization (EPFO), earlier scheduled to be held on October 4, 2020, has been deferred, it said. "New date for conduct of this recruitment test will be published on the website of the Commission at the time of issue of calendar of examinations/recruitment tests for 2021," the Commission added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/civil-services-prelims-on-october-4-upsc-846052.html
05-06-2020||National||SC says states must transport stranded migrants in 15 days, favours providing job opportunities for returnees||The Supreme Court on Friday said that all the states must complete transportation of stranded migrant workers within a period 15 days. It also favoured for providing job opportunities to the returned workers at their home states. Taking up a Suo Motu matter on plight of migrant workers, a bench presided over by Justice Ashok Bhushan said transportation of workers could not go on indefinitely.  Besides, the court said the states must have a system to understand how many workers have come back from other states. There must be a scheme for their re-employment. The bench, also comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and M R Shah, said the court would pass orders on Tuesday for foolproof registration of all migrant workers and future job arrangements. After registering the Suo Motu case, belatedly, on problems and miseries faced by the migrant workers, the court had on May 28 directed for free transportation and availability of food to the workers.  During the hearing on Friday, the Centre, for its part, said 4,270 Shramik Special Trains were deployed and about one crore workers sent back to native places. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta denied that any worker died due to lack of water and food or treatment during the transportation through trains. He said all the deaths that took place happened due to pre-existing disease, heart attack etc. Mehta said the Railways was in touch with the states and running trains as per their demand. Several states like Gujarat and Maharashtra said as many as 20.5 lakh and 11 lakh migrant workers were transported back. Bihar claimed 28 lakh people returned to the state and skill mapping has been done of 10 lakh workers. West Bengal said there were still 3,97,389 stranded migrants in the state.  Kerala said out of 4.34 lakh migrants, over one lakh were transported back. However, of the remaining, 1.61 lakh wanted to stay back. Karnataka, for its part, said since May 3, it has facilitated transportation of over three lakh migrant workers. There were still lakhs of migrants in the state. It sought 15 days more time for the purpose. It also said the number of migrants wanting to go back home has been reduced as only 100 turned up on Thursday and 78 were sent back. Senior advocates Kapil Sibal, A M Singhvi, Indira Jaising, Colin Gonsalves and Jaideep Gupta, appearing for different intervenors, pointed out various problems being faced by migrant workers in registration and quarantine facilities and availability of ration for them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-says-states-must-transport-stranded-migrants-in-15-days-favours-providing-job-opportunities-for-returnees-846053.html
05-06-2020||National||Guwahati Central Jail sealed after inmate tests COVID-19 positive||With an inmate of the Guwahati Central Jail testing positive for COVID-19, the district authorities on Friday have sealed the complex with immediate effect to contain spread of the virus. Issuing the order, Kamrup Metropolitan Deputy Commissioner Biswajit Pegu declared the entire jail premises as "containment zone" after detecting the first jail inmate to have tested coronavirus positive in Assam. "In view of the detection of a COVID-19 positive patient at Central Jail in Guwahati city, in the interest of maintenance of public hygiene and to prevent further spread of COVID-19 virus in the said area, the Central Jail area is declared as a Containment Zone," the order said. Pegu directed the circle officer of Dispur revenue circle to seal the entire area immediately. The order mentioned that any unauthorised entry or exit and movement of any vehicle have been barred till the area is declared safe as per the guidelines of the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. When contacted, a senior Home Department official told PTI that the prison authorities had created coronavirus wards in all the jails of the state to lodge new inmates after the lockdown began on March 25. "This step ensured that the new inmates did not interact with other people of the jail which prevented the spread of the virus to the old inmates," he said. The official, who did not wish to be named, said that the person who had tested COVID-19 in the jail had been arrested on charges of theft. He was brought in with six other persons on June 1 after a local court sent them to judicial custody. "The new inmates were staying in the coronavirus ward of the jail. So, there was very minimal contact with other people of the jail. The health officials have identified all the contacts and their samples are being collected for testing," he said. The official also said that all the new inmates are properly screened before bringing them inside the premises and at times swab samples are taken if any symptoms are seen. The Guwahati Central Jail currently has 1,118 inmates against its capacity of housing 1,000 persons. Assam has six central jails, 22 district jails, one open air jail, one special jail, one sub-jail and six detention centres. A day after the state recorded the highest ever daily jump of 285 patients, Assam reported 38 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the total to 2,153 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/guwahati-central-jail-sealed-after-inmate-tests-covid-19-positive-846056.html
05-06-2020||National||Experts urge govt for stricter implementation of ban on wildlife hunting, trade||The death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala is a wake up call to protect animals from human cruelty and violence, wildlife experts have said and stressed on ensuring that wild animals do not suffer such acts of barbarism again. On World Environment Day on Friday, the experts also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to support the global call for wildlife trade ban at the G20 summit. They said the nation is outraged by the killing of pregnant elephant at Palakkad in Kerala with a firecracker-filled pineapple recently. The 15-year-old elephant is suspected to have consumed a pineapple filled with powerful fire crackers which exploded in its mouth in the Silent Valley forest. It died in the Velliyar River a week later on May 27. The experts said it must be ensured that wild animals do not suffer such acts of barbarism again. Advocate and environmentalist Gaurav Bansal said, "There is an urgent need to save wildlife corridors which helps them move. Right now it is being encroached by humans. They save the biodiversity of forests. "Need some provisions to protect wildlife corridors. Need to end animal-man conflict. Government should implement the legislation in a proper manner." He said there is law in place banning wildlife trade yet it is happening and there is also a shortage of forest staff. If there is adequate staff, hunting can be stopped and in turn trading can be curbed, he said. "The wild elephant's death is a wake up call for the country to protect its wildlife. This can be done by protecting wildlife corridors and resolving man-animal conflict,” said Bansal. Sharing a similar view on the killings of wild animals and trading, environment and wildlife activist Gauri Maulekhi said the man-animal conflict needs to be resolved in a humane manner. "Protection of wildlife habitats is very important. Currently paid hunting is prevalent in states like Kerala for wild boar and Himachal Pradesh for monkeys. This needs to be stopped. The man-animal conflict needs to be resolved in a humane manner. "PM needs to intervene and get the states to stop this state-sponsored genocide of animals," Maulekhi said. Himachal Pradesh government has put monkeys in Schedule V (animals which may be hunted) of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 and Kerala government has put wild boars under the same schedule. The Indian chapter of an international organisation World Animal Protection, too, has appealed to the government to ensure wildlife trading is completely banned. The NGO has urged the prime minister to support the global call for wildlife trade ban when he represents the country at the G20 summit scheduled in November this year. Gajender K Sharma, Country Director, World Animal Protection India said, "We can no longer ignore the fact that rampant trade of wild animals for the benefit of humans resulted in outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. And if we do not act now, this won't be the last pandemic. Wild animals belong in the wild. That is their natural habitat. "We appeal to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has been an advocate of animal welfare and wildlife preservation in the past, to support the global ban of wildlife trade at the G20 summit." World Animal Protection has also requested World Health Organisation to permanently ban all wildlife markets around the globe in the wake of coronavirus pandemic and to take a highly precautionary approach to the wildlife trade. "By ending wildlife trade, we can protect thousands of species at risk of extinction due to human exploitation and help maintain biodiversity. We can help ensure wild animals have a home and continue to play their vital role in maintaining functioning ecosystems. "We can prevent invasive species being introduced to new habitats, which can cause resource competition, bring a risk of disease, and native species declines." Sharma said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/experts-urge-govt-for-stricter-implementation-of-ban-on-wildlife-hunting-trade-846057.html
05-06-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh minister to undergo COVID-19 test as he visits hospital||Uttar Pradesh Medical Education Minister Suresh Khanna will undergo a COVID-19 test after he visited a hospital in Meerut where positive patients are under treatment, officials said on Friday. Khanna had on Monday paid a visit to Government Medical College in Meerut to inquire about the well being of the patients there and get their feedback about the treatment, Information Officer of the minister Jayendra Singh said. On the advice of doctors, Khanna will give his sample for coronavirus testing on Saturday, he said. Khanna, who also holds the portfolios of Finance and Parliamentary Affairs ministries, is currently under home quarantine. In a tweet, the minister said he is healthy and has no symptoms of coronavirus. Khanna said he is currently discharging his duties from home following "medical advice".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-minister-to-undergo-covid-19-test-as-he-visits-hospital-846058.html
05-06-2020||National||India may suffer devastating climate change impact in 80 years: Study||India may face devastating climate change effects, including killer heat waves and severe flooding, in the next 80 years, says a study that calls for urgent steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to avert associated risks to the country’s population, ecosystems and economy. Annual mean temperatures across India are likely to increase by 4.2 degrees Celsius under a high emission scenario by the end of the 21st century, the researchers, led by Prof Mansour Almazroui from the King Abdulaziz University in Saudi Arabia, said. “India is the most densely populated region in the world, with relatively high sensitivity and low resilience to changes in its climate, all of which makes it very exposed and vulnerable to any changes that may occur during the rest of the 21st century,” Almazroui told PTI in an email on World Environment Day on Friday. "A large part of India’s population, ecosystems, and economy are all exposed to high risk in the face of future climate change,” he said. The study, published in the journal Earth Systems and Environment last month, suggests that northwestern India is at “particularly high risk” to flooding from snow and glacier melt caused by temperatures projected to rise by the end of the 21st century.   The researchers also forecast killer heat waves over the plains, adding that severe flooding is likely to take place with annual rainfall over India projected to increase under all emission scenarios in the 21st century.   Using a supercomputer to analyse global climate models, the research team observed a potentially large increase of more than 6 degrees Celsius under a high emission scenario over northwestern India, comprising the complex Karakorum and Himalayan mountain ranges.   “The enhanced warming is likely to further accelerate the snow and glacier melt over this region, with a consequent increase in flooding. This could have serious implications for crops, ecosystems, and populations living downstream,” Almazroui said. “Moreover, the rise in temperature is likely to increase the frequency of killer heat waves over the country’s plains,” he added.   The study analysed the latest generation of models to project more warming -- 1 to 3 degrees Celsius -- over the irrigated plains of the Ganges, which according to the researchers, may have serious repercussions for agriculture and livelihoods.   The models project higher warming over the Indian subcontinent in the winter season than in the summer, which may disrupt snow or ice accumulations and affect winter cropping patterns, the researchers said. While the projected rise in the average temperature in winter is up to 4.7 degrees Celsius, the estimated warming for summers is up to 3.6 degrees Celsius, they said.   The study also projected a higher increase in rainfall over northwestern India, including Gujarat and Rajasthan, while the winter rainfall also shows a larger increase over Gujarat and adjacent states under all future scenarios.   Under the high emission scenario, the summer monsoon rainfall averaged over India, particularly in the western side of the country that expands to Western Ghats and Kerala, is projected to increase by the end of the 21st century, the researchers said. The increase in summer rainfall, together with increased water in rivers due to glacier melt in summer, may cause severe summer flooding in the future, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-may-suffer-devastating-climate-change-impact-in-80-years-study-846059.html
05-06-2020||National||Trade unions call for nationwide protest on July 3||Ten central trade unions including Indian National Trade Union Congress and Centre of Indian Trade Unions among others on Friday gave a call for a nationwide protest on July 3, to lodge their resentment against anti-worker and anti-people policies of the government. "We call upon the working class and trade unions of all affiliations to make the programme of Nationwide Protest Day on 3rd July 2020 a massive success throughout the country...," a joint statement by the ten central trade unions said. After the observance of the Nationwide Protest Day, a concrete form of non-cooperation and defiance including nationwide general strike will be decided by the joint platform of Central Trade Unions and independent Federations and Associations at appropriate time in the next phase, they said. The 10 trade unions are Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC), All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Hind Mazdoor Sabha (HMS), Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC), Trade Union Co-ordination Centre (TUCC), All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU), Self-Employed Women's Association (SEWA), Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress (UTUC). They asked the government to immediately hold the long overdue Indian Labour Conference to dwell upon the 12-point charter of demands, the labour and trade union rights, issues of job losses, wages, job security and the migrant workers' issues. There are 12 central trade unions in the country. "We cannot accept lying down the designs for imposition of slavery on workers through total nullification of all labour laws; nor can we remain onlooker to the government project of wholesale privatization of our public sector undertakings (PSUs) through multi-pronged routes," they said. The jobless are more than 14 crore and if the daily wagers/ contract/ casual workers are added, the number swell up to more than 24 crores who are out of livelihood at present, they said. "The so-called Rs 20 lakh crore package of the government is nothing but a hoax and cruel joke on the suffering people," they said. They alleged, "Modi Government has most insensitively dealt with the problem of COVID-19 as law and order issue instead of treating it as medical emergency for the human being and society. It has caused immense miseries to millions of workers, farmers and other vulnerable sections of the society. Whereas, the government stood only by corporates and big businesses."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trade-unions-call-for-nationwide-protest-on-july-3-846068.html
05-06-2020||National||Major reshuffle in MHA media wing; Nitin Wakankar is new spokesperson||Almost the entire team looking after media at the strategic Home Ministry has been shifted and a fresh one led by senior Indian Information Service (IIS) officer Nitin D Wakankar was appointed on Friday, officials said. Wakankar replaces Vasudha Gupta, who has been shifted to Director General of the fact check unit working under the Press Information Bureau. Wakankar, a Director General (DG) rank officer, has been shifted to the MHA from the Bureau of Outreach and Communications of the Press Information Bureau (PIB) where he was serving as the Director General. The reason for the transfer was not known immediately. A 1989 batch IIS officer, Wakankar has served as spokesperson of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) besides having two stints as Deputy Press Secretary with Presidents A P J Abdul Kalam and Pratibha Patil. He has also served as spokesperson of the Defence Ministry and also headed Mumbai region in various capacities during his career. Rajkumar, another senior IIS officer, has been appointed in the media wing of the MHA as Additional Director General (ADG), according to an order issued by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Praveen Kavi, a Deputy Director, has been appointed in the media wing of the MHA. He has served in MHA earlier as well. Amandeep Yadav, an Assistant Director, has also been appointed in the media wing of the MHA, the order said. Two Deputy Director rank officials, Virat Majboor and Harit Shelat, have been shifted from the MHA media wing to All India Radio and Directorate of the Publication Division respectively. Ankur Lahoty, an Assistant Director, has been appointed in Doordarshan (News), the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/major-reshuffle-in-mha-media-wing-nitin-wakankar-is-new-spokesperson-846070.html
05-06-2020||National||Tripura's axed school teachers seek government help||An association of school teachers of Tripura, who recently lost their jobs, on Friday appealed to the state government to provide them relief for sustenance during the lockdown. They were granted a one-time ex-gratia of Rs 35,000 by the government in April. Pradip Banik, the president of the 'All Tripura 10,323 Victimised Teachers' Association' told reporters that despite the humanitarian aid, they were facing "acute financial crisis" and needed fresh help. As many as 10,323 undergraduate, graduate and postgraduate candidates were appointed teachers in government schools in phases since 2010, when the CPI(M)-led Left Front was in power. The recruitment was challenged and the Tripura High Court in 2014 terminated their services, holding the process "faulty". The then Left Front government moved the Supreme Court against the order but the apex court upheld the High Court verdict in March 2017. "Of the 10,323 teachers, many got other jobs, and at present there are 8,882 teachers whose term of employment expired on March 31. "These teachers will get one time allowance of Rs 35,000," Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb had said on April 1. The chief minister mentioned that state government had filed a special petition before the Supreme Court, seeking permission to recruit the ad-hoc teachers on permanent non- teaching posts. The teachers were declared retired after December 31, 2017, in accordance with the apex court verdict. They were, however, appointed again on an ad-hoc basis. After the BJP-IPFT government came to power in March 2018, it again appealed to the Supreme Court, which granted them one-time final extension till March 31, 2020. Deb had said the state government will try to resolve the problem of these teachers. State Education Minister Ratan Lal Nath said the apex court had made it clear that they cannot be recruited in posts of teachers, so the state government made a plea to recruit them on non-teaching and non-technical posts. "As the lockdown is on, we do not know when the apex court will open only after which the hearing on the state government's appeal can start. So, we demand some interim relief for subsistence of the families. "We would soon give a memorandum to the government," Banik said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tripuras-axed-school-teachers-seek-government-help-846073.html
05-06-2020||National||India sixth worst-hit by COVID-19, cases rise by 9,851 in a single day; death toll touches 6,348||India’s COVID-19 count has witnessed a 30.5% increase in the past one week to touch 2,26,770 confirmed cases, adding a record 9,851 new patients in a single day. According to DH COVID-19 Tracker, India had dislodged Italy to become the six worst-hit nations world over by the infectious disease. At 6:00 p.m. on Friday(June 5), India had 2,34,613 confirmed cases of COVID-19 as against 2,34,013 of Italy. If India continues to add new cases at the present rate of growth, it could surpass the UK and Spain to become the fourth worst-hit country worldwide within the next week. On Saturday last, India had 1,73,763 confirmed cases of COVID-19, which had risen to 2,26,770 on Friday morning, an increase of 53,007 or 30.5% over last week’s figure. Fatalities due to COVID-19 also witnessed the highest single-day spike by 273 with the death toll to date touching 6,348. Of the total cases, 1,10,960 are active, and 1,09,462 have recovered, the health ministry said.  The government has ramped up testing gradually and has tested 43.86 lakh samples for the infectious disease through its network of 727 labs which include 217 private facilities. On Thursday, the labs had screened 1.43 lakh samples for COVID-19, the highest number so far in a single-day. The worst-hit state continues to be Maharashtra with a total of 77,793 cases, followed by Tamil Nadu with 27,256, Delhi with 25,004 cases and Gujarat with 18,584. The national capital after Maharashtra (41,402) reported the most number of active cases at 14,456. In Tamil Nadu there are 12,134 active cases while in Gujarat 4,762. States with over 5,000 cases so far are Rajasthan (9,862) Madhya Pradesh (8,762), Uttar Pradesh (9,237) and West Bengal (6,876).  At 2,710 deaths, Maharashtra has the highest fatalities in the country due to COVID-19, followed by Gujarat (1,155), Delhi (650), Madhya Pradesh (377), and West Bengal (355). These five states account for 83% of all coronavirus-related deaths in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-sixth-worst-hit-by-covid-19-cases-rise-by-9851-in-a-single-day-death-toll-touches-6348-846074.html
05-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Reliance's Jio Platforms find 6th big investor||On today's From the Newsroom, Reliance's Jio Platforms finds 6th big investor in Mubadal Investment Company.  Wuhan discharged its last 3 COVID-19 patients, Wuhan was the first epicentre of the COVID-19 pandemic. Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar launches Urban Forests program to improve urban green cover in India.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-reliances-jio-platforms-find-6th-big-investor-846075.html
05-06-2020||National||Indian Railways installs bio toilets in more than 68,000 coaches||Indian Railways succeeded in installing bio-toilets in more than 68,000 passenger coaches so far thus preventing discharge of human waste on tracks. Total 68, 690 coaches fitted with bio-toilets. The process of installing bio-toilets is the remaining 400 coaches is on and is likely to complete in a month period, said the official. The bio-toilets prevent direct discharge of human waste on track and will ensure not only a clean environment but also helps keep coaches clean and improvement in maintenance of track said an official from the railways. Now the national transporter is embarking on converting bio-toilets into bio-vacuum toilets in coaches to save water. The railways have developed a new technology for bio-vacuum, in collaboration with the research arm of the Railway Ministry, Research Designs and Standards Organisation (RDSO). Already around 15 trains including a few Rajdhani, Shatabdi, Humsafar trains and Vande Bharat Express, are fitted with bio-vacuum toilets. All new coaches, which are being produced, will have bio-vacuum toilets, said an official from railways. Bio-vacuum toilets save a lot of water. These toilets have a suction pump that reduces the requirement of water. Most vacuum systems flush with just half a gallon (2 litre) of fluid or less compared to bio-toilets, which require up to 15 litres per flush. The vacuum-bio toilets, as a step further to a provide-odour free and choke-free facility to passengers, said the official. The bio-toilets, which replaced open toilets in trains, have been prone to clogging due to dumping of waste such as bottles, pouches, plastic cups, paper and other materials in the pans— resulting in the foul smell. The Comptroller and Auditor General(CAG) in a report in December 2017 had found that almost two-lakh complaints regarding choking, smelly and non-functional bio-toilets in trains from the public.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-installs-bio-toilets-in-more-than-68000-coaches-846076.html
05-06-2020||National||COVID-19 cases rising in Bengal with Centre sending back migrant in unplanned way: Mamata||Lashing out at the Centre for allegedly sending back lakhs of people without proper planning West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday that COVID-19 cases are rising as several migrants are returning with sickness. She said that the Centre was not only sending back migrants without any proper planning but was also not providing them with any food, money and medical treatment. “When they are returning to Bengal from Mumbai, Chennai, Gujarat, Indore and Delhi many among them are coming with sickness. Here COVID-19 cases were much lower but it has gone up because our brothers and sisters are returning from other states,” said Banerjee. She was speaking a government program in the city. Without directly naming BJP she accused the saffron party of “screaming for votes” as the state government is battling to save people from calamities.  “When we are fighting to save people from calamities then a political party is screaming “vote for us, vote for us. Is this a time for politics. I am not saying that drive our Narendra Modi from Delhi because I think it is not an appropriate time for that,” said Banerjee. “They are raising a hue and cry about migrant workers but not giving a penny. Till now our government has spent Rs. 200 crore for this. At least 10 lakh migrant workers have returned from the state. We have paid all of their train and bus fares,” she said. She said that out of the 4,200 square km of Sundarban in the state, 1,600 square km have got totally destroyed by the cyclone.  “Your (Forest Departments) initiative to plant 5 crore mangrove plants in Sundarban is a major step,” said Banerjee. Earlier in the day, the Chief Minister on the occasion of World Environment Day said that the cyclone has caused “incalculable ecological damage” in Kolkata and south Bengal. “Best wishes to all on #WorldEnvironmentDay. Save green, save life. After the cyclone, incalculable ecological damage has occurred in #Kolkata & south #Bengal. Tens of thousands of trees have been uprooted. We must all work together to restore the greenery in our State,” tweeted Banerjee.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-cases-rising-in-bengal-with-centre-sending-back-migrant-in-unplanned-way-mamata-846080.html
05-06-2020||National||ITBP operationalises two newly sanctioned commands for China LAC||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police has operationalised its newly sanctioned twin commands in Chandigarh and Guwahati that supervise the deployment of its troops along the 3,488 km-long Line of Actual Control (LAC) with China. An order issued from the headquarters of the force here on June 3 said "an imperative need is felt to make these establishments functional immediately". Officials said the recent standoff between Indian and Chinese forces in the Ladakh area and other parts of the LAC is a major reason for the quick initiation of the two commands - western headquartered at Chandigarh and eastern at Guwahati - stipulated to be headed by an Additional Director General (ADG) rank officer, equivalent to a Lt Gen in the Army. The about 90,000 personnel-strong force has also recently "reinforced" its strength in the border areas owing to the standoff with the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA). The two commands were sanctioned by the Union government in October last year for better operational functioning of the about 35-38 battalions of the force deployed at the China LAC, starting from Ladakh to Arunachal Pradesh. The order said ITBP Inspector General (operations) M S Rawat will take over the charge of the western command in Chandigarh with immediate effect "in the capacity of ADG". He will continue to hold his charge of IG (operations, intelligence and veterinary) till a new incumbent is posted, the order said. Another IG rank officer will similarly head the Guwahati-based eastern command, they said, adding, the force is posting more officials there to fully activate it. The commands will streamline operations, intelligence, deployment and administrative movements of ITBP personnel to the border regions and also bring better synergy with the Army that secures the LAC, they said. Officials said as the force currently has no ADG rank officer posted with it, IG rank officers are being deputed to officiate in the ADG post. There are three ADG posts in the force at present and none is occupied, a senior official said. The ITBP also has no officer from its cadre in the rank of ADG at present and departmental promotion committee meetings in this context are pending, the official said. The Union cabinet had sanctioned the two commands and about 60 posts in officer ranks to the 90,000 personnel strong force in October last year that included two ADG rank posts. The western command will have control over ITBP deployments in the Dehradun-based Northern Frontier that have Shimla, Dehradun and Bareilly sectors and the North-West Frontier, that was shifted from Chandigarh to Leh in April last year and has sectors in Srinagar and Ladakh. The ITBP Leh frontier is headed by an Inspector General-rank officer who is equivalent to a Major General of the Army. Leh also houses the XIV Corps of the Army that was raised in the aftermath of the 1999 Kargil war. The eastern command will look after ITBP deployment in the northern frontier and the north-eastern frontier. The ITBP is trained for mountain warfare and its troops were present along with the Army during the recent standoff with Chinese forces in the Ladakh area. It undertakes short-range and long haul patrols along the LAC as part of its mandate to guard the icy Himalayan front marred by incidents of transgressions between the two countries due to differing perception of the border region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/itbp-operationalises-two-newly-sanctioned-commands-for-china-lac-846081.html
05-06-2020||National||Eastern Ladakh standoff: India, China to hold Lt. General-level talks on June 6||Top military officers from India and China are set to meet at eastern Ladakh on Saturday morning to resolve the month-long face-off between the troops from either side and restore peace. To be led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, GOC of Leh-based 14 Corps from the Indian side, the Corps Commander level meeting between the two of the world’s largest military would happen on the Chinese side of the disputed border at Chushul-Moldo border point. The Chinese delegation would be led by Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander, South Xinjiang Military region. The talks would start around 9.30 am and finish by noon. It would be followed by a lunch hosted by China’s People’s Liberation Army, sources said. Hours before the meeting, Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary (East Asia) and Wu Jianghao, Director General in the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs held a meeting through video conference in which they reviewed current developments, the Ministry of External Affairs said in a statement.  Recalling the consensus reached by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jumping to have a peaceful, stable and balanced relations between India and China, the two diplomats reached a consensus that the two sides should handle their differences through peaceful discussion bearing in mind the importance of respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations and not allow them to become disputes. On the discussion table, the  task cut out for Lt Gen Singh would be restoration of status quo ante so that Indian troops can go patrolling up to Finger-8 point on the northern bank of the Pangong lake where they used to go. For years the finger areas and the 135 km long lake remained a major flash point between the two border guarding troops. According to the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control, the disputed border runs through Finger 8 (the spurs or mountain ridges are named as fingers) because of which Indian troops could go up to that point for patrolling. The PLA has now stopped the Indian troops at Finger 4, though which the Chinese perception of the LAC runs. The area between Finger 4 and Finger 8 is the confrontation zone. Lt Gen Singh and his colleagues would assert that Indian troops were neither the first to block any patrol activity nor started the troop build-up. Only when the PLA strengthened their numbers, Indian Army brought a battalion as reinforcement from the DBO brigade close to the LAC. The discussions between the military leaders would not include the stand-off at the Galwan valley, which never really was a contested area. At Galwan, the troops from either side are on the respective side of the LAC. The Chinese muscle flexing at Galwan valley is probably a pressure tactic to delay the construction of a 7.5 km feeder road to the Darchuk-Shyok-DBO road. Even at the Hot Spring area, the situation is under control after a few rounds of discussions.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eastern-ladakh-standoff-india-china-to-hold-lt-general-level-talks-on-june-6-846082.html
05-06-2020||National||Tablighi Jamat event: Investigation on in gathering of people, no need for CBI probe, says Centre to SC||The Centre on Friday told the Supreme Court that probe into assembly of people at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal in east Delhi and at Tablighi Jamaat event in Nizamuddin Markaz is being conducted on day-to-day basis by the Delhi police and there was no need for CBI investigation. The Ministry of Home Affairs gave in detail the steps taken by the Delhi Police which is making all efforts to complete the investigation within the time frame to submit the charge sheet in the trial court. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy allowed the petitioner Supriya Pandita to file rejoinder affidavit to the reply of Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and listed the matter for further hearing after two weeks. Pandita in her plea had sought various reliefs including CBI probe into the matter related to the assembly of people at Anand Vihar Bus Terminal and Markz in Nizamuddin after nationwide lockdown was announced alleging that Delhi police has failed to control the people and the Nizamuddin Markaz chief Maulana Saad was still evading arrest. Detailing the steps taken by Delhi police, the Ministry of Home Affairs in its affidavit said that investigation in Markaz matter is being conducted on a day-to- day basis, in accordance with the mandate of law and all efforts are being made to finalize investigation and submit a report under section 173 CrPC (charge sheet) before the trial court in a time bound manner. “In view of the facts and circumstances it is respectfully submitted that prayer D (direction for CBI probe) of the writ petition does not merits any consideration by this court,” the reply affidavit said, adding that plea needs to be disposed of. Detailing the sequence of events, the MHA said that Maulana Mohd Saad and others had allowed a huge gathering to assemble inside a closed premise, over a protracted period of time, without any semblance of social distances or provision of masks and sanitizers and have caused a situation where a highly infectious disease such as Covid-19 may spread and threaten the lives of inmates. It said that inspection of Markaz was conducted by SDM (Defence Colony) on various dates between March 26 and March 30 and during such inspection around 1300 persons from various States as well as foreign countries were found residing in the premises without maintaining any social distance with each other. “It is submitted that Maulana Mohd. Saad, others and the management of Markaz had deliberately, wilfully, negligently committed acts which were in direct contravention and to the lawful directions of the government and public servants…”, the affidavit said. It added that a case was lodged against Maulana Saad under various provisions including The Epidemic Disease Act, Disaster Management Act and sections of IPC crime branch police station and during the investigation of the case charges under Foreigners Act was also added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tablighi-jamat-event-investigation-on-in-gathering-of-people-no-need-for-cbi-probe-says-centre-to-sc-846083.html
05-06-2020||National||Trade Unions mulling non-cooperation movement, nationwide protest on July 3||Accusing the Narendra Modi government of treating workers callously during COVID-19 pandemic, ten Central Trade Unions have decided for a "united struggle of prolonged non-cooperation and defiance" against anti-worker policies and called for a nationwide protest on July 3 as a prelude. The decision was taken at a meeting of the ten trade unions -- INTUC, AITUC, HMS, CITU, AIUTUC, TUCC, SEWA, AICCTU, LPF and UTUC -- on Wednesday were trade union leaders said the Modi government was dealing the COVID-19 situation as a law and order issue instead of treating it as a medical emergency, causing immense miseries to workers, farmers and other vulnerable sections of the society. This will be second major action by the trade unions after several states went ahead with suspending labour laws, the first being the nationwide protest on May 22. The trade unions are of the view that the Modi government "not only failed in getting its own orders and advisories implemented" on payment of wages to workers and no retrenchments to be carried during lockdown period. Instead, the leaders said, it withdrew its own decision in the face of the case in Supreme Court by the employers of some companies. "A government which has no respect and concern, towards the rights and basic survival-entitlements of workers and the people do not deserve any co-operation. We the workers/employees and trade unions need to do everything possible to be in solidarity with each other, unitedly face the disease taking all precautions necessary, stand with each other to defend our rights of unionisation, collective bargaining, decent working condition, wages and future securities etc," a joint statement said.  It alleged that the government demonstrated "cruel insensitivity" towards the basic human needs of the workers and people and this cannot be endorsed and cooperated with. "We call upon the working class and trade unions of all affiliations to make the nationwide protest on July 3 a massive success throughout the country, in all workplaces and centres in preparation to countrywide united struggles of non-cooperation and defiance to anti-worker, anti-farmer, anti-people and anti-national policies of the government for at least six-months to defend the rights of the people and save and defend the national economy," the statement said. The contours of the non-cooperation and defiance, including a nationwide general strike, will be decided by the joint platform of CTUs and independent federations and associations at an "appropriate time" after July 3. "The Government did not heed to the demand of cash transfer of Rs 7,500 to all non-income tax-paying households including unorganised labour for April, May, June, neither the demand for government support to pay the wages of workers of MSMEs for these three months. The ration to all working people for at least six months to be made available universally also did not find favour with the government. Neither our demand for workers safe journey home paid attention to," the trade unions said. They said the Supreme Court had to take cognizance finally asking the Governments of Centre and States not to demand passenger fares from workers, give them proper shelter and food till they are transported to their homes. Nineteen High Courts had taken cognizance of workers, frontline fighters and hospital services etc during this period, they added. The trade unions also said the government is going ahead with disinvestment and "wholesale" privatisation of public sector enterprises. Despite opposition, the government also has not withdrawn the order to freeze dearness allowance. "Against this background, various sections are now in agitation mode," the statement said citing the protests against Electricity Amendment Bill 2020 and agitations in defence production, coal sector as well as protests by ASHA and Anganwadi workers among others. It said with the opening up of some industrial units, it said, there are complaints that all workers are not being taken back and that too on reduced wages and refusal to pay lockdown period salary. "Such denial of employment and pressure for wage-reduction have to be unitedly combated and we also demand upon the governments for immediate corrective interventions in that direction," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/trade-unions-mulling-non-cooperation-movement-nationwide-protest-on-july-3-846084.html
05-06-2020||National||With BJP whether it goes with Nitish as NDA's face in Bihar or has a change of mind: Chirag Paswan||Hinting at his party's unease with Nitish Kumar, LJP president Chirag Paswan said on Friday he will back the BJP if it opts for a change of face in the Bihar assembly polls as he underscored his dissatisfaction with the chief minister's handling of the migrant crisis, noting it "could have been better". The BJP had declared Kumar, the JD(U) president, as the chief ministerial face of the ruling NDA in Bihar more than a year ago, but a section of leaders within the alliance have been expressing their reservation against his leadership. In an interview to PTI, Paswan did not make any direct demand about a change of leadership but asserted that he will be with the BJP in whatever decision the saffron party takes. "Who will be the face, who will be the leader of the alliance is something that its largest constituent BJP has to decide. The LJP is strongly with the BJP in whatever decision it takes. If they (BJP) want to go ahead with Nitish Kumar ji, we are with them, if they want to have a change of mind... whatever decision the BJP takes, we will support," Paswan said. His remarks are significant as it was presumed that the issue of the NDA's face in the Bihar polls, which are slated for October-November, had been settled after the then BJP president Amit Shah had declared in 2019 that Kumar will lead the alliance in the next assembly elections. Shah's announcement had come as he was working to iron out differences among the NDA partners for the Lok Sabha elections in the state. Asked about the Bihar government's handling of the migrant crisis triggered by the nationwide lockdown to curb COVID-19, Paswan, the Lok Sabha MP from Jamui, said it could have been better. "If Bihar government had begun transporting migrants earlier, then we could have avoided the example of the likes of Jyoti Kumar. Deaths of many labourers on their way to home could have been probably avoided too," he said and also praised the Yogi Adityanath government of Uttar Pradesh in this regard. Teenaged girl Jyoti Kumari shot into limelight after cycling over 1100 km from Gurgaon to Darbangha while carrying her father on pillion. The LJP president acknowledged that there is anger among lakhs of migrants, who have returned to Bihar from different parts of the country. Paswan, however, asserted that the NDA will come back to power in Bihar with a huge mandate, and said the RJD-led opposition is not in a position to challenge it. It will win more than 225 of 242 seats in the assembly, he claimed, noting that it had also won 39 of the state's 40 Lok Sabha seats in 2019. The BJP, the JD(U) and the LJP are part of the NDA in the state and will be challenged by the alliance of the RJD and the Congress besides some smaller parties in the assembly polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/with-bjp-whether-it-goes-with-nitish-as-ndas-face-in-bihar-or-has-a-change-of-mind-chirag-paswan-846088.html
05-06-2020||National||Chennai nears 20,000 COVID-19 cases; containment efforts stepped up||With 1,116 persons testing positive for Coronavirus in this metropolis alone on Friday taking the tally here to 19,826 cases, the Tamil Nadu government has stepped up its efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19 by appointing senior ministers to oversee relief and coordination works. And Friday saw the state registering its biggest single-day spike in numbers with 1,438 persons, including 33 who returned from abroad and other states, testing positive for Coronavirus. Tamil Nadu’s tally now stands at 28,694 including 15,762 discharges and 232 deaths – 12 of which were reported on Friday – this is the second consecutive day the number of deceased remaining at the same number. The recovery rate in the state is above 50 per cent. The Health Bulletin said 11 out of 12 who were reported dead on Friday had comorbid conditions. However, Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar said the mortality rate in the state was below 1 percent and asked the opposition and media to desist from “demoralizing” the frontline workers by levelling allegations of “under-reporting of deaths” and “not maintaining transparency”. As Chennai continues to grapple with nearly 20,000 cases, the government decided to field five senior ministers to oversee the relief and coordination works. Each minister has been allotted three zones each and they will coordinate the containment and relief works there, government sources said. Already, the government has appointed seasoned bureaucrat J Radhakrishnan as the special nodal officer for Chennai, who has been at the forefront of the containment activities. Majority of the cases in Chennai come from six zones, three of which house the most populated areas in the city, and the city administration has been asking people to wear masks and maintain physical distance to prevent further spread of COVID-19. A Government Order (GO) said Fisheries Minister D Jayakumar, Higher Education Minister K P Anbalagan, Food Minister R Kamaraj, Revenue and I&T Minister R B Udhayakumar and Transport Minister M R Vijayabhaskar will oversee the “coordination and relief works” being done by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) and field support teams in the respective zones. Even as the cases are increasing in the state, especially in Chennai, the government reduced the testing numbers from 16,447 on Thursday to 15,692 on Friday. Experts say the government should increase its testing numbers immediately to prevent further spread of the virus as it would help identify carriers of the virus and isolate them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chennai-nears-20000-covid-19-cases-containment-efforts-stepped-up-846092.html
05-06-2020||National||COVID-19: DMK MLA shows signs of recovery, health minister visits hospital||In a gesture that went beyond politics, Tamil Nadu Health Minister C Vijayabhaskar on Friday(June 5) visited the private hospital where DMK MLA J Anbazhagan is receiving treatment for COVID-19 and discussed his treatment protocol with the doctors. Separately, Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami also spoke to Dr. Mohamed Rela, Chairman of Dr. Rela Institute of Medical Centre, about Anbazhagan’s health condition and promised any help from the government. 61-year-old Anbazhagan, MLA from Chepauk-Triplicane constituency here, was admitted to the hospital on June 2 and was put on ventilator support. Though the legislator continues to be on ventilator support, his health condition was better on Friday than the previous day, doctors treating him said.  Vijayabhaskar visited the hospital and held discussions with the team of doctors led by Dr Rela about the treatment being given to Anbazhagan. He also met the MLA’s son and assured any kind of assistance from the government. Speaking to reporters, Dr Rela said Anbazhagan’s condition was improving and expressed the hope that the legislator will recover soon.  Anbazhagan, a three-time MLA, was at the forefront of DMK’s Ondrinaivom Vaa (Let us come together) campaign aimed at providing relief to those affected by the COVID-19 lockdown in the city. Anbazhagan, also secretary of DMK’s Chennai West district, is known for his organizational skills.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-dmk-mla-shows-signs-of-recovery-health-minister-visits-hospital-846101.html
05-06-2020||National||SC permits NHRC to intervene, suggest measures to deal with plight of migrant workers||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed human rights body NHRC to intervene in the case related to plight and miseries of stranded migrant workers due to pandemic-induced nation-wide lockdown. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, SK Kaul and MR Shah reserved its order on the suo motu (on its own) petition saying it intends to give 15 days to the Centre and state governments for sending to native places the all the migrant workers who want to return home. The top court, in the proceedings held through video conferencing, also said that the workers in return be registered by the authorities for extending benefits of welfare measures including employment opportunities in home states. National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), in its intervention plea filed through Deputy Registrar Sunil Arora, gave “short term and long term measures” for consideration of the apex court in order to alleviate the plight of the migrant workers and to ensure that their human rights are not violated. “In order to estimate the in-flow of migrant workers, States should collect the data of migrant workers at the point of departure in the originating State as well on arrival in the destination States. This will help States to effectively plan quarantine and relief measures for the migrant workers,” it said in one of the short term measures. It sought a direction for the implementation of the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979 to ensure that migrant workers are provided with a journey allowance. “Menstrual hygiene products should be provided to migrant women and adolescent girls across the country,” it said, adding “Each state should be directed to ensure proper functioning of shelter homes especially for the accommodation of pregnant women, lactating mothers, children, and elderly persons.” One of the suggestions said that medical facilities and nutritious food should be made available in shelter homes and states should be directed to identify the industry in which the migrant labour is working. The identification of industry will aid the state in creating schemes for the migrant workers and in the preparation of a State-wide and Nationwide database, the NHRC said. “States should be directed to take steps for the support of migrant workers, similar to the steps taken by the State of Odisha which has set up a toll-free Shramik (labour force) Sahayata Helpline,Migrant Labour Help Desk, seasonal hostels for the children of migrant workers, and has strengthened Anti-Human Trafficking Units for migrant workers,” it said. States must ensure medical facilities for check-ups for migrants before and after the journey, as well as availability of food and medical care during the journey, it said, adding that food and water should be made available for those who are walking or travelling on bicycles to their native places. “The originating states should take steps to identify the destitute among the migrant labour and provide some quantum of compensation to ensure that they do not resort to begging after reaching their destination,” it said. It raised the issue of late running of ‘Shramik’ trains and said, “Railways in consultation with the respective State Governments should ensure that such delays do not take place and the trains do not reach wrong destinations.” A mission similar to that of the dedicated ’Vande Bharat’ Mission should be started in a phased manner to help migrant workers reach their source destination, it suggested. “A fund should be created for payment of ex-gratia relief by the concerned DM, which will provide fixed compensation to every migrant returning home,” it said. The NHRC, in its long term suggested measures, said that a special provision be inserted in the law on Inter-State Migrant Workmen to deal with emergency situations like Covid-19, natural disasters. Appointment of a claims commissioner be made to look into recovery from employers who abandoned “allocation of funds to states to be allotted to gram panchayats in order to create employment opportunities in the home states of migrants,” it said, adding “National portal for registration of migrants so that a nationwide database is created”.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-permits-nhrc-to-intervene-suggest-measures-to-deal-with-plight-of-migrant-workers-846139.html
05-06-2020||National||PM Narendra Modi assures Rawanda of India's support in combating coronavirus||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday assured Rwandan President Paul Kagame of India's steadfast support, including medical assistance, to combat the COVID-19 pandemic in the African nation. During their telephonic conversation, the prime minister also appreciated the effective management of the crisis under Kagame's leadership and the firm resolve of the people of Rwanda in combating the challenge. Prime Minister Modi expressed satisfaction at the progress achieved in bilateral ties since his visit to Rwanda in 2018, an official statement said. Jagane recalled the 200 Indian cows gifted by Modi during his visit, and explained that they had helped in improving the availability of milk for Rwandan children and also increased the income of farmers, it said. The leaders discussed the challenges posed to their healthcare systems and economies by the pandemic. They also shared information about the steps taken in the respective countries to manage the crisis and ensure the well-being of the people. They agreed to extend all possible support to each other's expatriate citizens during the present crisis, the statement said. "The prime minister assured the Rwandan President of India's steadfast support to Rwanda's efforts to combat the coronavirus, including through medical assistance," it said. Modi conveyed his best wishes for the health and well-being of the people of Rwanda during the present crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pm-narendra-modi-assures-rawanda-of-indias-support-in-combating-coronavirus-846145.html
05-06-2020||National||Amit Shah appeals everyone to preserve environment for better future||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday appealed to everyone to take a resolution to preserve the environment for a better future. Shah also said from time immemorial, India has a rich tradition and deep knowledge about nature conservation. "Different ways of worshipping and preserving the environment are intrinsic to our culture. On this #WorldEnvironmentDay, let us resolve to preserve our environment for a better tomorrow," he tweeted. World Environment Day is celebrated on June 5 every year.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-appeals-everyone-to-preserve-environment-for-better-future-846157.html
05-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: India sees jump of 61,000 cases in one week; medical experts feel too early to allow malls, religious places to open||As India moves towards unlocking various sectors, COVID-19 cases have been rising exponentially with a jump of nearly 61,000 cases in the past one week, and medical experts feel that if the situation spirals out of control, the lockdown may have to be reimposed. India saw a record single-day jump of 9,851 coronavirus cases and 273 deaths on Friday, pushing the nationwide infection tally to 2,26,770 and the death toll to 6,348, according to the Union health ministry. There has been a record spike in cases for three consecutive days now. Most countries like Spain, Germany, Italy and the UK, lifted their respective lockdowns and curbs when their COVID-19 graphs either flattened or dipped, according to statistics shared on Twitter by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi. India's COVID-19 curve has been steadily rising throughout the lockdown period with a massive spike in cases in the fourth phase of the lockdown that ended on May 31 and afterwards. The fourth phase of the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, which began on May 18, saw 85,974 COVID-19 cases till 8 am on Sunday, according to health ministry data. The lockdown 1, which was first clamped on March 25 and spanned for 21 days, had registered 10,877 cases, while the second phase of the curbs that began on April 15 and stretched�for 19 days till May 3, saw 31,094 cases. The third phase of the lockdown that was in effect for 14 days ending on May 17, recorded 53,636 cases till 8 am of May 18. Last Friday, the number of COVID-19 cases stood at 1,65,799, while a week before that on May 22, there were 1,18,447 cases. Therefore, the spike in the last one week has been of 60,971 cases, while the increase in the number of infections in the week before that was 47,352. At present, India is the world's seventh-worst hit nation in terms of overall case count, after the US, Brazil, Russia, the UK, Spain and Italy. "Whenever lockdown is opened in phases, there will be a spurt in cases. A lockdown basically is used to prepare for the pandemic and halt the spread," said Dr Vikas Maurya, Director and Head, Department of Pulmonology and Sleep Disorders, Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh. "Increase in cases will be there when unlocking is done in phases, but what is important is to be mindful that the situation should not spiral out of control, as if it does, then lockdown will have to be re-imposed," Maurya told PTI. Noted lung surgeon Dr Arvind Kumar said that it was important to ensure that people continue to have a "self-imposed" lockdown and follow the "four golden principles" -- don't go out unless necessary, always wear a mask, keep distance and keep washing hands. "Right now the situation does not warrant a reimposition of the lockdown, but if the situation spirals out of control, then we would have to go back to a lockdown," he told PTI. Kumar, who works at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital here, also asserted that it was too early to allow religious places and malls to open as there are not enough checks to ensure that people will not flout norms.  Dr Vivek Nangia, Director and Head Pulmonology, Fortis Hospital, Vasant Kunj, also said that the rapid rise in cases was worrying. It is still early to open malls and religious places as if congregations start to happen, then things could spiral out of control, he told PTI. The Union Health Ministry on Thursday issued standard operating procedures to be followed by religious places, shopping malls, restaurants, hotels and offices to contain the spread of COVID-19 as India gears up to reopen the economy. The preparations for reopening the economy, which has been severely hit by the coronavirus-triggered lockdown, from June 8 comes amid mounting cases and death toll in the country. The nationwide curbs were first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The lockdown was first extended till May 3 and then again till May 17. It was further extended till May 31 and now has been extended in containment zones till June 30. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the country stands at 1,10,960 while 1,09,461 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said. Thus, around 48.27 per cent patients have recovered so far. The first case of COVID-19 in India was reported on January 30 from Kerala after a medical student of Wuhan university, who had returned to India, tested positive for the virus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-sees-jump-of-61000-cases-in-one-week-medical-experts-feel-too-early-to-allow-malls-religious-places-to-open-846160.html
05-06-2020||National||HC to hear on June 12 pleas relating to Jamia violence during CAA protests||The Delhi High Court Friday said it will hear next week pleas related to the violence during Jamia Millia Islamia University protests against the Citizenship (amendment) Act (CAA) in December last year. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan listed the matter for June 12 after senior advocate Colin Gonsalves and lawyer Sneha Mukherjee, appearing for the petitioner, sought time to file rejoinder to the Delhi Police's affidavit which was submitted on Thursday. The hearing was conducted through video conferencing as the functioning of courts have been restricted due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Delhi Police, represented through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair, sought dismissal of pleas seeking quashing of FIRs and directions against alleged police brutality in the university during the anti-CAA protests. It said the petitions were an utter abuse of PIL jurisdiction as the incidents of violence in and around the campus were well-planned and orchestrated attempts by some persons with local support. One of the petitioners, Nabila Hasan, has sought action against the police for allegedly brutally attacking the petitioners, students and residents of Jamia Millia Islamia. The plea sought against the alleged ruthless, and excessive use of force and aggression unleashed by police and paramilitary forces on students within the university. Opposing a batch of PILs seeking setting up of a judicial commission to look into the violence, the police has said the claim of police brutality is utter falsehood. The police has filed the affidavit in response to various petitions, moved by lawyers, students of JMI, residents of Okhla in south Delhi, where university is located and the Imam of Jama Masjid mosque opposite Parliament House, in which they had also sought medical treatment, compensation and interim protection from arrest for the students. The pleas have also sought registration of FIRs against the erring police officers. The affidavit filed by Rajesh Deo, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Crime Branch, said exercising fundamental right to dissent should be respected, but “no person can be allowed to commit breach of law, indulge in violence, arson and riotous activity causing danger to life, limb and property of innocent citizens under the garb of exercise of fundamental right of free speech and assembly”. Such fundamental rights are not absolute and are liable to reasonable restrictions under the Constitution, it said. Under the garb of organising a protest, it is completely impermissible for the citizens to create law and order situation and to lay a siege and paralyse the day to day activity of fellow citizens who are completely unconnected with the cause for which protests are organised by a section of the society, it said. The police said that videos and photographs collected by it show that under the garb of student protest, it was a well-planned and orchestrated attempt by some persons with local support to intentionally perpetrate violence in the area. It said the evidence showed that there was large scale violence, arson and stone pelting on December 13 and 15, 2019, which resulted in lodging of three FIRs. Regarding the prayer in the petitions to frame guidelines on use of force to govern the conduct of police personnel in such cases, the affidavit said it is not maintainable and added that due procedure/ standard protocol was followed by the police authorities to control the unruly mob and to maintain law and order in the area. On the violence incident of December 15, the affidavit has said, police received an input that some former students and other persons will assemble at JMI for protesting the newly acted CAA and NRC and will go to Parliament and the President House. The investigation revealed that local leaders and politicians were instigating the protestors and were raising extremely provocative and inciting slogans and the gathering had swelled to about 3500.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-to-hear-on-june-12-pleas-relating-to-jamia-violence-during-caa-protests-846161.html
05-06-2020||National||NALSAR alumni-students join hands to rescue stranded migrant workers||The alumni and students of the National Academy of Legal Studies and Research (NALSAR), Hyderabad have helped 174 migrant workers including their children fly from Bengaluru to Raipur on Friday to reach their respective places. “NALSAR for Migrant Workers” - has thus far aided 240 such people stuck in various parts of the country reach home through various transport modes. Their efforts are aided by Rs 20 lakh contributed themselves and collected from like minded people for the rescue of workers affected by the COVID-19 lockdown. For arranging the flight of 174 workers from Bengaluru, their pickup-drop off to the airport, food, water, protective gear, and ration kits, Rs 16 lakh was spent, a press release said. NALSAR group collaborated with Loving Migrant Workers Network and Samerth Charitable Trust for the humanitarian endeavor. The collective has also facilitated the travel of nine migrant worker families of 20 adults, 25 children employed in a brick kiln in Bhilwara district, Rajasthan, to reach Chitrakoot in Uttar Pradesh.  Stranded with little money and no shelter, water, and basic amenities they had commenced journey by foot. A cash transfer of Rs 1000 was made for each adult worker to sustain after reaching home. The group thanked donors, voluntary organisations for making the project possible.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nalsar-alumni-students-join-hands-to-rescue-stranded-migrant-workers-846165.html
05-06-2020||National||Case against Maneka Gandhi over Malappuram statement||The Malappuram police on Friday registered a case against BJP leader and Lok Sabha MP Maneka Gandhi in connection with her critical remarks against Malappuram district against the backdrop of the killing of a pregnant elephant using explosives. According to police, the case was registered on a batch of petitions against the Maneka. Section 153 of IPC for deliberately making the provocative statements was invoked against her. So far five petitions from individuals and political activists were received in this regard, said the police. Maneka stated the other day that the killing of the elephant took place in Malappuram district and the district was known for such murders and it is India's most violent district. She did not withdraw the statement even as the state government clarified that the elephant killing took place in Palakkad district. Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan also accused her of bringing in bigotry into the incident and trying to unleash hate campaigns. Malappuram is a Muslim dominated district and parts of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's Wayanad constituency fall in the district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/case-against-maneka-gandhi-over-malappuram-statement-846169.html
05-06-2020||National||Gujarat HC advocate body alleges 'nepotism, favouritism' in hearing petitions online||The Gujarat High Court Advocates' Association (GHCAA) on Friday(June 5) shot off a letter to chief justice Vikram Nath alleging "nepotism" and "favouritism" in registering the petition for hearing online. Following lockdown in March in wake of coronavirus outbreak, the high court is hearing only "urgent" cases that are being filed and heard online. The lawyer's body has demanded the opening of the court in view of the fact that the situation is not going to improve in the next six months due to a lack of vaccine. The president of GHCAA, Yatin Oza, in the 12-page letter addressed to the chief justice, has claimed that a group of advocates told him that their petitions were not being circulated for weeks and how "matters of billionaires get circulated in no time." The letter claims that at least 100 advocates have approached Oza and other office-bearers of the association making "serious grievance and complaint" that their petitions have not been listed despite repeated attempts. The letter alleges that the registry of the high court is "falling prey to nepotism and favoritism." The high court registrar general didn't respond to call made by DH. Oza has cited examples of a woman petitioner who filed a bail plea on behalf of her husband. The letter states that due to “a funny objection" raised by the registry that the sex of petitioner was not stated, her petition was not circulated for hearing for ten days. He has said that it is happening despite instructions of the chief justice “not to raise any objection other than vakalatnama and affidavit.”  Oza has claimed that he has over 100 similar examples.  Oza has also cited a recent case filed by a well-known businessman against a mutual fund house to say that how promptly the case was dealt with which, according to Oza, has caused “depression and frustration” among the lawyers. The letter mentions the name of the businessman whose case was filed on May 29 and how quickly “he walked away with an order on June 3" considering May 30 and May 31 being holidays. Oza has said that there are numerous petitions which haven’t seen the “light of the day” despite being filed weeks back. "Juniors (advocate) and non-VIP client are making desperate efforts to get the matters registered by sending personal messages to the Deputy Registrar, nothing has been done in their matters. Nobody attends their phone calls. Nobody attends the helpline numbers and bar is now on the verge of frustration and depression," the letter states, while demanding to open the courts for physical hearing. It adds further that since a vaccine for the coronavirus is not going to be available anytime soon, "Juniors will breakdown, will have no place to go and like to commit suicide if the situation continues as the present."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarat-hc-advocate-body-alleges-nepotism-favouritism-in-hearing-petitions-online-846175.html
05-06-2020||National||NHRC moves SC for taking measures to ameliorate plight of migrant workers||The NHRC has approached the Supreme Court for taking long terms measures like setting up a nodal agency for inter-state migration of labourers and providing affordable rental housing scheme, and universal ration cards etc to the workers, who suffered untold miseries since March 25 due to the nationwide lockdown. In an application filed before the top court, the rights body submitted that a special provision should be inserted in the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979 to deal with emergency situations like COVID-19, natural disasters etc. It said a national portal should be set up for registration of migrants so that a nationwide database was created. It sought compensation to family members of those who died while migrating to their respective states. The application was filed by the NHRC in a Suo Motu matter being examined by the top court on 'problems and miseries of migrant workers'. In its plea, the NHRC said it has taken Suo Motu cognisance in several cases looking into various newspaper reports that showed the unfortunate and miserable condition of the migrant workers.  It suggested the implementation of a slew of short term and long term measures in order to decrease the sufferings of the migrant workers and to ensure that the human rights of these poor labourers were not violated. "State should be directed to identify the industry in which the migrant labour is working i.e construction, agriculture, brick kiln, etc. This identification will aid the State in creating schemes for the migrant workers and in the preparation of a State-wide and Nation-wide database," it said. It said there should be medical facilities for check-ups for migrants before and after the journey, as well as the availability of food and medical care, and menstrual hygiene products during the journey.  Besides, the fund should be created for payment of ex-gratia relief by the concerned DM, to every migrant returning home, it suggested. The Commission also expressed its concern over reports that 40% of the Shramik trains were late. "There is an average delay of 8 hours. Railways in consultation with the respective state governments should ensure that such delays do not take place and the trains do not reach the wrong destination," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nhrc-moves-sc-for-taking-measures-to-ameliorate-plight-of-migrant-workers-846179.html
05-06-2020||National||Indian, Chinese diplomats agree to settle differences through “peaceful dialogue”||India and China on Friday agreed to resolve differences through “peaceful dialogue” respecting each other’s “sensitivities, concerns and aspirations”, setting a framework for their militaries to work out a way to de-escalate tension along the disputed boundary between the two nations. The senior diplomats of India and China had a video conference just ahead of a proposed meeting between the commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) to defuse tension in the border areas in eastern Ladakh. The two sides reaffirmed the consensus reached between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping during two “informal summits” in April 2018 and October 2019 and agreed not to allow the differences to turn into disputes. Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GoC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, will lead the Indian Army delegation in the meeting with the Chinese PLA officials at the Chushul-Moldo junction in eastern Ladakh on Saturday. He is likely to insist on restoration of status quo ante and withdrawal of all the Chinese PLA soldiers, who had transgressed into the India’s side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between India and China – over the past few weeks. He is also expected to demand demolition of the bunker and the moat the Chinese PLA built to block the access of the Indian Army personnel to an area where they were regularly patrolling before the tension escalated following a scuffle between the soldiers of the two nations on May 5. The press release issued in New Delhi on Friday after the video-conference between Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary (East Asia) in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), and his counterpart, Wu Jianghao, Director General (Asian Affairs) in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government, did not directly refer to the military build-ups by both sides in eastern Ladakh. It, however, stated that Srivastava and Wu discussed “the state of bilateral relations, including the current developments”. They recalled “the consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries that a peaceful, stable and balanced relation between India and China” would be “a positive factor for stability in the current global situation”. The two sides also agreed that they “should handle their differences through peaceful discussion” in accordance with the “guidance” provided by the Prime Minister and the Chinese President, “bearing in mind the importance of respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations”, according to the press-release issued by the MEA. They also agreed that the two neighbouring nations should not allow differences to turn into disputes. New Delhi earlier conveyed to Beijing that actions of the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in eastern Ladakh was contrary to the “strategic guidance” Modi and Xi had agreed to issue to their militaries during the first “informal summit” in Wuhan in China April 2018 and reaffirmed during its sequel in a seaside resort in Tamil Nadu in October 2019. Srivastava has been in touch with Wu over the past few weeks to defuse the tension along the disputed boundary between the two nations on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh. He was also in touch with Hong Liang, Director General of the Department of Boundary and Ocean Affairs in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Chinese Government. But it was only after his video-conference with Wu on Friday that New Delhi put the outcome in public domain, signaling some headway in the diplomatic engagements between the two sides to de-escalate the situation. The Chinese PLA over the past few weeks deployed nearly 5000 soldiers in a large camp set up recently at Galwan Valley within the territory claimed by China – in order to support the smaller number of troops, who transgressed the LAC in several locations and entered into the areas claimed by India. The Indian Army too responded by rushing additional troops “in adequate numbers”. The build-ups by both sides escalated tension along the LAC and the military officials and diplomats of both sides have been in touch to defuse the situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-chinese-diplomats-agree-to-settle-differences-through-peaceful-dialogue-846180.html
05-06-2020||National||Government notifies 2 ordinances to kick in agricultural reforms, help farmers trade freely||The government on Friday notified two key ordinances to kick in agriculture reforms and help farmers trade freely and fetch better prices. "The President of India has promulgated the following Ordinances with the aim of giving a boost to rural India for farmers engaged in agriculture and allied activities," an official statement said. The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance 2020 aims to promote barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade in agriculture produce. Whereas the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020 empowers farmers to engage with processors, aggregators, wholesalers, large retailers and exporters through advanced agreements on pre-agreed prices. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Friday wrote to all chief ministers, seeking cooperation in the implementation of the reforms. He stressed the need for their continued support in the development and growth of the agriculture sector in the newly reformed environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/government-notifies-2-ordinances-to-kick-in-agricultural-reforms-help-farmers-trade-freely-846181.html
05-06-2020||National||Govt invites applications for Telecom Regulatory Authority of India chief's post||The government has begun the search for filling up the post of chairperson, Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai), which is due to fall vacant on October 1. The tenure of the current Chairman R S Sharma is set to end on September 30. Trai has been at the forefront of major decisions related to tariffs and call connect charges, as well as recommendations on key issues like spectrum and reforming norms for transfer/merger of telecom licences. Inviting applications from eligible candidates, the government said the tenure is for a term not exceeding three years or till the age of 65 years, whichever is earlier. "The post of the Chairperson, TRAI will be falling vacant on 1.10.2020," the Telecom Department said in a notice for appointment to the post. Outlining the criteria for the top job at the regulatory body for telecom and broadcasting sectors, as contained in the TRAI Act, it said the candidate must have "special knowledge of and professional experience in telecom, industry, finance, accountancy, law, the management or consumer affairs." "...provided that such a person who is, or has been, in the service of Government shall not be appointed as a member (including chairperson) unless such person has held the post of secretary or additional secretary or the post of additional secretary and secretary to Government of India or any equivalent post in the Central Government or the State Government for a period of not less than three years," it said. In addition to applications received, the search-cum-selection committee will have the authority to consider any other names for the appointment to the said post, it added. In July 2015, R S Sharma was named as the Trai chief for a three-year period. In August 2018, the Appointments Committee of the Cabinet approved Sharma's reappointment as Trai chairperson till September 30, 2020, when he would attain the age of 65 years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-invites-applications-for-telecom-regulatory-authority-of-india-chiefs-post-846183.html
05-06-2020||National||President Ram Nath Kovind promulgates three ordinances ushering in agriculture reforms||The President on Friday promulgated three ordinances claiming to usher in agriculture reforms and help farmers trade freely and fetch better prices. President Ram Nath Kovind promulgated The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance that were approved by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday. The ordinance on trade in farm produce aims to promote barrier-free inter-state and intra-state trade in agriculture produce. Another ordinance empowers farmers to engage with processors, aggregators, wholesalers, large retailers and exporters through advanced agreements on pre-agreed prices. The ordinance amending the Essential Commodities Act allows invoking the law for cereals, onions, potatoes, pulses, edible oilseeds and oils only under extraordinary circumstances or at the time of war. The amendment permits imposition of stock limits on the above mentioned items only if there is 100% increase in the horticulture produce and 50% increase in the retail price of non-perishable agricultural foodstuff over the price prevailing in the immediate preceding 12 months or the average price over the past five years, which ever is lower. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar has also written to all chief ministers, seeking cooperation in implementation of the reforms. He stressed the need for their continued support in the development and growth of the agriculture sector in the new reformed environment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/president-ram-nath-kovind-promulgates-three-ordinances-ushering-in-agriculture-reforms-846189.html
05-06-2020||National||Court dismisses interim bail plea of AAP MLA Jarwal||A Delhi Court Friday dismissed the interim bail plea of AAP legislator Prakash Jarwal, arrested in connection with a case of alleged suicide of a doctor in south Delhi in April, sought on account of the demise of his father-in-law who was suspected to be COVID-19 positive. Additional Sessions Judge Sanjeev Aggarwal said that the chances of the accused influencing the witnesses cannot be ruled out. The court said the body of Jarwal's father-in-law has already been handed over to the kin of the deceased for cremation today. It noted however that the accused suspected his wife and infant son to be suffering from COVID-19 and were under self-quarantine. “In any case, in these peculiar circumstances, when the family of the accused is under the shadow of Covid-19 and is under quarantine and his father-in-law had also suspected to have died from Covid-19 and the fact that the investigations are still in progress, in these circumstances if the accused is released on interim bail, considering the dominant position of the accused, who is stated to be resident of the same locality as also the local MLA, therefore chances of the accused influencing the witnesses cannot be ruled out. “Therefore, no ground for interim bail is made out at this stage. The application stands dismissed,” the judge said. Rajendra Singh, 52, allegedly committed suicide in Durga Vihar in south Delhi on April 18. In his suicide note, the doctor held Jarwal responsible for his death. ”The father-in-law of the accused had some breathing problem since last two days consequently he was admitted in hospital... He expired in LNJP hospital where he was under treatment. He was suspected with Covid-19 virus and his samples has been taken by LNJP hospital doctors,” the bail application said. The plea, seeking interim bail for 45 days, further said that Jarwal's wife and son, 11-month old, were also residing with her father for last several days. “There is apprehension that the wife and the child of the accused are also suffering from COVID-19,” the application said, adding that both of them are currently in quarantine. “As per Hindu rites the presence of accused is must at time of cremation of his father-in-law,” the plea said. ”The presence of the accused is must at his home to look after his 11 months old baby, his wife and his parents who are senior citizens..,” it added, seeking bail on “humanitarian ground”. The investigating officer opposed the contents of the bail application, stating that the accused was residing in a joint family having two brothers, who can look after his parents, as also his in-laws who were also residing in the same locality. “His brother-in-law can perform all the rights and rituals related to the death of his father-in-law,” the police said, seeking dismissal of the application. The public prosecutor said that the allegations against the accused were serious in nature. “The investigation is at a crucial stage and if granted the relief, the accused may likely to hamper the probe,” the prosecution said. The court had on May 28 denied him bail, saying probe was at a crucial stage and that the accused was an influential person and could hamper the ongoing probe. According to police, like Jarwal, deceased Singh was also involved in the business of water supply with the Delhi Jal Board since 2007. It alleged that the MLA and his associates were extorting money from other water-tanker owners, including the doctor. Jarwal, who represents the Deoli assembly constituency, was arrested on May 9, after a case of extortion and abetment to suicide was filed against him and others based on a police complaint by the doctor's son -- Hemant. The FIR said Singh had been threatened and intimidated by Jarwal and others. "During investigation it was found that there was a big nexus between water-tanker owners and the accused person," the police had said in the remand application. Police said the investigation showed the money extorted from water-tanker owners was routed through the MLA's brother Anil Jarwal and invested in several properties and farm-houses in Delhi, Gurugram (Haryana) and Jaipur (Rajasthan). They also claimed that Jarwal had got allotted many water borewells in his constituency by influencing the Jal Board and one water borewell was illegally given after taking Rs 10 lakh as "gratification money". Police said complaints against the accused were filed to various authorities but action was never taken. They said they have found a WhatsApp group in the name of tanker-owners whose administrator is Kapil Nagar, a co-accused and Jarwal's close aide. Jarwal is one of its members. The chat details clearly show the direct involvement of both the accused in running the tanker mafia in Sangam Vihar and Tigri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/court-dismisses-interim-bail-plea-of-aap-mla-jarwal-846202.html
05-06-2020||National||COVID-19: India, few other Asian nations respond to UN human rights chief's criticism||India and few other Asian nations on Friday responded strongly to UN human rights chief Michelle Bachelet, who had expressed "alarm" at "clampdown on freedom of expression" in the countries, saying the governments are focused on ensuring that precious lives are not lost due to the coronavirus pandemic and spread of "harmful misinformation" represents a clear danger to public health. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in a statement on June 3 had said that arrests for expressing discontent or allegedly spreading false information through the press and social media have been reported in Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Nepal, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Thailand and Vietnam. Bachelet had expressed "alarm" at the "clampdown on freedom of expression" in these Asia-Pacific nations during the COVID-19 crisis, saying any actions taken to stop the spread of false information must be proportionate. A joint press release issued by the Permanent Mission of India in Geneva and the Permanent Missions of Indonesia, Cambodia, Malaysia, Myanmar, Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam to the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights responded strongly to Bachelet's remarks. "We reiterate that the primary focus of our governments in these unprecedented times is to ensure that precious lives, particularly of the most vulnerable, are not lost to COVID-19. The OHCHR (Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights) needs to recognise this and play a responsible role in a manner that adds to rather than detracts from such efforts," it said. The countries said the ongoing pandemic has already strained their resources and capabilities to the limit. "Our governments reiterate the view that the spread of harmful misinformation and falsehoods that guide segments of the public to disengage themselves from crucial, science-based information and policies enacted by relevant government agencies, thereby worsening the spread of COVID-19, represents a clear and present danger to public health," the statement said. The countries said their governments have taken necessary measures in accordance with their prevailing laws and regulations to hold those who spread misinformation and mislead the public accountable for their irresponsible actions. “These measures are carried out in accordance with the due process of law, while also safeguarding the freedom of expression, with the aim of curbing falsehoods that have harmed or have the potential to harm all sectors of society, during this pandemic," the joint press release said. Highlighting issues from the individual nations, Bachelet had said in India, several journalists and at least one doctor have been charged for their public criticism of the authorities’ response to the COVID-19. On Indonesia, she had said that at least 51 people were reportedly being investigated under the criminal defamation law for allegedly spreading “fake news” on the pandemic. The 51 include three men who were arrested for posting a message on social media claiming that an area of northern Jakarta had COVID-19 cases after the government sprayed disinfectant there. On Cambodia, the UN Human Rights Office said it has documented the arrest of 30 individuals, including six women and a 14-year-old girl, for COVID-19 related public comments and social media posts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-india-few-other-asian-nations-respond-to-un-human-rights-chiefs-criticism-846225.html
05-06-2020||National||More rains in Delhi; no heat wave till June 15: IMD||The national capital witnessed more rains on Saturday which kept the mercury several notches below normal, the weather department said. The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative figures for the city, recorded 1.2 mm rainfall. The weather stations at Ayanagar and Lodhi Road gauged 21.7 mm and 0.6 mm precipitation. Winds gusting up to 50 kilometers per hour swept across the city. Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the regional forecasting center of the India Meteorological Department, said an active western disturbance affecting northwest India and moisture incursion due to Cyclone Nisarga led to rains. He also said the region is not likely to witness a heat wave till June 15. Cloudy weather and light rain is expected on the weekend too. The maximum temperature is expected to remain below the 40 degrees Celsius-mark till June 10, Srivastava said. Thereafter, moisture-laden easterly winds due to probable low pressure area in the Bay of Bengal will bring rains in Delhi-NCR on June 12 and June 13, he said. The MeT department said the minimum and maximum temperatures will hover around 36 and 25 degrees Celsius in the city on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/more-rains-in-delhi-no-heat-wave-till-june-15-imd-846237.html
05-06-2020||National||Centre has given Rs 28,000 cr to Maha for coronavirus pandemic relief: BJP||State BJP chief Chandrakant Patil claimed on Friday that the Union government has provided assistance of Rs 28,000 crore to Maharashtra for coronavirus relief measures. During a video conference with reporters on the Narendra Modi government's achievements after the last year's Lok Sabha polls, Patil said the Centre has given substantial help to Maharashtra, which is worst affected by the pandemic. The Union government has given relief of Rs 28,104 crore to the Maharashtra government towards medical infrastructure and for helping migrant labourers, he said. The state also got benefits worth Rs 78,000 crore under the Atmanirbhar Bharat Scheme, Patil added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-has-given-rs-28000-cr-to-maha-for-coronavirus-pandemic-relief-bjp-846249.html
05-06-2020||National||Editor's note | DH launches Android & iOS app||Dear Reader, It's a momentous day for us: The formal launch of our mobile application, the walled garden where we can bring you, in exciting and innovative ways, the best journalism that DH has to offer. Yes, we're launching the app at a turbulent time for all of us. The novel coronavirus has roiled the world and forced companies across sectors to batten down the hatches, postpone or junk their plans, and do the bare minimum. We are hardly unaffected by the crisis, but we have chosen to bring this app to you at this time to underline our commitment to our readers, who are at the centre of everything we do, in good times and in tough ones. We think you will like our latest offering: Its bespoke design is elegant and cool, and it's loaded with novel features and a degree of personalisation that we hope will increase the bond between us. We hope to hear from you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editors-note-dh-launches-android-ios-app-846095.html
05-06-2020||National Politics||Navjot Singh Sidhu likely to join AAP, Kejriwal says ‘Welcome’: Report||While Punjab Congress and AAP were in talks separately with political strategist Prashant Kishor to draft their campaign strategy for the 2022 elections, cricketer-turned-politician Navjot Singh Sidhu came up with a googly. Sidhu resigned from the Council of Ministers last year and has been lying low and restricting himself to his constituency in Amritsar.  “Sidhu is desisting from targeting the CM on any issue. This means he is keeping his doors open to return to the active political scene in the Congress under the leadership of Capt Amarinder Singh. With central leadership in favour of Sidhu, it is to be seen whether Sidhu joins hands with Capt Amarinder or waits till the elections,” said a senior party leader told the media. AAP's Punjab in-charge Jarnail Singh told IANS, "Those who are willing to join the party with honest intentions are welcome, be it, Sidhu." However, he said that he was not aware as to who was holding talks with the Congress leader. According to sources, election strategist Prashant Kishor is working behind the scenes to get Sidhu into the AAP fold. A top source close to Sidhu told IANS that on the second of this month, during a WhatsApp call and exchange of messages with Kishor, Sidhu discussed the terms and conditions to join the AAP. However, media reports say, as Sidhu’s options were being debated, he put a video on his channel calling it ‘Sach da Safar’ in which he looked back at his political journey when he contested four elections on BJP tickets and was then asked to move out of Punjab. The googly came when he tried to put a stop to the speculation by sharing his pictures with Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi in the end of the video that said, “Praan jaye par vachan na jaye.” Amidst the conundrum, Kejriwal told the publication India that the Amritsar East MLA is welcome to join AAP. “He is welcome,” Kejriwal said when asked about Sidhu’s move. In the 2017 Assembly polls, the Congress swept to power in Punjab by defeating the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and the BJP. Sidhu, who joined the Congress ahead of the Assembly polls in 2017, has been at loggerheads with Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh for some time now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/navjot-singh-sidhu-likely-to-join-aap-kejriwal-says-welcome-report-845969.html
05-06-2020||National Politics||Mallikarjun Kharge is Congress candidate for Rajya Sabha polls from Karnataka||The Congress on Friday fielded veteran leader Mallikarjun Kharge as its candidate for the biennial elections to the Rajya Sabha from Karnataka. Four Rajya Sabha seats in Karnataka are falling vacant on June 25 as the terms of M V Rajeev Gowda, B K Hariprasad (both Congress), Prabhakar Kore (BJP) and D Kupendra Reddy (JD-S) are coming to an end. Elections to the Rajya Sabha are scheduled for June 19. Kharge, 77, served as Union Minister in the Manmohan Singh government from 2009-14 and later as the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha from 2014-2019. Earlier, Kharge had won the Karnataka assembly elections nine consecutive terms having served as Home Minister, Revenue Minister, Rural Development Minister and the Leader of the Opposition from 1972-2008. The veteran leader’s winning streak was interrupted when he lost the 2019 Lok Sabha elections to Umesh Jadhav of the BJP from the Kalaburagi constituency. With 68 members in the Karnataka Assembly, Kharge’s win in the Rajya Sabha elections is almost certain. The party has agreed to support the JD(S) if it fields former prime minister H D Deve Gowda. The BJP with 117 members can ensure victory of two candidates. JD(S) with 34 members is banking on the support of Congress, which has surplus votes 24 excess votes after ensuring Kharge’s election. A candidate requires 44 votes to get elected in the Rajya Sabha elections where the electoral college comprises members of the legislative assembly. The last date for filing of nominations is June 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/mallikarjun-kharge-is-congress-candidate-for-rajya-sabha-polls-from-karnataka-845994.html
05-06-2020||National Politics||Two Jyotiraditya Scindia loyalists return to Congress, say they 'felt suffocated in the BJP'||Jyotiraditya Scindia’s long silence after he switched from the Congress to the BJP three months ago has fuelled speculation that he is upset over neglect in the party which took his help to topple the 15-month old Kamal Nath government. One of Scindia’s staunch supporters and former Sewa Dal state president Satyndra Yadav on Friday claimed that Maharaj is feeling suffocated in the BJP and will soon be back in the Congress. Yadav, who had joined the BJP with Scindia, announced his return to the Congress at the state PCC headquarters in Bhopal. Significantly, former minister Balendu Shukla also echoed the same feeling while announcing his return to the Congress in Gwalior. Balendu was late Madhavrao Scindia’s close friend but could not get along with Jyotiraditya who inherited his father’s political legacy after the latter’s tragic death in a plane crash in 2001. Neglected by junior Scindia, Balendu had eventually joined the BJP in 2009. Talking to reporters in Gwalior, Balendu Shukla said it is a myth that Jyotiraditya holds sway in Gwalior-Chambal region. “ His defeat in the Lok Sabha election in Guna seat by over one lakh votes was a glaring proof of that.” The return of Balendu Shukla, a powerful Brahmin leader in the Gwalior region, is being considered a significant victory for the Congress. Out of the 24 assembly seats, where by elections are due, 16 are in the Gwalior-Chambal region. Congress sources said many other Scindia loyalists, who joined the BJP, are sending feelers to return to the Congress as they complain that they are finding themselves misfit in the saffron culture. Jyotiraditya Scindia has kept intriguing silence even as chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has been deferring overdue cabinet expansion for over a month. Speculations are rife that the BJP is not willing to honour the commitment in toto that it had made to the turncoat leader for helping the party topple the Kamal Nath government. While Scindia reportedly wants to see ten of his loyalists in the Shivraj Singh ministry, the chief minister is not willing to adjust more than the six former MLAs who were ministers in the Kamal Nath government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/two-jyotiraditya-scindia-loyalists-return-to-congress-say-they-felt-suffocated-in-the-bjp-846016.html
05-06-2020||National Politics||Modi govt only manufacturing jumlas and slogans: Congress leader Kapil Sibal||The Congress on Friday dubbed Prime Minister Narendra Modi's "vocal for local" call and the economic stimulus package to make the country self-reliant as yet another jumla to divert the attention of the people from "real issues". Addressing a virtual press conference, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal asked how can India become self-reliant till it creates innovation and intellectual property in its universities. "This is an act of self deception. This is another 'jumla' (rhetoric) that you sell to the people of the country," he said. "We are only manufacturing 'jumlas', statements and slogans. That is the only thing we make in India and we are masters at that under this government," he said, taking a swipe at the BJP-led government. Sibal said while the prime minister calls for "Atmanirbhar Abhiyaan", his government has failed to help make the poor, the farmers, the migrant workers, the industry or the states to become self-reliant. Similarly, his exhortation to industry to push 'Made in India, Made for the World', to expand globally, not be dependent on another country in the strategic sector, did not have a clear roadmap as to how this goal should be achieved, the former union minister said. The Rs 20 lakh crore 'Atmanirbhar' package does not lead to expansion of government expenditure, as it includes measures already announced by RBI and the budget and amounts to less than 1 per cent of GDP, as against 10 per cent claimed by the government, he noted. "The reality is that Modi's 'Atmanirbhar' idea is merely a slogan like innumerable others," Sibal said. He also called for private investment in the universities to create innovation and ideas, which he said did not amount to privatisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/modi-govt-only-manufacturing-jumlas-and-slogans-congress-leader-kapil-sibal-846035.html
05-06-2020||National Politics||Parliament panel on IT to meet on June 17; To discuss Aarogya Setu app, data security||Parliamentary panel on Information Technology is scheduled to hold a meeting on June 17 during which it will be calling officials of the information and technology ministry to get a briefing on the government's coronavirus-tracking Aarogya Setu application and related issues of data security and privacy of citizens, sources said on Friday. According to sources, the meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on IT, headed by senior Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor, was to take place on June 10 but was postponed to June 17 as there was no final decision on whether the meeting could be held via video conferencing. During the meeting, members are also likely to call representatives of the Information and broadcasting ministry to discuss the subject of ethical standards in media coverage, sources said. However,they did not elaborate. The Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology officials are also scheduled to be called to brief the members on the government's coronavirus-tracking Aarogya Setu application and issues of data security and privacy of citizens, sources said. Aarogya Setu app, which has been downloaded by over 10 crore users, is deployed by the government for contact-tracing and disseminating medical advisories to users in order to contain the spread of COVID-19. Opposition leaders, including Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, have raised privacy breach issues and alleged that the mobile application was a "sophisticated surveillance system", a charge strongly rejected by IT Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, who asserted that the Aarogya Setu app was "secure" and there was no privacy breach in it. According to sources, a final decision on the format of the meeting will be taken by by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu after a report from the two Secretaries-General on the overall subject of video-meetings. The report is likely to be submitted on Tuesday, they said. "Depending on next week's decision, the meeting on the 17th might take place by video or in person. In the latter case, arrangements will be sought to be made with the Delhi Government not to impede the work of the Parliament by preventing MPs from attending under the quarantine rules," the note circulated by the committee secretariat said. Tharoor, who is the chairman of the committee, has repeatedly demanded allowing parliamentary panel meetings via video conferencing. The call for convening the meeting of the IT panel comes days after a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Home Affairs convened on June 3 to discuss the coronavirus-induced lockdown was deferred after some members expressed their inability to attend it due to travel restrictions. Chairman of the committee and senior Congress leader Anand Sharma had convened the meeting, and Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla was called to brief its members on the coronavirus-induced lockdown and issues of coordination with states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/parliament-panel-on-it-to-meet-on-june-17-to-discuss-aarogya-setu-app-data-security-846158.html
05-06-2020||National Politics||BJP using money power to be 'self-reliant' by luring other parties' MLAs: Congress||Amid reports of its MLAs in Gujarat quitting ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls, the Congress on Friday accused the BJP of spreading the "virus" of allurements in Indian politics with its huge monetary power. Congress leader Kapil Sibal alleged that the BJP's slogan of being self reliant was not meant for the country but for itself as it has become a rich party after demonetisation. He said the BJP has been indulging in spreading the "virus of luring legislators" in various states across the country. "This is a virus which is there in BJP's DNA. It is spreading this virus everywhere by luring MLAs all over. But people are understanding this now," he told reporters when asked about its MLAs switching sides ahead of the Rajya Sabha election. "This is self-reliance of the BJP with the help of money power," Sibal said. The former union minister said the BJP's talk of being self reliant is only meant for the party itself and it means that the one who has money can buy MLAs. "This has nothing to do with India's self reliance, they are only concerned about their own self reliance," the Congress leader said. In a fresh jolt to the Congress ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls in Gujarat, its MLA Brijesh Merja on Friday resigned from the Assembly membership, becoming the third legislator of the opposition party to quit this week. Speaker Rajendra Trivedi has accepted the resignation of Merja, who was elected from the Morbi seat. Asked why its legislators were lured over by the BJP, Sibal said such things happen in politics. "This is a weakness in politics, as some people come into politics with their personal benefits in mind. These people get attracted to such allurements," he noted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-using-money-power-to-be-self-reliant-by-luring-other-parties-mlas-congress-846163.html
05-06-2020||National Politics||Rahul Gandhi shares graphs, says this is what 'failed coronavirus lockdown looks like'||Questioning the government's lockdown strategy to counter COVID-19, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi compared India's disease graph to other countries to say this is "what a failed lockdown looks like". Gandhi, who had earlier said that India is the only country to have relaxed the lockdown when COVID-19 cases are rising, also shared graphs of Spain, Germany, Italy and the UK, which had shown a decline in cases after the lockdowns. "This is what a failed lockdown looks like," he said on Twitter, while taking a swipe at the government. The former Congress president had earlier too termed the lockdown in India as "failed" which has not helped see a decline in cases. India has seen a steady rise in the number of cases ever since the lockdown has been relaxed since June 1. India saw a record single-day jump of 9,851 coronavirus cases and 273 deaths on Friday, pushing the nationwide infection tally to 2,26,770 and the death toll to 6,348, according to the Union health ministry.  India stood seventh among the nations worst hit by the COVID-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil, Russia, the UK, Spain and Italy. Gandhi had earlier said that if the government functions haphazardly and takes ad-hoc measures during the non-lockdown period, the country will face a second wave of coronavirus which will be "extremely devastating". "We want to ask the government, what is their strategy as far as India's opening up is concerned and what precautions they are going to take, how are they thinking and how they are going to support the migrants and our states?" he had asked earlier.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/rahul-gandhi-shares-graphs-says-this-is-what-failed-coronavirus-lockdown-looks-like-846199.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Soldier killed as Pakistan shells forward areas in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri||An Army soldier was killed when Pakistan troops resorted to firing and shelling along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Rajouri district on Thursday night, official sources said. The Pakistan army targeted the forwards areas in Sunderbani sector, they added. A soldier was killed in the ceasefire violation, the sources said. Indian troops guarding the border mounted a befitting retaliation and cross-border firing was underway when last reports came in, they added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/soldier-killed-as-pakistan-shells-forward-areas-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-rajouri-845850.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||20 DMRC staff have tested positive for COVID-19 till date: Sources||Twenty Delhi Metro staff, staying in Delhi-NCR, have tested positive for COVID-19 till date, sources said on Thursday. Many Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) officials have been coming to office or to station premises to ensure smooth resumption of services, whenever the orders come from the government. Twenty Delhi Metro staff, living in Delhi and its neighbouring cities, have tested positive for COVID-19 till date, the sources said.  The DMRC on Thursday also put out a tweet, saying, "Along with the rest of the country, DMRC is also fighting the battle against COVID-19. Delhi Metro's employees have shown exemplary resilience in reporting back to their duties to keep the Metro system in all readiness for eventual resumption of services. #DMRCFightsCOVID". The tweet carried a poster showing the Metro girl, DMRC's mascot, wearing a mask and a pair of gloves.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/20-dmrc-staff-have-tested-positive-for-covid-19-till-date-sources-845877.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Woman alleges coronavirus-positive father 'not admitted' in time by Delhi hospital, dies||A woman has alleged that her COVID-19-positive father was not admitted in time by a Delhi government hospital and he died on Thursday, a charge denied by the authorities of the facility. The woman, Amarpreet Kaur, took to Twitter earlier in the day, saying, "My dad is having high fever. We need to shift him to hospital. I am standing outside LNJP Delhi & they are not taking him in. He is having corona, high fever and breathing problem. He won't survive without help. Pls help." An hour later, she again tweeted, saying, "He is no more. The govt failed us." Her tweets were widely circulated by netizens. Amarpreet is a social activist, her family said. The authorities at the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan (LNJP) Hospital, a dedicated COVID-19 facility, denied the charge, saying the patient was "brought dead". According to information shared by the hospital, the 68-year-old man, who also had asthma, died at 7:37 am. "According to a report from the emergency department, the man was tested for COVID-19 at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital (SGRH) and the report came on June 1, in which he was found positive for coronavirus infection," a senior official said. He was sent to home quarantine from there, the authorities said. On Thursday, he was brought to the casualty department of the hospital in an "unconscious state" and with a flat ECG line, and declared "brought dead". Amarpreet lives in Gurgaon with her husband Mandeep Singh, who said the family members rushed to the hospital after getting to know about his father-in-law's condition. "My father-in-law was taken in a car by my wife's brother and a cousin, accompanied by my mother-in-law," Singh said, and alleged that the LNJP Hospital staff "were not willing to see my father-in-law, even as he fainted in the car". "They are saying he was brought dead, but was he even attended to? The staff kept saying go to Ganga Ram Hospital. We were just at a loss," he alleged, the charge again denied by the LNJP Hospital authorities. Singh also alleged that the family "never received any call" from the SGRH on the positive COVID-19 status of his father-in-law. A spokesperson of the SGRH denied the charge, saying, "There is no truth in these allegations. However, we sympathise with the family for their loss."  Singh also claimed that the family had approached three-four other private and government hospitals a few days ago, but "could not get admission" for the deceased in any of those facilities, adding that they found out that beds were available at the LNJP Hospital, so he was taken there. Later, in a statement, the LNJP Hospital rejected the claims of the family as "incorrect and false", saying the old man was brought to the hospital between 7:10 am and 7:30 am, was "not refused admission and examined by a doctor". It also claimed that the first tweet was put up by Amarpreet at 8:05 am and subsequently, she sent out another tweet, saying her father died at 9:08 am, but he died at 7:37 am. Singh responded to it and claimed that the tweets were "put out from his wife's account by a friend of hers", as she was scrambling to get her father medical attention and hence, there could have been a delay. Asked if the man's family was made to wait at the hospital, a source said, the LNJP Hospital, being a dedicated facility, sees a "lot of rush" of patients. "Also, there are four doctors in the casualty department, who can attend to only four patients at a time following all social-distancing and other safety guidelines. But the triage team looks out for any person in the queue, who needs immediate medical attention," the source said. The woman later tweeted seeking COVID-19 tests for all family members.  "I lost my father today morning to COVID we want other family members to get tested today only. which labs are not doing they are in danger. We are trying since morning. My mother, brother, his wife and two kids. Pls help (sic)," she said. On June 2, the woman had also tweeted: "My father is corona positive and in Delhi, no helpline is responding @ArvindKejriwal @msisodia @dilipkpandey. Immediate support is needed." "I am extremely thankful to @dilipkpandey and others for immediate attention and support. We are proceeding on next steps as advised by doctors!" she had tweeted. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Pandey had helped to get a doctor on a telephone call with the family, Singh said. Delhi recorded 1,359 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, which took the COVID-19 tally in the city past the 25,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 650, authorities said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-alleges-coronavirus-positive-father-not-admitted-in-time-by-delhi-hospital-dies-845879.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt releases over Rs 18 crore for salaries of employees of 12 DU colleges||The Delhi government has released Rs 18.75 crore as grant-in-aid for payment of salaries to employees of 12 University of Delhi (DU) colleges funded by it, a statement said on Thursday. The grant-in-aid was released on Wednesday and the government said it was only for payment of salaries, it said. The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) wrote a letter to Delhi Education Minister Manish Sisodia saying the grant released was “inadequate” and requested an appointment with him. As per the order, with the release of this grant, units should be able to pay salaries of employees upto the month of May.  "We find it extremely unfortunate that there has been repeated delay in the release of grants to these colleges and as a result, employees have remained without salaries and pension for months altogether,” the DUTA said.  “We wish to draw your immediate attention to the fact that the grants, sanctioned till date, are much less than the money required to cover salaries upto May," it said. The grants sanctioned on May 25 were barely enough to cover salaries of January and February. Similarly, Grant-in-Aid released on May 7 could not cover salaries up to April. Most of the colleges have said they are in deficit of funds, the DUTA said. "As per this feedback, most colleges may not be able to pay salaries and pension upto May. Further, in the last several months, the colleges have not been able to make payments towards reimbursements, pending vacation salaries of ad-hoc teachers and arrears due to employees on account of the seventh Pay Revision," it said. Colleges also do not have funds to pay for electricity bills, property tax and general maintenance, the DUTA said. The 12 colleges are in dire need of the additional funds necessary for development of infrastructure development for smooth academic and administrative functioning, it added. DUTA requested for the "urgent release of adequate grants" to cover all pending dues, including salaries, reimbursements and arrears due to employees. There has been a standoff between the Delhi government and the DU administration over the issue of the formation of governing bodies in colleges partially or fully funded by the former.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-releases-over-rs-18-crore-for-salaries-of-employees-of-12-du-colleges-845893.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Making Ladakh separate UT could be reason for Chinese intrusion: Former diplomat||Former Indian Ambassador and well-known strategic affairs expert P Stobdan believes that New Delhi’s decision of making Ladakh a separate Union Territory (UT) could be the reason for recent Chinese intrusion in Galwan river valley and Pangong lake sectors. “I agree with the proposition that this (intrusion) could be Jammu and Kashmir-centric provocation. As long as Ladakh was a part of J&K, China wasn’t a major factor and its stance remained muted. But post the events of August 5, 2019, the Chinese have been making belligerent noises, almost trying to convey that they have a stake in Ladakh,” Stobdan told reporters. He said though India did give assurance it will not change the status of Line of Actual Control (LAC), China still went to the United Nation Security Council (UNSC) and raised the issue while supporting Pakistan. Stobdan, a senior fellow at Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses, said China viewed the statement of Union Home Minister Amit Shah on 37,000 sq km Aksai Chin plateau as part of India, disturbing its strategic designs especially with regard to its ‘Belt and Road initiative.’ Asked incursions by the Chinese in Ladakh were not new, he said, “The present incursion is not a small one. But as I said, the Chinese may have suspected we have bigger geostrategic plans. Ladakh is a lakshman rekha for us and we cannot afford to allow the Chinese in here ” Stobdan who has written many books and papers on China and its strategic designs, rued India has not worked hard to understand Chinese psyche and their working culture. “But on the contrary, Chinese have been trying to understand us for more than 2,000 years. Chinese came during Nalanda time and took the best of us and they know our psyche, religion and our working style,” he said. “We only do mechanical understanding of China, which doesn’t serve much purpose. China studied Islamic culture and they are dealing with the Islamic world in a much better way. They didn’t know much about the United States about three-decade back but they worked hard on understanding how they deal with the US. These are hard lessons we have to learn,” Stobdan said. The former ambassador of India to Kyrgyzstan acknowledged that no attention had been given to nomads and border residents of Ladakh, which are strategic assets. But, he puts the blame on the government of erstwhile Jammu and Kashmir state. “Nomads have been ignored but before Ladakh was made UT, J&K government was completely Kashmir focused. The local administration knows the revenue records and local problems. They never gave attention to it and these problems were not highlighted,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/making-ladakh-separate-ut-could-be-reason-for-chinese-intrusion-former-diplomat-845925.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: SC seeks Centre's response on plea for use of private hospitals by people who can afford||Petitioner, Avishek Goenka also wanted the constitution of a joint expert committee for examining and recommending best global practices for treatment of COVID-19 and making its recommendations binding on all states.  A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, M R Shah and V Ramasubramanian agreed to examine the plea made by Kolkata resident, Avishek Goenka. The court asked the petitioner to serve a copy of the petition to Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who would take instructions and respond in a week's time. The petitioner sought a direction to the Centre to immediately enrol more private hospitals for COVID-19 post-infection treatment.  He raised a question of law whether a person who is willing and has means to afford quality healthcare could be forced to go to a government-owned or aided quarantine centre or hospital, against his choice denying him a quality of life in the name of a pandemic. The petitioner contended that absence of policies or guidelines for availing facilities in private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment was violative of Article 14 (equality) and 21 (right to life and liberty) for being manifestly arbitrary.  It is submitted that COVID-19 patients who can afford the cost of private healthcare, should have the option of paying for it, his plea said. He sought a direction to the Centre to immediately frame and advertise the mechanism to avail private hospitals facility, in case of COVID-19 infection as per the choice and affordability of the patient. Among other pleas, Goenka said the government should direct the insurance companies to immediately settle, full claims, which were raised as per government-specified rates.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-sc-seeks-centres-response-on-plea-for-use-of-private-hospitals-by-people-who-can-afford-845939.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Video shows cops violating social distancing norms in Uttar Pradesh; SHO suspended||A video has surfaced showing policemen in Ambedkar Nagar district allegedly violating social distancing norms by following an inspector in a cavalcade of vehicles as part of his farewell procession, prompting the superintendent of police to suspend the cop and order the registration of an FIR. Ambedkar Nagar Superintendent of Police Alok Priyadarshi said the police have taken cognisance of the video in which inspector is seen moving in a cavalcade of vehicles after his transfer. "The inspector has been suspended and other cops with him have been sent to lines. A detailed probe is ordered in the matter," he said. The SP said that a detailed probe has been ordered by the additional superintendent of police and an order has been issued to lodge an FIR against the inspector for not following social distancing under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code.  The video went viral on Thursday purportedly showing the farewell ceremony organised for the Station House Officer (SHO) of Baskhari police station (Amebedkar Nagar), Manoj Kumar Singh, after he was transferred to Jaitpur police station. The cavalcade, according to sources, was held on Wednesday when someone shot the video in which policemen and residents violated the lockdown and no one was wearing a mask. In the video, the SHO is seen sitting in an open jeep, which is garlanded, followed by another jeep, police vehicles and a number of four wheelers and two wheelers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-video-shows-cops-violating-social-distancing-norms-in-uttar-pradesh-sho-suspended-845967.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Can private hospitals treat COVID-19 patients as per charges fixed under Ayushman Bharat scheme? Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the private hospitals if they could provide treatment to COVID-19 patients on charges fixed under the Ayushman Bharat scheme. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy said the private hospitals should be ready to extend their services in the pandemic. Private hospitals association told Court that the health facilities, built on public land, have already been providing treatment to a certain number of patients for free of cost. The Union government, for its part, said it has got no statutory power to direct private and charitable hospitals to provide free treatment to COVID-19 patients. Senior advocates Harish Salve and Mukul Rohatgi, representing the private hospitals' groups, submitted before a bench presided over by Chief Justice S A Bobde that we are already complying with this requirement. "Anyone who has received land on concessional rates is providing free beds and treatment," Salve said. On this, the bench said that there was an earlier judgment which stated that these hospitals should treat a certain number of patients for free. "We are only talking about charitable hospitals. Please ensure they do some service," the bench said. The court posted a PIL by Sachin Jain in this regard for consideration after two weeks. Jain wanted directions to the Centre to regulate the cost of COVID-19 treatment at private and corporate hospitals, which were exploiting the situation by charging Rs 10 to 12 lakh from one patient in the national calamity. He submitted the private hospitals running on public land or the land allotted at a concessional rate must treat COVID-19 patients pro bono or on a no-profit basis. On May 27,  the top court had asked the Centre as to why the private hospitals, given land on concessional rates, not treat COVID-19 patients for free. In its response filed on Thursday, the Union government's Health Ministry, however, said that there was no provision under the Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation), Act, 2010, whereby it is mandated to private hospitals running on public land shall treat COVID-19 patients on free basis. It, however, reiterated such policy may only be defined and implemented by respective state governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-can-private-hospitals-treat-covid-19-patients-as-per-charges-fixed-under-ayushman-bharat-scheme-supreme-court-845971.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Delhi govt to run campaign to promote medicinal plants||These medicinal and herbal plants will be given free at the forest department's nurseries in the city. These include curry leaves, gooseberry, neem, bahera, jamun, guava, arjun, sahjan, wood apple and lemon, the minister said on the occasion of World Environment Day. "These plants help boost immunity which is crucial in view of the coronavirus outbreak. Anyone can get them for free from the forest department's nurseries. Pamphlets listing the benefits of the plants will also be given to the people," the minister told PTI. A campaign will be run to make people aware about the benefits of these plants, he said. The forest department has 14 nurseries with 14 lakh plants across the national capital.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-delhi-govt-to-run-campaign-to-promote-medicinal-plants-845974.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Bridge washes away in flood, remote Arunachal district near China border cut-off||Road connectivity to the remote Shi-Yomi district in Arunachal Pradesh snapped after a bridge was washed away in the floods triggered by incessant rains over the last couple of days, officials said on Friday. Shi-Yomi district, bordering China, was cut-off from the rest of the country after the RCC bridge (reinforced cement concrete) near Yapik village on the Aalo-Mechuka Road was washed away on Wednesday night, they said. Transportation of people and essential commodities to the remote district would be badly affected as it is likely to take days to restore the bridge, the officials said, adding that people travelling between Mechuka and Aalo were also left stranded. Expressing serious concern over the incident, state Assembly Speaker Pasang D Sona, who represents the district, has urged the Border Roads Organization (BRO) to restore the bridge on war footing. In a letter to the chief engineer of Project Brahmank of the BRO based at Pasighat in East Siang district, the speaker said the Aalo-Mechuka Road "is the key and strategic road for movement of people, transportation of essential commodities, life-saving drugs, construction material, and movement of defence personnel in the entire Shi-Yomi district". He said that owing to the inclement weather, supply of essential items and evacuation of emergency patients through sorties would also not be possible. The bridge is required to be constructed on war footing to restore the connectivity and to mitigate the problems, Sona said, urging the BRO chief engineer to take immediate action.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bridge-washes-away-in-flood-remote-arunachal-district-near-china-border-cut-off-846002.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Facing financial crisis, man poisons family, commits suicide in Uttar Pradesh||A 37-year-old man allegedly poisoned his wife and three children before committing suicide by hanging himself at his house in Safedabad here due to financial problems, police said on Friday. The deceased have been identified as Vivek, his wife Anamika, daughters Piyam (10) and Ritu (7), and son Bablu (5). Vivek was unemployed. He had tried starting a business but it failed, they said. The family of five was found dead in their house on Friday. The air conditioner of their room was on, Superintendent of Police Arvind Chaturvedi said. Prima facie, it appears Vivek committed suicide after poisoning his wife and three children, the police said. Vivek's mother found his body hanging in the veranda. It appears that the incident took place on Tuesday as the family hadn't left the room in two days, they said. In a note found at the spot, Vivek said he was committing suicide as he could not give any "sukh" to his family due to financial problems, they added. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem to ascertain the cause of death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/facing-financial-crisis-man-poisons-family-commits-suicide-in-uttar-pradesh-846003.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||HC allows RWA to repair wall to keep out people from nearby COVID-19 hotspot colonies||Justice Jyoti Singh disposed of the plea moved by a Residents Welfare Association (RWA) of Naraina Vihar after the municipal corporation of the area said it has no objection if the colony repairs the boundary wall and the Delhi Police and Railways said that all cooperation and assistance would be provided by them. "Petition along with the pending application is disposed of in the aforesaid terms," the court said. The G-Block RWA had moved the court seeking directions to the Delhi government, Railways and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, under whom the area falls, to repair or construct and maintain the wall adjacent to the railway track barricading Naraina Vihar colony. The RWA had told the court that there are two colonies -- namely Budh Nagar jhuggi jhopdi (JJ) colony and Inderpuri -- located on the other side of the tracks and both have been declared as coronavirus hotspots / containment zones by the Delhi government. In its petition, the RWA further said that the broken portions of the barricading wall around Naraina Vihar were giving an easy access to the people crossing over from the colonies across the railway track into Naraina Vihar, and using the same as a thoroughfare.  This was increasing the risk of infection to the residents of Naraina Vihar which includes children as well as senior citizens, the petition had said. On the last date of hearing on May 21, the RWA had volunteered to repair the wall on its own in case the statutory authorities found it difficult to do so, given the present situation on account of COVID-19 pandemic.  The Railways told the court that the wall was built by the civic authorities and therefore, it had no role in it. The court noted that the municipal corporation had in 2013 repaired the wall and therefore, "it is clear that the construction/repair/maintenance of the barricading wall is the responsibility of North DMC". However, North DMC said it has "no objection if the petitioner (RWA) takes necessary steps to rebuild the broken portions of the wall in question". "Counsel for GNCT of Delhi and senior standing counsel for Railways, however, on instructions, very candidly submit that in case the need so arises, the Delhi Police and Railway Protection Force respectively, would render every possible assistance and cooperation," the court noted while disposing of the plea.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-allows-rwa-to-repair-wall-to-keep-out-people-from-nearby-covid-19-hotspot-colonies-846004.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand: Woman IPS officers targeted with abusive, obscene content on Twitter; FIR lodged||Some woman police officers posted at a premier training institute for bureaucrats in Mussoorie have been targeted with abusive and obscene content on Twitter prompting the authorities to approach the local police, officials said on Friday. An FIR has been lodged by the police based on a complaint by the administration of Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) and the investigation is underway, they said. “Today some lady IPS officers have been targeted with abusive, derogatory and obscene content by certain twitter accounts. The academy strongly condemns this malicious and derogatory tweet and has lodged an FIR with Uttrakhand Police in this regard,” the LBSNAA had said in a tweet on Thursday. The news has evoked sharp reactions from the associations of Indian Police Service (IPS), Indian Administrative Service (IAS) and Indian Forest Service (IFS) officers, demanding expeditious investigation into it to bring the culprits to book. Besides them, all cadre officers of the central armed police forces (CAPFs) have also demanded strict action against such “perverted minds”. "We all CAPFs officers condemn abusive posts and comments against lady IPS officer & demand strong legal action be taken against such perverted minds. Shame on such person," they said on twitter. “We strongly condemn the abusive & derogatory remarks on Twitter regarding lady IPS officers. We believe the concerned police agencies will do thorough investigation to expeditiously bring culprits to book. We solemnly resolve to protect the dignity of lady officers,” the IPS (central) association tweeted. The IAS (central) association has asked Twitter to remove such posts and handles from its platform. “We agree and condemn abusive posts and comments against #IPS officers and demand strong action be taken against such perverted minds. We have reported such handles and request @TwitterIndia to remove such posts and handles,” it tweeted The IFS officers association also strongly condemned the abusive and derogatory remarks on social media against woman IPS officers. “Strong action must be taken against these cowards,” it said. Some senior IPS officers have also come in support of their colleagues in the matter. “Each and every human deserves respect. Women especially because they are still considered second class citizens. We lady officers are on target because we stand for a cause and they can’t digest it. Thanks fr support Smiling face with smiling eyes we will be more strong now,” tweeted IPS officer Aslam Khan. Khan, a 2007 batch IPS officer of AGMUT (Arunachal Pradesh-Goa-Mizoram and Union Territories) cadre, has hinted that the alleged inter-service rivalry between some IPS and paramilitary officers could be behind the online attack. The central armed police service officers were last year granted organized Group A service status to help them get pay and promotion parity with their counterparts in the Indian Police Service. “It all started from here and when they could not do much they started doing character assassination of lady IPS officers. Is it not the easiest thing?” she said in a pinned tweet in a mix of Hindi and English along with a graphic showing animated characters representing paramilitary forces Border Security Force (BSF), Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) and "illegal" IPS association.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-woman-ips-officers-targeted-with-abusive-obscene-content-on-twitter-fir-lodged-846009.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Gradual fall in recovery rate of COVID-19 patients in Delhi in last 10 days: Data||Amid surge in coronavirus cases, recovery rate of COVID-19 patients in the national capital has gradually fallen in the last 10 days, dipping to 39.58 per cent as reported on June 4, according to official figures. This is the first time in the past two weeks that the recovery rate has fallen below 40 per cent. Barring June 1, when it saw a spike of 990 cases, Delhi has been recording over 1,000 fresh cases everyday from May 28-June 4, the highest being 1,513 on June 3. Delhi recorded 1,359 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the COVID-19 tally in the city to over 25,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 650, authorities said. As many as 9,898 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 14,456 active cases, the Delhi health department said in its bulletin a day earlier. This pegs the recovery rate as reported on June 4 at 39.58 per cent. Prior to that the rate varied from 48.18 per cent on May 25 to 40.35 per cent on June 3, according to the figures shared by the Delhi heath department in its bulletins. However, from May 20 (46.82 per cent) to May 25 (48.18 per cent), the recovery rate was gradually increasing, behind which it successively declined per day, as per the data. On May 26, the rate fell marginally to 48.07 per cent, with a total of 14,465 cases being recorded on that day. The May 26 bulletin said, there were 6,954 patients who had recovered, been discharged or migrated, while there were 7,223 active cases. The death toll on that day stood at 288. A total of 44 fatalities were reported on June 3, which took place between May 3 and June 3, the Thursday bulletin said. Seventeen deaths took place on June 2, it said. Nearly 1300 fresh cases were reported on that day. The number of daily fresh cases recorded from May 28-31 stood at 1024; 1106; 1163; and 1295 respectively. In a joint virtual press conference with Delhi Heath Minister Satyendar Jain, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday had urged people who were infected with coronavirus but asymptomatic, to remain at home and isolate themselves. The government has been maintaining the recovery rate of patients, who are home quarantined, has been in the range of 80-90 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gradual-fall-in-recovery-rate-of-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-in-last-10-days-data-846021.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Don't sully JNU image by flouting distancing norms: Admin slams teachers for anti-CAA protest||The Jawaharlal Nehru University Friday appealed to its teachers "not to sully the image of the university by violating COVID-19 guidelines", two days after some of them held a protest on the campus against the CAA and expressed solidarity with arrested students. The JNU Teachers' Association (JNUTA), however, said they did not flout any rule and followed social-distancing norms. They also backed student bodies across India that staged a virtual and symbolic protest against the arrest of Jamia Millia Islamia and JNU students in connection with the northeast Delhi communal violence and over earlier protests against the CAA. Registrar Pramod Kumar Friday said the university administration noticed that a few faculty members held a protest on the campus against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) on June 3. "While right to protest is well-recognised and respected, violating COVID-19 guidelines…sets a wrong example, particularly when it is staged by intellectuals of a prestigious university, such as JNU. "The protesting faculty members are requested not to sully the image of the university by violating the COVID-19 guidelines when the nation is working hard to contain the spread of coronavirus," he said. The Federation of Central Universities Teachers' Associations (FEDCUTA) had expressed solidarity with the protest, JNUTA secretary Surajit Majumdar said. The JNUTA is a member of the FEDCUTA. Some faculty members had gathered on the campus to protest but they followed social-distancing norms and did not flout any rules, Majumdar said. He said some teachers protested from their homes holding placards, while a few gathered. "It is ridiculous to say people shouldn't protest because of COVID-19 when unjust arrests are being made in the midst of the pandemic. The image of the university will only be sullied if the University community is silent with regard to the injustice seen all around," Majumdar told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/dont-sully-jnu-image-by-flouting-distancing-norms-admin-slams-teachers-for-anti-caa-protest-846026.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Decomposed body of man recovered from drain in north Delhi||A decomposed body of a man was recovered from a drain in north Delhi's Mukherjee Nagar area on Friday, police said. Police received information regarding a body floating in a drain around 11.30 am, they said. On reaching the site, it was seen that the body was decomposed beyond identification and there was no visible mark on it, police said. The body was shifted to the Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital for post-mortem, they said. The victim is believed to be in his late 30s, police said. Efforts are on to identify the deceased, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/decomposed-body-of-man-recovered-from-drain-in-north-delhi-846047.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||PM Narendra Modi's participation in Yoga programme in Leh doubtful: AYUSH Ministry||Prime Minister Narendra Modi was to take part in an International Yoga Day programme on June 21 in Leh, but due to the COVID-19 pandemic, his travel there is doubtful, the AYUSH ministry said on Friday. In March, ministry officials had said that Leh will be the venue for the main event for the International Yoga Day on June 21 and Prime Minister Modi will attend it. However, asked if the prime minister will participate in any Yoga Day event, AYUSH Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha said no public event will take place. "It is not yet decided, as to whether the prime minister will participate in a programme. Earlier, it was decided that he will go to Leh, but now due to the COVID-19 crisis, it is not yet decided whether he will go to Leh or not," the official said. The main event will be a big event, but it will be digital, he said, adding that the modalities were still being worked out. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, this year's International Yoga Day would be celebrated on digital media platforms and there would be no mass gatherings, the government said. This year's theme will be 'Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family'. People will be able to join Yoga Day celebrations virtually at 7 am on June 21.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pm-narendra-modis-participation-in-yoga-programme-in-leh-doubtful-ayush-ministry-846054.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Rajasthan launches online labour exchange portal||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday launched an online labour exchange program to facilitate the labourers searching for jobs in the state. The newly-launched portal has the data of 53 lakh labourers and human resources, including 12 lakh migrants who have arrived in Rajasthan from other states. More than 11 lakh employers have also been registered on the exchange. A mobile version of the portal will be launched soon, the chief minister said. Industries Minister Parsadi Lal Meena, Health Minister Raghu Sharma, Transport Minister Pratap Singh, Chief Secretary D B Gupta, Labour Commissioner Neeraj K Pawan and other officials were also present on the occasion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/rajasthan-launches-online-labour-exchange-portal-846078.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Gold prices decline Rs 20 to Rs 47,268 per 10 gram on weak global cues||Gold prices on Friday fell by Rs 20 to Rs 47,268 per 10 gram in the national capital tracking weak global cues, according to HDFC Securities. In the previous trade, the precious metal had closed at Rs 47,288 per 10 gram. Silver prices, however, gained Rs 54 to Rs 49,584 per kg from Rs 49,530 per kg on Thursday. "Spot gold for 24 carat in Delhi was trading down by Rs 20 on weak international gold prices," HDFC Securities Senior Analyst (Commodities) Tapan Patel said. In the international market, gold was trading lower at USD 1,709 per ounce, while silver was flat at USD 17.68 per ounce. Gold prices traded lower on economic recovery optimism with positive equity indices, Patel added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gold-prices-decline-rs-20-to-rs-47268-per-10-gram-on-weak-global-cues-846093.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh: BJP leader Balendu Shukla joins Congress||Senior BJP leader and former state minister Balendu Shukla on Friday returned to the Congress as the opposition party in Madhya Pradesh seeks to strengthen itself in the Gwalior region after Jyotiraditya Scindia joined the saffron party. Shukla was a close aide of late Madhavrao Scindia but was sidelined by the erstwhile Gwalior royal family after the latter died, Congress sources said. Shukla, who was cabinet minister in the state between 1993-98 and also had a stint with BSP, joined the Congress in the presence of state unit chief Kamal Nath. "The BJP has given me honour, but now there is no utility in that party for me. My Congress friends were in touch and insisted I come back to the Congress," said Shukla, for whom the entry of Scindia in the BJP had made things even more difficult. The 230-member state Assembly has 24 seats vacant, due to resignations and deaths, and bypolls have to be held. Of the 24, 16 seats fall in the Gwalior-Chambal region and Shukla's entry is to ensure the Congress gives the BJP a tough fight whenever bypolls are held, party sources said. However, BJP leader Pankaj Chaturvedi, considered to be close to Jyotiraditya Scindia, said Shukla's entry into the Congress will have no impact. "The Congress is banking on those who were sitting idle at home. It reflects the Congress' mental bankruptcy," Chaturvedi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/madhya-pradesh-bjp-leader-balendu-shukla-joins-congress-846122.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||BJP leader Sonali Phogat slaps official for making indecent remarks against her; video goes viral||A video showing Tik Tok star and BJP leader Sonali Phogat slapping a Market Committee official from Hisar and later beating him with a slipper for reportedly making derogatory remarks against her, went viral on social media on Friday. In the video, the BJP leader from Adampur in Hisar is seen slapping the official and later hitting him with her slipper in full public view. Phogat and others present with her are not seen wearing masks in the video, even as the Haryana government has made it mandatory to wear masks in public in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. Sharing the video on his Twitter handle, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said, “Exploits of the leaders of the Khattar government. The BJP leader from Adampur in Hisar is beating the Market Committee official like animals. “Is doing government job a crime? Will (Chief Minister) Khattar take action? Will the media still remain silent?” he tweeted. The BJP leader, however, told media persons in Hisar that she had gone to meet the officials of the district Market Committee on Friday pertaining to some grievance of farmers. She said an official was showing her the place in the Balsamand area of Hisar district where a shed could come up for the convenience of farmers when he started passing indecent and derogatory remarks against her. Phogat claimed the official also made some comments against another woman official of the Market Committee and a woman minister in the Manohar Lal Khattar-led cabinet. “When he was showing me the place where the shed was to come up, he first made a mention of the community to which I belong. He also talked about another woman official and a woman minister who also come from the same community as mine,” she said, adding the official then made “indecent and derogatory remarks” against her. Asked why she decided to take law into her hands, Phogat hit back, “What right does he (official) have to talk to a woman like this? If he would not be taught a lesson, he will not let any woman come out tomorrow.” In the video, the official beaten by Phogat can be seen saying he did not say anything wrong. “Do I work to listen to such kind of abuses from people like you? Don’t I have right to a dignified life? He used wrong language and talked in an ill-mannered way. Write a report against him,” the BJP leader is seen telling other officials and her supporters present there. Superintendent of Police (Hisar) Ganga Ram Punia told the media that they have received a complaint from the Market Committee official in which he has alleged that he was beaten by Phogat. The official has alleged that he was beaten and a government official has been obstructed from performing his duty, Punia said. “We will take whatever action is required as per law,” Punia said. Notably, Phogat had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 state assembly polls from Adampur in Hisar district, a seat which was retained by senior Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi. Days before the assembly polls in October, she had courted controversy when she asked a group of people if they were from Pakistan when they did not chant ''Bharat Mata ki Jai'', at a rally in the constituency.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjp-leader-sonali-phogat-slaps-official-for-making-indecent-remarks-against-her-video-goes-viral-846131.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Police slams UAPA against second Pinjra Tod member, says lawyer||Delhi Police booked a women associated with ‘Pinjra Tod’ group, a collective of women students and alumni of colleges from across Delhi, under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection with a case related to communal violence in northeast Delhi in February, said a lawyer on Friday. Devangana Kalita, JNU student, has been booked under the anti-terror law for allegedly being part of a “pre-meditated” conspiracy to incite riots in northeast Delhi and indulging in unlawful activities, said the lawyer related to the case. She has also been charged under various sections related to sedition, attempt to murder, murder, criminal conspiracy, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth etc, said the lawyer. She was arrested by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police after the court had on June 3 granted permission to interrogate her and formally arrest her, if required. Kalita is currently under judicial custody in a case related to northeast Delhi violence. This is the fourth case in which she has been arrested in a span of a few weeks – UAPA case. Two other cases relate to northeast Delhi riots, and one is related to violence during anti-CAA protests in Daryaganj in December last year. She was arrested on May 23 in a case related to rioting in northeast Delhi. While the court had granted her bail the next day in the case, she was arrested by the Crime Branch in connection with a murder case related to the riots. On May 30, she was arrested in a case related to violence in old Delhi’s Daryaganj area in December last year. The court had granted bail to her in the case. Another member of Pinjra Tod group and JNU student Natasha Narwal have also been booked under the UAPA in the case. Jamia Coordination Committee members Safoora Zargar, Meeran Haider, Jamia students Asif Iqbal Tanha, Gulfisha Khatoon, Jamia Alumni Association President Shifa-Ur-Rehman, JNU student Natasha Narwal, activist Khalid Saifi, former Congress municipal councilor Ishrat Jahan, suspended AAP councilor Tahir Hussain and Umar Khalid have also been booked under UAPA in the case. Khalid has not been arrested yet. According to the FIR, the communal riots from February 23-26 were a “pre-meditated conspiracy” and hatched by Khalid and his associates. All the associates were linked to two different groups, FIR said. It further claimed that as per the preplanned conspiracy, Khalid had given provoking speeches at various places and appealed to the Muslim minority community gathering to block roads and other public places during the visit of President of US Donald Trump so that the propaganda may be flashed at an international platform that the community in India was being tortured. In order to achieve these objectives, on February 23, riots occurred in different areas of Delhi and in furtherance of the nefarious designs, on February 23, 24, the two groups started riots in different parts of northeast and Shahdara districts of Delhi which continued till February 26, the FIR alleged. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-police-slams-uapa-against-second-pinjra-tod-member-says-lawyer-846138.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh records biggest single-day jump of 496 COVID-19 cases; tally at 9,733||Uttar Pradesh recorded its biggest single-day jump of 496 COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the state's tally to 9,733, while 12 more people succumbed to the disease, a senior official said. With the fresh deaths, the toll in the state has risen to 257, said Principal Secretary, Health, Amit Mohan Prasad. There are 3,828 active cases in the state, while 5,648 people have recovered and been discharged from hospitals, he said. Prasad said a helpline was launched on Thursday through which ASHA (Accredited Social Health Activist), Anganwadi and ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) workers and private pharmacists can inform authorities about suspected coronavirus cases. "If anyone is buying medicines for fever and cough, private pharmacists can give information about them on the new helpline so that they can be tested and provided necessary treatment promptly," he explained. Uttar Pradesh's previous highest single-day spike of 378 cases was recorded on Sunday. The fresh deaths were reported from Meerut and Ghaziabad (two each) and Agra, Gautam Budh Nagar, Varanasi, Gorakhpur, Jalaun, Jhansi, Auraiya and Chandauli (one each), a health department bulletin said. Of the 257 COVID-19 deaths reported so far in the state, Agra tops the chart with 48, followed by Meerut (34), Firozabad, and Aligarh (16 each), Kanpur Nagar 13 and Moradabad 10 among others, the bulletin said. Among the fresh cases, 51 have been reported from Gautam Budh Nagar,  48 from Kanpur Nagar, 41 from Jaunpur, 19 each from Ghaziabad, and Bijnor, 18 from Lucknow, 17 from Azamgarh and 16 from Ghazipur, the bulletin said. At present, 4765 people are under isolation, Prasad said, adding that 12,589 samples were tested on Thursday. The Arogya Setu mobile application is being used constantly and on the basis of alerts generated by it, 60194 people have been contacted, he said. The official said surveillance work is going on in 14,872 areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-records-biggest-single-day-jump-of-496-covid-19-cases-tally-at-9733-846144.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||CRPF says its men taking oath to shun Chinese goods pledge out of 'emotions', not official stand||The CRPF on Friday said some of its personnel in north Kashmir announcing boycott of Chinese goods as seen in a video was a pledge out of "emotions" by these individuals and not an official line of the world's largest paramilitary force. The video, which has gone viral on social media, purportedly shows a group of men dressed in combat uniform standing in a row in an open field and taking oath in Hindi by raising hands to boycott Chinese products like eatables, drinks, electronic and communication goods and clothes. Officials said the incident reportedly took place on June 2 at a force camp in Sopore in north Kashmir prompting the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) to issue a statement, saying "there is a video going viral on social media regarding some CRPF personnel taking a pledge not to use foreign goods". "This is not the official stand of CRPF and some personnel of a unit based in Kashmir have taken the pledge out of emotions at local-level," they said. The statement, issued by CRPF spokesperson Deputy Inspector General Moses Dhinakaran, said "we are looking into the matter". Recently, Ladakh-based innovator and educationist Sonam Wangchuk had appealed to Indians to boycott Chinese products in the backdrop of the recent standoff between Indian and Chinese forces along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in that region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-says-its-men-taking-oath-to-shun-chinese-goods-pledge-out-of-emotions-not-official-stand-846152.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Khattar govt's 'rice shoot policy' is anti-farmers, says Randeep Singh Surjewala||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Friday termed Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar's the "rice shoot policy" as anti-farmer and yet another move to prevent them from cultivating paddy. Challenging Khattar for an open debate on public issues, the chief spokesperson of the Congress said farmers in Kaithal, Jind, Kurukshetra, Karnal, Ambala and Yamunanagar districts will be adversely affected by the policy. Rice shoots are temporary openings in water channels of the irrigation department issued to farmers for a limited period for their rice crop. "It is yet another anti-farmer step taken by this government which wants to completely ban paddy cultivation," Surjewala said while addressing the media through video conferencing. Quoting data of the agriculture department, Surjewala said paddy is cultivated on 35.13 lakh acres of land in Haryana and the state produces about 5 million tonnes of paddy every year. “But the latest rice shoot policy issued on June 3, 2020, the state government's goal seems to completely eliminate paddy cultivation in Haryana and hit the farmer hard by snatching away their bread and butter,” he claimed as he hit out at the state government. The Congress leader further alleged that the Khattar government had hastened to bring the policy “as the farmers, besides the opposition, had outrightly rejected the curbs imposed on paddy cultivation under the 'Mera Pani Meri Virasat' scheme launched last month”. Referring to various “anti-farmer” steps by BJP-JJP Government, Surjewala said that on the one hand Khattar government has shelved the Dadupur Nalvi recharge canal project, on the other hand rice shoots were being stopped. Referring to various conditions in the new policy, Surjewala said no rice shoot would be permitted on all channels in Haryana having discharge of less than 10 cusecs of water. “Rice shoot fees have been increased by 100 per cent to Rs 300 per acre. Rice shoots will not be provided in the entire Haryana on less than 20 acres of land. There will also be a condition that paddy cannot be planted in more than 15 acres of land out of those 20 acres," he said. "The new rice shoots have been completely eliminated in the Bhakra Command system with the exception of areas where the Yamuna or Ghaggar river water is available,” he added. Referring to the Western Jamuna Canal System, Surjewala said that the quantity of water allocated every year for rice shoots in districts like Yamuna Nagar, Karnal, Panipat, Jind and Rohtak would get reduced from existing water share of 25 per cent to 3 per cent by 2024. “In districts like Kaithal, Kurukshetra, Ambala, Hisar, Sirsa, Fatehabad, which are under the Bhakra system, 10 per cent water for the rice shoot would be reduced to 3 per cent by 2024. In two years, which is by year 2020 and 2021, all the existing rice shoots would be removed and the new rice shoots will also be limited to 3 per cent,” he said. He said he will speak to Haryana Congress President Kumari Selja and Leader of the Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda and the opposition party will launch an agitation against this policy.      Surjewala further said that the chief minister cannot understand the pain of the farmers. “The chief minister had confined himself to his official residence in Chandigarh for 63 days due to fear of coronavirus. Perhaps, he is the only chief minister in the country who did not move out for so many days," he claimed. "When crop procurement was going on and farmers were facing many problems, he did not visit even a single mandi… Later, after more than two months, he visited Kaithal and Karnal constituencies,” Surjewala, who is a former MLA from Kaithal, claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/khattar-govts-rice-shoot-policy-is-anti-farmers-says-randeep-singh-surjewala-846153.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Govt's COVID-19 policies driven by babus, not epidemiologists: AIIMS doctor||A senior doctor at AIIMS has criticised the government's policies and communication strategies to deal with the COVID-19 pandemic, saying it was driven by clinicians and bureaucrats instead of epidemiologists and public health experts. In a letter to the editor of the Indian Journal of Public Health, Dr Anoop Saraya, the head of the Department of Gastroenterology at the AIIMS, said the success of any advisory group of scientists depends on a "culture of openness, independence, and diversity of opinion". "Unfortunately, this culture of openness has been conspicuous by its absence when it comes to the government's scientific advisory bodies on the pandemic, perhaps because most of them comprise government employees. "Transparency in terms of making details of discussion and decisions of scientific advisors to the government public would give the wider scientific community a chance to offer constructive criticism on policies and perhaps help in course corrections," he said in a letter. Further, open and transparent sharing of data with scientists, public health experts, and the public at large will strengthen pandemic control measures and help in building consensus in India, the letter stated. Dr Saraya, who has authored several papers on public health in national and international journals, emphasised in the letter that addressing the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on society requires more than the actions of healthcare professionals and policymakers alone. It calls for the engagement of citizens, governments at all levels and a diverse array of organizations and individuals involved in policymaking processes and policy implementation, he said. "In this regard, the government's leadership group also lacks social scientists and community voices, who could work on community engagement." In his letter, Dr Saraya said that toward the end of the nationwide lockdown India started reporting a surge in COVID-19 infections and deaths. This was contrary to the standard government position till then, he said. "The surge led to contradictory responses by health leaders of the Union government," he said referring to a health ministry official's claims that India's epidemic curve was "relatively flat" and depending on how the public responds to the virus, the peak "may never come", while a senior doctor of the government's core COVID-19 team had said that the number of cases in India is likely to peak in next one to two months. Formulating and adopting policy responses is ultimately the responsibility of government leaders as they make strategic decisions, support coordination, and collaboration and provide public accounts of events, Dr Saraya said. However, scientific and technical experts are central in policy responses to uncertain problems, he added. The letter to the editor also mentions how a group public health experts comprising doctors from AIIMS and two members of an ICMR research group on COVID-19 have expressed concern about the inadequate planning and coordination of the response to the pandemic and have suggested mechanisms for better planning and coordination. A joint statement by the Indian Public Health Association and the Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine representing the very wide community of public health academics, practitioners, and researchers in India had recently urged the government to form a Public Health Commission with task-specific working groups to provide real-time technical inputs to the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/govts-covid-19-policies-driven-by-babus-not-epidemiologists-aiims-doctor-846198.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Ayodhya demolition case: Special CBI court records statement of one accused||A special CBI court trying the 1992 Babri masjid demolition case on Friday recorded the statement of an accused, allowing him to explain away some evidence against him over his role in razing the disputed structure. The Special CBI Court (Ayodhya Prakaran) had earlier summoned five accused, including former BJP MP Ram Vilas Vedanti, to record their statements under section 313 of the Cr P C, enabling them to explain away the prosecution evidence against them. Special Judge S K Yadav, however, was able to record the statement of only one accused, Gandhi Yadav, due to the paucity of time. The judge accordingly asked other four accused, summoned earlier, to appear before him again on Saturday for recording of their statements. Besides Gandhi and Vedanti, the five accused, who appeared in the court on Friday in response to its summonses, were Vijay Bahadur Singh, Pawan Pandey, Santosh Dubey. The court also asked the accused to furnish in writing their defense evidence, if any, after recording of their statements under section 313 of the CrPC was over. A total of 32 persons are facing trial in the 1992 demolition case. They include former Deputy Prime Minister L K Advani and former UP Chief Minister Kalyan Singh, besides veteran BJP leaders Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Vinay Katiyar, Sadhvi Rithambara and Sakshi Mahara. Till further orders, Advani, Joshi and Uma Bharti have been exempted from the personal appearance during the trial. The examination of accused under CrPC section 313 follows the stage of examining prosecution witnesses and is aimed at giving the accused an opportunity to explain the prosecution evidence against them. The disputed Babri Masjid structure was demolished on December 6, 1992 by "karsevaks" who had claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built after destroying an ancient temple on the site of Ram Jamabhoomi. The prosecution had wrapped up the examination of its witnesses by March 6 and the court had asked some of the accused to appear before it on March 24 for recording of their statements under Section 313 of the CrPC. But the proceedings could not take place as courts in Lucknow had been closed due to the coronavirus crisis. When the proceedings resumed on May 18, the defense counsel moved the court to summon three prosecution witnesses in order to cross examine them. This was allowed. On April 19, 2017, the Supreme Court had ordered the special judge to conduct a day-to-day trial and conclude it within two years. Calling the demolition of the disputed structure a crime which shook the "secular fabric of the Constitution", the apex court had allowed the CBI plea on restoration of the charge of criminal conspiracy against the VIP accused. The apex court had termed the Allahabad High Court's February 12, 2001 verdict dropping the charge of conspiracy against Advani and others as "erroneous". On May 8 this year, the top court set a new deadline for the special judge, asking him to deliver the verdict by August 31. Before the 2017 verdict of the apex court, there were two sets of cases relating to the demolition, going on in Lucknow and Raebareli. The first case involving unnamed "karsevaks" proceeded in a Lucknow court while the the second set of cases relating to eight VIPs was being heard in a Raebareli court. The cases were then clubbed. Last year, another bench of the Supreme Court settled the land dispute over the site where the mosque stood. The apex court allowed the construction of a Ram temple at the site and ordered the allocation of a separate plot in Ayodhya for building a mosque.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/ayodhya-demolition-case-special-cbi-court-records-statement-of-one-accused-846221.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Oppn corners Bihar govt over ADG letter apprehending law & order situation due to migrant influx||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar found itself in an embarrassing situation Friday over a now-withdrawn circular issued by a top police official alerting districts about a possible law and order situation due to the massive influx of migrant workers. The ADG, Law and Order, Amit Kumar issued the communication on May 29 and withdrew it through another letter on June 4. In the second letter, he said the previous communication was issued “by mistake”. DGP Gupteshwar Pandey attempted damage-control, telling the media through videoconferencing that the government has nothing to do with the episode. "The police headquarters does receive many inputs from various sources and disseminates them suitably. The same happened with the letter in question and it was withdrawn as we realised it did not deserve dissemination," he said. ADG Amit Kumar, who was also present at the conference, agreed with his boss and said the matter stood closed. Nonetheless, copies of the letters went viral on social media, providing the opposition enough ammunition to train their guns at the government. RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav claimed the letter shows the government does not believe in the dignity of labour and human life. It has for long been treating migrants as if they are second-class citizens in their home state, he alleged. "Now, it has gone a step further and suggested they are all criminals,” Yadav, also the Leader of Opposition in the state assembly, fumed at a press conference. Yadav, the RJD's chief ministerial candidate for assembly elections, due in a few months, underscored a passage in the contentious letter which spoke of a slim possibility that all migrant workers would get employment within the state, despite tireless efforts of the government. This scenario, according to the ADG, could lead to spike in crime and cause law and order problems. "So, does the government now concede that economic rehabilitation of the migrants is impossible? If it is so, why has it been misleading them with false promises day after day," Yadav asked. The former Deputy CM also sought to make light of the withdrawal of the communication and asked if indeed the first letter was issued by mistake, why did it take the government so long to make amends? The contents of the letter have "exposed" the mindset of the government which has been apathetic to the plight of migrants since beginning, he said. The Congress, an ally of the RJD in Bihar for close to two decades, also latched on the opportunity. AICC media panelist Prem Chandra Mishra, who is also a member of the state legislative council, issued an angry statement, demanding an apology by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. He wondered if the letter withdrawing the first communication had been issued in backdate, realising the damaging effects it could have on the ruling dispensation. Over two million migrant workers from Bihar stuck in different states during the lockdown, where they had been eking out a living, have returned to the state since Shramik Special trains began plying from May 1. Many of them have come back undertaking arduous journey on foot or in cargo vehicles.  The treatment meted out to them by the state government has come to dominate the state's political discourse -- it had initially opposed their return on the ground that it would defeat the very purpose of lockdown, which was clamped to contain the spread of COVID 19. Election Commission officials in the state recently held a meeting where instructions were issued for updating the electoral rolls, before assembly polls. It is expected that those who have returned from other parts of the country, and are not willing to go back, may form a good chunk of voters, a reason why they are being pursued avidly by parties on both sides. RJD state president Jagadanand Singh asking his cadre to extend assistance to the migrants and egg them on to join the party had drew angry reaction from the NDA.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/oppn-corners-bihar-govt-over-adg-letter-apprehending-law-order-situation-due-to-migrant-influx-846228.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lokdown: Migrant family travels home on cycle cart, 'rickshaw' now a reminder of tough times||Ramcharan says he will never part with the cycle cart on which he and eight members of his family pedalled home from Delhi to their village Mahoba in UP. He will keep the “rickshaw” as a reminder of what they went through. The construction worker lost his job when the Centre declared a lockdown from March 25 to contain the spread of coronavirus. When it became tough to survive in the national capital, the family decided to go home to Bara village in Uttar Pradesh’s Mahoba district, where Ramcharan owns a small, two-bigha piece of land. “There was no transport and fellow labourers started heading for their homes on foot,” he recalled. When Ramcharan asked the building contractor for help, he gave him a cycle cart used for ferrying sand and cement for free. The family loaded some of their belongings on to the cart on May 7. Their group included his six-year-old son Ramashankar; brother-in-law Munnilal (35), sister-in-law Neelam and the couple’s five-year-old son Mangal; nephew Jagat (20) and his wife and two sons. "On the 600-km journey, we faced lathis from police at several places but police in Kosikalan showed humanity,” he said. “They gave food to all nine of us and put us on a truck along with our rickshaw for Agra,” he said. From there, they were on the cart again, reaching home on May 14. “The three men took turns to pedal the cart and often the women also helped when we were tired," he said. Ramcharan is holding on to the cart. "This rickshaw is a memento of the lockdown. Had this rickshaw not been there, we wouldn’t have reached home. I will cherish it for my entire life. I will not let anyone touch it,” he said, overcome by emotion. Ramcharan left home for the city in January after his wife Chanda died of cancer. He needed work to pay off a loan of Rs 1 lakh he had taken from local moneylenders for the treatment. But the treatment also ended when the money ran out. He took his six-year-old son along to Delhi, leaving five-year-old daughter Aarti and 12-year-old son Dayashankar with his mother Rajji in the village. He worked in the city as a “beldar” at a construction site till the lockdown. Back home now, he has found work at a brick kiln but that doesn’t pay enough. He is yet to get a job card to get work under MGNREGA, the rural employment guarantee scheme. “I have got a ration card and I get five kilos of wheat or rice from the ration shop every month," he added. According to village pradhan Bhagwandass Shriwas, 168 migrant workers have returned to Bara after the lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lokdown-migrant-family-travels-home-on-cycle-cart-rickshaw-now-a-reminder-of-tough-times-846239.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Sharjeel Imam gave inflammatory,instigating speeches against govt on CAA and NRC: Police to HC||The Delhi Police on Friday contended before the Delhi High Court that former JNU student Sharjeel Imam, arrested in a case related to alleged inflammatory speeches during the protests against CAA and NRC, was not entitled for any relief as he was continuously giving instigating speeches against the government. The police said "his speeches were communal in nature which caused serious communal strife and promoted enmity between various religious groups under the garb of protest against CAA and NRC." The police filed an affidavit in this regard and opposed the plea of Imam, who has challenged a trial court order granting more time to police to conclude the investigation. It said no provision of law has been violated and there are good and substantial cause for enlargement of time for probe. The investigators contended that Imam was not entitled for any relief as he was "continuously giving inflammatory and instigating speeches against the government on the issue of CAA and NRC." The police filed its affidavit through advocates Amit Mahajan and Rajat Nair, in response to Imam's plea challenging the trial court's April 25 order by which the Delhi Police was granted three more months, beyond statutory 90 days, to complete the investigation in the case under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The plea is scheduled to come up for hearing on June 10. Imam was arrested on January 28 from Bihar's Jehanabad district in the case related to violent protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act near the Jamia Millia Islamia University in December last year. The statutory period of 90 days from the arrest was concluded on April 27. He has also sought default bail in the matter on the ground that the investigation was not concluded within the statutory period of 90 days and when the police had filed an application for more time to complete the investigation, he was not given a notice as required under the law. The trial court had dismissed the bail plea. It said Imam by way of his speeches was addressing a particular religious section of the society and creating disaffection towards the government by creating unfounded fears in their minds regarding the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the process of National Register of Citizens (NRC), which is yet to be implemented in any manner throughout the country barring Assam. The accused by way of his speeches was also spreading falsehood about genocide in Assam, it said. It added that neither any enactment was violated nor any right was infringed and there was no legal infirmity in the trial court's order that requires indulgence of the high court. Imam has claimed in the plea that no notice was given to his lawyer informing them about the application of the special cell seeking the extension of the time to file the charge sheet in view of invoking UAPA charges against him. However, the police said despite the lockdown, the counsel of the accused was timely informed of the application being filed under section 43 of the UAPA through WhatsApp and a call, keeping in view the rights of the accused. Section 43-D (2) of UAPA provides that if it is not possible to complete the investigation within the 90 days period, then upon the report of the public prosecutor indicating the progress of the probe and the specific reasons for the detention of the accused beyond the 90 days period, after satisfaction, the court can extend the period of the probe to 180 days. In the petition before the high court, Imam complained that he was not even produced before the court for subsequent remands, every 15 days as per the mandate of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Imam is currently lodged in Guwahati jail in a case related to UAPA registered by the Assam police. The trial court had passed the order on April 25 after the police had submitted that due to global COVID-19 pandemic in the country and the ongoing lockdown, the pace of investigation was seriously disrupted. Initially, a case under section 124 A (sedition) and 153 A IPC (promoting enmity between classes) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) of the Indian Penal Code was registered by the Crime Branch here, pursuant to the alleged speeches addressed by Imam, allegedly instigating a particular religious section of the society to disrupt/block the access to North East region of India from rest of India, police had claimed. The police had earlier charged Imam with sedition, alleging his speech promoted enmity between people that led to riots. Imam was allegedly involved in organising protests at Shaheen Bagh but came into limelight after a video showed him making controversial comments before a gathering at Aligarh Muslim University, following which he was booked under sedition charges. Another case was filed against Imam in Assam under the stringent anti-terror law for his remark that Assam could be "severed from India, even if for a few months" as a result of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Police in Manipur and Arunachal Pradesh had also lodged FIRs against the JNU scholar over his speech in which he threatened to "cut off" Assam and the rest of the northeast from the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sharjeel-imam-gave-inflammatoryinstigating-speeches-against-govt-on-caa-and-nrc-police-to-hc-846243.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||Kin of each Maharashtra cop who died of COVID-19 to get Rs 65 lakh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Friday said that the state government would provide Rs 65 lakh compensation to the kin of each police personnel who died due to COVID-19 in the state. Talking to PTI, he also said that one family member of each deceased police personnel would be given a government job. Till Thursday, at least 30 police personnel, including an officer, have died due to COVID-19 in the state, while over 2,500 have tested positive for the infection, an official has said. "The family members of each police personnel, who died due to coronavirus infection, would be given Rs 65 lakh. Of the total amount, Rs 50 lakh would be given by the government, Rs 10 lakh from the police welfare fund and Rs 5 lakh through private bank insurance cover," he said. "The government has started a helpline and set up dedicated hospitals for immediate treatment to the police personnel, who have been working on frontline in Mumbai, Pune and other places since the last two-and-a-half months," he added. "Similarly, the police personnel can avail free treatment in 1,000 hospitals under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule health scheme. Rs one lakh are being given as advance amount for treatment to each police personnel who has tested positive," he said. The minister said that the government has made all arrangement to provide best treatment to the police staffers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kin-of-each-maharashtra-cop-who-died-of-covid-19-to-get-rs-65-lakh-846244.html
05-06-2020||North and Central||West Delhi admin comes out with new strategy, forms teams for effective monitoring of COVID-19 cases||With an aim to effectively deal with the spread of COVID-19, the West Delhi administration has set up a dedicated call centre and constituted several teams as part of its new strategy to contain the dreaded virus. According to the plan, the staff deployed at the control room will make at least one call to each COVID-19 patient for counselling and to know his or her well-being for the initial five days from the date the patient is found positive. In a circular, Additional District Magistrate (West) Dharmendra Kumar said the call centre will also attend to people's queries related to the COVID-19 situation. He said action should be taken within six hours through field-level teams such as medical teams, "Corona Foot Warriors" and officials deployed in containment zones. "Corona Foot Warriors" have been asked to survey their respective areas and create awareness, the circular stated. Executive magistrates will make regular visit to containment zones and supervise activities being executed by the field staff. Executive magistrates will also have the responsibility to coordinate with the chief district medical officer, quarantine centres and hospitals, Kumar said in the circular. The chief district medical officer has been given the task of works related to testing, regular monitoring of home quarantine people and admission of patients to hospital in the West district. On Thursday, Delhi recorded 1,359 fresh coronavirus cases, which took the city''s COVID-19 tally past the 25,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 650. The highest single-day spike of 1,513 cases in the national capital was recorded on Wednesday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/west-delhi-admin-comes-out-with-new-strategy-forms-teams-for-effective-monitoring-of-covid-19-cases-846247.html
05-06-2020||Opinion||Kerala elephant death: It’s time we moved from collective disgust to collective responsibility||The story of the pregnant elephant, which died after eating a pineapple filled with firecrackers, raised much outrage in social media. Later reports have suggested that the elephant may have accidentally consumed the pineapple originally meant to ensnare wild boars in the region. While killing an innocent creature, whether it is an elephant or a boar, in such a gruesome manner itself is an abhorrent act, what made this particular incident even more shocking was the fact that the victim was a soon to be mother mammal and the manner in which food was used as bait. This deplorable incident raises some difficult questions for our collective conscience and public morality, one of them being that of trust.  The trust factor   As humans, there are various factors which nudge us to trust each other. Apart from evident factors like familiarity with those whom we trust and faith in the good intention of others, very often it is also instinct, circumstances, or vulnerabilities and our particular socio-political location that guides our inclination to trust others. This explains why even an apolitical citizen might feel betrayed when the state takes away his or her rights and the collective anguish citizens feel at the apathy of elected representatives. This is also the reason we feel betrayed when someone we had shared personal information with, in a moment of vulnerability, takes advantage of our information and our helplessness.  It is important to acknowledge that there are non-human beings that are capable of experiencing emotions such as trust. In his article, ‘Betraying Animals’,  published in the Journal of Ethics, moral philosopher Steve Cooke says: “Since non-rational sentient beings behave as if they have beliefs about the intentions of others, and since they act as if they feel betrayed when the object of their trust lets them down, we ought to, therefore, assume that they can trust.” While Cooke is talking of deliberative trust-building between humans and animals in controlled environments such as research labs and farms, with increased human-animal interaction, it might not be so rare to see this outside such strictly controlled environments as well. In this case, what prompted the elephant to trust the pineapple placed by humans is perhaps the same sentiment that prompts animals to trust humans who try to rescue them from a pit or from drowning, instances of trust guided by need, in this case—that of hunger.  Regardless of whether the trap was intended for the boar or the elephant—baiting is an act which involves trickery and betrayal. In this instance, the question of the trust itself is further complicated, considering the fact that the need to trust humans itself is something which is generated by humans. It is, by now, an accepted fact that an increase in human population has led to shrinking forest coverage, thus adversely affecting the habitat and food resources of wildlife. There is also increasing evidence to suggest that climate change, which is resulting in a deterioration of the forest cover, could largely be a result of human activities. Thus, the dependency and trust that at least some of the animals may have on us is generated by us.  Not enough to punish the guilty  This further raises the question of collective responsibility in an event like this. Does our responsibility end at the point where we ensure that those guilty of this heinous crime are punished? Shouldn’t it prick our conscience to know that elephants and other wildlife venture out into human settlements largely due to depletion of forest resources, resultant of human activities, sometimes involving corporations and the mighty state? Don’t we have a responsibility as citizens to hold these entities accountable? In that sense, don’t we also have a share in the betrayal of trust here, even if it is an inadvertent one?  There is no doubt that the very nature of this crime—an act involving lamentable cruelty—makes it acutely reprehensible. The misuse of superior human cognitive skill to betray and torture another species should rightly horrify our conscience. Humans may be the only species which uses its intellect to devise innovative ways of inflicting pain on others for its own sake. It is not my intention to underplay the sadism involved in the act and the pain that at least some of us feel, after hearing about this ghastly crime.  However, it would be a mistake to feel the pain and horror, but dismiss it as an isolated incident. It is worth paying attention to the other deeper issues which create the conditions for such crimes in the first place.  Human-animal conflict We should remember that an incident like this is made possible, partly, by the loss of habitat leading to the straying of the elephants into human areas. Human-wildlife conflict has steadily been on the rise in India in the past few years. According to one newspaper report, more than 500 elephants have been killed due to human-animal conflict—via electrocution, train accidents, poaching and poisoning, in the last five years. The same conflict has led to the death of more than 2,000 humans in the same period.  Studies have pointed out that this conflict is only going to rise owing to climate change and the pressure of human activities.  Like in the case of human-to-human relationships, the relationship between humans and animals is also a complicated one. By focusing exclusively on wildlife, I don’t intend to discount the moral ambiguities involved in other instances of violence against animals, like in the case of lab testing in the medical and cosmetic industry. I am also well aware of the complex politics of food in this country and I acknowledge and condemn the violence meted out to communities because of their culinary habits. It is rather unfortunate that this event has been given a communal colour by a few prominent individuals. However, in the case of the violent death of this elephant—it is not just another incident of violence or killing of an animal.  While the act itself deserves condemnation because of its indefensible cruelty, it also exposes the problems involved in the new and precarious equation that might be emerging between human settlements and animals who are coming out of their original habitat.  Focusing exclusively on the aspect of cruelty prevents us from realising that what is at stake is not only kindness to animals but also the possibility of a new equilibrium between humans and animals. One needs to be mindful not only of the threats posed to wildlife because of human-animal conflict but also that of vulnerable communities— like small-scale farmers who face acute problems because of wildlife straying into human settlements. At a time when there is increased overlap in the spaces of human-animal interaction, largely facilitated by human action, it is useful to acknowledge our responsibility as the species with superior cognitive skills and be more sensitive to the consequences of this forced interaction, not just from the perspective of humans, but also from the perspective of wildlife. Such an approach goes beyond collective disgust to collective responsibility. This is useful, not just because it is ethically desirable as human beings to be kind and compassionate, but also because the survival and sustenance of our species are closely linked to our environment and other beings who share it with us.  (Aparna Vincent is an independent researcher specialising in the study of rhetoric and symbolism in Indian politics. She co-edits Ala, A Kerala Studies Blog) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/kerala-elephant-death-it-s-time-we-moved-from-collective-disgust-to-collective-responsibility-845894.html
05-06-2020||Opinion||A paradigm shift: It’s time to consider home-based or domiciliary care for a subset of moderately sick COVID-19 patients||The hurricane of COVID-19 in cities like Mumbai continues its incessant onslaught, with tragic heart-wrenching situations. For example, a senior doctor of 80 years fell sick with suspected COVID-19, with an oxygen (O2) saturation of 65 per cent (normal > 97 per cent). He and his son undertook the journey of their life, travelling all night with this life-threatening O2 saturation, as they were turned away from four hospitals. The doctor got a bed after much struggle, and finally succumbed two days later. In another scenario, reflecting a similar care-starved situation, a patient in a CCC (COVID Care Center) in Mumbai got worse and needed transfer to a hospital but was unable to find a bed. This is happening more and more now, as the bed crisis in Mumbai worsens, with no silver lining as sick cases surmount capacity. Need to find a solution beyond the conventional in this unprecedented crisis Statistics show that the highest number of COVID-19 cases are in Mumbai and rising (over 45,000 cases, 20% of India’s caseload). Despite 4,700 plus beds for critical patients in the city, there is still a shortage as cases surge. Despite the government ramp up, 80% private hospital COVID-19 bed reservation and a call for healthcare workers to report for COVID-19 duty, equipped beds are still at a premium. The healthcare system is totally overwhelmed. What can we do to get treatment early for these patients running door-to-door at the cost of their lives? Can we use ground data from the Indian experience and world statistics to come out with out-of-the box solutions? These are the questions facing us. As per the Maharashtra govt website, 71 per cent of COVID-19 cases are asymptomatic, and of the symptomatic cases, 5 per cent are critically ill and require ICU/ventilator management. Most importantly, about 30 per cent of symptomatic cases need O2 and medicine alone. We need to consider whether these patients can be managed without inpatient care. Or we need to ask whether we can at least initiate care promptly at the places where they are until the hospital beds become available. The premise is that early treatment can improve outcomes, free beds and reduce the burden on the healthcare system. A solution: 'Point-of-care' treatment This provocative thinking opens up a logical concept, namely early assessment of this category of patients and on-site care, without making them run around and potentially avoiding admission. This is called ‘point-of-care (POC) Rx’ or treatment. The POC location can be a home, or an equipped domiciliary facility (e.g. the COVID care center) in case home is not possible. The tools for this are prompt teleconsultation with an expert and supply of essential O2. Three major aspects of this concept are as follows: 1) Early teleconsultation with an E-expert who assesses and outlines a plan of care; 2) If a hospital bed is not available, appropriate equipment at the POC is made available. This is predominantly O2 (via a concentrator) and valuable advice such as E-expert supervised prone position (lying down on the stomach) which helps in COVID care 3) Periodic monitoring by the E-expert to assess progress and escalate or de-escalate care as needed Advantages of this strategy The patient advantage is tremendous starting with early advice at the POC site by an E- expert, which otherwise will happen only in the hospital. This reduces the health risk related to running around, can save lives and reduce recovery time, mitigate anxiety and is extremely economical compared to inpatient care. The system advantages include an efficient ‘POC’ triage, way earlier than the hospital triage. Genuine patients needing hospitalisation are identified earlier. If no beds are available, POC management is instituted for only O2 requiring patients, with rapid escalation to a hospital bed for borderline patients. This reduces the burden on an overstrained health care system and again is economically tremendously advantageous. How can this be implemented? The low hanging fruit of this proposal is the initial simplistic model, and involves a 24/7 call center where anybody can trigger help, followed by rapid consultation with an E-expert who outlines a plan of care. This is followed by system assistance with O2, and regular follow-up with the E-expert. A more comprehensive model is several steps ahead and links the above with a central bed allocation system. To summarise, this ‘out-of-the-box’ approach to COVID-19 care for an overburdened healthcare system emphasises early E-expert advice, O2 mobilisation at the POC and shifting COVID-19 treatment to an earlier stage. This mindset change shifts the inpatient focus to the home or domiciliary setting for a subset of moderately sick COVID-19 patients. This can be planned and reproduced in any city, where a rapidly rising load overwhelms capacity. This could emerge as a win-win situation if done well. (Dr Ravindra Mehta is Chief, Critical Care and Pulmonology, at Apollo Hospitals, Bangalore & and Dr Jatin Kothari is a Nephrologist with the Hinduja group of Hospitals and Apex Dialysis Networks, Mumbai) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/a-paradigm-shift-it-s-time-to-consider-home-based-or-domiciliary-care-for-a-subset-of-moderately-sick-covid-19-patients-845996.html
05-06-2020||Right in the Middle||Epitome of benevolence||Mother Teresa once said, “it’s not how much we give but how much love we put into giving.” A little while ago in December, as he sat there and sifted through my mother’s reports, I stared at a towering personality who through his love and care radiates confidence to his patients and the caregivers. He has dedicated his life for the betterment of the quality of life of cancer patients. Dr B S Srinath is a saintly doctor who permeates peace and love to his patient community. My mind jogs back to February 2019 when he reviewed a plethora of my mother’s medical reports for the first time. It appeared he invoked Goddess Sharada’s blessings and dug into his vast reservoir of knowledge. His prognosis and ensuing treatment path offered maximum solace. The proof is in the pudding and after a roller-coaster journey, my mother has recovered well. Shankara was in the news around that time with the inauguration of a paediatric cancer centre and I lauded their efforts. At which point in his own words, “one day a lady walked into our hospital and offered to donate a building in the Gandhinagar area for a noble cause. We knew no whereabouts of the lady but were moved by her gesture. We have transformed the building into a cancer-care facility. Families who cannot afford the high hospital charges struggle to make it a financially viable solution. Now they can come here with their families and stay for a slightly extended period and avail good cancer treatment.” I was motivated to research a little more and was fortunate to get some information through a network of like-minded individuals. Meera Naidu was the owner of a 43-year old hotel called Lakshmi Hotel in the busy area of Gandhinagar. This hotel once abounded with activity with movie stars hosted here due to sheer proximity to the central region of the Kannada movie industry. The sky-rocketing lucrative commercial rates for a property in the heart of the city notwithstanding, she gracefully resisted this due to her unconditional love for children and keenness to donate to a deserving cause motivated to serve the poor. Here is a story of two behemoths coming together to shine a beaming example on this society--kindness for a great cause.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/epitome-of-benevolence-846210.html
05-06-2020||Second Edit||Pact with Oz, a message to China||India and Australia have signed a landmark Mutual Logistics Support Agreement (MLSA). The MLSA is significant for several reasons. It provides the two countries with reciprocal access to each other’s military bases for logistical support. This means that their militaries will be able to access each other’s bases for repair and replenishment of supplies, which would prove particularly critical in times of war. The MLSA facilitates the scaling up of overall bilateral defence cooperation, too. This is especially so with India and Australia deciding to elevate their Strategic Partnership to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. However, the MLSA’s significance goes beyond India-Australia bilateral cooperation. It is part of a series of pacts that New Delhi has entered into to beef up its position against an increasingly assertive and aggressive China. It has signed similar military logistics cooperation agreements with the US, France, South Korea and Singapore and proposes to finalise one with Japan. It is noteworthy that all the countries with whom India has signed such pacts are countries wary of China. Hitherto, India’s strategic approach to China has been one of ambiguity. It has been reticent about getting into groupings that would be perceived as anti-China. Its half-hearted approach to the ‘Quad’ has been one example of such reticence. When officials from India, the US, Australia and Singapore met under the ‘Quad’ format in November 2018, they failed to issue a joint statement.  The separate statements which were issued by participating countries reflected their national priorities. India at that time did not want to be seen ganging up against China. That reluctance appears to be changing. Although the MLSA makes no mention of China, it is bound to raise hackles in Beijing. China has only itself to blame for the growing willingness of countries to band together to improve their military preparedness. China has repeatedly ratcheted up tensions with India along the Line of Actual Control in recent years. Its ties with Canberra are unravelling with Beijing threatening action to curtail trade with Australia in retaliation for the latter’s criticism of China’s mishandling of the COVID-19 pandemic. Indeed, China’s relations with many countries, including the US, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines, Vietnam, etc., are caught in a downward spiral. China must wake up to the fact that its aggressive behaviour is forcing countries to put arrangements in place to secure themselves. Pacts like MLSA are not aimed at threatening China but at deterring it from considering aggression. It is aimed at containing China’s offensive behaviour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/pact-with-oz-a-message-to-china-846205.html
05-06-2020||South||One person arrested in connection with death of pregnant elephant in Kerala||A farmer was held and two more were reportedly taken into custody in connection with the killing of a pregnant elephant using explosive-packed pineapple at Palakkad district in Kerala. According to sources, Wilson, a native of Malappuram district was held in connection with the incident that took place at Mannarkad in Palakkad, close to Malappuram borders. Two more persons were taken into custody by a joint team of police and forest officials probing the case. They were learnt to have admitted that they used to place crackers to get rid of crop damage by wild animals like elephants and wild boars. The elephant was suspected to have suffered the explosion by around May 15. The wound got infected by the time it came to the notice of forest officials by around May 25. A section of local people alleged lapses on the part of forest officials in providing timely treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-person-arrested-in-connection-with-death-of-pregnant-elephant-in-kerala-845938.html
05-06-2020||South||Husband, friends gang-rape woman in son's presence in Kerala; Arrested||A woman, aged around 25, was allegedly attacked and gang raped by her husband and four of his friends in front of her son after forcefully giving liquor at Kadinamkulam, about 20 kilometres from Thiruvananthapuram city on Thursday evening. The police arrested the husband and four of her friends, while a search for couple of other persons suspected to be involved in the crime was going on. The victim also alleged that her husband took money from the others accused. According to the victim, her husband took her and their two children to a friend's house on the coastal areas on Thursday evening on the pretext of enjoying beach. She was then forced to have liquor. Later four of the friends forcefully took her to a nearby bushy area where she was sexually abused wit the connivance of her husband. Her elder son, aged around five, was also beaten up. She fainted and later recovered on hearing her son crying. Their younger child was with the husband. Afterwards she managed to reach her house with the help of two youths who passed by. Her husband later reached house and threatened her against reporting the matter to police. But she did not concede. The woman was hospitlised by night for medical examination. Her husband and four others accused were nabbed by night itself. The husband, who is a daily wage worker, was also suspected to be a drug addict, said police sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/husband-friends-gang-rape-woman-in-sons-presence-in-kerala-arrested-845948.html
05-06-2020||South||416 wild elephants died in Kerala since 2015||As many as 416 wild elephants' deaths were reported in Kerala since 2015, of which 24 were due to unnatural reasons like use of explosives, electrocution and poisoning. The recent death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala using explosives has brought on focus the killing of wild elephants using crude methods like using of electric lines, giving poison-laced food and explosive-packed food by farmers to get rid of crop damages. As per an elephant census done in 2017 using dung count method, there were 5,706 wild elephants in Kerala. This year, so far 50 wild elephant deaths were reported, of which three were unnatural. Two of which were suspected to be by using explosives. Last year witnessed the highest number of wild elephant deaths of recent years at 120, of which ten were due to unnatural reasons. While one was a case of poaching, two died due to deliberate electrocution and six due to accidental electrocution. Six unnatural deaths were linked to human activities. While four elephants were killed in train accidents, one was killed in a road accident, according to figures available from state Forest Department sources. As many as 246 wildlife cases were registered in the state in 2019, of which 81 were already charge-sheeted. According to a report of Comptroller and Auditor General in 2018, the average conviction rate of wildlife offences in Kerala was 22 percent only. Meanwhile, Kerala High Court in 2014 directed the Kerala government to constitute a team of experts to find out ways and means for treatment and rescue of wild animals that face mishaps like accidents and explosions. The order, which came on a petition filed by an animal welfare organisation in connection with the death of an elephant in Idamalayar in Ernakulam district, was yet to be implemented by the government.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/416-wild-elephants-died-in-kerala-since-2015-845983.html
05-06-2020||South||Power shutdown in Chennai suburb on June 6||Power supply will be suspended on June 6 from 9 am to 2 pm for maintenance work in Tambaram Chitlapakkam area here, Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO) said here on Friday. For emergency maintenance work, supply will be suspended and be resumed ahead of 2 pm on Saturday in case the work was completed in advance, TANGEDCO said in a release. Localities, including entire Sarvamangala nagar, Saraswathi nagar, Duraisamy nagar, R.R Nagar, Chathrapathi Sivaji Nagar, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Haridossapuram Main Road under the Tambaram Chitlapakkam area will see power supply suspension, the release said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/power-shutdown-in-chennai-suburb-on-june-6-846010.html
05-06-2020||South||138 new COVID-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh; tally touches 4,250||As more and more people are coming into the state from various parts of the country and abroad, Andhra Pradesh is witnessing a spurt in coronavirus cases as the total climbed to 4,250 on Friday with the addition of 138 in the last 24 hours. Of the fresh cases, 84 came from other states and four from abroad, the latest health department bulletin said. Two more deaths were also reported in the state, taking the tally to 73 so far. In the state, 4,23,564 coronavirus tests were conducted so far and the positivity rate turned out to be one per cent, the government said. Of the 4,250 positive cases, 700 were from other states and 123 foreign returnees. In all, 2,556 patients recovered and got discharged, including 258 from other states and four foreign returnees, leaving 1,621 active cases. In Krishna district, two persons died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours and took the state toll to 73, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/138-new-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-touches-4250-846045.html
05-06-2020||South||Closed on March 20, Tirupati temple portals to reopen for public from June 11||After a gap of over 80 days, the Tirupati Venkateshwara temple would reopen for the public on June 11. But the pilgrimage to the famed Hindu temple would not be the same, with several restrictions imposed to abide by the COVID-19 safety and social distancing norms. The entry of devotees is restricted to 500 per hour inside the temple as against the up to 5000 per hour, before the pandemic. Importantly, pilgrims have to make a prior online reservation of their darshan date, without which entry would be denied even onto the Tirumala hill. Even pilgrims with tickets would be allowed only after undergoing thermal screening, vehicle scanning and hand sanitization at the Alipiri toll gate. Masks are compulsory. Those residing in the containment zones are advised not to book any tickets. 65 years and above old citizens and below 10 years children are barred from darshan. On Friday, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams chairman YV Subba Reddy announced a list of new guidelines for the devotees. Daily darshans will be between 6:30 am and 7:30 pm with 500 pilgrims allowed each hour. 3000 is the daily number of Rs 300 darshan tickets to be issued on-line. This online booking quota will be available from June 8 onwards. In Andhra Pradesh, plans are to train the Panchayat volunteers to assist the villagers in booking of darshan tickets. Another 3000 tickets under Sarva-darshan (free general line) would be issued daily at the TTD counters in Tirupati. VIP break darshan will also commence from June 11 from 6:30 am to 7:30 am and will be restricted only for the self-protocol VIPs. No recommendation letters entertained. Alipiri footpath would be open from morning 6 am till 4 pm while Srivari-mettu path would remain closed. Both the Ghat roads opened from 5 am till 8 pm as the COVID 19 curfew is on between 9 pm and 5 am. Only Venkateshwara temple would be open and all sub-temples in Tirumala like Vakulamata, Bhasyakarula Sannidhi, Yoganarasimha Swamy would remain closed, to avoid congregation there. No theertham and Shatari after darshan and devotees not allowed to enter the Swamy Pushkarini (temple pond). Devotees will be provided herbal hand sanitizers near Srivari Hundi to prevent possible virus spread through the hundi cloth. Accommodation through booking limited to two persons per room for a maximum 24 hours. Matrusri Tarigonda Vengamamba Annadanam (free meals) Complex would be operating from 8 am till 8 pm. Only fifty people allowed for wedding events in the TTD marriage-halls at Tirumala after approval of the health officer. PPA kits readied for health, vigilance staff, Srivari Sevakulu (volunteers) and Kalyanakatta barbers COVID-19 Testing and Declaration Random tests to be conducted on 200 devotees and employees every day. Special Covid-19 testing and sample collection centres set up at Alipiri and Aswini Hospital in Tirumala. Corona Testing Laboratory is also set up at SVIMS, Tirupati exclusively for the benefit of devotees, TTD employees. Devotees have to sign a declaration at Alipiri stating their adherence to all central, state government COVID 19 guidelines in case they test positive in the tests. “Devotees located in containment zones are advised to not book online darshan tickets. Other state devotees who booked online tickets should follow all COVID-19 guidelines prescribed by the respective State governments. They should also note that darshan tickets are not an entitlement to enter into Andhra Pradesh,” officials said. Non-stop announcements to educate/remind the pilgrims about the COVID 19 measures like wearing masks, using hand sanitizers, and maintaining social distancing in Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, Hindi, and English. Trial run for three days On June 8 and 9, darshan on a trial basis is limited for TTD employees and their families who shall also book slots. On June 10, time slot tokens will be issued from Tirumala counters to the locals limiting to 500 persons per hour.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/closed-on-march-20-tirupati-temple-portals-to-reopen-for-public-from-june-11-846049.html
05-06-2020||South||One held in elephant killing; PFA site hacked in protest against Maneka Gandhi's comments||While one person was held in connection with the killing of a pregnant elephant in Kerala, the website of People for Animals run by BJP leader Maneka Gandhi was hacked by Kerala Cyber Warriors, a hacker group in Kerala, in protest against her remarks against Kerala in connection with the incident. Wilson, a plantation worker hailing from Malappuram district was held in connection with the incident that took place at Mannarkad in Palakkad district, which is close to Malappuram district borders. A father and son involved in poaching activities were suspected to be key accused. They were said to be absconding. Wilson was learnt to have confessed that explosives were kept in a coconut to trap wild boar by the two others accused on May 12 at a plantation in Palakkad district. As the elephant got trapped and suffered injuries, he helped in chasing away the elephant from the spot. Police and forest officials took Wilson to the spot for collecting evidence. Meanwhile, protest is mounting against Maneka for her statement that the elephant was killed in Malappuram district and the district was known for such cruel activities. She allegedly made a deliberate attempt of a hate campaign against Malappuram district, which is Muslim dominated. Moreover significant parts of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's Wayanad constituency comes in Malappuram district. After hacking the site 'peopleforanimalsindia.org', Kerala Cyber Warriors posted a google map of the location where the pregnant elephant was found dead with the message, "Since you are an environmentalist and a dumbass in geography, we are introducing Google Map to your little brain. Ambalapara marked in the map where the elephant found dead." It also accused her of intertwining love for animal with hate for Muslims. Many celebrities in Kerala launched a hash-tag campaign, 'I stand for Malappuram', on the social media in view of the on going row. Wildlife SOS, an organisation for rescue and rehabilitation of wildlife, offered legal and prosecution assistance to the forest department to pursue the elephant killing case and also announced a reward of Rs. one lakh for information and evidence leading to the conviction of the elephant killers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-held-in-elephant-killing-pfa-site-hacked-in-protest-against-maneka-gandhis-comments-846051.html
05-06-2020||South||Kerala elephant had major oral wounds; did not eat for nearly 2 weeks before drowning: Post-mortem report||The pregnant wild elephant which met with a gory end in Kerala had major wounds in its oral cavity, most likely following an explosive blast, due to which she could not eat for nearly two weeks leading to her collapse in a river and drowning, according to a post-mortem report. "The major and incapacitating wounds and injuries in the oral cavity caused localised sepsis and have most likely occurred following an explosive blast in the mouth. "This has resulted in excruciating pain and distress in the region and prevented the animal from taking food and water for nearly two weeks. Severe debility and weakness, in turn, resulted in the final collapse in water that led to drowning," it said. Drowning, followed by inhalation of water leading to lung failure was the immediate cause of death of the elephant, said the preliminary report prepared on May 28, a day after the elephant, estimated to be 15-year old, died in Velliyar River. No bullet, snare or any other metallic or foreign object found in any part of the carcass, the report said. The elephant is suspected to have consumed a pineapple filled with powerful firecrackers which exploded in the animal's mouth in the Silent Valley Forest. The incident triggered a social media storm with scores voicing concern over the cruelty meted out to the animal. The state forest department has said there was no conclusive evidence that the injury to the elephant's lower jaw was caused by a pineapple stuffed with crackers and it might be a possibility. The postmortem, performed at Thiruvizhamkunnu Forest Station under the Mannarkad forest division, revealed that the elephant was pregnant. "Inside pelvic cavity enlarged uterus with a nearly two months foetus", it said. The report said extensive necrotic debris of several indistinguishable soft tissues, fully infested with maggots, were found inside the mouth. Also, distinct fracture and erosions of major portions of maxillary bones and medial portions of the body of the mandible (jaw bone) on both sides were also noticed. Externally, apart from the swollen appearance of lower jaw and skin wounds, there was no other major wound or injury of significance on any other part of the body, it said. The elephant died in the Velliyar River with the incident triggering national outrage, prompting Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to assert that stern action would be taken against the culprits. Union Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar and BJP MP and former union minister Maneka Gandhi, among others, had voiced serious concern over the incident. One person was arrested on Friday in connection with the death of the elephant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-elephant-had-major-oral-wounds-did-not-eat-for-nearly-2-weeks-before-drowning-post-mortem-report-846064.html
05-06-2020||South||Kerala to reopen worship centres, malls even as COVID-19 cases shooting up||Even as the COVID-19 graph of Kerala is shooting up with a highest ever single day spike of 111 more fresh positive cases being reported on Friday, the state is going ahead with reopening  many sectors like worship centres, restaurants and malls from June 8 in accordance with centre's unlocking norms. Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that since it would take quite sometime for COVID-19 threat to be over, it was not practical to continue with the lockdown indefinitely. The people need to take precautions to prevent infection. The government would go by centre's directives on opening worship centres, including Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. Strict regulations will be put in place in number of persons depending on size of the worship centre. The state will conduct anti-body tests in large scale in the coming days to check community spread in view of the spike. Among the 111 cases reported on Friday, 50 persons returned from abroad and 48 from other states. Ten persons got infected through local contact. As many as 22 more people recovered from the infection by Friday. Palakkad district that shares borders with Tamilnadu is now witnessing an alarming situation with 40 more testing positive on Friday, taking the number of active cases in the district to over 180.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/kerala-to-reopen-worship-centres-malls-even-as-covid-19-cases-shooting-up-846097.html
05-06-2020||South||Kerala's single day new COVID-19 infections touch three digits--111||Kerala's COVID-19 new positive cases on a single day touched three digits for the first time with the state recording 111 infections on Friday, prompting chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to term the situation grim. The surge in positive cases has pushed the infection count to 1,699 while 1.77 lakh people are under observation. On May8, Kerala had declared that it had flattened the coronavirus curve after reporting a solitary case and just 16 people under treatment. However, with more people coming to the state from abroad and other states, the cases have seen a sudden spike. Expressing concern at the increasing graph of the virus infections, Vijayan said it had nearly doubled since June 1 when 57 positive cases were detected in the state after which there has been a steady climb -- with 86 cases on June 2, 82 on June 3 and 94 on June 4. He described the COVID-19 situation in the state as grim. Twentytwo people have recovered from the infection and 973 people are presently under treatment, Vijayan told reporters here. Three health workers were among those who tested positive, he said. Of the positive cases, 50 had come from abroad and 48 from other states, including Maharashtra 25, Tamil Nadu 10, Karnataka three and Delhi four. Giving the break-up of cases, Vijayan said Palakkad reported the highest number of cases 40, followed by Malappuram 18, Pathanamthitta 11, Ernakulam 10, Thrissur eight, Thiruvananthapuram five, Alappuzhafive, Kozhikode four, Idukki three, Kollam two, Wayanad three, Kottayam and Kasaragod one each. Of the 1.77 lakh under observation, 1,545 are in hospitals, including 247 admitted today and remaining in-home or institutional quarantine facilities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/keralas-single-day-new-covid-19-infections-touch-three-digits-111-846137.html
05-06-2020||South||Hyderabad man announces reward for providing info about culprits in Kerala elephant death case||Outraged by the death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala, a Hyderabad man has announced a cash reward of Rs two lakh from his personal savings to the person who gives information about perpetrators of the crime. "Because, when some big crime happens and if there is no clue for the police and government, normally, they announce reward to the informer. Same thing. Why should we not have (reward announced) for animals. Because, in Kerala, lot of elephants are getting killed on and off," B T Srinivasan, who announced the reward, said on Friday. He told P T I that his announcement of reward should act as a deterrent and create fear among those who attempt to kill animals. Srinivasan, who is General Secretary, United Federation of Resident Welfare Associations,Greater Hyderabad, said whenever incidents like the death of the elephant in Kerala happen, anguish is expressed on social media or in newspapers and the issue is forgotten after a few days. But, some concrete action is required, he said. Srinivasan said once the culprits in the death of the elephant are caught and if somebody really provided proper information, he planned to hand over Rs two lakh to the animal husbandry department of Kerala. Srinivasan said he would like to request the Kerala government to give the money to the person only after the culprit is punished as the case may get diluted in courts. He said he has sent a mail to the Kerala Chief Minister about his intention to give a reward and that efforts be made to put an end to crimes against elephants and others. He conveyed in the mail that the person who provides information be identified and that he would like to travel to Kerala to meet the person. In a major breakthrough in the case relating to the death of a pregnant wild elephant in Kerala, one person was arrested on Friday. The 15-year-old elephant is suspected to have consumed a pineapple filled with powerful fire crackers which exploded in its mouth in the Silent Valley forest. It died in the Velliyar River a week later on May 27. The pachyderm's tragic end came to light after a forest officer posted an emotional note on his Facebook page, narrating it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hyderabad-man-announces-reward-for-providing-info-about-culprits-in-kerala-elephant-death-case-846186.html
05-06-2020||South||Why not consider Nalini's plea on humanitarian grounds?: HC||The Madras High Court on Friday asked the Tamil Nadu government whether it can consider on humanitarian grounds the request of life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case to make video calls to their kin. Nalini Sriharan and her husband Murugan, the convicts, wanted to make the calls to his mother and sister in Sri Lanka and London, but the state government was firm in refusing them to make such communication. "Leave alone law, we would like to know from the government whether they (Nalini and Murugan) can be permitted to make the calls on humanitarian ground," a division bench of Justice N Kirubakaran and Justice R Hemalatha said and asked the state public prosecutor A Natarajan to get instructions from the government. The issue pertains to a plea moved by S Padma, mother of Nalini, seeking direction to the prison authorities to permit her daughter and her husband Murugan to make video call to his mother and sister. Murugan's father died in Sri Lanka in April last. Therefore, the couple wanted the authorities to permit them to make video calls for at least 10 minutes daily. When the plea came up for hearing on Friday, the prosecutor reiterated the stand of the state that the duo cannot be permitted to make calls to a foreign country. Natarajan further suggested the court on its own implead the Union home ministry as it would be the appropriate authority to take a decision. Opposing the same, petitioners counsel A Radhakrishnan submitted that prisons are subject matter of the state government concerned and the Union home ministry has nothing to suggest in the issue. Recording the submissions, the bench adjourned the hearing to June 12. Besides Nalini and her husband, the others convicted in the case are A G Perarivalan, Santhan, Jayakumar, Ravichandran and Robert Pyas. All are serving life imprisonment for their role in the assassination of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on May 21, 1991 by an LTTE suicide-bomber at nearby Sriperumbudur. They were initially sentenced to death, but later it was commuted to life imprisonment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/why-not-consider-nalinis-plea-on-humanitarian-grounds-hc-846234.html
05-06-2020||State||Centre releases Rs 4,314 crore to Karnataka as GST compensation||The Centre has released Rs 4,314.13 crore to Karanataka as grant-in-aid for compensation for loss of revenue in GST collection. As per the order isssued by the Ministry of Finance, this money is being released to state to compensation for thr loss of revenue for the month of December 2019 and February 2020 on account of implimentation of the GST, said the order. Under GST law, states were guaranteed to be paid for any loss of revenue in the first five years of the GST implementation, which came into force from July 1, 2017. The Centre is releasing the GST compensarion to states to help to mobilise resources to fight against COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/centre-releases-rs-4314-crore-to-karnataka-as-gst-compensation-846077.html
05-06-2020||State||Decks cleared for 108-feet-tall Kempegowda statue near Bengaluru airport||Work on constructing a mammoth 108-ft bronze statue of Bengaluru founder Kempegowda near the city’s international airport will be flagged off on June 27.  The decision was taken at a meeting of the Kempegowda Development Authority on Friday.  “June 27 marks the 511st anniversary of Kempegowda. That’s the reason we have fixed the foundation stone laying ceremony on that day,” Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwath Narayan, who is the vice-president of the Kempegowda Development Authority, said.  The government has roped in sculptors Ram V Sutar and Anil R Sutar to design the Kempegowda statue. The Statue of Unity in Gujarat, hailed as the world’s tallest at 597 feet, was designed by Ram V Sutar. He also designed the 27-ft Mahatma Gandhi statue between Vidhana Soudha and Vikas Soudha.  “The statue is estimated to cost Rs 66 crore. The model is ready, which will be finalized after the chief minister clears it. We want to finish the (statue) work in one year’s time,” Narayan said.  A 23-acre land in front of the Kempegowda International Airport in Devanahalli has been identified for the statue. “The Bengaluru International Airport Ltd has given clearance for the work to start,” Narayan said. “The area around the statue will be specially developed. The total cost will be about Rs 80 crore and it will be one of the prime attractions.”  The government is also working on conserving and beautifying Kempegowda’s tomb in Kempapura in Magadi taluk of the Ramanagara district. “A plan worth Rs 41 crore has been prepared,” Narayan, the Ramanagara district in-charge minister, said. “The area surrounding the tomb, including the village lake, will be developed. For this, we need to acquire some land that will cost an estimated Rs 17 crore.” While Kempegowda is a cultural icon, the 16th century chieftain also gives the ruling BJP an opportunity to woo the dominant Vokkaliga community to which he belonged. This, especially after the BJP managed to win the KR Pet assembly constituency in December last, the saffron party’s first victory in the Vokkaliga heartland of Mandya where the JD(S) is known to hold sway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/decks-cleared-for-108-feet-tall-kempegowda-statue-near-bengaluru-airport-846136.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus Lockdown: Karnataka government allows buses, autos during night curfew||Karnataka on Thursday permitted transport services even during the curfew hours of 9 pm to 5 pm. With this, bus services - BMTC, KSRTC, NEKRTC and NWKRTC - autos and cabs can ply during the night curfew to pick commuters from pickup points or bus stands. On the basis of bus tickets, passengers will be allowed to commute to the bus stand to home, in accordance with the COVID-19 control measures, SOPs and other guidelines, an order issued by Chief Secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said. Further, during the curfew hours autos, taxis and cabs have been given permission to pick commuters from pickup points or bus stands, the order added. Earlier, the government had revised the night curfew time from the previous 7 pm-7 am to 9 pm-5 am. Movement of individuals was strictly prohibited between 9 pm and 5 am throughout the state, except for essential activities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-lockdown-karnataka-government-allows-buses-autos-during-night-curfew-845847.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSTDC to resume tours from June 10||The Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation Ltd (KSTDC) will operate tours in different parts of Karnataka from June 10. The decision came in the wake of guidelines issued by the central government to relax lockdown norms to resume economic activity in the country. The government-run agency will operate four tours - South Canara Temple Tour, sight-seeing in Bengaluru and Mysuru, nature splendor (Bengaluru-Madikeri-Nagarahole-Bengaluru), and temple tour of Hassan district - from next Wednesday. The state government, it can be recalled, had permitted safaris, trekking and jungle resorts from June 8. According to a release by Kumar Pushkar, Managing Director, KSTDC, several safety regulations will be adopted while ferrying tourists to these tourist locations. Among the measures to ensure tourist safety included, complete sanitisation of tourist vehicles, mandatory gloves, masks, sanitisers and thermal screening for guides, drivers and cleaners of the bus, 50 per cent occupancy in vehicles to ensure social distancing norms and others. People suffering from illness or above 65 years of age will not be allowed to take the tour", the release read, adding that all buses will be non-AC. All tourists will also be screened for any illness before the start of the journey. These tours will be operated under the first phase of service resumption by KSTDC, with more tours expected to be added in the coming days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kstdc-to-resume-tours-from-june-10-846120.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Centre releases Rs 4,314 cr to state as GST compensation||The Centre has released Rs 4,314.13 crore to Karnataka as grant-in-aid to compensate the state for the loss of revenue in GST collection. As per the order isssued by the Ministry of Finance, this money is being released to state to compensation for the loss of revenue for the month of December 2019 and February 2020 on account of implementation of the GST, said the order. Under the GST law, states were guaranteed to be paid for any loss of revenue in the first five years of the GST implementation, which came into force from July 1, 2017. The Centre is releasing the GST compensarion to the states to help mobilise resources to fight against Covid-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/centre-releases-rs-4314-cr-to-state-as-gst-compensation-846187.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka BJP core panel meet to finalise nominations for Rajya Sabha seats, MLC polls today||The BJP core committee scheduled to meet on Saturday will finalise the list of candidates for MLC nominations and the Rajya Sabha candidates, BJP general secretary N Ravi Kumar said. The state BJP unit will also run a door-to-door campaign to raise awareness on the achievements of the Modi administration, Kumar told a news conference Friday.  He said that candidates for both MLC and Rajya Sabha elections will be discussed in the core committee meeting. “No names are finalised yet,” he said, responding to a query on demands by some Congress-JD(S) turncoats to be either nominated or get elected to the Legislative Council. Kumar said that the BJP state unit would conduct a door-to-door awareness campaign on the achievements during the second term of Modi government. The campaign will be held from June 6 to 15. On June 10, a “Maha Sampark Abhiyaan” will be held in which MPs, MLAs and other elected representatives take part. The state unit will also administer oath to 50 lakh families to use “Swadeshi’ products, on June 14 from 7-8 pm. Chief minister B S Yediyurappa, BJP national general secretary (organisation) B L Santosh, and BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel will address one lakh people virtually on June 14, Kumar added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-bjp-core-panel-meet-to-finalise-nominations-for-rajya-sabha-seats-mlc-polls-today-846188.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Mallikarjun Kharge Cong candidate for RS polls from state||Congress on Friday fielded veteran leader Mallikarjun Kharge as its candidate for the biennial elections to the Rajya Sabha from Karnataka. Four Rajya Sabha seats in Karnataka are falling vacant on June 25 as the terms of M V Rajeev Gowda, B K Hariprasad (both Congress), Prabhakar Kore (BJP) and D Kupendra Reddy (JD-S) are coming to an end. Elections to the Rajya Sabha are scheduled for June 19. Kharge, 77, served as Union Minister in the Manmohan Singh government from 2009-14 and later as the leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha from 2014-2019. Kharge had won the Karnataka Assembly elections for nine consecutive terms having served as Home Minister, Revenue Minister, Rural Development Minister and the Leader of the Opposition from 1972-2008. The veteran leader’s winning streak was interrupted when he lost the 2019 Lok Sabha elections to Umesh Jadhav of the BJP from the Gulbarga constituency. With 68 members in the Karnataka Assembly, Kharge’s win in the Rajya Sabha elections is almost certain. The party has agreed to support the JD(S) if it fields former prime ministerH D Deve Gowda. The BJP with 117 members can ensure victory of two candidates. JD(S) with 34 members is banking on the support of Congress, which has surplus 24 votes after ensuring Kharge’s election. A candidate requires 44 votes to get elected in the Rajya Sabha elections where the electoral college comprises members of the legislative assembly. The last date for filing of nominations is June 9.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/mallikarjun-kharge-cong-candidate-for-rs-polls-from-state-846190.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Shivakumar plans ‘ghar wapsi’ for ex-Congressmen||The D K Shivakumar-led Congress has planned a political ‘ghar wapsi’ to bring back leaders who quit the party and also rope in those from other parties.  Shivakumar, the Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president, has constituted a 12-member committee headed by former minister Allum Veerabhadrappa to anchor the effort to bring back people into the party fold.  This move comes more than a year after over a dozen Congress MLAs defected and joined the BJP, leading to the collapse of the Congress-JD(S) coalition government. Also, several influential leaders quit the party ahead of the Lok Sabha elections, last year.  The constitution of this committee also coincides with disgruntlement brewing within the ruling BJP.  “Many people who left the party and others have applied (to join Congress). Many have met me also. I felt it wouldn’t be right for me to make a decision. So, this committee has been constituted,” Shivakumar said. “They will process all applications and send it to the KPCC.”  According to Shivakumar, any person wanting to join the Congress should accept the party’s leadership and its ideology. “Importantly, they should be first accepted by the cadre. If there’s no acceptance from the cadre, then what’s the point?” he said.  In the past, onboarding some leaders from other parties backfired, Shivakumar admitted. “Someone we take at the state-level shouldn’t misfire at the block-level. We’ve seen this happen before,” he said.  Shivakumar, who was appointed as the state party chief in March, has started an ambitious exercise to make the Congress a cadre-based party, an attempt that has not been successful in the past. “The formation of this committee is more like structural programming,” he said.  The 12-member committee headed by Veerabhadrappa has former MLAs B A Hasanabba, Ajaykumar Sarnaik, Abhaychandra Jain, Satish Sail, Prafulla Madhukar, former MPs R Dhruvanarayan and B N Chandrappa, MLA V Muniyappa, former mayor Sampath Raj, Mahila Congress leader Kripa Alva and former KPCC general secretary V Y Ghorpade.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/shivakumar-plans-ghar-wapsi-for-ex-congressmen-846213.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka may test asymptomatic persons for COVID-19 with Maharashtra travel history||Just when the labs in the state heaved a sigh of relief as there was no backlog of samples of Maharashtra returnees, who account for majority of the cases, the state is set to change its testing policy. Now, the government is planning to test even the asymptomatic persons from Maharashtra. Confirming this to DH, Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey, said, “A new testing policy will be put in place on Saturday under Unlock 1.0. We were not drawing samples from asymptomatic from June 1 following the recommendations of the expert committee. But now we have put the issue of asymptomatic persons again in front of the committee, seeking its approval to test those who’d returned from Maharashtra.” In Udupi, out of 784 total Covid-19 patients, only 31 are symptomatic, according to the state Covid-19 war room data. “The expert committee, citing the research from Singapore, reiterated that asymptomatic need not be tested as the transmissibility is low. But we have shown them the data about how many of those who have tested positive are asymptomatic and that we can’t neglect them anymore,” Pandey said.  According to the White Paper by the National Centre for Infectious Diseases and the Chapter of Infectious Disease Physicians, Academy of Medicine, Singapore, the infectious period of Sars-CoV-2 virus in symptomatic individuals may begin two days before the onset of symptoms, and persists for about 7 to 10 days after the onset of symptoms. However, the paper also cautions that “robust data is lacking regarding infectiousness of asymptomatic and pre-symptomatic individuals and how much asymptomatic infection drives transmission.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-may-test-asymptomatic-persons-for-covid-19-with-maharashtra-travel-history-846216.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||23 cities, towns likely to face drinking water problem||As many as 23 cities and towns in Karnataka are expected to face drinking water problem in the next two months, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa was told by the officials o Friday.  So far, 12 urban local bodies are dependent on private tankers for water supply, officials briefed the CM at a review meeting of the Urban Development department.  The deputy commissioners have Rs 47.24 crore with them to tackle drinking water problems and “at no cost should citizens suffer for the want of water,” Yediyurappa directed the officials.  Yediyurappa also appreciated the efforts of the urban local bodies in tackling the Covid-19 pandemic, according to a release.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/23-cities-towns-likely-to-face-drinking-water-problem-846217.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Udupi witnesses Maha explosion of Covid-19 cases||In a biggest single-day spike, Udupi district on Friday reported 204 Covid-19 cases. Of which, 203 are Maharashtra returnees. A cop on Covid duty at a check-post has also contracted virus.  The massive single-day surge has taken the district’s tally to 768.  Deputy Commissioner G Jagadheesh told reporters, “Among the infected are seven children and 40 women. All patients have been admitted to the Covid hospitals in the district.” Attributing the sudden spike in cases to the large-scale testing and reports thereon, he said, “On Friday, we received more than 2,000 test reports. So, the number of positive cases have also gone up. More than 8,500 people have returned to the district from various states, including Maharashtra. The positive cases will come down as the results of most of the interstate returnees have arrived.”  With 750-plus Covid-19 cases, the district holds an unwanted milestone of topping the Covid-19 case chart in the state. The district was sitting pretty with a few cases till April, but it saw a massive surge in cases in May, thanks to a big influx of migrants from Maharashtra. In first two weeks of May, more than 7,500 people returned from Maharashtra. According to the district administration, Maharashtra returnees alone have accounted for 90% of Covid cases reported in the district. The numbers are expected to go further up in next two to three weeks. The deputy commissioner said, “There is no shortage of beds for Covid patients. Now, 1,200 beds are available in the designated hospitals at Udupi and taluk centres. We will add more beds, if needed.” 155 in Kalyana K’taka  Three virus hotspots of Kalyana Karnataka - Yadgir, Bidar and Kalaburagi - combined have recorded 155 fresh infections in the last 24 hours (ending 5 pm on Friday). Of which, 151 are Maharashtra returnees. Among the infected are 42 children below 16 years. Yadgir witnessed 74 new cases while Kalaburagi and Bidar recorded 42 and 39 cases respectively, on Friday. Meanwhile, Vijayapura district’s single-day case count galloped to 53 on Friday. This includes 39 fresh cases with Maharashtra link. A total of 14 people from containment zone have tested positive for novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/udupi-witnesses-maha-explosion-of-covid-19-cases-846219.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gram panchayats in fiscal limbo as govt dilly-dallies||The government’s indecision on figuring out the way forward for gram panchayats could lock up a whopping Rs 2,734 crore of development grants meant for rural Karnataka under the 15th Finance Commission.  By the end of this month, the term of nearly 3,000 gram panchayats will end. By August, this number will increase to 5,800. Karnataka has 6,025 gram panchayats.  In a political move, the government has deferred gram panchayat elections, and no decision has been taken on how they will be run. Now, the government has asked gram panchayats whose term is set to end not to take any financial decisions until further orders.  “The government has to quickly make a decision,” a senior Rural Development & Panchayat Raj (RDPR) official said. The moratorium on holding meetings and taking financial decisions is applicable on all funds given to gram panchayats, even the 15th Finance Commission devolutions.  In the 2020-21 financial year, Karnataka has an allocation of Rs 3,217 crore under the 15th Finance Commission for rural development. Of this, the state government will provide 85% to gram panchayats, 10% to taluk panchayats and 5% to zilla panchayats. This works out to Rs 2,734.45 crore for gram panchayats.  The funds are meant to be used for cleanliness initiatives, water supply, rainwater harvesting and other development activities. “Half of the funds are tied to water and sanitation, while the other half is untied,” the official pointed out.  It was on May 14 that the Cabinet decided to ask the State Election Commission (SEC) to postpone the gram panchayat polls. On May 28, the SEC announced the postponement citing Covid-19 as the reason. This has led to a political furore with the Congress accusing the ruling BJP of trying to take control of gram panchayats without facing an election.  Apparently, the government is toying with the idea of appointing party workers or pro-BJP people as members of the administrative committees to run the gram panchayats. However, sources said the government is rethinking this move, fearing political backlash. The government might consider appointing administrators instead.  Until then, the gram panchayats whose term will or has ended cannot make any decisions on expenditure.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gram-panchayats-in-fiscal-limbo-as-govt-dilly-dallies-846220.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSTDC to resume tours on June 10||The Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation Ltd (KSTDC) will operate tours in different parts of Karnataka from June 10. The government agency will operate four tours - South Canara Temple Tour, sight-seeing in Bengaluru and Mysuru, nature splendor (Bengaluru-Madikeri-Nagarahole-Bengaluru), and temple tour of Hassan district - from next Wednesday. According to a release by Kumar Pushkar, Managing Director, KSTDC, several safety regulations will be adopted while ferrying tourists to these locations. Among the measures include, complete sanitisation of tourist vehicles, mandatory gloves, masks, sanitisers and thermal screening for guides, drivers and cleaners of the bus, 50% occupancy in vehicles to ensure social distancing norms and others. People suffering from illness or above 65 years of age will not be allowed to take the tour, the release read, adding that all buses will be non-AC. These tours will be operated under the first phase of service resumption by KSTDC, with more tours expected to be added in the coming days. On Thursday, the state government had permitted safaris, trekking and jungle resorts from June 8.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kstdc-to-resume-tours-on-june-10-846222.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Almatti gets first inflows of season, 12.7k cusecs flows into dam||The Lal Bahadur Shastri dam (Almatti) on Friday received its first inflows of the season. The reservoir received 12,761 cusecs of water on the first day, thanks to copious rain in its catchment in Maharashtra for the last four to five days and outflows from Hipparagi reservoir. About 10,000 cusecs was let out of Hipparagi barrage in Jamkhandi taluk. The water level in Rajapur barrage in Maharashtra is seeing a steady increase. Normally, the dam gets its first inflows from upstream Krishna in the second or third week of June. Last year, the dam had received the season’s first inflows on July 3. Inflows into Almatti had stopped since Dec 1, 2019. The reservoir had recorded a massive inflow last year, owing to the incessant showers in the Western Ghats of Maharashtra. The inflow was such that, the reservoir was still left 27 tmcft even after releasing water to canals till April 10, 2020. The water level in the dam rose to 509.30 metres on Friday. The full reservoir level (FRL) is 519.60 metres. The reservoir has 27.5 tmcft water as against its maximum storage capacity of 123.0891 tmcft.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/almatti-gets-first-inflows-of-season-127k-cusecs-flows-into-dam-846223.html
05-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||New Elisa Covid test kit can deliver result in just 3 hours||A new Elisa-type antibody testing kit designed by Syngene, the Biocon’s research arm, could potentially alter Covid testing in the future.  While the RT-PCR, the standard testing method at present, takes up to eight hours to deliver results on nasal samples, Elisa (Enzyme-Linked Immunoassay) kits can deliver results in one to three hours.  The test works by sampling collected material from Covid-19 test subjects for the presence of Sars-Cov-2 antibodies, primarily Immunoglobulins G and M. This would, in turn, confirm that the test subject had been exposed to the virus. Immunoglobulin G is the most common type of antibody.  For virologists and epidemiologists, the advantage of Elisa technology is that it will help identify the scale of the subclinical infection (or early-stage or mild infection) within the general population. "Some 80% of all Covid-19 infections are subclinical. What IgG antibody testing will help with is in identifying and certifying protected individuals, who are no longer susceptible to infection. Since they pose no risk to others, they can be free to rebuild all locked-down socioeconomic functions,” said Dr T Jacob John, a noted virologist who formerly headed ICMR’s Centre for Advanced Research in Virology.  Dr John has been critical of testing programmes in India for only testing for the virus and not antibodies. He told DH that there is no sense of gauging the true scale of subclinical infection in the general population until we test everyone for IgGs.  Meantime, the Bengaluru-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Platforms (C-Camp), Department of Biotechnology, described the development of the new kits as timely. “Given the emphasis on indigenous manufacturing and self-reliance, this is an exciting development with potentially far-reaching impact on our testing capacity,” said C-Camp Director Dr Taslimarif Saiyed. Syngene is a member of the National Biomedical Resources Indigenisation Consortium (NBRIC), which was hosted and convened by C-Camp. “Most of these antibody kits were hitherto being imported. But supply chains worldwide are seriously hampered and diverted and grave misgivings have recently surfaced about quality and the efficacy of these imported kits,” C-Camp said in a statement. A spokesperson for C-Camp added that the kits will be sent to National Institute of Virology, Pune, for validation. Syngene has tied up with HiMedia Laboratories to manufacture and distribute the kits.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/new-elisa-covid-test-kit-can-deliver-result-in-just-3-hours-846226.html
05-06-2020||West||CM Vijay Rupani unveils Rs 14,000-crore 'Gujarat Atmanirbhar' package||The Gujarat government on Thursday announced a relief package of Rs 14,000 crore to help revive the economy battered by the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus, a measure that includes tax rebates to consumers and loan subsidy for business and shop owners. The package seeks to cover a vast section of people and businesses in Gujarat, one of the most industrialised states which has reported more than 18,500 COVID-19 cases so far. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani made the announcement and gave relief to various sections of the society based on recommendations of a committee headed by former Union finance secretary Hasmukh Adhia. We had appointed the Hasmukh Adhia committee for the economic revival of the state which has submitted an interim report. "The report was discussed threadbare for the last four days and we have decided to announce'Gujarat Atmanirbhar (self-reliant) package' of Rs 14,000 crore, Rupani said. We have decided to give relief to people in payment of property tax, electricity bills and vehicle tax, Rupani said. Commercial establishments, businesses, offices, hotels, restaurants, shops, hospitals will get a rebate of 20 per cent in their annual property tax bills while residential property owners will get 10 per cent rebate, according to details of the package. This will give direct benefit to people to the tune of Rs 744 crore. Electricity consumers using less than 200 units per months will get rebate till first 100 units consumption which will cost Rs 200 crore to the exchequer, the chief minister said, adding the state will give the amount to power companies. Various rebates have been announced for commercial and industrial consumers of electricity. While private buses, jeeps, taxis have been given relief of payment of road tax and tax for six months due to the lockdown. The total relief for property tax, electricity and vehicle tax comes to Rs 2,300 crore, according to the package. The government announced subsidy for various industries to the tune of Rs 3,038 crore, while Rs 458-crore relief was given to GIDC (Gujarat Industrial Development Corp) for promotion of industries. In a bid to revive the housing sector, the government has announced Rs 1,000 crore. The government said it will give loan interest subsidy of 4 per cent for loans of up to Rs 2.5 lakh for business and shop owners. Out of the 8 per cent interest rate, 4 per cent will have to be paid by the borrower, while the rest will be paid by the government. The government allocated Rs 525 crore for loan interest subsidy. It earmarked Rs 466 crore for labour welfare which includes benefits of Rs 35,000 to each tribal labourer who works in different parts of the state and wants to build a house in his hometown. Other benefits are of Rs 5,044 crore which include free ration to poor families during the period of lockdown and direct transfer of Rs 1,000 in their accounts. The government also decided to allocate Rs 100 crore to the health department and another Rs 100 crore to four municipal corporations - Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot - from the Chief Ministers Relief Fund to fight the novel coronavirus.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-vijay-rupani-unveils-rs-14000-crore-gujarat-atmanirbhar-package-845853.html
05-06-2020||West||Pune-Nashik semi high-speed railway line gets approval||The Pune-Nashik semi high-speed double railway line has got the green signal from the Ministry of Railways. This will be the first semi high-speed railway corridor on a broad gauge line in the world.  So far, all the high-speed trains are running on standard gauge. The Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (MRIDC or MahaRail), a joint venture of Government of Maharashtra and Ministry of Railways on 50:50 basis, is undertaking the project. The MRIDC will be the first corporation to design the railway line with semi high-speed train on a broad gauge line with speed up to 250 kmph. This line will provide direct connectivity between Pune and Nashik, two highly-industrial and urban cities - and the 231 km journey between the two cities will be completed in less than 2 hours.  Rajesh Kumar Jaiswal, Managing Director, MahaRail,  said:  “This project will not only attract goods trains but also the high-speed train will attract more passengers to the route as the travel time will reduce less than two hours. The travel time from Pune to Nashik will be completed in 1 hour and 45 mins." The MRIDC has also planned to develop Private Freight Terminal (PFT), Dry Port, Multimodal and Commercial Hub, Warehouses and Sidings at suggested locations by the local industries. As this Pune-Nashik belt has huge industries, this project will open a new revenue for industries by fast-track movements of cargo by Railways as important MIDC areas such as Chakan, Sinnar and Satpur will be directly connected by this railway line.  There will be a provision for EMU shuttle also to run on this corridor, as this will also help daily passengers to travel to the cosmopolitan cities from the suburbs.  This Railway line will pass through three districts of Maharashtra i.e. Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik providing seamless connectivity to industrial zones of Pune and Nashik such as Alandi, Chakan, Khed, Manchar, Narayangaon, Sinnar and Satpur. Apart from these MIDC areas, the proposed line will cater to another important Special Economic Zone (SEZ) in Khed, Narayangaon and Manchar. This project will also provide benefit to tourism and pilgrimage places in Pune–Nashik corridor. The entire cost of the project has been pegged at Rs 16,039 crore (including taxes); MRIDC shall invite equity partners to participate in the project.  Once, the approvals are granted from the government of Maharashtra, the project is estimated to be completed in 1,200 days from the date of financial closure. The train will start from new proposed Pune Railway station and it will be going to Hadapsar on an elevated deck, from Hadapsar to Nashik the train will run on the ground and will go up to Nashik Road Railway station. The proposed new Pune Railway station for the semi high-speed train will have a commercial complex and multimodal hub.  The trains will initially have six coaches designed to run at speed of 200 kmph on the broad gauge line. The number of coaches will increase to 12 and then to 16. The proposed alignment is designed such that there will be no compromising on speed. The proposed alignment will pass through the talukas of Pune, Haveli, Khed, Ambegaon and Junnar tehsils of Pune district, Sangamner tehsil of Ahmednagar district and Sinnar and Nasik tehsils of Nasik district.  The project will have the influence in the buffer zone of 25 km radius having eight numbers of MIDC areas, two major industrial areas, two major industrial estate operated by cooperative groups i.e. 12 industrial estates with an area of 10,000 + hectares. This rail line will certainly augment the revenues from the multi-fold industries like automobile hub, machinery, electronics, pharmaceuticals, sugar mills and other agricultural activities around the project influential regions. The passengers of varied travel purposes such as tourism, educations, agricultural and as well as business and daily shuttles will have ample facilities to connect with the rest of the country. All the intercity movements and transportation for both passengers and freight will flourish because of faster movement on the rail line between Pune and Nashik.  This rail line will help to connect South and North due to this shorter and faster route between the cities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pune-nashik-semi-high-speed-railway-line-gets-approval-845885.html
05-06-2020||West||CM Uddhav Thackeray to visit Raigad to assess damages due to cyclone Nisarga||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray would visit the Raigad on Friday for an on-spot assessment of the damages that the coastal district when Nisarga cyclone made landfall.  Thackeray will travel in a Ro-Ro boat from the Gateway of India to Alibaug.  He would be given a detailed briefing by Raigad's collector and district magistrate, Nidhi Choudhary, and superintendent of police, Anil Paraskar.  On Thursday, state Power Minister Dr Nitin Raut visited Raigad to take stock of the situation.  More than 1 lakh trees have been uprooted in Raigad and several kutcha houses were damaged. The power supply and telecommunication network was badly affected as the strong winds snapped wires and uprooted poles.  Emanating from the Arabian Sea, the Nisarga cyclone made a landfall on Wednesday afternoon. In Raigad and Pune district, six persons lost their lives in cyclone fury. Crops and aquaculture fields suffered extensive damage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-visit-raigad-to-assess-damages-due-to-cyclone-nisarga-845886.html
05-06-2020||West||Calm after storm Nisarga: Long road to recovery for cyclone-hit people||Roofless houses, collapsed walls, uprooted trees and despair on faces of people - all these collectively tell the story of devastation and misery caused by the cyclonic storm 'Nisarga' that battered coastal villages of Maharashtra's Raigad district. As the cyclone affected people pick up the pieces, they see a long road to recovery and return to normalcy in life which was thrown into disarray all of a sudden one afternoon. They are looking at the state government for help to rebuild their lives. The cyclone that made landfall near Diveagar in Shrivardhan taluka of Raigad district on Wednesday afternoon battered the coastal tehsils for a few hours with heavy rains and gusty winds of a speed of more than 110 to 120 kmph. Hundreds of houses were damaged, properties destroyed, electric poles flattened and trees lay uprooted in wake of the storm in Raigad, the worst-hit district. Metkarni village in Shrivardhan, with a population of around 700, is one of the worst-hit areas in the district. Situated on a hilltop, the village suffered severe damage as several residents were rendered homeless and penniless because of the storm. A sole breadwinner for her family of four, Sunita Salve has lost the roof over her head and also livelihood to the natural disaster. "There is nothing in my house now, the roof was blown away, a wall has collapsed and all essentials and utensils are damaged. Even my sewing machine, which was my only source of income, lies broken," said Salve, who did minor tailoring work to feed her parents and two children, with a sense of despair. Salve and her family ran out of their home at the nick of time with whatever valuables they could carry when they heard someone shouting about the storm's arrival. "Earlier because of the COVID-19 lockdown, we hardly had any work, but now our troubles have doubled due to the cyclone," Salve rued. For Manjula Jadhav, Cyclone 'Nisarga' was nothing like what she had seen before in her life. Jadhav, who lives with her two sons and their families, said all her possessions lay buried in the debris that was once her home. "I urge the government to help people who have lost everything in the cyclonic storm," she said. Another resident said she had built her home only two weeks ago using all her savings and by taking loans. "I lost everything in just two hours. My family doesn't even have a place to live now," she said. Local authorities had evacuated several people from coastal villages and moved them to a government building ahead of the cyclone. And now many are waiting for the district administration to assess the damages and facilitate government aid. The situation is similar in villages of Harihareshwar, Alibaug, Murud, Tala, Pen, Mhasala and Roha, where the cyclone left a trail of destruction. "We have started assessing the damage. Shrivardhan and Murud talukas seem to be the worst-hit and teams have been sent there for timely assessment," Raigad collector Nidhi Choudhary told PTI.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/calm-after-storm-nisarga-long-road-to-recovery-for-cyclone-hit-people-845941.html
05-06-2020||West||Average daily COVID-19 case growth rate down in Mumbai: BMC||According to a top Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) official, as per the data till June 2, the average daily growth of COVID-19 cases went down from more than 8 per cent a a few days ago to 3.64 per cent. Till June 2, a total of 41,986 COVID-19 cases and 1,368 deaths were recorded in the city, the worst-hit by the disease in Maharashtra. According to the BMC, it has conducted over 2.08 lakh tests till June 2, of those only 20.18 per cent people tested positive for the novel coronavirus. "Even the COVID-19 case doubling rate has gone up to 19 days," said the official. According to BMC's health department data, in the past one month, the maximum number of cases, 1,739, on a single-day were detected on May 22, while the minimum, 404, was recorded on May 13. Another senior BMC official said, the daily number of cases are seeing a declining trend with the count remaining below 1,500 on most of the days since May 22. According to the officials, due to aggressive screening, testing and contact tracing of suspected COVID-19 patients, the civic body has been successful in keeping the spread of the pandemic under control.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/average-daily-covid-19-case-growth-rate-down-in-mumbai-bmc-845972.html
05-06-2020||West||Another Gujarat Congress MLA resigns ahead of RS polls||Ahead of the crucial Rajya Sabha polls in Gujarat on June 19, Congress MLA Brijesh Merja on Friday resigned from the assembly membership. The Assembly secretariat confirmed that Speaker Rajendra Trivedi has accepted the resignation of Merja, who was elected from the Morbi seat. He has become the third Congress legislator to quit in the last three days. Before quitting as a legislator, Merja also resigned from the primary membership of the Congress. Two other Congress MLAs, Akshay Patel and Jitu Chaudhary, resigned on Wednesday evening, Trivedi had said on Thursday. Merja is the eight Congress MLA to quit the assembly membership since March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/another-gujarat-congress-mla-resigns-ahead-of-rs-polls-845973.html
05-06-2020||West||Elderly man commits suicide over fear of contracting COVID-19 in Maharashtra||The fear of contracting COVID-19 infection allegedly led a 65-year-old man to commit suicide in Maharashtra's Beed district, police said on Friday. The incident occurred at Mangewadi in Patoda taluka on Thursday, when a passerby found the body of Asaram Pote hanging from a tree in his farm, an official said. The police were immediately alerted and Pote's body was brought down in the presence of his relatives and locals, he said. A suicide note was found on the deceased's person, in which he said that he had taken the extreme step as he was scared of contracting COVID-19 and no one should be held responsible for his death, the official said. A case of accidental death was registered in this regard and further probe was underway, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/elderly-man-commits-suicide-over-fear-of-contracting-covid-19-in-maharashtra-845999.html
05-06-2020||West||Cyclone Nisarga: Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackerayvisits Raigad, Dy CM Ajit Pawar visits Pune||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced an initial aid of Rs 100 crore for the Nisarga cyclone-ravaged coastal Raigad district.  While Thackeray visited the Raigad district, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar inspected the neighbouring Pune district. The Raigad district of coastal Konkan belt bore the burnt of Nisarga when then hit Pune in western Maharashtra. Six people lost their lives because of the cyclone's fury. Both Thackeray and Pawar asked officials to prepare panchanamas of the damage, so that the government comes out with a package. "This is not an aid package but just a preliminary amount given to the district for relief works pending completion of formalities before the full package is announced," Thackeray said. Thackeray reiterated that priority is being given to restore power and telecommunication lines besides repairing the damaged houses of people. He also assured full help to the farmers and fisherfolk who have suffered huge damage to their crops or fishing boats, and assured nobody would be left in the lurch by the government. Thackeray took Ro-Ro boat form Bhau-cha-Dhakka and went to Alibaug. He was accompanied by ministers Aaditya Thackeray and Aslam Shaikh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cyclone-nisarga-maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackerayvisits-raigad-dy-cm-ajit-pawar-visits-pune-846000.html
05-06-2020||West||Decision to hold medical exams taken after talks: Amit Deshmukh||Maharashtra minister Amit Deshmukh on Friday said that the decision to conduct under-graduate and post-graduate examinations of the MUHS was taken only after detailed discussions and consultations on the issue. Addressing a press conference here, the state Medical Education Minister said that he met Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari after the Nashik-based Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) submitted a detailed report about holding the exams from July 15 in the state. Koshyari on Thursday granted permission to conduct all under-graduate and post-graduate examinations as proposed by the university. Deshmukh was in Pune to review the COVID-19 situation in the city. When it was pointed out to him that the state's Technical and Higher Education Ministry has decided not to conduct exams, whereas his ministry will hold them, he said there were no discrepancies in the functioning of the government. "Both the ministries- technical/higher education and medical education- are different. Their curriculum is different, their central councils, universities are different. I think they are following their own guidelines, while we are adhering to ours," he said. The Congress leader said that it will be ensured that students do not have to travel far to appear for the exams and arrangements will be done in their home districts. "A detailed programme will be issued shortly," he added. He said the decision to conduct these exams was taken after detailed discussions with the apex medical bodies. Talking about the COVID-19 situation in the state, he claimed that there was a decline in the number of positive cases in Mumbai, Pune and other cities. In Pune, the situation is under control and as compared to other big cities in the world, the situation in Mumbai is better, he said. "I was told that medical facilities need to be ramped up further. I have assured all the support and necessary permissions from my ministry," he added. Deshmukh said that as far as COVID-19 tests are concerned, currently 80 labs are operating in the state, where tests are being conducted and more labs are being added. When asked about the roadmap for improving the healthcare system and medical education in the state, he said, "We have learnt a lot (during the pandemic) and we are still learning. What we will do is to standardise the hospitals as far as protocols, SOPs (standard operating procedures) are concerned. "I am of the opinion that some rating should be given to each hospital as patients should not suffer due to some inefficient infrastructure (of a hospital)," he added. The minister said that hospitals like J J, Sassoon, Nair are very renowned facilities and there is a lotto be learnt from them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/decision-to-hold-medical-exams-taken-after-talks-amit-deshmukh-846019.html
05-06-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray visits cyclone-hit Raigad; announces Rs 100-crore aid||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced financial assistance of Rs 100 crore for Raigad district, which bore the brunt of cyclone 'Nisarga' three days ago. Thackeray made the announcement while on a visit to Alibaug taluka of Raigad district, around 110km from Mumbai, to take stock of the situation. The CM said he had given orders for expeditious assessment of damage caused by the cyclone which made landfall in the coastal district on Wednesday afternoon. High-speed winds accompanied by rains caused large- scale damage in coastal areas of the district. "This assistance(of Rs 100 crore) will be given for emergency relief. This is just a beginning. Don't call it a package ," he said. Thackeray said the coronavirus threat can increase because of rain. "We have to stop other rain-related ailments as well. We will not leave any one in the lurch. Restoring electricity supply, telecommunications and house repairs is our priority," he said. Thackeray, who arrived in Alibaug from Mumbai, was accompanied by guardian ministers of Mumbai suburbs and city, Aaditya Thackeray and Aslam Shaikh, respectively. Raigad guardian minister Aditi Tatkare and district collector Nidhi Chaudhary briefed the CM about the post- cyclone situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-visits-cyclone-hit-raigad-announces-rs-100-crore-aid-846044.html
05-06-2020||West||Maharashtra cases cross 80,000; Death toll at 2,849||The COVID-19 tally in Maharashtra crossed 80,000 on Friday. In the last 24 hours,139 deaths were reported, the highest in a day. On Friday, 139 deaths and 2,436 cases were reported taking the progressive toll to 2,849 and cases to 80,229. In the last 24 hours, 1,475 persons were discharged taking the total to 35,156. As of now, the state has 42,215 active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cases-cross-80000-death-toll-at-2849-846102.html
05-06-2020||West||Over 11 lakh migrant workers have gone back from worst affected state of Maharashtra: Centre told Supreme Court||The Supreme Court was informed Friday that over 11 lakh migrant workers have gone back to their native places from Maharashtra, the state worst affected by COVID-19 -- both in number of cases and casualties. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan was hearing the matter in which it had taken suo motu (on its own) cognisance on the plight of migrant workers who were stranded across the country due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The Centre informed the apex court that around one crore migrant workers across the country have already reached their destination -- around 41 lakh by road transport and 57 lakhs by trains. During the hearing, the advocates representing various states gave the figures of migrant workers as per which, over 11 lakh and 20.5 lakh people have gone back from Maharashtra and Gujarat respectively. Maharashtra has so far reported 77,793 COVIID-19 positive cases and 2,710 death. India, overall, has recorded over 2.26 lakh cases and 6,348 death due the pandemic. Counsel appearing for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh informed the court that they have so far received 28 lakh and 21.69 lakh migrants received. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta informed the bench, also comprising Justices S K Kaul and M R Shah, that so far 802 trains have been operated from Maharashtra for transporting migrant workers. The bench, which heard the matter through video-conferencing, observed that it intends to give 15 days to the Centre and states to complete the transportation of all stranded migrant workers to their native places and said it would pronounce its order on June 9 on the issue. During the hearing, Additional Solicitor General Sanjay Jain, representing Delhi government, told the top court that around two lakh workers are still in the national capital and only around 10,000 of them have expressed their desire return to native places. The counsel appearing Gujarat told the bench that out of around 22 lakhs migrant workers in the state, 2.5 lakhs are remaining while around 20.5 lakhs have already been transported back. Senior advocate P S Narasimha, appearing for Uttar Pradesh, said that around 5.50 lakh migrants workers were brought back into the state from Delhi borders for which buses made over 10,000 trips. The state government told the bench that 1,664 shramik trains were organised and around 21.69 lakhs migrant workers were brought back in Uttar Pradesh. It said they have send back around 1.35 lakh migrants, who were in Uttar Pradesh, and 104 special trains were operated for this. The counsel appearing for Bihar government told the court that around 28 lakh migrants workers have returned to the state. The lawyer said that Bihar government is taking steps to provide them employment and so far, skill mapping of around 10 lakh migrants has been done. The counsel representing West Bengal said that around 3.97 lakh stranded migrants are in the state and relief camps were serving around one lakh meals. The counsel said that West Bengal is more of a receiving state and they will provide every assistance which is needed to bring people back. The counsel representing Kerala said that around 4.34 lakh migrants were there and over one lakh have already been transported. Kerala government said that out of the rest around 2.81 lakh migrant workers, 1.61 lakh wanted to stay in the state. When Kerala's counsel said that Railways is under the Central government and they should take care of the cost of return by migrants, the bench said that all states must make their own arrangements. The counsel appearing for Karnataka said that from May 3, the state has facilitated return of over three lakh migrant workers and if 15 days time is given they will facilitate transportation of the rest. The lawyer said in past two weeks, number of migrant workers who want to go out of Karnataka has come down. The solicitor general assured the apex court that the entire country is working in tandem and all demands and assistance required by the states would be provided to them. On May 28, the top court had directed that the migrant workers wanting to return to their home states will not be charged train or bus fares and those stranded across the country will be provided food free of cost by the authorities concerned. It had passed a slew of interim directions "looking into the difficulties and miseries of migrant workers" and directed that states shall simplify and speed up the process of registration of migrant workers and provide help desk for registration at the places where they are stranded.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/over-11-lakh-migrant-workers-have-gone-back-from-worst-affected-state-of-maharashtra-centre-told-supreme-court-846125.html
05-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Mentally unwell man jumps into tiger enclosure at Aurangabad zoo||A mentally unwell man jumped into a tiger enclosure at a zoo in Maharashtra's Aurangabad city on Tuesday morning but was rescued by guards in time, an official said. The 30-year-old man jumped from the compound wall at the rear side of Siddharth zoo and managed to get to the core area of the big cat's enclosure, the civic official said. No one saw him scale the compound wall, which has broken glass pieces embedded at the top, and jump into the enclosure, the official said. "We spotted him in the service area of enclosure on Tuesday morning after which zoo guards rescued him and handed him over to the police. "The glass pieces on the wall have become blunt due to passage of time, and we plan to fence this part of the wall soon," said the official. A Kranti Chowk police station official said the man, who appeared to be mentally unwell, was handed over to his family.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-mentally-unwell-man-jumps-into-tiger-enclosure-at-aurangabad-zoo-846126.html
05-06-2020||West||Cut corners, allocate resources to COVID-19 fight: Goa Guv tells CM||Goa Governor Satya Pal Malik on Friday urged the Pramod Sawant-led coalition government in the state, to start adopting austerity measures, even as Sawant later announced that legislators would no longer be able to avail of government housing loan facilities at a nominal interest rate. Malik in his letter to Sawant on Friday, had said that adopting austerity measures was necessary in order to conserve financial resources in the battle against COVID-19. "The Governor has written a letter to the Chief Minister requesting him to adopt appropriate austerity measures in the State economy and reduce the wasteful expenditure so that more resources are made available for battling COVID-19 and bringing the economy back on track," a statement issued by Raj Bhavan said.   "In the letter, the Governor has said that the spread of pandemic COVID-19 has thrown various challenges before the state, which were never faced before. The pandemic has dented the economy severely. In the prevailing scenario, it becomes an imperative for the state to bring in greater economy in the expenses and set an example," the statement also said, adding that the need of the hour was to make greater resources available for COVID-19 relief measures as well as for reviving the state economy. Last month, Malik had announced 30 per cent pay-cut in his annual wages, while also whittling down on other expenses like floral arrangements and illumination of the Raj Bhavan. Speaking to reporters in Panaji on Friday, Sawant said that the state government was already beginning to cut corners. "House interest rates for MLAs were subsidised. The interest rates will not be on par with rates of interest imposed by banks," Sawant said, adding that the state's Goods and Services Tax collection had also dropped on account of the COVID-19 stricken economy. "We have also started taking various economic measures to cut costs," Sawant said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/cut-corners-allocate-resources-to-covid-19-fight-goa-guv-tells-cm-846129.html
05-06-2020||West||Coronavirus Lockdown: Ola, Uber resume services in Mumbai||Ride hailing apps Uber and Ola on Friday announced resumption their services in the financial capital, after more than two months of break due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In separate statements, both the companies said riders will be able to access the services as per the rules laid down by the Government of Maharashtra for essential travel and that adequate safety precautions are being taken. However, both the companies did not share the driver partners who have gone live.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-lockdown-ola-uber-resume-services-in-mumbai-846147.html
05-06-2020||West||Pets can be taken outside for walks: Maharashtra govt tells HC||Pet owners in Maharashtra have been allowed to take their animals outside for walks during lockdown, the state government told the Bombay High Court on Friday. A circular to this effect was issued on June 1 and the police and civic officials were asked not to prohibit owners from walking their pets, said Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhkoni. A division bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by a Pune resident seeking permission to take her dogs outside. The state government's directive followed a circular issuedby the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) stating that pet owners should be allowed to take animals for walks and prohibiting it would amount to animal cruelty. The AWBI circular, also issued on June 1, was placed before the HC by the Union government on Friday. The PIL filed through advocateHarshwardhan Bhende claimed that several police stations in Pune had issued "arbitrary directions" to housing societies to stop residents from taking their dogs for walks. There were also instances of police stopping ambulances and pet taxis ferrying sick animals to vet clinics and Pune Police were refusing to issue passes for such vehicles during lockdown, advocate Bhende claimed. During the previous hearing on May 10, another bench of the high court had directed the government to issue a "clear directive" to the police to ensure that ambulances or other vehicles ferrying pets and sick animals to and from veterinary clinics should not be stopped. The court had also asked the Union government to make clear its stand on permitting pet owners to take dogs outside for walks during the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh on Friday submitted the AWBI circular to the court, saying the Union government's stand was in consonance with it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/pets-can-be-taken-outside-for-walks-maharashtra-govt-tells-hc-846151.html
05-06-2020||West||Jodhpur policeman kneels on man to control him; slammed for his approach||A Jodhpur policeman kneeled on a man in an attempt to subdue him after he turned aggressive and refused to pay a fine for not wearing a mask in public, reigniting memories of a similar incident in the US in which an African-American died. George Floyd, a Houston resident, died after he was pinned to the ground by a white police officer who kneeled on his neck as he gasped for breath. His death on May 25 has triggered a widespread violent protest in the US and sparked a debate on systemic racism. But Jodhpur police said the man, identified as Mukesh Kumar (40), snatched the mobile phone of a policeman and assaulted two constables who confronted him for not wearing a mask in public. Kumar also tried to run away without paying the fine, they said. Still, many Internet users slammed the police approach after a video of the incident went viral on social media. "@PoliceRajasthan world is protesing over a similar act by police in US. There is something very wrong with police's system (sic)," Hena Fatima said on Twitter. "Police recruitment, selection, training & motivation, all need substantial improvement. Anger management, compassion should be the foundation of the police service," Girish Arora tweeted. The video showed Kumar aggressively resisting the policemen and engaging in a fistfight. It also showed a constable kneeling on him for a few seconds and trying to take back his phone. Police have arrested Kumar but are yet to take action against the constable, terming his action "unintentional and spontaneous". "We arrested him and sent him to the judicial custody," said ACP Neeraj Sharma. Sharma said Kumar was booked in another case last June for allegedly piercing an eye of his father with a screwdriver. A charge sheet has been filed in the court in that case. Describing the incident, the ACP said two constables spotted Kumar without a mask at Pahla Pulia on Thursday evening. They warned him for not wearing a mask and asked him to pay the fine, which infuriated him and he began misbehaving and threatening the policemen. Sharma said Kumar was hostile and not cooperating with the policemen. When the constables tried to confront Kumar, he fell down and it was "an spontaneous turn of things".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/jodhpur-policeman-kneels-on-man-to-control-him-slammed-for-his-approach-846164.html
05-06-2020||West||Maharashtra: Teen raped; hostel superintendent, nurse, mother held||The superintendent of a hostel in Katol in Nagpur district was arrested for allegedly raping a 14-year-old physically-challenged girl, police said on Friday. The victim's mother and a nurse have also been held for allegedly forcing the teen to undergo an abortion at home, Inspector Mahadev Achrekar of Katol police station said. "The girl, a Class VI student, was living in the hostel for the past five years. She was repeatedly raped by superintendent Rajendra Kalbande (44) from March this year. When she got pregnant, a nurse identified as Sindhu Dehankar and the victim's mother forced her to undergo an abortion at her home," he said. Acting on a tip-off about the abortion, police managed to zero in on the three accused, who have been charged under IPC, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-teen-raped-hostel-superintendent-nurse-mother-held-846224.html
