06-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Chikkamagaluru is now coronavirus-free district||With the discharge of two more COVID-19 infected persons from a designated hospital in Chikkamagaluru on Saturday, the district has no positive cases left now.  The district had registered 16 positive cases with the influx of stranded people from Maharashtra and Delhi. The district had not recorded any positive cases till May 22 and had remained a green zone till then. On Saturday, P 2765, a 28-year-old man and P 2766, a 38-year-old man were discharged, said DC Dr Bagadi Gautham.  Initially, the district had registered 18 positive cases. The re-test of throat swabs had confirmed that two including a PHC doctor in Mudigere were tested positive by mistake. The DC said, "Though the district is COVID-19 free, we have to be attentive."  It may be recalled that nine COVID-19 infected persons had recovered and were discharged from hospital in Chikkamagaluru on Friday. The health officials visited their houses and offered flowers to instill confidence in them. The health officials had asked them to remain quarantined at home for seven days and consume nutritious food. They were also asked not to venture out of the house and maintain social distance.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/chikkamagaluru-is-now-coronavirus-free-district-846405.html
06-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||COVID-19: Four discharged from KIMS in Hubballi||Four persons, who were infected with COVID-19 infection, have recovered and are discharged from Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi on Saturday. Maharashtra returnees P-1942 (29 years, female), P-1944 (2 years, male) of Girani Chawl in Hubballi, and their contacts P 2156 (33 years, female), and P-2157 (17 years, male) of Hebballi Agasi in Dharwad were discharged on Saturday. On June 3, P-1505 (6 years, female), and P-1506 (29 years female), of Renuka Colony on Giriyala Road in Old Hubballi, who confirmed COVID-19 infection after returning from Telangana on May 21, were also discharged. So far, 34 persons have been discharged from the KIMS COVID-19 hospital, Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/covid-19-four-discharged-from-kims-in-hubballi-846467.html
06-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||5 test COVID-19 positive in Belagavi||A total of five persons including two children tested positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi on Saturday. With this the total number of positive cases increased to 257.  Among the five positives, two were returnees from Gujarat and three from Maharashtra.  Identified as P-5018 (male, 40 years) and P-5022 (male, 23 years) had returned from Gujarat, P-5019 (male, 35 years), P-5020 (male, 10 years) and P-5021 (female, 8 years) had returned from Maharashtra.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/5-test-covid-19-positive-in-belagavi-846477.html
06-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hoteliers worried over central govt guidelines||Hoteliers of the city are unhappy with the guidelines issued by the Union government to reopen hotels and restaurants. They claim that it is highly difficult to follow the guidelines. The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has issued 45 guidelines for hoteliers to ensure safety of customers as well as staff and to contain the spread of Covid-19. The hotels are allowed to open from June 8. The hoteliers claim that the hoteliers will have to undergo huge loss, with the new guidelines, as it needs more number of staff and special initiatives. Moreover, as per the guidelines, apart from generic measures, hoteliers must take simple public health measures.      Mysuru Hotel Owners' Association president C Narayana Gowda said that it is highly difficult to follow all guidelines as per the Union government and it will be an additional burden on hoteliers. “A majority of hotel owners are in financial crisis. Now, we have to incur more loss with more investment,” he said. Narayana Gowda said, “When there is no guarantee of good business, how can we invest more, before commencing the business? It is inevitable to increase the price of services and food to ensure that all the guidelines will be in place." Many hoteliers have not paid the rent and nearly 50% of them are planning to discontinue business and are diverting towards other sector, according to Narayana Gowda. Manager of a reputed hotel in the city, said, "The employees and staff need special training to handle the situation. Hoteliers do thermal screening and ensure social distance, but assessing the health condition of the individuals is not easy." As per the guidelines, only asymptomatic staff and guests should be allowed. But, it is not easy to assess one's health condition. The hoteliers can take generic measures, but we are expected to check the health condition of each customer and have to ensure that no person with health issues, pregnant women, persons above 65 years and below 10 year of age visit hotels, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hoteliers-worried-over-central-govt-guidelines-846531.html
06-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Dodda Gadiyara to get facelift soon||Silver Jubilee Clock or Dodda Gadiyara, as it is popularly known as, near Rangacharlu Town Hall in the city, is in need of urgent attention. Conservation and repair works are expected to be taken up soon, said Mayor Tasneem. She said, “We know the problems. We will hold a meeting of the advisory committee and chalk out plans for strengthening the structure and also to conserve it. The Dodda Gadiyara is a pride of Mysuru and we will ensure that it tells the time for the future generations.” Dodda Gadiyara, a 75-feet-tall structure, is a prominent landmark of the ‘Heritage City’ since 1927. Nearing a century, it has withstood the climatic vagaries and has also been renovated and repaired a few times, earlier. Now, the building needs to be strengthened and the clock also needs to be repaired, to regain its glory. Interestingly, over the years, the junction where it stands, was named as Mahaveera Circle, by Mysuru City Corporation (MCC). However, people still identify the junction after Dodda Gadiyara. It was built in the 1920s, to commemorate the silver jubilee of the coronation of Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar, the 24th king of Yadu dynasty, that was founded in 1399. It was based on Big Ben of London, thus, its resemblance is evident. Wadiyar ascended the throne in 1902, after his father Chamaraja Wadiyar X. The clock tower has a canopy in Rajasthani style with an overall Indo-Saracenic style. It was inaugurated in 1927. In fact, there are two more clock towers, in the city. A smaller version, but an older one and more ornate, is popularly known as ‘Chikka Gadiyara’ near Devaraja Market. At a time when wrist watches were a luxury, Wadiyar kings, who emulated the Westeners in punctuality, erected ‘Chikka Gadiyara’ first. It was named as Dufferin Clock Tower as it was commissioned to commemorate the visit of then British Viceroy to India Lord Dufferin, in 1886. It is one of the oldest clock towers surviving in India. He had come to Mysuru on the invitation of then Maharaja Chamaraja Wadiyar X. It was renovated in 2012. The University of Mysore also built a clock tower in 2015, on its Manasagangotri campus, to commemorate the centenary of its establishment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/dodda-gadiyara-to-get-facelift-soon-846532.html
06-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Siblings drown in agriculture pond||Two siblings drowned in a agriculture pond at Gundewadi village in Athani taluk on Saturday. They were identified as Paris Neminath Kupwade (15) and his sister Sanmati (13). Paris, while going for swimming, had taken Sanmati along to teach her to swim. The rope that Sanmati had been tied to broke away and she began to drown. Paris too plunged in the pond to save his sister, but both drowned. Athani police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/siblings-drown-in-agriculture-pond-846580.html
06-06-2020||National||Editor's note | DH launches Android & iOS app||Dear Reader, It's a momentous day for us: The formal launch of our mobile application, the walled garden where we can bring you, in exciting and innovative ways, the best journalism that DH has to offer. Yes, we're launching the app at a turbulent time for all of us. The novel coronavirus has roiled the world and forced companies across sectors to batten down the hatches, postpone or junk their plans, and do the bare minimum. We are hardly unaffected by the crisis, but we have chosen to bring this app to you at this time to underline our commitment to our readers, who are at the centre of everything we do, in good times and in tough ones. We think you will like our latest offering: Its bespoke design is elegant and cool, and it's loaded with novel features and a degree of personalisation that we hope will increase the bond between us. We hope to hear from you.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/editors-note-dh-launches-android-ios-app-846095.html
06-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 6, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-6-2020-edition-846282.html
06-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 6||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,46,256 as of June 6.     States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 6,796. Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1,14,073 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-6-846283.html
06-06-2020||National||COVID-19 fear prevails, few keen to venture out: Survey||India is set to embark on Unlock 1.0 next week after more than two months of restrictions to combat COVID-19, but few are ready to resume life as usual. A survey by LocalCircles found that only 20% of the respondents were ready to visit restaurants and 32% were planning to visit a place of religious worship, which are set to re-open in a phased manner beginning Monday. Of the 32,000 persons surveyed across 254 districts, as many as 57% said they do not plan to visit any religious places in the next 30 days, while 11% respondents were unsure about their plans. The response to questions about hotel stay was even more stark. As many as 81% respondents said they did not plan to visit hotels in the next 30 days, while only 10% replied in the affirmative. Almost three-fourths of the respondents said they would avoid a visit to their favourite restaurant, at least for another month, due to the fear of contracting COVID-19. Only 21% respondents said they would visit shopping malls when they open next week, while another 9% were unsure about their plans. Here too, 70% respondents said they would avoid a visit to shopping malls.  The government had issued standard operating procedures for reopening of offices, religious places, restaurants, shopping malls and hotels with an emphasis on social distancing and personal hygiene. It had refused permission for opening of gaming arcades, cinema halls, children’s play area in shopping malls and issued clear directives to avoid crowding.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-fear-prevails-few-keen-to-venture-out-survey-846117.html
06-06-2020||National||DH Toon: With no testing of returnee migrants, shutting of quarantine centres, Bihar left at mercy of god||The Bihar government has closed the registration of migrants returning to Bihar for putting them in 14-day institutional quarantine from Monday as movement of people has opened across the country, a top official of the Disaster Management department said. In the first phase of the relaxations in lockdown 5.0, according to the 'Guidelines for Phased Re-opening (Unlock-1)' that is part of the lockdown order, religious places like temples, churches and mosques, hotels restaurants and other hospitality services and shopping malls will be allowed to function from June 8, causing many to worry about social distancing norms, and an extensive spread that may be even harder to control. The state government's decision comes at a time when many migrants returning to Bihar have tested positive for COVID-19. According to the data released by the state Health department, the number of migrants who have tested positive since May 3 is 2,743.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-with-no-testing-of-returnee-migrants-shutting-of-quarantine-centres-bihar-left-at-mercy-of-god-846285.html
06-06-2020||National||Under-trial prisoner dies of heart disease in UP||An under-trial prisoner at the Muzaffarnagar district jail in Uttar Pradesh died of heart disease, officials said on Saturday. The middle-aged prisoner, Sandeep, was arrested in November 2019 in connection with a case of murder. He was rushed to a hospital after he complained of uneasiness Friday evening. He died at the hospital due to heart disease, jail superintendent A K Saxena said. The body has been sent for post-mortem, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/under-trial-prisoner-dies-of-heart-disease-in-up-846319.html
06-06-2020||National||5 Enforcement Directorate officials test COVID-19 positive in Delhi; headquarters sealed till tomorrow||Five Enforcement Directorate (ED) employees, including a special director rank officer, have tested positive for COVID-19, following which the headquarters of the central probe agency have been sealed for 48 hours till Monday, officials said. Out of the five, two are contract employees. The employees were found infected after the agency carried out section-wise testing at its headquarters in the wake of some COVID-19 cases being reported from other floors of the Lok Nayak Bhawan in Khan Market, where the ED office is located, the officials said on Saturday. All the ED employees who were found infected with COVID-19 after "proactive testing" are asymptomatic, they said. According to the officials, the employees who have tested positive include a special director rank officer and an investigating officer. All of them have been admitted to isolation facilities for treatment. People who came in contact with them have been quarantined, they added. As per procedure, the headquarters of the agency have been sealed for 48 hours and are expected to resume operations on Monday, the officials said. The affected employees have not been coming to the office since they tested positive, they said. In order to check the spread of COVID-19, a protocol has been put in place for sanitising the ED headquarters twice a week and all documents. 'Daak' (post) is sanitised before it is handed over to officers and other staff of the agency, they added. Last month, too, an ED employee had tested positive for COVID-19. The ED is the federal agency that investigates money laundering, black money and hawala crimes under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the Foreign Exchange Management Act||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/5-enforcement-directorate-officials-test-covid-19-positive-in-delhi-headquarters-sealed-till-tomorrow-846322.html
06-06-2020||National||Arunachal sees over 17% shortfall of its share of central taxes in April and May: Khandu||Arunachal Pradesh Chief Minister Pema Khandu has said the state government witnessed a 17.81 per cent shortfall in receiving its share of the central taxes during the first two months of the current fiscal, leading to a resource crunch in its fight against the coronavirus outbreak. The share of the central taxes expected per month was Rs 985.83 crore, he said. "The actual receipt for April and May 2020 was Rs 1,620.56 crore at an average of Rs 810.28 crore per month. "There has been a shortfall of 17.81 per cent in the last two months, which, if maintained throughout the year, would lead to an overall deficit of Rs 2,457.67 crore," the chief minister said during all-party legislators meeting on Friday. The fund received from the Centre is a major contributor to the developmental process in the state as its own resource generation is limited, Khandu said. He said the government is currently spending a substantial amount on strengthening the health infrastructure in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak, resulting in an additional burden to the state exchequer. The government has spent Rs 45.73 crore so far to combat the COVID-19 outbreak and constituted a committee for the revival of the state economy, he said. "There has been an overall shortfall of 18.40 per cent in the release of the state's share of the central taxes vis- -vis the recommendation of the 14th Finance Commission (FFC) during the period of 2014-2019," Khandu said.  The share of Arunachal Pradesh estimated by the commission for the period between FY15 and FY20 was at Rs 54,090.14 crore but the actual receipt was Rs 44, 126.38 crore, he said. "The state government has ensured the equitable distribution of resources across all the sectors of the economy during the 14th Finance Commission period. "While the share of central taxes in the Centre's budget estimate for 2019-20 was Rs 11, 571.10 crore but the actual release, as per the revised estimate, was Rs 8, 987.57 crore, which led to a Rs 2,583.53 crore (22.40 per cent) reduction," he said. The priority of the state government during the current fiscal is to complete all the ongoing projects, the chief minister said. The meeting was attended by BJP MLAs including Deputy Chief Minister Chowna Mein, Home Minister Bamang Felix, Education Minister Taba Tedir, Health Minister Alo Libang, Arunachal Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) President Nabam Tuki, besides MLAs of NPP and JDU, sources said. "The unforeseen situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic has forced the government to focus on the health infrastructure including other coronavirus related expenditure resulting in an additional burden to the state exchequer," he said. However, the government is committed to providing funds for salaries and pensions of its employees and wages of workers, and other priority sectors such as agriculture and horticulture to increase employment generation in the state, Khandu added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/arunachal-sees-over-17-shortfall-of-its-share-of-central-taxes-in-april-and-may-khandu-846326.html
06-06-2020||National||Senior BJP leader and Piyush Goyal's mother Chandrakanta Goyal no more||Senior BJP leader Chandrakanta Goyal passed away in Mumbai on Saturday.  She was 88. She is survived by son Piyush Goyal, senior BJP leader and Railway Minister in the Narendra Modi government. Her husband, Ved Prakash Goyal, was a BJP veteran and Shipping Minister in Atal Bihari Vajpayee government.  The Goyal family had been associated with Jan Sangh and BJP.  Chandrakanta Goyal was a three-term MLA form Matunga in Mumbai.  "She served the cause of people and also taught us to do so," Piyush Goyal said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/senior-bjp-leader-and-piyush-goyals-mother-chandrakanta-goyal-no-more-846328.html
06-06-2020||National||India records single-day spike of 9,887 COVID-19 cases||India went past Italy to become the sixth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic with the country registering a record single-day spike of 9,887 cases which pushed the nationwide tally to 2,36,657. India's death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 6,642 with a record increase of 294 deaths in the 24 hours till Saturday 8 AM. India has registered over 9,000 cases for the third day in a row. India is now the sixth worst-affected nation in terms of coronavirus infection cases after the US, Brazil, Russia, Spain and the UK, according to Johns Hopkins University data. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 1,15,942, while 1,14,072 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the Union Health Ministry said. "Thus, around 48.20 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total confirmed cases include foreigners. Of the 294 deaths reported since Friday morning, 139 were in Maharashtra, 58 in Delhi, 35 in Gujarat, 12 each in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, 11 in West Bengal, eight in Telangana, seven in Madhya Pradesh, five in Rajasthan, two in Andhra Pradesh and one each in Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Punjab Jharkhand and Uttarakhand. Of the total 6,642 fatalities, Maharashtra tops tally with 2,849 deaths followed by Gujarat with 1,190 deaths, Delhi with 708, Madhya Pradesh with 384, West Bengal with 366, Uttar Pradesh with 257, Tamil Nadu with 232,  Rajasthan with 218, Telangana with 113 and Andhra Pradesh with 73 deaths. The death toll reached 57 in Karnataka and 48 in Punjab.  Jammu and Kashmir has reported 36 fatalities due to the disease, Bihar has 29, Haryana has 24 deaths, Kerala has 14, Uttarakhand has 11, Odisha has eight and Jharkhand has reported seven deaths so far. Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh have registered five COVID-19 fatalities each. Assam has recorded four deaths, while Chhattisgarh has reported two deaths so far. Meghalaya and Ladakh have reported one COVID-19 fatality each, according to the ministry data. According to the ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities. According to the health ministry data updated in the morning, the highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 80,229, followed by Tamil Nadu at 28,694, Delhi at 26,334, Gujarat at 19,094, Rajasthan at 10,084, Uttar Pradesh at 9,733 and Madhya Pradesh at 8,996. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 7,303 in West Bengal, 4,835 in Karnataka, 4,596 in Bihar and 4,303 in Andhra Pradesh. It has risen to 3,597 in Haryana, 3,324 in Jammu and Kashmir, 3,290 in Telangana and 2,608 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 2,461 coronavirus infections so far, while Assam has 2,153 cases. A total of 1,699 people have been infected with the virus in Kerala and 1,215 in Uttarakhand. Jharkhand has registered 881 cases, Chhattisgarh has 879, Tripura has 692, Himachal Pradesh has 393, Chandigarh has 304 cases, Goa has 196, Manipur has 132 and Puducherry has 99 cases. Ladakh has 97 COVID-19 cases, Nagaland has 94, Arunachal Pradesh has 45, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Meghalaya have registered 33 infections each. Mizoram has reported 22 cases and Dadar and Nagar Haveli has 14 cases, while Sikkim has reported three cases till now. "8,192 cases are being reassigned to states," the ministry said on its website adding "our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR." State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-single-day-spike-of-9887-covid-19-cases-846331.html
06-06-2020||National||COVID-19 could be opportunity for India to speed up Ayushman Bharat: WHO chief||The COVID-19 pandemic, which has presented challenges for several nations, could be an “opportunity” for India to speed up the health insurance scheme Ayushman Bharat, especially with a focus on primary healthcare, WHO chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus has said. WHO Director-General Ghebreyesus was responding to a question on the COVID-19 situation in India, where the number of coronavirus cases are increasing rapidly. India went past Italy on Friday to become the sixth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic. India saw a record single-day jump of 9,887 coronavirus cases and 294 deaths on Saturday, pushing the nationwide infection tally to 2,36,657 and the death toll to 6,642, according to the health ministry. "Of course COVID is very unfortunate and it's challenging for many nations but we need to look for opportunities too. For instance for India, this could be an opportunity to speed up Ayushman Bharat, especially with a focus on primary health care. I know there is a very strong commitment from the government to speed up the implementation of Ayushman Bharat and with primary healthcare and community engagement, I think we can really turn the tide,” Ghebreyesus said during a press briefing in Geneva on Friday. Ayushman Bharat is the world’s largest health insurance scheme and was launched by the Narendra Modi government in 2018. Last month, Modi had said that the number of people who have benefited from the scheme crossed the one crore-mark. The scheme aims to cover more than 500 million beneficiaries and provide coverage of Rs 500,000 per family per year. Referring to the Ayushman Bharat scheme, Ghebreyesus added that “using and speeding up what has started could actually help in India and that's what WHO was very appreciative by the way when Ayushman Bharat started. And this could be a very good opportunity actually to test that and speed up and use it to really fight this pandemic.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-could-be-opportunity-for-india-to-speed-up-ayushman-bharat-who-chief-846332.html
06-06-2020||National||Two persons test positive for COVID-19 in Mizoram, total rises to 24||Two persons, who had recently returned from New Delhi, tested positive for COVID-19 in Mizoram, taking the total number of cases in the state to 24, an official said on Saturday. The two are from Aizwal district, he said. "They were in quarantine centres and their samples were tested at the Zoram Medical College. The two new patients remain asymptomatic," the official said. With these fresh patients, the number of active COVID-19 cases increased to 23, while a person who tested positive after returning from Amsterdam in March has recovered from the disease. A total of 302 samples were tested on Friday at the ZMC, the official said, adding that the government had received an RT-PCR machine from Manipur. "The new machine has been installed at the ZMC and this will help increase the number of COVID-19 tests in Mizoram," he said. According to the International Atomic Energy Agency, the real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique is highly sensitive and specific and can deliver a reliable diagnosis as fast as three hours.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-persons-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-mizoram-total-rises-to-24-846337.html
06-06-2020||National||Man in Pune orders laptop, receives stone tile in parcel: Report||Chinmay Girish Madholkar, a resident of Talawde in Pune, lodged an FIR after the incident at Dehruroad police station. The police told the publication that Madholkar had ordered a laptop from a famous online shopping portal at Rs 37,990 through his credit card. The parcel was delivered to him on May 29 when a delivery boy came to his residence and handed over the parcel. However, when Madholkar and his wife opened the parcel they were flabbergasted to see a red-coloured stone tile, the police were quoted in the report. Madholkar then filed a complaint to the police and a case of cheating has been registered. The police are still investigating the matter, the news report stated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/man-in-pune-orders-laptop-receives-stone-tile-in-parcel-report-846340.html
06-06-2020||National||FACT CHECK | False claim viral about arrest of Amzath Ali and Thamim Shaikh in Kerala elephant death case||Live Hindustan wrote an article on the purported arrests where Amar Prasad Reddy’s tweet was featured.    News Nation anchor Deepak Chaurasia made the same claim in Hindi — “हत्या के मामले में अमजद अली और तमीम शेख की गिरफ्तारी हुई है।”  Alt News contacted Palakkad Superintendent of Police G Siva Vikram who termed the social media claims “fake” and informed that a man named P Wilson has been arrested in the matter. This was also reported by DD News Malayalam and DH.   Prashant Patel Umrao, whose trysts with misinformation have been documented several times, also made the same claim.  Others who pushed the anti-Muslim narrative were author Ravi Rai, BJP leader Varun Gandhi’s secretary Ishita Yadav, VHP member Abishek Mishra, BJP UP member Richa Rajpoot, OpIndia sub-editor Anupam Singh, columnist Rakesh Krishnan Simha, Twitter user BALA @erbmjha and Twitter account of Hindu nationalist party in Kerala Indu Makkal Katchi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/fact-check-false-claim-viral-about-arrest-of-amzath-ali-and-thamim-shaikh-in-kerala-elephant-death-case-846341.html
06-06-2020||National||BSF jawan shoots himself dead with service weapon in Chhattisgarh||A Border Security Force (BSF) jawan allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service weapon in Kanker district of Chhattisgarh on Saturday, police said. The incident took place in the early hours at a forest in Pankhanjore police station area, police said. "The deceased jawan, identified as Head Constable Suresh Kumar, was returning along with his colleagues after an anti-Naxal operation," a senior police official told PTI. A team of BSF's 157th battalion had launched the operation on Friday from its camp in Sangam village, he said. On the way back, Kumar allegedly shot himself with his AK-47 rifle between Ghoda and Dotameta villages, around 200 meters ahead of the camp, and died on the spot, he said. What prompted him to take the extreme step is being ascertained, he added. On Friday, an Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) of the same 157th battalion had tested positive for COVID-19 in Bhilai town of Durg district. The ASI was kept in a quarantine centre set up by the paramilitary forces in Bhilai after he returned from his hometown in Uttar Pradesh following his leave. The Frontier Headquarters of the BSF, which is extensively deployed in Kanker for anti-Maoist operations, is located in Bhilai. Security forces who are returning from other states are being quarantined before being allowed to join the duty.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bsf-jawan-shoots-himself-dead-with-service-weapon-in-chhattisgarh-846345.html
06-06-2020||National||VP, PM condole death of former top cop Marwah||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu and Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday condoled the demise of former IPS officer Ved Marwah, recalling his "unwavering courage" which stood out during his career. Marwah, a former governor of Mizoram, Manipur and Jharkhand, had also served as the Delhi Police Commissioner in the 1980s. He died in Goa on Friday. He was 87. "Shri Ved Marwah Ji will be remembered for his rich contributions to public life. His unwavering courage always stood out during his career as an IPS officer," Modi tweeted. Marwah was also a well respected public intellectual, the prime minister said. " Pained by his demise. Condolences to his family and admirers. Om Shanti," the prime minister said. Marwah was an upright officer known for his integrity and competence, the vice president said. "My condolences to the bereaved family members. May his soul rest in peace," the Vice President's Secretariat tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vp-pm-condole-death-of-former-top-cop-marwah-846355.html
06-06-2020||National||Open all hours, Delhi crematorium struggles with COVID-19 dead patients||Traditional funeral pyres have been drafted in to burn the bodies of coronavirus victims in the Indian capital as crematorium furnaces struggle to keep up with the mounting death toll. Smoke from the open-air blazes stings the eyes of waiting mourners and workers at Nigambodh Ghat, New Delhi's biggest and oldest crematorium. The rising number of bodies arriving from hospitals has forced the facility, situated next to the city's historic Red Fort, to extend its opening hours. Funerals start at 8.00am and go on late into the night. India is one of the hardest-hit countries from the coronavirus with about 240,000 cases and more than 6,700 dead. According to official figures, about 650 have died in Delhi, but media and cemetery officials say there have been hundreds more victims in the city. The committee that runs Nigambodh Ghat says the crematorium has handled more than 500 coronavirus funerals in two months. Three other crematoria and at least two cemeteries also handle Delhi's virus dead. Authorities have ordered victims be incinerated in modern furnaces as a precaution against infection as anxiety grows over the spread of the disease. But only three of six furnaces at Nigambodh Ghat are working, so for the past week, wood pyres, the traditional structures used in Hindu funeral rituals for thousands of years, have been allowed to help clear the backlog.  Suman Kumar Gupta of the crematorium management committee said families arriving for a funeral had to queue to pass through a "sanitation tunnel" at the entrance and then wait hours for the ceremony, prompting anxiety about the risk of infection. "They want it to be faster, but we have only the three furnaces working," said the official. Pressure is being felt all around. Some ambulances are bringing four or five bodies at a time from hospitals where mortuaries are reportedly overloaded with virus victims. An ambulance driver told AFP there had been times when he was forced to leave his vehicle with bodies inside parked overnight at Nigambodh Ghat, after the facility failed to cremate them and they could not be returned to the hospital. It takes about two hours to incinerate a body in a furnace and even longer on the pyres, which are fed by a constant stream of cartloads of wood pushed by dozens of crematorium workers. In front of the furnaces, the mourners stand behind a screen, their masked faces revealing only eyes brimming with tears. Narendra Vashisht, 68, waited two hours before he could peer through the glass at his brother's body being prepared for its final moments. "It has not been easy," he said. "We had to keep asking them to hurry it up." Before the virus crisis, tradition-loving Indian families were wary of modern furnaces. Now they are scared of the illness and want a quick and efficient end. "We used to get only four or five bodies a day for the furnace. We had to convince people to use it. Now things are different," Gupta said. The traditional pyres are set up in the crematorium grounds. Workers in masks pour clarified butter over the body, which remains in a bag, and place marigold garlands on some victims before setting ablaze the wood. Three or four family members are allowed to watch. About four pyres work at any one time. Gupta worries about the lack of protective equipment for the workers, though they themselves appear less nervous. Sanjay Sharma, one of these labourers, lit a traditional beedi cigarette as he watched grieving relatives. He is certain the worst is yet to come for Delhi. "But we will make sure the dead are treated with respect," he said. "It's the least we can do for the shattered families."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/open-all-hours-delhi-crematorium-struggles-with-covid-19-dead-patients-846359.html
06-06-2020||National||3 new cases of COVID-19 in Pondy, tally reaches 107||There new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Puducherry on Saturday, taking the overall tally of infections in the union territory to 107. A release from the Department of Health and Family Welfare Services said five patients taking treatment in the territorial government-run Indira Gandhi Medical college hospital in neighboring Kadirkamam were discharged. Consequently, the hospital now has 30 patients. The three new patients reported were admitted to the Centrally administered JIPMER hospital taking the total active cases in JIPMER to 28. Two patients belonging to Puducherry have been taking treatment in hospitals in Chennai and in Salem in neighboring Tamil Nadu and in all, there are now 60 active cases relating to the Union Territory, the release said. It also said 7,793 samples tested negative out of 7,963 examined on Saturday. The results of other samples were awaited. The total COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory are 107 (60 active and 47 treated and discharged so far).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3-new-cases-of-covid-19-in-pondy-tally-reaches-107-846363.html
06-06-2020||National||'Indian spy quadcopter' along LoC allegedly shot down by Pakistan Army||The Pakistan Army on Saturday claimed to have shot down an "Indian spying quadcopter" allegedly intruding across the Line of Control (LoC). Military spokesman Major General Babar Iftikhar said that the mini copter violated the country's airspace in Khanjar sector of the LoC. "The quadcopter had intruded 500 metres on Pakistan's side of the LoC,” he said in a statement. The spokesman claimed that it was the eighth Indian quadcopter to be shot down by the Pakistan Army troops this year. Last month, two such quadcopters were downed, the first on May 27 and the second on May 29 after they allegedly intruded deep inside the Pakistani territory, he said. India has dismissed previous such claims by the Pakistan Army. The ties between the two nations strained following the Balakot strike when the Indian Air Force jets bombed a Jaish-e-Mohammed training camp in Pakistan on February 26 last year to avenge the killing of 40 Central Reserve Police Force personnel in the Pulwama terror attack on February 14. Pakistan retaliated on February 27 by attempting to target Indian military installations. The ties further nose-dived after New Delhi abrogated Article 370 that granted special status to Jammu and Kashmir in August last year. Pakistan downgraded diplomatic relations with India and expelled the Indian High Commissioner.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-spy-quadcopter-along-loc-allegedly-shot-down-by-pakistan-army-846366.html
06-06-2020||National||Maharashtra sees 'significant' drop in serious crimes during lockdown||The Maharashtra Police have observed a "significant" drop in the number of serious offenses, including murder, rape, dacoity, and kidnapping, during the lockdown as compared to the corresponding period last year. This has come to light in the data compiled by the state police department, an official said on Saturday. The data collected so far is only for the months of March and April. The statistics for the month of May is being collected, he said. "The data has revealed that during the lockdown, there was a slump in the number of major offenses like murder, attempt to murder, rape, molestation, dacoity, robbery, and thefts," he said. During the lockdown, the police have been on the streets round-the-clock to ensure strict implementation of lockdown, the official said. "The presence of police personnel nearby and the fear of contracting the deadly infection might have brought such serious crimes under control during this period, he added. The first phase of the nation-wide lockdown came into force from March 25. Although the Maharashtra government has now extended the lockdown till June 30, it has relaxed several restrictions. According to the official, the total number of serious offenses registered in March this year was 21,107 as against the 23,859 recorded during the same period last year. As compared to the data of the same month in 2019, there is a drop in the number of cases of murder by 37, rape by 59, molestation by 65, robbery 160, and theft by 2,290 registered across various police stations, he said.  Besides that, there were 1,024 cases of kidnapping registered in March 2019 and its number dropped to 842 this year. "There were 14,559 offenses registered in April 2020, whereas this figure was 22,020 last year in the same month," the official said. There were 171 cases of murder registered in April last year, whereas this figure was 94 this year. The number of rape cases reported in April last year was 447 and this year's figure was 165, he added. There tally of molestation cases was 1,107 last year, which came down to 505 this year in April. Similarly, as compared to the 991 cases of kidnapping registered at various police stations in April 2019, the count dropped to 217 this year. Last year, a total of 7,281 cases of theft were registered in April, but this year the number came down by 5,744 cases, as only 1,537 offenses were recorded, he said. However, there was a rise in the number of violation of prohibitory orders in April this year as compared to the corresponding period last year. While 7,731 such offenses had been registered in April last year, the tally reached 9,328 this year, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maharashtra-sees-significant-drop-in-serious-crimes-during-lockdown-846371.html
06-06-2020||National||Elderly man stabs wife to death, sustains grievous injuries during attack in Rajasthan||A 75-year-old retired soldier allegedly stabbed his wife to death and sustained grievous injuries in the attack following a heated argument between the two over a domestic dispute in Rajasthan's Alwar district, police said on Saturday. The elderly couple was rushed to a nearby hospital, where Lalchand Yadav died while undergoing treatment, and his wife Savita, 66, was declared brought dead by doctors, they said. The incident happened in the Bhiwadi town of the district on Friday. Yadav stabbed his wife and got himself grievously injured in the attack, Bhiwadi Circle Officer Hariram Kumawat said. According to police, the two were upset as their daughter-in-law had registered a dowry case against her husband and both of them were also named in the FIR. Their three sons had gone to settle the dowry dispute when the incident occurred, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elderly-man-stabs-wife-to-death-sustains-grievous-injuries-during-attack-in-rajasthan-846380.html
06-06-2020||National||NGT orders probe into plea over 'illegal' farmhouse expansion by Telangana minister||The National Green Tribunal has ordered a probe into a plea over an alleged illegal construction of a farmhouse by Telangana minister KT Rama Rao. A bench comprising Justice K Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta issued notices to the Telangana government, IT and Industries Minister KT Rama Rao, the state pollution control board, Greater Hyderabad municipal corporation, and others while seeking their replies by August 26. The plea, filed by Congress MP Anumula Revanth Reddy, alleged that the Telangana chief minister's son expanded his farmhouse by violating environmental laws. "We want to ascertain the present status of the constructions made and also we want to issue a notice to the party respondents as well to know their stand on the question of constructions made in connection of the violation alleged in the application regarding the violation, the government orders and also the environmental laws," the bench said in its order on June 5. The southern bench of NGT has constituted a committee to probe the plea. The committee members include a senior officer of the regional office under the Environment Ministry, the Chennai district collector, Ranga Reddy district collector, a senior officer from the Telangana Pollution Control Board, the commissioner of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and others. The committee will inspect the area in question and submit a factual and action-taken report if there is any violation. "The committee is directed to submit the report to this tribunal within a period of two months through email. The registry is directed to communicate this order to the respondents, including the committee members immediately through e-mail," the bench said. The plea, filed through advocate Sravan Kumar, alleged that the illegal construction was made in the bio-conservation zone within the catchment area of Osman Sagar Lake which is a life line for drinking water and flood control instruments situated in the limits of Greater Hyderabad, Municipal Commission (GHMC) of Hyderabad now in Telangana||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ngt-orders-probe-into-plea-over-illegal-farmhouse-expansion-by-telangana-minister-846392.html
06-06-2020||National||Govt sets up taskforce to examine maternal mortality rate, age of motherhood||A taskforce has been set up by the government to examine matters pertaining to the age of motherhood, imperatives of lowering maternal mortality rate and improvement of nutritional levels, according to a statement by the WCD Ministry. The 10-member taskforce will be headed under the chairmanship of Jaya Jaitly. It will suggest suitable legislations or amendments in the existing laws to support its recommendations; and also work out a detailed roll-out plan with timelines to implement these recommendations, the Women and Child Development Ministry (WCD) said in the statement. The taskforce will submit its report by July 31, it said. The taskforce will examine the correlation of age of marriage and motherhood with health, medical wellbeing and nutritional status of mother and child, during pregnancy, birth and thereafter, key parameters like infant mortality rate (IMR), maternal mortality rate (MMR), total fertility rate (TFR), sex ratio at birth (SRB), child sex ratio (CSR) and any other relevant points pertaining to health and nutrition in this context, the statement said. The taskforce may invite other experts to its meetings if and as required and it will be provided secretarial assistance by NITI Aayog and will submit its report, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-sets-up-taskforce-to-examine-maternal-mortality-rate-age-of-motherhood-846407.html
06-06-2020||National||Plea in Delhi HC for resumption of normal judicial work via videoconferencing||A plea has been moved before the Delhi High Court seeking resumption of normal judicial work in all the courts in the national capital via videoconferencing and e-filing. In an administrative order issued on May 29, the high court had said it will only hear urgent matters via videoconferencing till June 14 in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The order also applies to all district courts in the city. The petition filed by advocate S B Tripathi has sought a direction to the high court administration to pass an order for resumption of normal judicial work via e-filing and videoconferencing. It has also sought setting aside of the May 29 administrative order of the court. The plea contended that since all the benches are sitting now and cases are being filed by e-filing, there would be no impediment in hearing "not-so-urgent" pending and fresh matters. It has also claimed that the Supreme Court has permitted filing of matters in a routine manner and started to take up non-urgent matters as well. The petition has said that due to the restricted functioning of courts, pendency of cases has increased and lawyers are becoming financially hard-pressed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-in-delhi-hc-for-resumption-of-normal-judicial-work-via-videoconferencing-846414.html
06-06-2020||National||Negligence in treating COVID-19 cases a serious issue: Ajit Pawar||Stating that negligence during treatment of COVID-19 patients in private hospitals is a "serious issue", Maharashtra deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Saturday warned them of strict action for "unethical practices". Addressing a review meeting on the COVID-19 situation with senior officials here, Pawar said, "negligence by private hospitals during treatment of infected patients is a serious issue". "A strong action will be taken against such hospitals for any unethical practices," he said. Speaking about reopening of schools in Maharashtra, the epicentre of coronavirus infection, Pawar said a decision will be taken soon with adequate precautionary measures to insulate students from the coronavirus impact. Pawar also observed that many people are not following the lockdown norms in the state. Maharashtra has launched phase-wise reopening of the economy and public activity under "Mission Begin Again" though the lockdown remains in force until June 30. "The economy needs to be restarted but it has to be done by observing discipline. It has been observed that many people are not following rules. Officials should take appropriate action against such people," he said. Meanwhile, Dr Subhash Salunkhe, the consultant to the state government on the pandemic control, said treatment be provided to the infected patients from rural areas, which have seen a rise in the cases, at their native places itself. As on Friday, Maharashtra's tally of COVID-19 cases stood at 80,229 with 2,849 deaths, which is the highest for any state in the county.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/negligence-in-treating-covid-19-cases-a-serious-issue-ajit-pawar-846415.html
06-06-2020||National||Pro-Khalistan slogans raised at Golden Temple on Operation Blue Star anniversary||Pro-Khalistan slogans were raised by Sikh hardliners in the Golden Temple complex here on the 36th anniversary of Operation Blue Star on Saturday. Around 100 activists led by Imaan Singh Mann, son of Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) president and former MP Simranjit Singh Mann, raised the slogans at the Akal Takht -- the highest temporal seat of Sikhs. 'Parallel Jathedar' of Akal Takht Dhian Singh Mand, who entered the premises with the Mann-led group, addressed the gathering. Members of Sikh hardliner outfit Damdami Taksal along with Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) officials honoured the families of those who were killed during Operation Blue Star, which was carried out in 1984 to flush out heavily-armed terrorists holed up in the Golden Temple. The main programme to honour such families was organised by the Akal Takht. Addressing the gathering, Giani Harpreet Singh said the Sikh community will always remember the unhealed wounds of Operation Blue Star. There was heavy barricading by police around all entry points to the Golden Temple. Due to entry restrictions in view of the coronavirus pandemic, not more than 1,000 people gathered at the shrine. Usually more than one lakh people visit the shrine on this day every year. Earlier in the day, there was a minor scuffle between policemen and the group led by Maan as they were initially denied entry inside the Golden Temple. Maan sustained a foot injury during the scuffle. Later, the group was allowed entry following intervention of senior police officers present on the spot.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pro-khalistan-slogans-raised-at-golden-temple-on-operation-blue-star-anniversary-846416.html
06-06-2020||National||Twitter faces public fury after it blocks Amul's account||Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation (GCMMF) - which makes Amul brand of food products - found its Twitter account blocked on June 4 evening. The account was restored on June 5. Twitteraties have attributed that Twitter blocked Amul' s account after the company supported boycott China products campaign through number of cartoons, however, Twitter said that the account was restricted due to security reason.  "Our Twitter account was blocked on the night of June 4 and restored on June 5 morning when we took up process of reactivation with Twitter. We have asked Twitter why it blocked our account. We are waiting for the reply,"  Amul Managing Director R S  Sodhi said.  On accessing the account, a message saying "This account is temporarily restricted. You're seeing this warning because there has been some unusual activity from this account. Do you still want to view it?" was displayed. However  a Twitter spokesperson said in a statement that "Safety and security of the accounts is a key priority for us and to ensure an account has not been compromised sometimes we require the account owner to complete a simple reCAPTCHA process. These challenges are simple for authentic account owners to solve, but difficult (or costly) for spammy or malicious account owners to complete." Once the account clears this security step, the account regains full access, the statement added. "To protect the accounts, we routinely require them to clear this security key for login verification," the spokesperson said. However,  public expressed their outrage against Twitter for blocking the dairy giant's official account. The brand figured among trending topics in India even on Saturday with over 11,500 tweets. In the campaign, Amul's iconic girl in white and red polka dots dress is seen fighting a dragon that is carrying a 'Made in China' placard. The picture mentions TikTok (a Chinese short video platform). The creative carries a tagline 'Amul Made In India' referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for self-reliant India. Amul always produces creative cartoons on national and international developments. "As far as the cartoon is concerned, it is not Amul's comment. Amul butter girl comments on mood of the nation and the topics which are in discussions among the common people," Sodhi said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/twitter-faces-public-fury-after-it-blocks-amuls-account-846424.html
06-06-2020||National||Manohar Lal Khattar urges people to use indigenous goods, give up lure for Chinese ones||Blaming China for the global spread of coronavirus infection, Haryana Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Saturday urged people to use ‘Made in India’ products and give up the lure for Chinese goods. Khattar said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ or self-reliant India implies the country has to be less dependent on imported goods and make products for the world. “To achieve ‘atmanirbharta’ (self-reliance), we will have to run a campaign and for this, we will have to keep many important aspects before us. One aspect the prime minister talked about is ‘local for vocal’,” Khattar said speaking on “Post Corona: Self-Reliant India' at a webinar organized by Kurukshetra University. “We will have to use big and small products manufactured in our country, our state, our tehsils and our villages,” he asserted. Urging people to shun Chinese goods, Khattar said we all have to give up the lure, if any, for Chinese products, because this East Asian country has pitted itself against the entire world amid the COVID pandemic. “It’s China versus world due to coronavirus,” said Khattar. “We have no lure for Chinese goods, we don’t have to bring them here,” the chief minister said in Hindi. Squarely blaming China for the birth of deadly coronavirus, Khattar asserted, “This virus emanated from China. Had China controlled it, it would not have become a global pandemic.” “The world got this pandemic from China. If anyone is to be held responsible for this situation, it is China. China today is cut off from the world. From an economic point of view too, they are cut off,” reiterated the chief minister. Stressing on self-reliance, he said, “When we stand on our own feet, our economy will become better and our avenues for employment will grow. Other countries can import from us and our exports will grow.” On the Rs 20 lakh crore economic stimulus announced by the Centre for various sections of the society and various sectors of the industry, Khattar said Prime Minister Modi announced this package to help the country continue its growth. “No other country has announced such a big package,” he said. Khattar also made a mention of 4,119 startups registered by the youth in Haryana, saying the number is twice that in Rajasthan, four times that in Punjab, five times that in Uttarakhand and 14 times that in Himachal. On the COVID situation, he said the people will have to changes their lifestyle to prevent the spread of the virus with precautions like social distancing and sanitisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/manohar-lal-khattar-urges-people-to-use-indigenous-goods-give-up-lure-for-chinese-ones-846431.html
06-06-2020||National||Muslims from India undertaking Haj this year seems unlikely: Sources||With the coronavirus pandemic showing no signs of abating, it seems unlikely that Muslims from India will be able to undertake the Haj pilgrimage this year, sources said on Saturday. However, they said the government will take a final decision on the matter only after Saudi Arabia makes its position on hosting the pilgrimage clear. A circular issued by the Haj Committee of India on Friday said only a few weeks are left for the preparatory work in India for Haj 2020, yet the Saudi authorities have not communicated any further development regarding the pilgrimage. "In view of the several inquiries received and concerns expressed over uncertainty over Haj 2020, it has been decided by the Haj Committee of India that, those pilgrims who desire to cancel their Haj journey this year, their 100 per cent amount paid so far will be refunded without any deductions," the circular issued by Haj Committee of India CEO Maqsood Ahmed Khan said. "Coronavirus cases are increasing in Saudi Arabia and two lakh people have to go from here. We had made preparations, but now there is very little time left. We are waiting for an official word from Saudi Arabia," a top source told PTI. In response to a question, the source said, "This time, it is unlikely that people will be able to undertake Haj from India." Uncertainty has been looming large over this year's Haj in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and though Saudi Arabia has not made a decision on whether the annual pilgrimage will be held or not, it did ask Muslims to delay their bookings till there is more clarity. The bilateral annual Haj 2020 agreement between India and Saudi Arabia was signed last December.  In 2020, a total of 2 lakh Indian Muslims were expected to perform Haj.   Over 95,000 COVID-19 cases and more than 600 deaths have been reported in Saudi Arabia due to the coronavirus pandemic, according to Johns Hopkins University data. Some countries have decided not to send their people for Haj this time. The most prominent among these is Indonesia, the country with the largest Muslim population in the world. The Haj 2020 is proposed in the period between late July and early August. The Haj is one of the five pillars of Islam which every Muslim is required to complete at least once in their lifetime if they are healthy enough and have the means to do so.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/muslims-from-india-undertaking-haj-this-year-seems-unlikely-sources-846434.html
06-06-2020||National||In poll-bound Bihar, this Sunday, rallies organised Left, Right & Centre||It’s very rare that three different political parties, with divergent views and ideologies, organise rallies or hold march the same day. But this Sunday (June 7), the Left (comprising CPI, CPM, and the CPI-ML), the BJP, and the main Opposition party in Bihar, the RJD, will be holding rallies and protest march on June 7. The BJP was the first to announce a virtual rally, which will be addressed by former party chief and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The ‘virtual rally’, will be an address through video conference via Facebook live. “A first-of-its-kind digital rally, it is expected that around one lakh people will be addressed through the virtual rally by Amit Shah on Sunday,” said Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal. Through this event, Shah is likely to sound poll bugle in election-bound Bihar, where polling for the 243 Assembly seats is slated to be held in October-November this year. The term of the present Assembly expires on November 29, 2020. It is also expected that Shah may reiterate his last year call to contest the ensuing Assembly poll under the leadership of Nitish Kumar, despite some reservations expressed by a section of BJP leaders as well as LJP chief Chirag Paswan.  ‘Aata’ vs data The RJD has, however, decided to observe ‘Garib Adhikar Diwas’ on June 7 (Sunday) to protest the BJP’s launch of its electioneering during the COVID-19 crisis. “When the poor don’t have ‘aata’ (flour), what will they do with the data,” said Tejashwi, dwelling at length how poor migrants have been left to fend for themselves, while the ruling alliance partner of Nitish, the BJP, has been busy holding digital rally.  Betrayal Day The Left parties, comprising the CPI, CPM, CPI-ML and the Forward Bloc, will observe June 7 as Vishwashghat-Dhikkar Diwas (Betrayal Day) here on Sunday. The Left move is to protest BJP’s ‘virtual rally’ at a time when the State is badly afflicted with coronavirus crisis. “The double engine NDA Government in Bihar has failed on all fronts during this crisis. Holding a virtual rally by Amit Shah at this time will be like rubbing salt into the wounds of those hit by COVID-19,” said CPI State Secretary, Satya Narayan Singh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/in-poll-bound-bihar-this-sunday-rallies-organised-left-right-centre-846436.html
06-06-2020||National||Delhi health infrastructure should be used for its residents only: AAP govt panel||A Delhi government panel has suggested that the health infrastructure of the city should be used only for treating residents of the national capital in view of the COVID-19 crisis, sources said on Saturday. The panel, headed by Dr Mahesh Verma, has submitted its report to the government in which it has said that if Delhi health infrastructure is open for non-residents, all beds will be occupied within three days. On Friday, Delhi recorded 1,330 fresh coronavirus cases taking the COVID-19 tally in the city beyond the 26,000-mark, as the death toll due to the disease jumped to 708.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-health-infrastructure-should-be-used-for-its-residents-only-aap-govt-panel-846437.html
06-06-2020||National||Amit Shah to hold 'virtual rally' for people of Bihar on Sunday ahead of Assembly elections||Senior BJP leader and Union Home Minister Amit Shah will address the people of Bihar through an online event on Sunday in what is being seen as launch of the party's campaign for the state assembly polls, which are slated for October-November. The saffron party is pulling out all the stops to make the event a success after the COVID-19 outbreak has ruled out any big political gathering. Though this 'virtual rally' is part of the BJP's over month-long campaign to highlight the achievements of the Modi government after it completed the first year of its second term on May 30, Shah is expected to dwell in length over the upcoming assembly polls in which his party is in alliance with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's JD(U) and Union minister Ram Vilas Paswan's Lok Janshakti Party. Bihar BJP leaders have said the party has made arrangements at most of the over 72,000 booths in the state for its workers and the masses to hear Shah's address.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/amit-shah-to-hold-virtual-rally-for-people-of-bihar-on-sunday-ahead-of-assembly-elections-846439.html
06-06-2020||National||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu underlines need for proper data on migrant workers||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday underlined the need for "proper" data on migrant workers to help authorities impart them with required skills and provide employment opportunities as the country exits the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. In a Facebook post on the novel coronavirus and ways to deal with it, he said unfortunately, the poor, the daily wage earners, farmers, and small businesses have been severely affected by the events triggered by the pandemic. The governments at the Centre and in the states have taken several measures to alleviate the suffering of the poor and the needy, especially migrant workers, he said. "The recent events underline the need for having proper data on the migrants in the country. Creating such data will help the governments to impart skills and create employment opportunities to them in their respective places," he said. At the same, there is a need to create awareness among the migrants on the facilities available for their welfare and upliftment, he opined. Over the past few weeks, lakhs of migrant workers have returned to their native states as the lockdown had rendered them jobless. Referring to the precautions people are taking to prevent the spread of the killer virus, Naidu said, "What initially looked a bit bizarre and surreal has become the new normal." "But driven as we are by our primal instincts of survival, we have also adapted to this new normal and this transition now appears quite seamless," he said. When compared with many developed countries, India has managed the COVID-19 crisis quite admirably, he said. Experts have suggested that the fatalities could have been several times higher had there been no lockdown, the vice president said. However, the gains the country has so far achieved, particularly in terms of containing the spread of the virus, should not be frittered away in the wake of "Unlocking-1", he cautioned. "The coming weeks are extremely crucial and there is no room for complacency. Both the government and the people together have an onerous responsibility in ensuring that the curve gets flattened in the near future," he emphasised.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/vice-president-m-venkaiah-naidu-underlines-need-for-proper-data-on-migrant-workers-846442.html
06-06-2020||National||COVID-19: ITBP opens its countrywide health centres for veterans ||The Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), that guards the LAC with China, has thrown open the gates of its countrywide health centres and hospitals for its veterans suffering from the novel coronavirus, the chief of the paramilitary force said on Saturday. ITBP Director General (DG) S S Deswal has issued an official message to all his troops and formations saying the decision has been taken after the force came across media reports of people facing problems in getting admission or treatment at COVID-19 designated hospitals. "We have come across news items that citizens are facing problems in hospital admissions and treatment or they are charged exorbitantly," DG Deswal said in his message. "Our Himveers (mountain warriors) have sweated throughout their life. We do not want that they suffer and hence all our veterans are being offered health services in case anyone of you are affected by COVID-19," he said.  He further said that all hospitals of the force throughout the country will admit veterans with coronavirus infection and treat them. The ITBP has about 20,000 retired and dependent personnel. The ITBP runs a super specialty Referral hospital for the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs) or paramilitary forces in Greater Noida, has two base hospitals at Tigri in Delhi and Kimin in Arunachal Pradesh and composite hospitals at Dehradun and Chandigarh apart from health centres at its every base in the country. The DG, further in his message, said the COVID-19 situation is "under control" in the force as protocols were strictly followed by field units.  "Everyone of you have contributed in this tense period. We are greatful and proud of our doctors and para-medical staff who have sincerely and with utmost dedication treated our troops and policemen from all forces working in the national capital region," the DG said. As per latest data accessed by PTI, the force has 211 COVID-19 cases out of which 177 personnel have been cured and only 34 are under treatment. One trooper has succumbed to the pandemic. ITBP also reported three fresh cases of coronavirus infection on Saturday.  The ITBP was the first organisation in the country to have created a 1,000-bed quarantine centre for coronavirus-affected people. The centre in Chhawla area of south-west Delhi has treated about 1,200 people including 42 foreigners who were brought to India on special evacuation flights from Wuhan in China and Italy after the COVID-19 outbreak a few months back. The facility is still operational and is taking care of those ITBP troops who are joining back work after easing of restrictions imposed during the countrywide lockdown. It also created the first standard operating procedures for management of the pandemic among the various CAPFs and central and state police organisations. The about 90,000 personnel-strong force is primarily tasked with guarding the 3,488 km-long Line of Actual Control with China and a good number of its troops along with Army personnel are at present engaged in the standoff with the People's Liberation Army of the neighbouring country in the Ladakh area.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-itbp-opens-its-countrywide-health-centres-for-veterans-846446.html
06-06-2020||National||A tale of two 'Dabangg' Uttar Pradesh cops||The deeds of these two 'darogas' (inspectors) of the Uttar Pradesh police appeared to be borrowed straight from some Bollywood blockbuster movies though both of them had to eat the humble pie in the end. Sample this. The residents of Baskhari locality in UP's Ambedkar Nagar district, about 200 Km from Lucknow, were taken by surprise when they saw a huge cavalcade of police and civil vehicles on the road moving in a procession and raising slogans. It was neither a political rally nor any prominent politician was visiting the area. It was the farewell procession of the in-charge of Baskhari police station in the district Manoj Singh. Singh had been shunted to another police station in the district after complaints of irregularities. As the video of the procession with Singh sitting in a jeep went viral on the social media, the SHO was suspended.  In another incident, an inspector of UP police got so angry over the failure of the villagers selling vegetables at a rural market to follow social distancing that he drove his official jeep over the heaps of vegetables crushing them under its wheels and ruining the hopes of the poor villagers to earn a few bucks in this time of crisis.  The incident happened at Ghoorpur in Prayagraj district, about 200 Km from Lucknow and the video went viral on social media; later, the district police chief tendered an apology and the state government announced to pay compensation to the farmers. The inspector was suspended.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/a-tale-of-two-dabangg-uttar-pradesh-cops-846447.html
06-06-2020||National||NIA arrests terror funding conspirator in Visakhapatnam espionage case||The NIA on Saturday arrested a terror funding conspirator in the infamous Visakhapatnam espionage case wherein 11 Naval personnel allegedly leaked sensitive information to Pakistan's spy agency, Inter-Services Intelligence. Abdul Rehman Abdul Jabbar Sheikh, 53, a resident of Mumbai, was involved in the terror funding along with his arrested wife Shaista Qaiser and others, an official spokesman said. During the search of his house, a number of digital devices and incriminating documents were seized by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) which took over the case in December last year, he said. The Indian intelligence agencies had busted the espionage racket linked to Pakistan in December last year. The NIA arrested Mohammed Haroon Haji Abdul Rehman Lakdawala, a resident of Mumbai, last month. A probe found that he was one of the "key conspirators" in the case. With the arrest of Sheikh, a total of 15 accused have so far been arrested, including the 11 Navy personnel, Pakistan-born Indian national Qaiser and her associates. Pakistan-based spies recruit agents in India for collecting sensitive and classified information regarding locations and movements of Indian naval ships and submarines, and other defence establishments. "Investigation revealed that a few Navy personnel came in contact with Pakistani nationals through various social media platforms such as Facebook and WhatsApp, and were involved in sharing classified information in lieu of monetary gains. The money was deposited into the bank accounts of the Navy personnel through Indian associates having business interests in Pakistan," the NIA said last month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nia-arrests-terror-funding-conspirator-in-visakhapatnam-espionage-case-846455.html
06-06-2020||National||Two Vistara pilots test COVID-19 positive after flight simulator training||Two Vistara pilots have tested positive for COVID-19 after undergoing flight simulator training, the airline said on Saturday. "Two of our pilots on returning to duty, unfortunately tested positive for COVID-19 after undergoing some flight simulator training. As part of our contact tracing efforts, we immediately placed all the direct and secondary contacts in home-quarantine," a Vistara spokesperson said.  Pilots who were in direct contact with these two pilots were sent for RT-PCR COVID-19 test, the spokesperson said, adding, "So far, the results for some of the pilots have been found negative while others are still pending." While domestic flight operations have begun in India from May 25, scheduled international flights continue to remain suspended. The Vistara spokesperson said: "The simulator training centre has been duly informed to carry out the necessary sanitisation, disinfection and other laid down guidelines as stipulated by the authorities." "Vistara is extending all possible support to the two infected pilots and continues to make every effort for the health and safety of its staff and customers that they serve," the spokesperson added. India on Saturday went past Italy to become the sixth worst-hit nation by COVID-19, with the country registering a record single-day spike of 9,887 cases which pushed the nationwide tally to 2,36,657. The country's COVID-19 death toll stood at 6,642||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/two-vistara-pilots-test-covid-19-positive-after-flight-simulator-training-846460.html
06-06-2020||National||Researchers at IIT-Hyderabad develop low-cost test kit that can detect COVID-19 within 20 minutes||A team of researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Hyderabad claims to have developed a first-of-its kind COVID-19 test kit that can deliver results within 20 minutes. The researchers claimed that the alternative test method is not based on the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) -- the method currently being used for COVID-19 testing. The test kit has been developed at a cost of Rs 550 and it can be reduced to up to Rs 350 when taken to mass production, they said. While a patent has been filed for the test kit, the team has conducted clinical trials at ESIC Medical College and Hospital in Hyderabad and sought an approval from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR). "We have developed a COVID-19 testing kit which can deliver the results in 20 minutes for symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. The uniqueness of this test kit is that it functions sans the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR)," Shiv Govind Singh, the professor at IIT-Hyderabad's Electrical Engineering department, told PTI. "The low-cost test kit is easy to carry around and tests can be done at point of care. The testing method used is an alternative to the currently used method. We identified a unique sequence of conserved regions of COVID-19 genome," Singh, who led the three-member team, said. IIT-Hyderabad is the second academic institution in the country to come up with a testing kit for novel coronavirus. IIT-Delhi became the first academic institute to have obtained the ICMR approval for a real-time PCR-based diagnostic assay.  It had claimed that the current testing methods available were "probe-based" while the one developed by its students was a "probe-free" method, which reduces the testing cost without compromising on accuracy.   India on Saturday went past Italy to become the sixth worst-hit nation by COVID-19, with the country registering a record single-day spike of 9,887 cases which pushed the nationwide tally to 2,36,657. The country's death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 6,642, with a record increase of 294 deaths in the last 24 hours till Saturday 8 am.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/researchers-at-iit-hyderabad-develop-low-cost-test-kit-that-can-detect-covid-19-within-20-minutes-846465.html
06-06-2020||National||SC uses extraordinary power to end marriage of woman||The Supreme Court has come to rescue of a woman who accused her husband of infidelity and mother-in-law of witchcraft and sorcery, by ending her five-year-old matrimonial alliance with a man from Bengaluru. A single-judge bench of Justice Hrishikesh Roy used the power granted to the Supreme Court under Article 142 of the Constitution to do complete justice, for the purpose. The matter has reached the court after she sought transfer of her divorce petition filed in Bengaluru court by her husband to Chennai. The 27-year-old woman claimed since her marriage on March 12, 2015, her husband "quarreled her on trivial issues and subjected her to verbal abuses". Besides, she claimed to have come across his extramarital affairs on several occasions. She said she bore instances of cruelty with fortitude with a hope that the time would set right her bruised relationship.  However, the situation came to a pass after her mother-in-law started claiming herself to be goddess 'Karumari Amman' threatened her to follow her instructions or she will face grievous circumstances. She had to finally take refuge with her parents who had also failed to make her husband mend his wayward life. When the matter reached the top court, it referred the case to the mediation centre at Chennai where the husband decided to settle it by paying a sum of Rs 7.50 lakh as permanent alimony. During the hearing, husband's counsel Sanjay M Nuli and the woman asked the court to grant a decree of divorce. "Since the parties have settled their disputes amicably, this court in the exercise of its power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India annul the marriage of the parties, solemnized on March 12, 2015," Justice Roy said in the order passed on June 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-uses-extraordinary-power-to-end-marriage-of-woman-846474.html
06-06-2020||National||Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat thanks Sonu Sood for sending back migrants in chartered flight||Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Saturday thanked Bollywood actor Sonu Sood for sending migrant workers stuck in Mumbai to their home in Uttarakhand by a chartered flight and invited him to visit the hill state when the coronavirus crisis is over. Rawat spoke to Sood on phone to express his gratitude. "Talked to film actor Sonu Sood today on phone to thank him for his humanitarian gesture. He and all religious and social organisations that helped migrants return to their home states have done a commendable job," Rawat said in a Facebook post. The chief minister said he has extended an invitation to the actor to visit the state when the COVID-19 crisis is over. After hearing from Rawat, Sood on Twitter said he derived more strength from the chief minister's words of praise. "It was good to hear from you sir. The simplicity and warmth with which you praised my efforts have given me more strength. I will soon come to Uttarakhand for a darshan of Badri-Kedar and pay a visit to you," the actor tweeted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttarakhand-cm-trivendra-singh-rawat-thanks-sonu-sood-for-sending-back-migrants-in-chartered-flight-846479.html
06-06-2020||National||Haryana: BJP leader Sonali Phogat, market committee official booked||BJP leader Sonali Phogat has been booked for rioting, obstructing public servant in discharge of duty and other charges on the complaint of an agricultural market committee in Hisar who accused her of slapping and hitting him with a slipper. A case has also been registered against Market Committee Secretary Sultan Singh whom Phogat has accused of making indecent remarks against her. A video clip, purportedly showing the Hisar BJP leader beating a district's agricultural market committee official with a slipper after accusing him of having made some indecent remarks against her, had gone viral on social media on Friday. In the video, the 40-year-old ruling party leader from Adampur in Hisar, also a Tik-Tok star, is seen first slapping marketing committee secretary Sultan Singh and then hitting him with her slipper in full public view. Singh later lodged a complaint with police against Phogat, denying making any indecent remarks against her and accused her of beating him up under a "misconception" that he had opposed her during the assembly elections. Hisar Superintendent of Police Ganga Ram Punia on Saturday said a case under IPC Sections 147 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault ) and 506 (criminal intimidation) has been registered against Sonali Phogat. Sultan Singh has been booked under IPC sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 509 (act with the intent to insult the modesty of a woman). Both cases were registered in Sadar Police Station Hisar, Punia said. On Saturday, the employees of market committees in Hisar, Hansi, Barwala, Uklana, Balsamand, Adampur of the district staged a dharna in their places protesting the beating of Singh. They demanded that Phogat be arrested of Sonali Phogat and submitted a memorandum to the administration. Youth Congress workers also staged a dharna at Parijat Chowk here and demanded the arrest Phogat and her supporters who were involved in the beating of Hisar Market Committee Secretary Sultan Singh. In Hansi, market committee employees wore black badges to work and later submitted a memorandum to the chief minister through the sub-divisional magistrate demanding action against the BJP leader. Phogat had told mediapersons in Hisar on Friday that she had gone to meet the market committee officials on Friday to air some grievance of farmers. She said when an official was showing her a place in the Balsamand area of Hisar district where a shed for farmers was to come up, he began making "indecent and derogatory remarks against her". She had claimed the official also made some comments against another woman official of the market committee and a woman minister of Haryana. Phogat had unsuccessfully contested the 2019 Assembly Polls from Adampur in Hisar district, a seat which was retained by senior Congress leader Kuldeep Bishnoi, who is the younger son of former chief minister Bhajan Lal. PTI CORR SUN VSD NSD NSD||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-bjp-leader-sonali-phogat-market-committee-official-booked-846480.html
06-06-2020||National||19 more die of COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, toll at 251; 1,458 fresh cases pushes tally to 30,152||Nineteen more people succumbed to the coronavirus in Chennai which reported a spike of 1,458 fresh cases on Saturday taking the infection count to 30,152 and death toll to 251, the health department said. This is the seventh consecutive day the state is witnessing more than 1000 plus cases. The number of people who got cured stood at 633 on Saturday, totalling 16,395 till date, a department bulletin said. Chennai recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases at 1,146 among districts today, aggregating 20,993 till date, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/19-more-die-of-covid-19-in-tamil-nadu-toll-at-251-1458-fresh-cases-pushes-tally-to-30152-846481.html
06-06-2020||National||Indian Railways operated only 56 Shramik trains in last two days||Amid the falling demand for the Shramik Special trains by the state governments, Chairman, Railway on Saturday (June 6) said that only 56 trains operated in the last two days. Speaking to the media, Indian Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said,  the demand for these trains has decreased. Last two days only 56 trains operated.  Earlier the railway officials ruled out the possibilities of stopping the services of Shramik Special trains over low demands and said that it will continue to run till the time state governments ask for them.  The Indian Railways had started to operate the Shramik Special trains from May 1 to ferry migrant workers and students.  The national transporter so far operated a 4,286 Shramik Special trains and ferried more than 58 lakh passengers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/indian-railways-operated-only-56-shramik-trains-in-last-two-days-846487.html
06-06-2020||National||Boy kills self after a nightlong PUBG session: Police||A 14-year-old boy allegedly hanged himself to death on early Saturday morning shortly after he stopped playing PUBG throughout the night and went to sleep, said police. Railway Colony police station’s in-charge Hansraj Meena said the boy, a class 9 student and son of an Army man, was found hanging from the grill of the ventilator in his bedroom on early Saturday morning. Meena said according to the boy’s family members, the boy had downloaded the gaming programme on his mother’s mobile phone only three days back but had been playing the game virtually continuously for the last three days. He kept on playing the game till 3 am in a room in which his brother was studying, said Meena, adding the boy went to adjoining to sleep after that. His body was found hanging from the ventilator’s grill in the morning, he said, adding the boy was rushed to MBS Hospital, where he was declared “brought dead”. No suicide note was recovered in the case, the SHO said. The boy lived in Gandhi Colony in the city along with his mother and brother, while his father, a Tamil Nadu native and Army man, is currently posted in Arunachal Pradesh. The boy’s body has been kept in hospital’s morgue for the postmortem, the SHO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boy-kills-self-after-a-nightlong-pubg-session-police-846489.html
06-06-2020||National||COVID-19 spreading to rural areas of Puducherry, says CM V Narayanasamy||Chief Minister of Puducherry V Narayanasamy on Saturday expressed concern over the spread of COVID-19 in rural areas of the Union Territory. He told reporters that "The menace of COVID-19 has of late started to affect the rural areas, too, in the Union Territory." Therefore, he said, people should be extra cautious and careful to protect themselves against the pandemic. He said the territorial administration was in an embarrassing situation as the union territory was already in a poor financial position to face the challenges posed by COVID-19. The chief minister elaborated on the Centre`s allocation of Rs 247.75 croreas compensation for the implementation of the GST (goods and services tax), saying the sum was a payment the union territory was entitled to. "We have utilised the allocation to settle the loan the territorial government had borrowed from the Reserve Bank of India to pay the salaries and pension of government staff and retired officials for the month of May," he said. Narayanasamy said Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi was trying to create an illusion over the Centre`s allocation of the funds without projecting the fact of borrowing money from the apex bank. "We are entitled to get the compensation and we have used it to repay the loan from the bank," he said. He said the managements of temples, churches and mosques had been asked to strictly follow the norms when the places of worship reopen on June 8. "There should be no distribution of any'prasadam', sacred ash or 'kumkum' and also no playing of nadaswaram in the temples. Besides, the devotees should not touch each other. The priests should also not touch any of the devotees and there should be social distancing and wearing of masks," he said. Similarly, the churches should adhere to the norms of social distancing and wearing of masks. People turning up for masses should leave their chappals outside the churches and avoid crowding, he said. Mosques too have been instructed to follow the conditions and all places of worship should be cleaned with disinfectants after the prayers and other rituals are over, he added. Referring to the territorial budget session, he said a detailed report had been sent to the Centre projecting the features of the budget for the fiscal 2020-2021. "Once the approval of the Centre, we shall go ahead with formal presentation of the budget in the Assembly," he said. He said Deputy Speaker of the assembly, N R Bhalan had urged him earlier in the day to earmark funds for essential commodities to residents in the containment zones. "We will use the money available under the Chief Minister's Relief Fund as the Disaster Management Relief Fund could not be utilised for the purpose," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-spreading-to-rural-areas-of-puducherry-says-cm-v-narayanasamy-846504.html
06-06-2020||National||Tiger population on road to recovery with annual growth of 6%: Govt||The Union Environment Ministry on Saturday stressed that four surveys since 2006 have shown a healthy annual growth rate of 6 per cent in India's tiger population, offsetting natural losses and keeping their numbers at the habitats-carrying capacity level. The clarification by the ministry came following a PTI report based on an RTI reply that showed India lost 750 tigers in the last eight years due to several causes including natural deaths, poaching, accidents, conflicts and seizures. The ministry cited details shared by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to emphasise that the tiger population in India has been brought to an assured path of recovery from the brink in the last few years. "Due to efforts of the government of India thorough the National Tiger Conservation Authority, the tiger has been taken from the brink to an assured path of recovery, which is evident in findings of the quadrennial All India Tiger Estimation conducted in 2006, 2010, 2014 and 2018," the NTCA said. "These results have shown a healthy annual growth rate of tigers at 6%, which offsets natural losses and keeps tigers at the habitats carrying capacity level, in the Indian context," it said. The RTI data showed that 369 tigers died of natural causes, 168 due to poaching, 42 due to unnatural causes like accidents and conflicts, 101 due to seizures of the animal across the country. "For the period 2012 to 2019, one can observe that the average tiger deaths per year in the country hover around 94, which is balanced by the annual recruitment as highlighted by this robust growth rate," the NTCA said. The statutory body under the environment ministry said it has taken several steps under the ongoing scheme of Project Tiger to address poaching, which too, is significantly controlled. Project Tiger is a centrally-sponsored scheme of the ministry of environment and forests﻿ providing central assistance to the states having designated tiger reserves. "The National Tiger Conservation Authority maintains the highest standards of transparency so far as making tiger death statistics available to the citizen through its website as well as a dedicated portal, www.tigernet.nic.in, so that people can make a logical assessment, if they desire," it said. On the news report, it said the presentation of data over a long time frame will show large numbers, which may cause undue alarm. The NTCA said it has a stringent protocol to ascribe cause to a tiger death, which is treated as unnatural, unless otherwise proved by the state concerned through submission of necropsy reports, histopathological and forensic assessments besides photographs and circumstantial evidence. "It is only after a detailed analysis of these documents that the cause is ascribed to a tiger death," it added. "While it is appreciated that figures as available on the NTCA's website and as provided in the RTI reply have been used in these reports, the manner in which it has been presented causes alarm and does not take into account the gamut of processes that go into dealing with tiger death in the country and the natural gains that have been made in tiger conservation," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/tiger-population-on-road-to-recovery-with-annual-growth-of-6-govt-846515.html
06-06-2020||National||Maintain 100% punctuality of 230 special trains: Railway board directs zones||The railways has sent a missive to its zones to ensure 100 per cent punctuality in the running of 230 special trains, which is less than two per cent of the 13,000 trains that normally run on the railway network. Sources said Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav has sent a message to all general managers and divisional railway managers to ensure that the 15 pairs of Rajdhani special trains and 100 pairs of passenger trains maintain their schedule without any delays. He has asked the zonal heads to monitor the punctuality of these trains, adding the number of trains being run on the network is currently small so the punctuality has to be “100 per cent”. The sources said the national transporter, which has been criticised over delays in running these trains, wants to be extra vigilant in the operations of these trains. Yadav has also asked the seven railway zones - the East Coast Railway, South East Central Railway, East Central Railway, Central Railway, West Central Railway, North Central Railway and the Northern Railway - to identify the issues causing punctuality loss and take remedial measures. These are the zones in which most of the loading of freight trains take place. Most of the goods trains also run in these zones. The East Coast Railway (ECoR) loaded 200.85 MT of freight in 2019-2020, the most among the railway zones, followed by South Eastern Railway (SER) which carried 171.11 MT, South East Central Railway (SECR) 169 MT and East Central Railway (ECR) carried 148 MT of freight during the 2019-20 financial year. The railways has been facing major issues with the running of the Shramik Special trains. According to the sources, 50 per cent of these trains were running two hours behind schedule, right at the origin stations, because of the protocols involved. They said the protocol prescribed for coronavirus like thermal screening of every passenger to ensure that only asymptomatic persons board the trains, maintaining social distancing, ensuring Aarogya Setu mobile application is downloaded on their phones -- is taking a lot of time at the originating stations. The railways had recently appealed to all passengers to come to the station 90 minutes in advance and not earlier than that to avoid crowding at the premises.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/maintain-100-punctuality-of-230-special-trains-railway-board-directs-zones-846522.html
06-06-2020||National||Aarogya Setu remains among top 10 downloaded apps globally in May: NITI Aayog CEO Kant||Aarogya Setu, a government app developed for tracking COVID-19 patients, retained its position as one of the top 10 downloaded mobile apps in the world in May, NITI Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant said on Saturday. The Centre has made the app mandatory for government employees to bolster efforts to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. "AarogyaSetu one of the top 10 downloaded mobile apps globally since launch, second month in running. India has led the way in effectively leveraging technology to combat the COVID-19 pandemic," Kant said in a tweet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his address to the nation on April 14 appealed to people to download the app, which alerts people if any known person or person in their vicinity has tested positive. The app was developed under a committee set up by the Prime Minister's Office with the active involvement of NITI Aayog and the Ministry of Electronics and IT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/aarogya-setu-remains-among-top-10-downloaded-apps-globally-in-may-niti-aayog-ceo-kant-846526.html
06-06-2020||National||COVID-19: 57% not ready to visit religious places despite its opening on June 8, says survey||More than 50 per cent of respondents said they will not visit religious places once they are opened from June 8 to prevent themselves from getting infected by COVID-19, a recent survey said. The Centre had on May 30 said 'Unlock-1' will be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown effectuated on March 25 will be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will remain in place till June 30 in the country's worst-hit areas. The survey, conducted by LocalCircles, a community social media platform, looked at people’s willingness to visit various public spaces when they are opened post relaxations. It received 32,000 responses on four questions. “A total of 8,681 people replied to a question if they would be visiting places of worship once they are opened to which 57 per cent said they will desist from visiting such places for the next 30 days as these venues do not offer much scope of social distancing and thus, they may end up contracting the infection. “While 32 per cent said they will be going to these places, 11 per cent were unsure about the same,” the survey said. A total of 8, 616 people responded to a question if they will be visiting hotels to which 10 per cent said they would go to such places in the next 30 days, while 81 per cent said they will not be visiting any hotel for at least a month, it said. The hospitality sector has been hit the most due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown across the world. “Around 74 per cent of 8,459 respondents said they will not be visiting their favourite restaurant in the city for the next one month even if they were open due to the fear of contracting the infection. “On being asked if they would be visiting malls when they are reopened for public, 70 per cent of 8,354 respondents replied in the negative, while 21 per cent said they would give it a try. Nine per cent were unsure about it,” the survey said. As per the new guidelines issued by the Union health ministry, gaming arcades, play areas and cinema halls in malls will stay closed. “Looking at the coronavirus scare, people are sceptical of visiting malls so that they could keep themselves and their family safe. More and more people are choosing to get things delivered to their homes instead of going out so that their exposure to the infection could be reduced,” Akshay Gupta, General Manager, LocalCircles said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-57-not-ready-to-visit-religious-places-despite-its-opening-on-june-8-says-survey-846529.html
06-06-2020||National||Elephant death: Make prevention of cruelty animals act more stringent, demands BJP MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar||In the wake of the death of a pregnant wild elephant in Kerala, BJP MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar has urged Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to amend the prevention of cruelty to animals act and make it more stringent. The 15-year-old elephant is suspected to have consumed a pineapple filled with powerful fire crackers which exploded in its mouth in the Silent Valley forest. It died in the Velliyar River a week later on May 27. Demanding an immediate action, Chandrasekhar in a letter to Javadekar requested to bring to book those responsible for such heinous crimes. This kind of poaching and deliberate violence against animals need to be stopped, he said. Pitching for amendment in the the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960, Chandrasekhar said the act has not been amended since its inception. Animals too have a right to live with dignity and a life that is devoid of cruelty and ill-treatment. "Therefore, on behalf of thousands of other animal lovers in the country, I urge the government to bring in suitable amendments to the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, including more stringent punishments and increased penalties, which will serve as effective and strong deterrent against perpetrators of ruthless treatment of animals,” he said. It is a sad reality that thousands of animals are subjected to cruelty and ill-treatment throughout India and are not treated with the love and compassion that they deserve, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elephant-death-make-prevention-of-cruelty-animals-act-more-stringent-demands-bjp-mp-rajeev-chandrasekhar-846558.html
06-06-2020||National||India now 5th worst-hit nation by COVID-19, surpasses Spain||India raced past Spain on Saturday to become the fifth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic after a record spike in cases for four consecutive days pushed total infections to over 2,45,670, according to the Johns Hopkins University data. In less than 24 hours, India surpassed Italy and then Spain to reach the grim milestone. Now, only the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK are ahead of it. Spain so far has recorded 2,41,310 cases, according to the university data. According to the Union Health Ministry, India registered a record single-day spike of 9,887 cases and 294 deaths by Saturday 8 am, pushing the tally to 2,36,657 and the death toll to 6,642. The country registered over 9,000 cases for the third day in a row. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 1,15,942. A total of 1,14,073 people have recovered with 4,611 COVID-19 patients having been cured in the last 24 hours, the Health Ministry said. "Thus, around 48.20 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior ministry official said. The total confirmed cases included foreigners. The health ministry said cumulatively 45,24,317 samples have been tested so far with 1,37,938 samples tested in the last 24 hours. Of the total 6,642 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 2,849 deaths, followed by Gujarat (1,190), Delhi (708), Madhya Pradesh (384), West Bengal (366), Uttar Pradesh (257), Tamil Nadu (232), Rajasthan (218), Telangana (113), Andhra Pradesh (73), Karnataka (57) and Punjab (48). Jammu and Kashmir has reported 36 fatalities, Bihar 29, Haryana 24, Kerala 14, Uttarakhand 11, Odisha 8 and Jharkhand 7. Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh have registered 5 COVID-19 deaths each, Assam 4, Chhattisgarh 2, Meghalaya and Ladakh 1 each. According to the ministry, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities. According to the ministry data updated Saturday morning, the highest number of confirmed cases are from Maharashtra at 80,229, followed by Tamil Nadu at 28,694, Delhi at 26,334, Gujarat at 19,094, Rajasthan at 10,084, Uttar Pradesh at 9,733 and Madhya Pradesh at 8,996.  The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 7,303 in West Bengal, 4,835 in Karnataka, 4,596 in Bihar and 4,303 in Andhra Pradesh. It has risen to 3,597 in Haryana, 3,324 in Jammu and Kashmir, 3,290 in Telangana and 2,608 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 2,461 coronavirus infections so far, while Assam has 2,153 cases. A total of 1,699 people have been infected with the virus in Kerala and 1,215 in Uttarakhand. Jharkhand has registered 881 cases, Chhattisgarh has 879, Tripura has 692, Himachal Pradesh has 393, Chandigarh has 304 cases, Goa has 196, Manipur has 132 and Puducherry has 99 cases. Ladakh has 97 COVID-19 cases, Nagaland has 94, Arunachal Pradesh has 45, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Meghalaya have registered 33 infections each. Mizoram has reported 22 cases and Dadar and Nagar Haveli has 14 cases, while Sikkim has reported three cases till now. "8,192 cases are being reassigned to states," the ministry said on its website adding "our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR." State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-now-5th-worst-hit-nation-by-covid-19-surpasses-spain-846561.html
06-06-2020||National||Youth shot dead by militants in Baramulla: Police||A youth was shot dead by militants in Baramulla district of Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday, police said. Civilian Ishfaq Ahmad Najar (25) was attacked by the militants at his residence in Adipora in Bomai area of north Kashmir at around 9:30 PM, a police official said. He said Najar was injured when the militants opened fire at him. He was rushed to a hospital, but was declared brought dead by the doctors there.  Police have registered a case and a manhunt has been launched to nab the assailants, the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/youth-shot-dead-by-militants-in-baramulla-police-846562.html
06-06-2020||National||COVID-19 death toll in Rajasthan rises to 231 as 13 fresh fatalities reported||The death toll due to COVID-19 in Rajasthan rose to 231 as 13 patients succumbed to the disease on Saturday, officials said. Four deaths were reported from Jaipur and one each from Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Dholpur, Jodhpur, Kota, Nagaur and Swai Madhopur. Two patients who died here are of other states, they said. The number of cases in the state climbed to 10,337 as 253 more people tested positive for the disease, officials said. Among the fresh cases, 63 were reported in Bharatpur, 56 in Jodhpur, 36 in Jaipur, 15 in Swai Madhopur, 14 in Pali, 13 in Sikar, 10 in Churu, nine each in Karauli and Udaipur.    Jaipur has reported the maximum of 2,188 cases and 106 deaths in the state followed by 1,762 cases and 21 deaths in Jodhpur. There are 2,605 active COVID-19 cases in the state. A total of 6,942 patients have been discharged after treatment, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-death-toll-in-rajasthan-rises-to-231-as-13-fresh-fatalities-reported-846565.html
06-06-2020||National||1,320 fresh COVID cases in Delhi take tally to over 27,000; death toll climbs to 761||Delhi recorded 1,320 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the COVID-19 tally in the city to over 27,500, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 761, authorities said. The highest spike in fresh cases -- 1,513 -- was recorded on June 3. In a bulletin issued on Saturday, the Delhi health department said the death toll from coronavirus infection has risen to 761 and the total number of cases mounted to 27,654. A total of 53 fatalities were reported on June 5, which took place between May 25 and June 5, the bulletin said, adding that 20 of these deaths took place on June 3 and 19 on June 4. It, however, said the cumulative death figures refer to fatalities where the primary cause of death was found to be COVID-19, as per the report of the Death Audit Committee on the basis of case sheets received from various hospitals. On Friday, the total number of cases stood at 26,334 including 708 deaths.  With fresh 1,320 cases, the total number of coronavirus cases in Delhi has climbed to 27,654. Meanwhile, the Delhi government on Saturday ordered that suspected COVID-19 patients, falling in moderate to severe categories, cannot be denied admission by any hospital in Delhi. An order has also been issued to procure and stock sufficient supplies of surgical  consumables, oxygen masks and all necessary accessories required for oxygen  therapy, PPE kits, gloves, masks, etc. in view of the surge in the number of positive cases of COVID-19, officials said. Besides, an order has been issued regarding "follow up of all the laboratory confirmed positive cases of COVID-19 through the continuum of care till the outcome of the patients with detailed key functions and responsibilities of each dedicated nodal officer nominated at district level," they said. Also, an office memorandum has been issued regarding 'Clinical Management protocol for Adult Patients with confirmed COVID-19 infection' using best practices, ICMR revised national clinical management guidelines and available evidence for patient care, prepared by the Department of Medicine , Maulana Azad Medical College here, the bulletin said. As many as 10,664 patients have recovered, been discharged or migrated so far, while there are 16,229 active cases, the Delhi health department said. A total of 2,46,873 COVID-19 tests have been conducted till date, it said. Total number of COVID-19 positive patients under home isolation stands at 11,267,  it said. As many as 176 patients in total are on ventilators or in the ICU.  The number of containment zones in the city on Saturday rose to 169, from 154 on Friday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/1320-fresh-covid-cases-in-delhi-take-tally-to-over-27000-death-toll-climbs-to-761-846566.html
06-06-2020||National||Lockdown 5.0: Islamic Centre of India issues advisory for reopening of mosques||The Islamic Centre of India on Saturday issued an advisory for those visiting mosques in view of the Centre’s decision to allow reopening of religious places from June 8. Islamic Centre of India chairman Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali advised people above 65 years and under 10 years of age not to visit mosques and instead offer prayers at home. He also advised against crowding in mosques, stressing that not more than five people should be present at a time and social distancing be maintained, with the ‘namazis’ using masks and keeping a distance of six feet among themselves while offering prayers. He added that the situation would be reviewed after 15 days and if required, another advisory would be issued.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-50-islamic-centre-of-india-issues-advisory-for-reopening-of-mosques-846578.html
06-06-2020||National Politics||BJP checkmates Congress with its villager-poor-farmer pitch||As the Opposition seeks to put the blame on Centre for “messy management of migrant crisis,” the ruling dispensation has gone all out to take home its ‘gaon, gareeb, kisan’ message, by launching direct people contact programmes and narrating how the Opposition-ruled governments blocked the migrants from going back to their homes. With the economy in doldrums and middle classes voicing disappointment, the government is wooing villagers, poor people and farmers. From the emotive slogan of ‘igniting the spirit of Jai Kisan’ to projecting caring for the poor as the focus of Government, the Centre has reached out to the rural masses in a big way in the last few days. After Modi penned a letter to people, the BJP has planned to reach 10 crore homes in June telling people how the government created a buffer for the poor and the labourers during COVID-19 crisis and provided food to nearly 80 crore people. During the first cabinet meeting after completion of the first year of Modi 2.0, the government claimed that it was for the first time in India’s history that street vendors from peri-urban and rural areas have become beneficiaries of an urban livelihood programme. These steps are said to be the latest in a series of measures the government will take up. The government said they will lay the foundation for ensuring “golden harvests for our hard-working farmers”, who will now get the freedom to produce, hold, move, distribute and supply after being empowered to engage with processors, aggregators, wholesalers, large retailers, exporters. Clearly, the Opposition has realised the potential of the campaign built around ‘messy management of migrant issues’ and electoral gains accruing from it in upcoming elections. The BJP is aware of the dent this can make in its carefully cultivated base among OBC, Dalits and the poor. Projecting the humble ‘chaiwalah’ origin of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who belongs to the EBC community, the BJP has breached the support base of many parties in the last few years, particularly in the Hindi belt. The poor backed the PM when he took the demonetisation decision in 2016. The BJP had a record victory in Uttar Pradesh assembly polls in 2017, decimating the alliance of SP-Congress, with huge chunks of OBC and Dalit youths voting for him. It is this voter base which is at stake now, having returned from Surat and other industrial township of Gujarat, Mumbai or Delhi. Agriculture is a field where a large number of these youths can be re-employed. The government wants to harness the opportunity.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-checkmates-congress-with-its-villager-poor-farmer-pitch-846281.html
06-06-2020||National Politics||Did Jyotiraditya Scindia remove BJP from Twitter profile? Here's the truth||Jyotiraditya Scindia, who joined the BJP in March this year after severing his 18-year ties with the Congress, remained in news on Saturday after it was reported that he removed "BJP" from his Twitter profile. These reports gave rise to speculations that Scindia's connection with the saffron party has already gone rough. However, it later turned out to be a fake news. According to fresh reports, Scindia never had any metion of BJP on his Twitter profile. The politician also clarified with a tweet saying, "Sadly, false news travels faster than the truth".   Sadly, false news travels faster than the truth.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/did-jyotiraditya-scindia-remove-bjp-from-twitter-profile-heres-the-truth-846395.html
06-06-2020||National Politics||We have named her 'Priyanka Twitter Vadra': UP Deputy CM's jibe at Congress leader||Taking a swipe at Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Saturday said social media projects her as a "prominent national leader" but she could not even ensure victory of her brother and then party president Rahul Gandhi from Amethi in the 2019 parliamentary election. Seeking to downplay the impact of Priyanka Gandhi in the state politics, Maurya said, "I do not take her seriously.... We have already named her 'Priyanka Twitter Vadra'. She only tweets for 2-3 days and the media remains busy and social media shows her as a prominent national leader." "But everyone knows when she came to Uttar Pradesh to campaign for the Congress in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections hoping that she would make her brother the prime minister, she could not even ensure his victory," he told PTI. Rahul Gandhi lost to Smriti Irani of the BJP in his pocket borough of Amethi in the 2019 elections. The deputy chief minister said the Congress has lost its base in Uttar Pradesh and does not have any leader except those looking for just "photo opportunities". He said Priyanka Gandhi has been critical of policies of the Yogi Adityanath dispensation only because she looks at the BJP-ruled state "from a negative point of view". Referring to a tweet by her flagging problems faced by migrant labourers returning to their homes in Uttar Pradesh during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Maurya said, "Congress does not want to see (what is happening in) Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. It is suffering from 'drishti dosh' (vision disorder). Congress leaders, be it Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi Vadra or any other, should get their eyes tested properly." "If they (Congress) want to see everything in a wrong manner because the BJP is ruling Uttar Pradesh...see it from a negative point of view and level allegations on (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi-ji and Yogi-ji, then there is no cure to it. I can only suggest that they should consult a good doctor and wear good quality spectacles," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/we-have-named-her-priyanka-twitter-vadra-up-deputy-cms-jibe-at-congress-leader-846401.html
06-06-2020||National Politics||Govt destroying economy by refusing to provide cash support to people, MSMEs: Rahul Gandhi||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Saturday accused the government of actively destroying the country's economy by refusing to provide cash support to people and small and medium enterprises as he dubbed the Modi regime as "Demon 2.0". He shared a news report on Twitter on the impact the coronavirus pandemic would have on the economy and the state of affairs of the MSME sector in the country. Gandhi has called for an immediate provision of Rs 10,000 to the poor and an economic stimulus package for the MSME industry to come out of the current situation. "Government is actively destroying our economy by refusing to give cash support to people and MSMEs. This is Demon 2.0," he tweeted. The Congress has also been demanding an economic stimulus package for the MSME sector, which provides employment to a large number of people, together with cash in the hands of people, to help generate demand. Gandhi had earlier said that it was criminal on the part of the government not to provide cash to people and the industry to emerge out of this crisis. He had termed the lockdown imposed by the government to contain the spread of virus as one that "failed" in achieving its aim and purpose.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-destroying-economy-by-refusing-to-provide-cash-support-to-people-msmes-rahul-gandhi-846403.html
06-06-2020||National Politics||Amit Shah's Bihar rally amid 'crisis of the century' nothing but 'political vulturism': Tejashwi Yadav||A day ahead of Amit Shah's virtual rally to sound BJP's poll bugle in Bihar, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday said electioneering amidst the coronavirus crisis in the country is nothing but "political vulturism", and alleged that the saffron party was only interested in electoral victory even at the cost of human lives. The Leader of Opposition in the Bihar Assembly also accused the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government of meting out "step-motherly" treatment to migrant labourers and asserted that this would be a major issue in the assembly polls slated for later this year. In an interview to PTI, Yadav said he is hopeful that all like-minded parties who are driven by the same ideology of pro-constitutional supremacy and pro-poor would come under one umbrella and fight the "divisive and a failed government of 15 years" in the state. He also dismissed reports of cracks in the opposition alliance, saying that having "contrarian views" is healthy for any democracy. His remarks come a day before the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) is set to observe ''Garib Adhikar Diwas'' that was announced to counter Shah's rally on June 7 in which the Home Minister will address the people of the state through video conferencing and Facebook live, given the COVID-19 guidelines and restrictions. The BJP will sound the poll bugle in Bihar with the virtual rally by the Union minister and party's senior leader Shah who will address the people of the state through video conference and Facebook live, state BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal said, adding the party has set a target of roping in "at least one lakh people across the 243 assembly segments in Bihar" for the event, besides those who may prefer to listen to the speech on the social networking site. On party's 'Garib Adhikar Diwas' event, Yadav had tweeted that in this calamity, the government has kept the plate of farmers and labourers empty, so in retaliation to their insensitivity, on June 7, RJD will awaken the government by beating "thalis-katoras (plates-bowls)". The RJD campaign is reminiscent of Prime Minister Narender Modi's call to the people to beat 'thalis' in honour of corona warriors on the day of Janata curfew on March 22. "This virtual election rally (of the BJP) amidst the crisis of the century that has crippled the health infrastructure, and spread of the disease has reached community level in the state, speaks volumes about the priorities of the BJP," Yadav said. "Electioneering at this juncture is nothing but political vulturism. Rather than helping the poor, needy and migrants, they want to win elections even at the cost of human lives," the former Bihar deputy chief minister said. Welfare of the people has been abandoned by NDA governments both at the Centre and in Bihar, he alleged, asserting that saving lives is more important than forming governments. Asked if the plight of migrant labourers from Bihar will be raised during electioneering, Yadav said the Nitish Kumar government has neglected the migrant workers. "On May 29, the Bihar government issued a letter to district SPs which read that with migrant workers returning, the incidents of loot, dacoity and crime will increase as the government will not be able to provide them with employment," the RJD leader said. "In a way, the government said migrant workers are criminals. Biharis are 'swabhimani', and the neglect and humiliation by the Nitish government will definitely be a poll issue put forth by the general public themselves," the 30-year-old leader said. This government has failed to perform its duties and it has completely let down the electorate, he said, and claimed that for the "first time in history" any state government has left its people to fend for themselves. "It’s only the Bihar CM who didn’t allow migrant labourers to come back, didn’t provide food to those stranded and even refused to pay for their train tickets whereas our government in Jharkhand led by Hemant Soren airlifted stranded people," Yadav said Asserting that it took a humanitarian crisis like COVID-19 to expose Kumar's "apathetic and inhuman attitude", Yadav alleged that those who follow his politics know that he is "anti-poor, anti-migrants, anti-farmer, anti-youth and anti-common man, and has always been discriminatory and inhuman towards them." The BJP, the JD(U) and the LJP are part of the NDA in the state and will be challenged by the alliance of the RJD and the Congress besides some smaller parties in the assembly polls. In the 2015 assembly polls, the NDA had lost badly to the grand alliance of the RJD-JD(U)-Congress but Kumar broke ties with his allies in 2017 and entered the saffron alliance again after a gap of over four years.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/amit-shahs-bihar-rally-amid-crisis-of-the-century-nothing-but-political-vulturism-tejashwi-yadav-846404.html
06-06-2020||National Politics||Employment for migrants should be NDA's top priority in Bihar: Chirag Paswan||Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan on Saturday said that employment for migrants, who have returned to Bihar from across the country, should be the top priority for the ruling NDA as it prepares for the state assembly polls. With some of his comments seen to be critical of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led government, Paswan said he never doubted Kumar's intentions but there have been "shortcomings" which he as an honest ally has highlighted. "Nitish ji emerged as an alternative to jungle raaj and was known as 'vikas purush'. But, yes, there have been shortcomings. I am not levelling allegations but offering suggestions for improvement as an honest ally," he told PTI. Paswan said the Bihar government's handling of the migrant crisis, triggered by the nationwide lockdown to curb COVID-19, "could have been better" and counted law and order as a concern, saying serious crimes like murder and robbery have been rising. The Lok Sabha MP from Jamui in Bihar called for a common minimum programme to guide the NDA government in case it retains power. The assembly elections in Bihar are due in October-November. Employment, especially for its migrant population, health and education should be the top priorities for the NDA, Paswan said. Asserting that the opposition alliance, which includes the RJD and Congress, is not in a position to pose any serious challenge to the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, he said the saffron combine may win more than 225 of the state's 243 assembly seats. When Kumar became the chief minister for the first time in 2005, he had said that he will work to bring back all migrants in three months and give them employment, Paswan noted, adding that a "golden opportunity" had arrived for the JD(U) president to "realise his dream" after all these years. From religious tourism to numerous paper and jute mills, which have been closed down over the years, Bihar offers tremendous employment opportunities, he said. Asked about the number of seats the LJP will contest in the state polls, he said that will be discussed in the seat-sharing talks among the BJP, JD(U) and the LJP. His party had contested 42 seats in the 2015 polls, and he would like the share to remain the same but much will depend on talks among the allies, he said. Kumar's JD(U) was then part of the opposition alliance which had scored a big win in the last assembly elections. He joined the NDA in 2017. Paswan asserted that his party had strengthened its organisation in every assembly constituency of the state and has worked especially intensively in 119 seats which are represented by neither the JD(U) nor the BJP in the current assembly. With the coronavirus pandemic ruling out any big political gathering so far, he said campaigning through social media will play a big role in the electioneering for the state polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/employment-for-migrants-should-be-ndas-top-priority-in-bihar-chirag-paswan-846420.html
06-06-2020||National Politics||Cyclone Nisarga: Rs 100 cr Maha package meagre, says Devendra Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday demanded a financial package for areas in Maharashtra that were battered by cyclone 'Nisarga' which made landfall on June 3. Addressing a press conference, Fadnavis said the Rs 100-crore package announced by Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray was "very meagre". "The need of the hour is to deviate from the standing orders of NDRF and provide financial assistance. When floods ravaged parts of the state last year, my government gave Rs 4,708 crore to Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur and Rs 2,108 crore to Nashik and Konkan," he said. The Centre had allowed the state raise loans to the tune of Rs 75,000 crore, and the Maharashtra government should raise funds through loans and provide assistance to people, the leader of opposition in the state Assembly said. Speaking on the coronavirus outbreak, which has hit the state the worst, Fadnavis said testing for the infection was in the range of 10,000 when the capacity was 35,000. He claimed the state government's "Mission Begin Again" to restart the economy and bring the state back to normalcy was good but it required the support of the entire machinery on the ground. The former chief minister said the Maharashtra government had announced the taking over of 80 per cent beds in private hospitals to fight the outbreak, but it remained just an announcement as "influential hospitals" had taken themselves out of the scheme. Fadnavis said the Uddhav Thackeray government was suffering from policy and action paralysis as the three constituents of the Maha Vikas Aghadi, namely Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, were not communicating within themselves. Queried about Bajaj Auto managing director Rajiv Bajaj's comment that the Centre's lockdown had flattened the economic curve rather than the one related to COVID-19, Fadnavis said the former was entitled to his opinion but added that "he is an expert in the auto sector and not the medical or COVID field". Asked about Congress leader Rahul Gandhi's criticism of the Centre's Rs 20 lakh crore economic package over the lack of direct cash transfer to the poor, the BJP leader said Gandhi had not studied the package well. "We need to strike a balance between revival of the economy and giving direct cash transfers. The Atma Nirbhar Bharat package does that," Fadnavis claimed. He also took a swipe at the Shiv Sena which recently criticised the coronavirus-induced lockdown. "When the Shiv Sena was part of the BJP government, it played the role of opposition. It continues to do that even now. Maharashtra was the first to impose lockdown, and the Sena had claimed the Centre was following the state by imposing lockdown. Now it says the lockdown was not good," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/cyclone-nisarga-rs-100-cr-maha-package-meagre-says-devendra-fadnavis-846435.html
06-06-2020||National Politics||Only Opposition leader attacking Modi is Rahul: Arundhati Roy||Well-known writer Arundhati Roy on Saturday said the Narendra Modi government is ratcheting up a communal narrative to make people forget hardships caused by COVID-19 and the only Opposition leader openly attacking the dispensation is former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, who does not enjoy "much support". Her comments came during a digital discussion she had with Labour Party leader Jeremy Corbyn and intellectual Tariq Ali on 'Coronavirus, War and Empire' organised by 'Stop the War Coalition'. Responding to a question on return of normalcy, Roy said she does not think it will be restored with India facing an "economic devastation" and the government ratcheting up the communal narrative to divert people's attention. "There was an exodus, people were forced to leave (for their homes in villages). Government did two things. They ratcheted up privatisation of national resources, privatising everything, privatising education by emphasising on online education. The underprivileged, the Dalits will be out of this. We do not have too many people who have access to internet. We have taken a double-hit," she said. "The government will change the narrative, to make people forget the economic hardships, COVID-19, by ratcheting up Hindu nationalist, anti Muslim rhetoric by preaching vicious bile. They will sell this hatred. Modi can sell anything as he is adored particularly by the powerful middle class and media. He can even sell a comb to a bald person, who will end up combing his bald head. There is a kind of fear in business and media," she said. To a question by Ali whether there is no Opposition at all in the country, she said there have been places in the country like Kerala where the crisis has been managed better. "The only politician who is openly opposing Modi is Rahul Gandhi. He doesn't really have much support. But he is doing it. Everyone else, whether they are state parties, they are in complete disarray. One doesn't know why. All of them have some sort of cases. One by one they have been cornered into kind of keeping quiet or facing legal process. I don't know the reasons," she said. She said all she knew was that whether it was a politician or bureaucrat or industrialist, everyone's brains are "frozen in a kind of fear". "The moment they open their mouth, they are attacked viciously. Being trolled, threatened and all of that is one part. The attack is merciless. So there is so much fear," she said. Roy was of the view that India had one of the "most punitive" lockdowns across the globe during which people were exposed to an economic devastation and spreading virus. Prime Minister Modi gave 1.38 billion just four notice for the lockdown and people were just "one breath away from being refugee" and no other country in the world has seen such a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases during lockdown. She accused the government of doing nothing for two months after the first case was reported on January 30 because "it had other things to do" like dealing with massive protests against the controversial Citizenship Amendment Act that culminated in an anti-Muslim riots in North East Delhi. This happened "at a time (US President Donald) Trump was visiting India. When the virus was spreading, the logical thing was to shut down the airports. Thousands of people from the United States arrived in India for Namaste Trump. Even after World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic, nothing was done", she added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/only-opposition-leader-attacking-modi-is-rahul-arundhati-roy-846523.html
06-06-2020||National Politics||Congress caught napping; BJP goes for ‘upper’ edge in Rajya Sabha polls||Congress has been caught napping once again as the ruling BJP moved ahead with its new avatar of Operation Lotus at ''upper" level throwing the Rajya Sabha election plans of the main opposition party haywire. The Congress ‘sleep’ act is shocking happening in states which it either won recently halted BJP’s forward progress. Within years, the party finds itself in disarray here. Within three months eight of Congress MLAs in Gujarat, a state in which it had not let the BJP cross the double-digit mark (99) in 2017 assembly polls, have deserted it and now may help the BJP win a third Rajya Sabha seat from the state where according to its strength it could have won just two. In Gujarat Congress is down to 65 after having won 81 seats in last assembly polls while BJP is up to 103. As per current strength, both the BJP and the Congress could win two seats each but by fielding Congress turncoat Narhari Amin as the third candidate, the BJP has made it clear that it will push the envelope as far as possible. 37 MLA votes could fetch one seat in the Upper House. As such BJP will be left with 29 votes after winning its quota of two while will be left 28 now after eight desertions. In 2017 Congress’ ace strategist Ahmed Patel, the political advisor of Sonia Gandhi could scrape through as six Congress MLAs resigned just before the Rajya Sabha polls, only because the Election Commission invalidated votes of two rebel Congress MLAs. In 2018 again,  two more Congress including its much-touted OBC face Alpesh Thakore resigned. In the bordering state Madhya Pradesh where the former minister in UPA government Jyotiraditya Scindia is a Rajya Sabha candidate from the BJP, the saffron party is slated to make a deeper dent in Congress strength, having already secured desertion of 22 Congress MLAs. The Congress, which swept to power in the state in 2018 after a 15-years-long gap, has now only 92 MLAs while the BJP has 107 MLAs, a number which could swell further after the assembly by-polls likely in September as most of these seats fall in Scindia’s domain of Gwalior-Chambal. BJP has aggressively wooed the two MLAs from BSP, one SP and four independents. 52 MLAs translates into one Rajya Sabha seat can now easily win a second seat while Congress will have to stay content with just one of Digvijay Singh unless last-minute surprises spring. In Rajasthan, which was also won by the Congress in 2018, the BJP is eyeing to gain from the rivalry between Congress Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot and his Deputy Sachin Pilot to wean away some Gujjar MLAs. However, Congress has 107 MLAs in the Assembly with BJP falling a distant second with 72 but 21 from independent and others category could spoil the game even if few desertions happen from Congress. 51 votes are needed to win a seat here. AICC general secretary K C Venugopal is one of the two candidates here. When the Election Commission had postponed the March 26 election for Rajya Sabha, Gehlot criticised the decision as one taken under pressure of the central government but Pilot was quick to welcome it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-caught-napping-bjp-goes-for-upper-edge-in-rajya-sabha-polls-846545.html
06-06-2020||National Politics||Opposition slams Modi's agri-reforms unveiled through ordinances||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s agriculture reforms have run foul with the opposition, which has accused him of giving a short shrift to consultations with state governments before announcing measures to relax barriers in trade in farm produce. Congress and the CPI(M) have raised strong objections to The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Ordinance 2020 that allow farmers to sell their produce outside the prescribed limits of the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee markets and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance 2020 that seeks to promote contract farming. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh slammed the Modi government, accusing it of taking decisions unilaterally without consultations with the state governments. Singh termed the Ordinances as an “ill-conceived move” that could have an adverse impact on the APMC system that has been functioning well for the past six decades. “The Centre has no powers to make any legislation to deal with the dynamics of agricultural production, marketing and processing,” the chief minister said. Beside the two Ordinances on agriculture trade, President Ram Nath Kovind also promulgated the Essential Commodities Amendment Ordinance that seeks to remove cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, potato and edible oil from the law that allows governments to impose stock limits on commodities to rein in rising prices. “It is obnoxious that the Agriculture Minister chose to describe these ordinances as the ‘real freedom’ of the farmers,” the CPI(M) said in a statement. It said the amendments pave the way to create artificial shortages due to speculation by middlemen and traders adversely affecting the country’s food security. “Further, these amendments, by removing all restrictions and providing ‘barrier free inter-state and intra-state’ sale of agricultural produce pave the way for contract farming by promoting trade and commerce outside the premises or markets covered under the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (mandis),” the CPI(M) said. The Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh has termed the Ordinances as “anti-farmer” and announced a nation-wide movement against the new laws.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/opposition-slams-modis-agri-reforms-unveiled-through-ordinances-846559.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||FIR registered against journalist Vinod Dua in Delhi||Delhi police on Friday said they have registered an FIR against senior journalist Vinod Dua for allegedly "making statements conducing to public mischief" on the complaint of BJP spokesperson Naveen Kumar. In his complaint to the Crime Branch, Kumar accused Dua of "spreading fake news" through "The Vinod Dua Show" on YouTube. Dua said, "I have not yet been contacted by the police. I cannot react to it at this point." Dua was also accused by Kumar of "misreporting" on the Delhi communal violence and stating that the "central government had done nothing to stop the violence". Kumar has alleged that Dua had called the prime minister "toothless". "The journalist Mr Vinod Dua has blatantly lied or has misinformed his viewers about the series of events. There are also a series of old instances where bizarre and unfounded allegations have been made against the government, police and political leaders. The reporting's full of false content misleading context...(sic)" Kumar said in his complaint. A case has been registered under IPC sections 290 (punishment for public nuisance in cases not otherwise provided for) and 505 (statements conducing to public mischief) and 505(2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes), police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-registered-against-journalist-vinod-dua-in-delhi-846268.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh CM Relief Fund: 3 bogus donors booked in Mathura||Three people have been booked here for claiming that they donated a total of Rs 4 lakh into the Chief Minister Relief Fund after a police investigation found that they did not do so, officials said on Friday. Police said Deepak Gaur, Raj Kumar Rawat and Vibhor Gautam were showing bogus cheques to people on social media in a bid to earn their respect. Gaur, a resident of Farah town here, claimed on his Facebook account that he had donated Rs 2 lakh into the fund when the balance amount in his account was only Rs 1993.25, Deputy Collector Rajiv Upadhyay said. Senior Superintendent of Police Gaurav Grover said strict action would be taken against them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-cm-relief-fund-3-bogus-donors-booked-in-mathura-846280.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Woman sexually assaulted by two doctors during check-up in UP||A 25-year-old woman was allegedly sexually assaulted by two doctors when she visited their clinic here for a check-up, police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday, they said. A case has been lodged against the two accused -- Ashok Kumar, who owns the clinic, and Akhil. The accused are absconding, Station House Officer H S Singh said. According to a complaint lodged by the woman's family, she had gone to the clinic with her mother and brother on Friday. During the check-up, Ashok and Akhil sexually assaulted her, while her family members waited outside the room. The woman narrated her ordeal to her family after reaching home. Her family members went to the clinic and thrashed the accused. Later, the family lodged an FIR against the two doctors, the police said. The woman has been sent for medical examination and efforts are being made to nab the accused, they said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/woman-sexually-assaulted-by-two-doctors-during-check-up-in-up-846329.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Indian, Chinese officials hold extensive discussions||Army Corps commanders from India and China on Saturday held extensive discussions on the modalities to thrash out a resolution formula to end a month-long stand-off in Ladakh involving the border guarding troops from both sides.  The meeting between senior military leaders was led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, GOC of Leh-based 14 Corps from the Indian side and Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander, South Xinjiang Military region representing China's People's Liberation Army. Sources said the discussions continued for more than three hours, but there was no immediate outcome statement from either side. After the meeting at Moldo - opposite to Chushul in eastern Ladakh - Lt Gen Singh returned to Leh and briefed the details to Army Chief Gen M M Naravane and Northern Command Chief Lt Gen Y K Joshi. The information is being deliberated upon within the government involving the Prime Minister's Office, National Security Advisor, Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of External Affairs.  Depending on the outcome of such deliberations, the government will take a call on issuing a public statement. Soon after the meeting began in the morning, the Army issued a brief statement asking the media not to speculate as officials from both sides are engaged in a dialogue. "Indian and Chinese officials continue to remain engaged through the established military and diplomatic channels to address the current situation in the India-China border areas," an Army spokesperson had stated in the morning. "At this stage, therefore, any speculative and unsubstantiated reporting about these engagements would not be helpful and the media is advised to refrain from such reporting," he said as the meeting began. On the table is a road map to restore the status quo in stand-off areas like the northern bank of the Pangong lake where Indian troops used to go patrolling up to a point known as Finger-8. This time, the PLA troops stopped the Indians at Finger 4 -almost 8 km ahead - leading to the confrontation.  For years the finger areas and the 135 km long lake remained a major flashpoint between Indian and Chinese troops. As the lake lies on the border, two-third of it is controlled by the PLA and the rest by the Indian Army.   According to the Indian perception of the Line of Actual Control, the disputed border runs through Finger 8 (the spurs or mountain ridges are named as fingers) because of which Indian troops could go up to that point for patrolling. Going by the Chinese perception, the LAC runs through Finger 4. The area between Finger 4 and Finger 8 is the confrontation zone. The brief given to Lt Gen Singh and his colleagues was clear - Indian troops were neither the first to block any patrol activity nor started the troop build-up.  Only when the PLA strengthened their numbers, Indian Army brought a battalion as reinforcement from the DBO brigade close to the LAC. Hours before the talk between military commanders, senior diplomats from China and Indian had a telephonic conversation on the issues and the way forward. "The two sides should handle their differences through peaceful discussion bearing in mind the importance of respecting each other's sensitivities, concerns and aspirations and not allow them to become disputes," the Ministry of External Affairs had stated on Friday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/indian-chinese-officials-hold-extensive-discussions-846346.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||COVID-19: Amarnath Yatra curtailed to 15 days; likely to start from July 21||“The top officials of J&K administration conducted the first ‘pooja’ in Jammu on Friday, officially marking the start of the Yatra. However, the yatra shall begin on July 21 for a shorter duration of 14 days and it will end on August 3,” sources told DH. The 42-day long annual pilgrimage to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine in south Kashmir Himalayas was scheduled to begin from June 23 from traditional Pahalgam-Chandanwari track and shorter Sonamarag-Baltal route. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the decision to cut short the time period of the pilgrimage was taken during a meeting held by Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor GC Murmu last week.  Sources said this time the yatra will be allowed only through the shortest Baltal route and the pilgrimage will mostly be performed through choppers to avoid the road and track in view of the threat of the COVID pandemic. The pilgrim registration will be made only through online and registration through counters will not be allowed this time anywhere in the country, they said. No pilgrim other than Sadhus above the age of 55 years will be allowed to have pilgrimage this year and the pilgrims have to get the COVID-19 negative certificates before leaving for the holy cave. It has also been decided that the 'Aarti' performed at the cave shrine in morning and evening during the 15 days will be telecast live for devotees across the country. Every year, lakhs of pilgrims either take the traditional and longer 45 km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 14 km-long Baltal route to Amarnath, one of Hinduism’s holiest shrines. The pilgrimage usually spans nearly a month-and-a-half and takes place during July and August. Last year, the Yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/covid-19-amarnath-yatra-curtailed-to-15-days-likely-to-start-from-july-21-846378.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Arvind Kejriwal warns hospitals engaged in 'black marketing' of COVID-19 beds||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday warned hospitals turning away suspected COVID-19 patients citing lack of beds and said his government will come down heavily on the "mafia" indulging in "black marketing of beds". His strong statement came after reports of some patients finding it difficult to find admission in hospitals even as there are enough beds available in those facilities. The Delhi government will be soon deploying medical professionals at all private hospitals to keep a tab on the available beds for COVID-19 patients. "We will take strong action against such hospitals. Please give me a few days. I need some time to break the mafia who are indulging in it. These hospitals have political connections but they should not be under illusion that their political masters can save them," Kejirwal said during a digital address.  Without identifying the hospitals, he said some of them are "doing mischief" by refusing admission and demanding lakhs of rupees for alloting beds. "Some days ago, one person told me that he went to a hospital seeking a bed for COVID-19 patient and the hospital asked Rs two lakh from him. I didn't believe him then. Then some days later on live TV, I saw that patients are being refused beds by some private hospitals. When a TV anchor called up a hospital saying a bed was required for a COVID-19 patient, the hospital said it did not have any beds available. When the anchor pleaded, the hospital asked for Rs 8 lakh to provide a bed," he said. Kejriwal said his government had earlier this week launched a mobile app to allow people to get to know details of available beds and ventilators. He also claimed that some hospitals are lying about beds even though the information on the app is updated by them. Asserting that there is no dearth of hospital beds for COVID-19 patients, he said not all hospitals are indulging in malpractices but a few. He also said the government is talking to private hospital authorities to ascertain their problems in earmarking 20% of beds for COVID-19 patients. "As of today, there is no dearth of beds. Against 8,645 total available beds, 4,038 occupied while 4,607 are vacant. These are real beds, not mere figures. As of today, sufficient beds are available," he said adding the government is going to issue an order stating that no COVID-19 suspect patient can be denied treatment on the grounds that he or she has not been tested. He also refuted reports that COVID-19 testing has been stopped in the capital. Action was taken against only six laboratories for violating guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) while 36 government and private laboratories are still doing tests. Kejriwal also appealed asymptomatic people not to rush to tests as it would create obstacles in testing people with symptoms. Only people with symptoms should take tests, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/arvind-kejriwal-warns-hospitals-engaged-in-black-marketing-of-covid-19-beds-846382.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Muslim organisation seeks action against medical college professor for diatribe against community||On May 31 and June 1, a video recorded by journalists in a sting operation emerged on various social media platforms like YouTube, Twitter and Facebook allegedly showing her bias towards the Muslim community.  "In a video of five minutes, she referred to Tablighi Jamaat members as "terrorist" and was seen asking as to why we (government) are giving them (Jamaati patients) VIP treatment," the complaint filed by Supreme Court advocate Rajesh Inamdar said. Lalchandani, who was then acting as dean and principal of GSVM Medical College, has since then been transferred to Jhansi.  "The conduct of Prof Lalchandani is extremely unprofessional, unethical, illegal and unbecoming of a medical professional. She has completely disregarded the medical ethics and the Hippocratic Oath," the complaint said.  As a principal of a medical college with decades of experience, having such a bigoted and discriminatory mindset is highly objectionable, condemnable, and calls for an enquiry to unearth how she may have treated her patients, particularly of the minority community, during her whole tenure, it added. The complaint alleged she had earlier also made unsubstantiated claims against the Tablighi Jamaat patients that they were misbehaving with female nurses and doctors and demanding biryani and other things, which upon inquiry, were found to be totally false and bogus.  It sought an inquiry by the governing council of the MCI into her conduct as a doctor and dean and principal of a prestigious institution.   "If found guilty, her license could be cancelled forthwith followed by blacklisting her. As a consequence, she must be removed from the position she currently holds," it demanded.  Following the controversy, she released a letter seeking an apology for hurting the feelings of Muslim brothers and sisters. Lalchandani also issued a video message stating she had a special love for the minority community. She also said she had taught many Muslim students.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-muslim-organisation-seeks-action-against-medical-college-professor-for-diatribe-against-community-846387.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Despite COVID-19 lockdown, trekkers venture out into prohibited areas in Kashmir||Reports said since the end of Ramzan late last month, the trekking activities have picked up with a large number of trekkers especially in Srinagar seen taking to woods. In Srinagar, a number of trekking expeditions were witnessed with groups scaling mighty Mahadev, the highest peak in Srinagar. The trekkers, sources said, reach the top of the peak after starting from Dara and via Lidwas areas, which fall in the protected Dachigam National Park. Pertinently, Dara area was recently declared red zone by Srinagar administration after COVID-19 cases surfaced in the locality.  In April, J&K Wildlife authorities had issued an advisory barring the general public from venturing into woods. The advisory was issued after cases of transmission of coronavirus from humans to wild animals were reported in the USA. Several videos and photographs of the trekking expeditions have been posted on various Facebook pages attracting other trekkers and youngsters to undertake similar expeditions in the recent days. Kashmir’s Wildlife Warden, Rashid Naqash, issued a warning to those who were promoting their wrongdoings on social media. “The advisory prohibiting any venturing into protected areas is still in place. Not only people living around peripheries of protected areas should avoid going into wildlife areas, everyone else should refrain from such activities,” he said. The Wildlife Warden said they have also witnessed trekking activities around the peripheries of Dachigam Wildlife Sanctuary. “We have taken some steps to avoid trekking into the areas. Already the biggest trekking club of Kashmir, J&K Hiking and Mountaineering Club has put all its activities on hold due to advisory. We hope others also adhere to the advisory,” he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/despite-covid-19-lockdown-trekkers-venture-out-into-prohibited-areas-in-kashmir-846393.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||With two more COVID-19 deaths, J&K death toll reaches 38||A septuagenarian man from south Kashmir’s Shopian district, who was tested positive for COVID-19 a few days back, died at Chest Diseases hospital here, on Saturday morning.  Another victim includes a 62-year-old man from Jammu, who died at Government Medical College (GMC) Jammu. She was admitted at an isolation ward in GMC Jammu on May 25, but expired at 7:30 am on Wednesday. With these two deaths, the toll of COVID-19 positive victims in J&K has reached to 38 including 33 from Kashmir division and five from Jammu. While the toll stood at 12 on May 16, it reached 38 on June 6. Most of the patients whose deaths have been attributed to the viral infection have been suffering from some comorbid conditions. However, the virus has also killed some ‘otherwise healthy’ individuals. Till Friday evening, J&K had reported 3,324 COVID-19 positive cases, out of which 1,086 have recovered and 2,202 are active positives. South Kashmir’s Anantnag district has the highest number of active positive cases – 383, followed by neighbouring Kulgam district with 366 cases. The capital city Srinagar has 364 positive cases while Jammu city has 190 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/with-two-more-covid-19-deaths-jk-death-toll-reaches-38-846399.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Uttarakhand reports 31 new COVID-19 cases; tally 1,245||Uttarakhand reported 31 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,245, according to the state health department's bulletin. The fresh cases were reported from Pithoragarh (8), Dehradun (6), Chamoli (6), Almora (4), Nainital (3), Tehri (3) and Uttarkashi (1), it said.        Most of the new cases have a travel history to Mumbai, Delhi and NCR, the bulletin said. Out of a total of 1,245 patients, 422 have recovered, five have migrated out of the state and 11 have died. The cause of deaths of seven patients was due to other ailments while the reason of death of one person could not be ascertained and that of three others is awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttarakhand-reports-31-new-covid-19-cases-tally-1245-846419.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Will accept Khalistan if govt offers it: Akal Takht Jathedar||Raking up the issue of Khalistan- a separate state for Sikhs, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on Saturday said if the government offers it, the community will accept it. The Jathedar of Akal Takht (the highest temporal seat of Sikhs) was talking to the media here on the 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar, which was carried out in 1984 to flush out heavily armed terrorists holed up in the Golden Temple. Asked if the demand for Khalistan was justified, Singh said, “If we get it, then what else do we need?” “If the Government of India offers us, then we will accept it,” he noted. “Which Sikh in the world does not want it?” Singh added. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee president Gobind Singh Longowal also endorsed the views of the Akal Takht Jathedar and said if Khalistan is given to the community, it would be acceptable to Sikhs. To a question on pro-Khalistan slogans raised at the Golden Temple complex, Harpreet Singh said, “There was nothing wrong in it. But they should have done it after the conclusion of the religious programme which was in progress at the Akal Takht.” Earlier in the day, pro-Khalistan slogans were raised in the premises of the Golden Temple here to mark the 36th anniversary of Operation Bluestar. Around one hundred Sikh activists led by Imaan Singh Mann, son of President of Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) and former MP Simranjit Singh Mann, raised pro-Khalistan slogans at the Akal Takht in the premises of the Golden Temple on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-accept-khalistan-if-govt-offers-it-akal-takht-jathedar-846429.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||FIR filed against Ekta Kapoor, 2 others for web series: Police||An FIR has been registered against television producer Ekta Kapoor and two others in Madhya Pradesh on charges of spreading obscenity, hurting religious feelings and improper use of national emblems in her web series XXX Season 2, police said on Saturday. The FIR also mentions a particular scene that allegedly portrays the Indian Army uniform in a highly objectionable way, an officer said. Besides Kapoor, the FIR names director of the web series Pankhudi Rodrigues and screenwriter Jessica Khurana, according to Satish Kumar Dwivedi, Annapurna police station inspector. The complaint was lodged on Friday night by Valmik Sakaragaye and Neeraj Yagnik, both residents of Indore. "Ekta Kapoor's OTT platform ALTBalaji streamed (erotic) web series 'Triple X season 2' which not only spread obscenity but also hurt religious feelings of a particular community," Dwivedi said quoting the complaint. A scene in the web show portrayed the Indian Army's uniform in a highly objectionable manner and also disrespected the national emblems, he said. Kapoor and others have been booked under sections 294 (obscene acts and songs) and 298 (Uttering, words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound the religious feelings of any person) of the Indian Penal Code, Information Technology (IT) Act, and the State Emblem of India (Prohibition of Improper Use) Act, 2005, Dwivedi said. Mumbai-based Ekta Kapoor is the founder of ALTBalaji, which is owned by her production house, Balaji Telefilms. Further investigation is underway, the police officer said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-filed-against-ekta-kapoor-2-others-for-web-series-police-846432.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh coronavirus tally hurtles towards 10K mark; infection spreading in rural areas||With more returning migrant workers testing positive for coronavirus in Uttar Pradesh, the COVID-19 cases in the state hurtled towards the ten thousand mark on Saturday. What came as a cause for concern for the health authorities is that the new cases are being reported more from the villages and smaller towns in comparison to the big cities. The state had witnessed record spike of over 500 cases of virus infection on Friday. So far, 258 people have died from the infection in different parts of the state. According to the official sources, as many as three thousand returning migrant workers have tested positive for coronavirus infection in the state so far. ''This figure is all set to rise in the days to come as testing is ramped up,'' said a health official. Around eight to ten thousand samples were being tested every day in the state. Over one hundred new cases of COVID-19 were reported from Bhadohi, Mau, Kannauj, Hardoi, Kushinagar, Aligarh, Unna, Hamirpur, Etawah, Jaunpur, Azamgarh and Bijnore districts, sources said. ''It is a matter of concern....the main reason behind spike in cases in the villages and smaller towns is that more number of returning migrant workers have tested positive for infection,'' the official said. He said that necessary measures were being taken to prevent further spread of infection in the rural areas. Teams of experts were being sent to the rural areas to review the measures, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-coronavirus-tally-hurtles-towards-10k-mark-infection-spreading-in-rural-areas-846433.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Hate speech case against UP Dy CM, 4 others allowed to be dropped||A special court for lawmakers here has allowed the Uttar Pradesh government to withdraw a hate speech and assault case against Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya and four of his supporters lodged in Kaushambi district in 2011. Special Judge Bal Mukund allowed the state government’s application to withdraw a case. Following the court order, the case was dropped against four other accused Vibhuti Narayan Singh, Jai Chandra Mishra, Yashpal Kesari, Prem Chand Chaudhari, who all were on bail. The case against Maurya was lodged at Kotwali police station in Kaushambi allegedly for allegedly giving a provocative speech during an agitation, while his supporters were booked on charges of assaulting a youth and making derogatory remarks against him. The state government, however, decided to withdraw the case in 2018 and filed an application in the special court for lawmakers. According to government’s counsel, during a protest against the then government’s actions and policies in September 2011, the accused had allegedly made derogatory remarks against the youth while he was passing through the area. As the youth raised objections, the accused allegedly manhandled him. The matter was resolved when a police team arrived and rescued the victim. The FIR was lodged against five people under various sections of IPC. One of the accused, Devendra Singh Chauhan, died in 2015.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hate-speech-case-against-up-dy-cm-4-others-allowed-to-be-dropped-846463.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Pregnant woman in UP dies in ambulance after running between hospitals for 13 hours||An eight-month pregnant woman died in an ambulance here after a frantic 13-hour hospital hunt failed to find her a bed as over half-a-dozen facilities denied her treatment, her family claimed on Saturday. Neelam, 30, and her husband Vijender Singh, 30, knocked the doors of eight hospitals, including government ones, before she died in the ambulance outside a facility in Greater Noida on Friday, the family told PTI. Taking note of the death and the claim, the Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration ordered an inquiry into the matter.  A resident of Khoda colony on the Noida-Ghaziabad border, Neelam was eight months pregnant and undergoing treatment at Shivalik Hospital here, a private facility, for pregnancy-related complications, her husband said. On Friday, the hospital refused to admit her and then they were forced to run from one facility to another, he added.  "We first went to the ESI hospital. Thereafter, we went to a hospital in Sector 30 (the Child PGI), from there we went to the Sharda Hospital and then to the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida. But all refused to admit her," the man is seen alleging in a video circulating on social media. He said the family also tried to get admission in the private facility Jaypee, Fortis Hospital in Gautam Buddh Nagar and Max in Vaishali, Ghaziabad, but were allegedly told that no beds were available. "Kul mila ke humari ambulance mein hi death ho gayi (ultimately, she died in the ambulance). Finally, we got to the GIMS where she was put on a ventilator but it was too late," he said.  Gautam Buddh Nagar District Magistrate Suhas L Y ordered a probe into the episode. "Additional DM Munindra Nath Upadhyay and Chief Medical Officer Deepak Ohri will probe the matter. The DM has instructed them to immediately carry out a probe and take action," an official statement said. This is at least the second instance within a fortnight when a life has been lost in Gautam Buddh Nagar due to unavailability of timely medical treatment.  On the night of May 25, a newborn child had died due to lack of medical support as his father kept running from one hospital to another between Greater Noida and Noida. The district administration had carried out a probe in that matter too and pinned the fault on two private hospitals for alleged negligence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pregnant-woman-in-up-dies-in-ambulance-after-running-between-hospitals-for-13-hours-846468.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||MCX staffer succumbs to COVID-19; nine others test positive||A 36-year-old staffer of the Multi Commodity Exchange (MCX) has died of COVID-19, while nine others, who were part of a core team which helped ensure business continuity of the bourse during the lockdown, have tested positive for the novel coronavirus, officials said on Saturday. The staffer died on Monday and the nine colleagues who have tested positive were from a team of 30 which used to spend a fortnight at the commodity bourse's office in suburban Andheri by rotation since the lockdown was announced in March, the officials said. However, it was still unclear if the office has been sealed and if so, how is the exchange continuing with its operations. A query sent to MCX remained unanswered. The financial capital has turned into a hotspot of the coronavirus infection, accounting for nearly a fifth of the over 2 lakh positive cases in the country so far. Financial institutions, especially systemically important ones like exchanges and regulators, have core teams to ensure operational continuity. In the case of MCX, there were two teams of 30 people each mandated with ensuring business continuity out of the city office. They used to work from the office for two weeks by rotation, officials said.  The deceased staffer's samples tested positive on Friday, leading the bourse to start testing all the employees he was in close contact with. Tests on the other employees led to the discovery of nine more who have been infected with the virus, officials said. They said the deceased staffer was during a break away from his work roster when he died and the exact details of when he got infected were not immediately known. An official said necessary precautions like sanitising the facility have been undertaken by MCX.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/mcx-staffer-succumbs-to-covid-19-nine-others-test-positive-846470.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||NPP leader stages protest against new recruitment rules in JK||National Panthers Party chief Harsh Dev Singh on Saturday torched a government’s “effigy” to protest against the new recruitment rules here, terming a recent notification on the issue a “cruel joke” with educated unemployed youth of Jammu and Kashmir. Various political parties, including National Conference and Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party, too have opposed the new recruitment rules as “unjust for local residents” and “prejudicial in nature” and demanded its immediate rollback. On June 4, the Union territory administration had notified special recruitment rules for filling up of vacant Class-IV posts in all departments and brought an end to the division and district specific recruitments. This practice will also be followed in respect of gazetted and non-gazetted posts in future. Protesting against the new rules, Singh came out of his office and set ablaze an “effigy of the government” and sought modification of the new rules with repeal of SRO-202, a government order of 2015 under which the appointees in government service get only basic pay for the first five years of their service. Describing the new rules as “unconstitutional and anti-youth”, he said denying the legitimate remuneration to appointed youths amounted to grave injustice besides the violation of the principle of “equal pay for equal work”. Seeking the withdrawal of the SRO-202 and modification of new rules, Singh cautioned the government to refrain from testing the patience of the teeming unemployed of the UT. National Conference Provincial president Devender Singh Rana too has described the notification on recruitment rules for appointment to Class IV posts in Jammu and Kashmir as “unjust for the local residents” of the districts where these vacancies are to be filled, saying this would further shrink the scarce avenues of jobs for youths of the remote, backward and far-flung districts. “Class IV posts from the lowest rung in the hierarchy of government sector with the lowest pay ranges and usurping these tantamount to denial of justice to youths and virtually snatching morsels of meals from the mouths of poor,” Rana had said in a statement. Jammu and Kashmir Apni Party (JKAP) president Syed Mohammad Altaf Bukhari said the new recruitment rules for Class-IV jobs notified by the J&K government are completely “prejudicial in nature” and should be rolled back and modified in accordance with the standard rules governing the recruitment processes across the country. “In the new recruitment rules, the administration has incorporated SRO-202 clauses which are not only obsolete but brazenly unconstitutional in nature. The five-year probation instead of two years with denial of increments is totally against the right to equality enjoyed by all other citizens across the country except for the residents of J&K,” Bukhari said. The Jammu and Kashmir government, meanwhile, has referred to 7052 Class-IV vacancies to J&K Services Selection Board (JKSSB) under provisions of the Jammu and Kashmir Appointment to Class-IV (Special Recruitment) Rules, 2020. As per a communiqué of General Administration Department, Accelerated Recruitment Committee, which was constituted on May 14, has identified and forwarded 7,052 vacancies of Class-IV posts of 19 departments to General Administration Department for their further referral to J&K Services Selection Board under rule 4 of the Jammu and Kashmir Appointment to Class-IV (Special Recruitment) Rules, 2020. The vacancies with department-wise/cadre-wise/category-wise breakup are to be filled under provisions of the Jammu and Kashmir Appointment to Class-IV (Special Recruitment) 2020.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/npp-leader-stages-protest-against-new-recruitment-rules-in-jk-846473.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||FIR against Delhi hospital for not using RT-PCR App for COVID-19 sample collection||A prominent Delhi hospital Sir Ganga Ram Hospital has landed in further trouble with Delhi Police registering a case against it on charges of violating norms of COVID-19 testing set by Indian Council of Medical Research. The FIR came on a complaint filed by Delhi government's Deputy Secretary Amit Kumar, alleging that the hospital was not using RT-PCR app for collecting COVID-19 samples as mandated by the ICMR. The lab at the 675-bed Sir Ganga Ram Hospital was among the six laboratories which have been issued show cause notice earlier this week by Delhi government. The state government also barred these labs from collecting samples. Recently, the hospital was declared a COVID-19 hospital. According to the FIR, guidelines for tracking and monitoring of every COVID-19 suspected case in various accredited labs had mandated that sample collection could be done only through RT-PCR App. “The CDMO cum Mission Director (Central) has mentioned that Sir Ganga Ram Hospital is still not using RT-PCR App even till June 3, which is a clear violation of directions issued under Epidemic Disease COVID-19 Regulation 2020 Act,” the FIR claimed. On the complaint filed on June 3, Delhi Police has registered a case under Section 188 (disobeying the directions of a public official) of Indian Penal Code. No one has been named in the FIR. Reacting to this, Chairman of Medica group and FICCI Health Services Committee Alok Roy said, "Calling it a black marketeer is not a way to treat an institution which has provided great humanitarian services over last many decades". "There must be some misunderstandings, the government should look into it in detail to resolve and clarify this on priority. It is our appeal to the Delhi government that at this stage, both- government and private institutions must work together to overcome the pandemic. Finding faults will not help, let’s work with maturity and patience to fight this disease together," Roy said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, without naming hospitals, had said that some of these facilities have been indulging in black marketing of beds and six private labs were barred from testing COVID-19 samples as they were violating norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/fir-against-delhi-hospital-for-not-using-rt-pcr-app-for-covid-19-sample-collection-846513.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||India adding COVID-19 cases faster despite 48.2% recoveries||India has been making a steady recovery from COVID-19 but also reporting new infections at a faster rate. On Saturday, India reported its highest ever new cases – 9,887 in a single day – adding more than 9,000 cases for the third consecutive day. The death toll due to COVID-19 also reported a record hike of 294 in a single day, taking the total fatalities to 6,642 since the outbreak was first reported in India on January 30. India has a total of 2,36,657 confirmed cases of COVID-19, including 1,14,073 who have recovered and 1,15942 who are receiving treatment in various dedicated facilities for treating the infectious disease. As of Saturday, 48.20% of the total COVID-19 patients have recovered from the illness and been discharged from hospitals. While the COVID-19 recoveries were being reported at a steady 4% every day, the increase in active cases has been slightly at a higher rate of 4.3%. As many as 60% fresh infections were being reported from states such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Gujarat, a surge in cases was also being witnessed in states such as Karnataka (515), Uttar Pradesh (496), West Bengal (427), Kerala (111), Jharkhand (88). According to an analysis by economist Shamika Ravi, Delhi at 37.84 has the highest death rate per million people in states with 150 plus cases, followed by Maharashtra (23.13) and Gujarat (18.63). Of the 294 deaths reported since Friday morning, 139 were in Maharashtra, 58 in Delhi, 35 in Gujarat, 12 each in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, 11 in West Bengal, eight in Telangana, seven in Madhya Pradesh, five in Rajasthan, two in Andhra Pradesh and one each in Jammu and Kashmir, Odisha, Punjab Jharkhand and Uttarakhand. According to the health ministry, Maharashtra is the worst-hit state with 80,229 confirmed cases, followed by Tamil Nadu (28,694), Delhi (26,334), Gujarat (19,094), Rajasthan (10,084), Uttar Pradesh (9,733) and Madhya Pradesh (8,996). The Indian Council of Medical Research has further ramped up the testing capacity for COVID-19 by roping in 520 government labs and 222 private institutions. On Friday, a total of 1,37,938 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested thus far to 45,24,317.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/india-adding-covid-19-cases-faster-despite-482-recoveries-846527.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Restrict COVID-19 treatment to Delhi residents only: Expert panel||With COVID-19 cases surging, a Delhi government-appointed expert panel has recommended that health facilities in the national capital should be restricted for the use of residents of the city, warning that if people from outside are allowed, the hospitals will be filled to capacity in three days. The five-member panel headed by Indraprastha University Vice Chancellor Dr Mahesh Verma submitted its report to the AAP-led government, which said the residents of the capital may not get access to proper medical treatment if people from outside are allowed. There could be shortage of beds and health infrastructure, sources said quoting the panel's report. Sources said the expert panel are of the view that Delhi's health infrastructure should only be used for its own residents. If people from outside are allowed in hospitals, these will reach 100% per cent capacity within three days, they said. Besides Verma, the other members of the panel are GTB Hospital Medical Director Dr Sunil Kumar, Delhi Medical Council president Dr Arun Gupta, Delhi Medical Council former president Dr R K Gupta and Group Medical Director of Max Hospital Dr Sandeep Budhiraja. Earlier this week, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had sought suggestions from citizens on closing Delhi borders saying, if it was open there would be large number of people reaching the capital for treatment, as it has better healthcare infrastructure. He had said, people will flock to Delhi once borders are opened, as the capital has one of the best healthcare systems in the country and it is free in government hospitals here. "There is one suggestion that Delhi hospitals should be reserved for residents of Delhi. But Delhi is everyone's and it is the capital. Another suggestion is that we should keep the hospitals reserved for Delhiites till Covid-19 cases are in control. I need your views," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/restrict-covid-19-treatment-to-delhi-residents-only-expert-panel-846534.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Haryana records 355 new coronavirus cases in biggest single-day jump||Haryana on Saturday recorded 355 new COVID-19 cases, its biggest single-day jump in the number of new coronavirus patients so far, as the tally of infections inched close to the 4,000-mark. Majority of the fresh cases are from worst-hit districts of Gurgaon, Sonipat and Faridabad, which reported 129, 89 and 39 infections, respectively, according to the state health department's daily bulletin.           The total cases rose to 3,952, out of which cumulative cases in Gurgaon alone were 1,692, it said.           Among other districts which reported fresh cases included 23 from Rohtak, 19 from Palwal, 10 each from Karnal and Yamunanagar, 9 from Kaithal, 8 from Fatehabad, 5 from Panipat, 4 each from Hisar and Ambala, 3 from Jind, 2 from Kurukshetra and 1 from Sirsa, the bulletin said. On Friday, Haryana had reported 316 fresh coronavirus cases while a day earlier 327 cases had been reported. On Wednesday, the state recorded 302 cases and 296 on Tuesday.         Total active COVID-19 patients in the state are 2,648 while 1,280 patients have recovered and 24 deaths have been recorded, the bulletin said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-records-355-new-coronavirus-cases-in-biggest-single-day-jump-846549.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Himachal man arrested on allegations of injuring cow by feeding explosive-mixed eatables: Police||A man was arrested in Bilaspur district near here on Saturday on an allegation by the owner of a pregnant cow that he injured the bovine by feeding her some eatables mixed with explosives, said police. The incident follows the shocking death of a pregnant elephant dying of drowning after collapsing in Velliyar river in Palakkad district of Kerala due to starvation and exhaustion, being unable to eat anything for over a fortnight due to major injuries in her oral cavities, possibly suffered after having been fed firecrackers-stuffed pineapple. The arrest was made after a video footage by cow owner Gurdial Singh, accusing his neighbour Nand Lal Dhiman of Dahad village in Bilaspur district, of being behind injuries to the pregnant animal last month, went viral on social media. Bilaspur Superintendent of Police Dewakar Sharma said Nand Lal was arrested on Saturday from his village Dahad. Police had visited the crime spot in the village along with a medical team, which examined the cow whose mouth and jaw were found heavily injured, the SP said, adding “the cow was given prompt medical aid”. The wounds appeared to have been inflicted by some explosive material that people in rural areas use to deter animals from damaging their crops, said Sharma, adding the medical team has collected some samples of the cow’s blood and injured skin near the jaw for further forensic tests. The SP said the police had registered a case in this regard on May 26 itself in response to cow owner Gurdial Singh’s complaint dated May 25 that “his pregnant cow was grazing in a field at a distance of 20 meters from his house at 8.15 pm when he heard an explosion. “On reaching the explosion site, he (Singh) found that his cow’s jaw was injured in the explosion,” the SP said separately in a letter, apprising the state police chief of the sensitive incident. “The cow owner had added in his complaint that he suspected his neighbour Nand Lal being behind the mischief,” the SP wrote to the Himachal DGP.  On Gurdial Singh’s complaint, also endorsed by deputy chief of Dahad village panchayat, police had registered a case under Indian Penal Code section 429, involving the mischief of maiming or killing cattle, and other relevant sections of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act, the SP wrote to the state DGP. SP Dewakar Sharma also informed the DGP that “the cow was given prompt medical aid”. “Days after the incident, the cow also gave birth to a baby calf,” he wrote to the DGP.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-man-arrested-on-allegations-of-injuring-cow-by-feeding-explosive-mixed-eatables-police-846553.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||J&K: Pakistan violates ceasefire along LoC and IB||Pakistani troops on Saturday violated ceasefire by resorting to unprovoked firing on forward posts and villages along the Line of Control (LoC) and International Border (IB) in Poonch and Kathua districts of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said.         Indian troops guarding the borders retaliated befittingly to silence the Pakistani guns and there was no report of any casualty on the Indian side, the officials said. At about 8 pm, a defence spokesperson said Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and shelling mortars along LoC in Kirni and Qasba sectors in Poonch district. Indian army retaliated and the cross-border shelling was continuing when last reports were received, he said.                Earlier, Pakistani rangers resorted to firing from across the border in Karol Matrai and Chandwa along the IB in Kathua district started around 12.45 am, drawing effective retaliation by the Border Security Force (BSF), the officials said.          They said the exchange of firing between the two sides continued till 3 am. The Pakistani firing caused panic among the border residents who were forced to spend the night in the underground bunkers for their safety, the officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-and-ib-846556.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Chhattisgarh: 4 Naxal couriers held in Bastar, 695 bullets seized||Four suspected Maoist couriers were arrested in Chhattisgarh's Bastar division and huge caches of ammunition, meant for Naxals, were recovered, police said on Saturday. Manoj Sharma and Harishankar Gedam were apprehended from Sukma district on June 2, while Ganesh Kunjam and Atmaram Nareti were held from Kanker district on Saturday, Inspector General of Police (Bastar range) Sundarraj P told PTI. "They were involved in supplying ammunition to ultras in Bastar region. Sharma, of Dhamtari, and Gedam of Balod district were intercepted at Malkangiri Chowk in Sukma town and 395 bullets of self-loading and .303 rifles were seized," he said. During interrogation, they said Kunjam and Nareti, linked to Maoist leader Darshan Pedda who is secretary of the 'Pratappur area committee' in Kanker, had approached them to supply ammunition, he said. "Later, Kunjam and Nareti were arrested and 70 live rounds of INSAS and .303 rifles were recovered from them. Based on their statements, more ammunition meant for Naxals was uncovered from Dhamtari. In all, 695 live rounds of .303, AK-47, SLR and INSAS rifles were seized," the IG said. They have been charged under provisions of Arms Act and Chhattisgarh Special Public Security Act at Kotwali police station in Sukma, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/chhattisgarh-4-naxal-couriers-held-in-bastar-695-bullets-seized-846569.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt directs hospitals to procure, stock PPE kits, oxygen masks for 3 months amid coronavirus crisis||Delhi government hospitals have been directed to procure and stock "sufficient supplies" of medical equipment like personal protection equipment kits and oxygen masks for at least the next three months amid a spurt in coronavirus cases in the city, officials said on Saturday. Delhi Health Secretary Padmini Singla in an order issued on Friday said it has been observed that there has been a surge in the number of cases of COVID-19 in the last one week in Delhi, resulting in additional demand of beds, consumable and infrastructure. Delhi recorded 1,320 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday taking the COVID-19 tally in the city to over 27,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 761, authorities said. The highest spike in fresh cases -- 1513 -- was recorded on June 3. "All designated MS/MD/director of COVID and non-COVID hospitals under the government of Delhi are directed to procure and stock sufficient supplies of surgical consumables, oxygen masks and all necessary accessories required for oxygen therapy, PPE kits, gloves, masks, etc., at least for the coming three months," the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-directs-hospitals-to-procure-stock-ppe-kits-oxygen-masks-for-3-months-amid-coronavirus-crisis-846575.html
06-06-2020||North and Central||Barring Gurgaon and Faridabad, shopping malls, religious places to reopen in Haryana from June 8||The Haryana government has decided to allow reopening of places of worship and shopping malls for public in a regulated manner across the state from June 8, except in Gurgaon and Faridabad districts worst-hit by COVID-19, according to a statement issued here on Saturday. Apart from this, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services would be reopened with generic preventive measures across the state. The timing of opening for all would be between 9 am and 8 pm to ensure compliance of night curfew between 9 pm and 5 am, it said. "The Haryana government has decided to allow the reopening of religious places, places of worship for public, and shopping malls in a regulated and restricted manner across the state with effect from June 8, except in Gurugram and Faridabad in view of large number of positive cases being found on a daily basis in the last 10 days in these districts," the statement said. Of the over 3,952 coronavirus cases in Haryana, Gurgaon alone accounted for over 1,692 and Faridabad 620. Among the 24 COVID-19 deaths reported so far, Gurgaon reported four while Faridabad had 10 fatalities, as per state health department's bulletin issued Saturday evening.  Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar held a meeting here in the wake of the Centre's decision to reopen the country's economy. Anil Vij, who holds charge of both home and health departments, and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala were present at the meeting. The Centre had on May 30 said that 'Unlock-1' would be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown effectuated on March 25 would be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions would remain in place till June 30 in the country's worst-hit areas. "In Gurgaon and Faridabad, shopping malls and religious places will remain closed to the public for the time being. However, in other parts, these will open and people will have to follow the guidelines," Vij told PTI earlier in the day. According to the statement of the state government, the chief minister directed authorities to regulate and restrict activities following the guidelines and instructions of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs in letter and spirit keeping in view the prevailing conditions due to COVID-19 outbreak in Haryana. The MHA has extended the lockdown period in coronavirus containment zones up to June 30 and allowed to reopen certain activities in a phased manner outside those areas, it said.  Khattar said safety measures including simple public health steps, social distancing, wearing of face covers or masks should be observed at all time by everyone in establishments that have been alloed to operate from June 8. "It was decided that no aarti, congregation or mass and collective gathering for prayers will be allowed. Only individual prayers will be allowed and no physical offerings like prasad or distribution or sprinkling of holy water, etc. will  be allowed inside the religious place," said the statement. It was also decided that the community kitchens at religious places should observe physical distancing norms while preparing and distributing food, it stated. Banquet halls with a size of around 2000 square feet would be allowed to operate with maximum of 50 guests at a time and social distancing norms must be observed. Restaurants in hotels would be allowed to operate with only 50 per cent capacity. No buffet service will be allowed. Only ordering individually on the menu would be allowed. No bars in restaurants will be allowed to open. Room service or takeaways for dine in rooms will be allowed, according to the state government guidelines. For shopping malls, other than in Gurgaon and Faridabad, such activities have been allowed subject to restrictions of social distancing, wearing of face covers/masks that need to be observed at all times. Gaming Arcades, Children Play Areas and Cinema Halls inside shopping malls will remain closed, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/barring-gurgaon-and-faridabad-shopping-malls-religious-places-to-reopen-in-haryana-from-june-8-846583.html
06-06-2020||Opinion||Understanding the neuroscience of compassion||I still don't have an answer to these questions, but neuroscience has been making forays into similar territory over the previous decade – how is empathy different from compassion? Are different regions of the brain activated by the two? Is compassion as beneficial to the ‘giver’ as to the ‘receiver’, and is it at all possible for this skill to be improved by training? Compassion, Empathy and Altruism Scientists define compassion as a sensitivity to the suffering of another, coupled with a desire to alleviate their suffering. This makes compassion a separate entity from its cousin, empathy, which is a general shared experience of another person's emotional state, be it anger, sadness, joy or suffering. Empathy usually does not involve a motivational or a ‘prosocial’ component – wanting to help another person is a purely compassionate response. Compassion is also distinct from empathy in that the feelings generated by compassion could be totally different from those observed in the suffering person. I could feel anger at the injustice meted upon certain members of society, for instance. Empathy, on the other hand, is more of a ‘mirror system’. I see sadness, so I feel sad. In addition to empathy, it is also important to distinguish compassion from another related construct – altruism. While compassion may be associated with caregiving, altruistic behaviours in themselves are not necessarily evidence that the person has experienced compassion. A person may, for instance, indulge in helping behaviour as an attempt to reduce their own feeling of distress. Studies have shown that the perception of suffering causes ‘empathetic distress’ in the person witnessing the suffering, and it is not hard to imagine that altruism driven by such distress can be detrimental – to both the giver and the receiver of the response. Altruistic behaviours can also originate from a need to feel good about oneself, a desire for social recognition, or to satisfy a sense of duty or obligation.  The neuroscience and evolutionary aspects of compassion  From a neuroscience point of view, healthy compassion seems to involve two components in a complex interplay – an arousal component, and a higher-order reappraisal or self-regulation component. Arousal on witnessing an event that elicits compassion involves increased heart rate and nausea, symptoms like those experienced during personal threat or pain. Left unchecked, this can soon turn into personal distress. The reappraisal component of compassion, however, which is mediated by higher-order brain areas in the prefrontal cortex, seems to protect from personal distress. When I was wondering about how the Seattle volunteers were motivated enough to help someone they hardly knew, I might have, unbeknownst to myself, hit upon an important characteristic of compassion. Studies have found that, in general, similar and close others cause people to feel more compassion. This isn’t surprising, however, given its evolutionary origins – indulging in protective, self-sacrificial behaviour is a defining characteristic of maternal protection of vulnerable offspring. But how does evolutionary theory attempt to explain compassion towards non-kin individuals? Why would someone feel moved by the experience of an individual they have no relation to and be motivated to want to alleviate their suffering? Evolutionary theory suggests that helping others has benefits to the individual themselves – by directly or indirectly strengthening the group they belong to and opening the doors to reciprocal helping behaviour. At some point in our evolutionary history, it seems, the narrow view of protecting one’s own children from danger expanded to include compassion towards other individuals with whom people were likely to interact with repeatedly, and people considered to be in-group members. Like empathy, which has a distinct in-group preference, compassion too seems to be directed largely towards individuals we identify with, for whatever reason. The broaden-and-build response  This has interesting, and often counterintuitive, implications. From a logical viewpoint, it may seem that someone with access to more resources would be more compassionate, given that they can help others at a lower cost to themselves, but the opposite has been found to be the case. Research has shown that people belonging to a lower social class rank tend to be more sensitive to others’ distress and need, and in turn more compassionate. The team of scientists who performed the study on social rank and compassion relate their findings to a ‘broaden and build’ response to stress, in which people seek to build cooperation and relationships in the face of stress, rather than fight or flee. This broaden-and-build theory suggests that acting on positive impulses has several benefits for individuals - including building psychological resilience and reducing negative emotions – that ultimately help the individual survive better in the face of stress.  Can compassion be trained? Educational institutions around the world are teaming up with experts on Buddhist compassion scriptures, to develop secular and contemporary compassion training programs. Eight-week compassion-based training programs from Emory and Stanford Universities use a combination of meditation practices and have shown some interesting findings. In addition to reduction in activation of brain regions responsible for the arousal component, compassion training also led to increased mindfulness and happiness, as well as decreased worry. Engagement of prefrontal cortex regions responsible for the self-regulation aspect of compassion also increases after compassion training. Interestingly, compassion training of parents found reductions in biomarkers of stress, such as cortisol, in their infants and young children. Culture has been found to have an impact on compassion as well. Although research on this topic is in its infancy, cultures that emphasise collectivism and concern for the well-being of others are generally found to be associated with more instances of compassion and prosociality than other cultures. This has implications for parents of young children as well. What is a family unit, after all, if not a mini culture in itself? Understanding our own motivations for wanting to help others, and weeding out the not-so-good reasons from the good ones has the potential to change the way we parent our children, and hopefully ensure that we bring up a new generation that is empathetic and compassionate, without being distressed by all the injustice that they see around them. (Aditi Subramaniam is a neuroscientist turned writer who is fascinated by the workings of the brain and how we can ‘rewire’ it to our advantage. She enjoys writing about the neuroscience of everyday life, and its practical implications for parenting) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/understanding-the-neuroscience-of-compassion-846357.html
06-06-2020||Opinion||The case for an interventionist judiciary||Millions of migrants breathed a sigh of relief when the Supreme Court of India passed its interim directions on May 28, 2020  in a suo moto Public Interest Litigation to redress their miseries caused by the unplanned lockdown to beat the coronavirus. However, the extraordinary intervention sparked a debate whether the Supreme Court should have refrained itself from the majoritarian art of governance. Needless to say that the Supreme Court is the seat of justice for arbitrating between individuals in respect of property matters, contractual rights or issues touching their personal matters; deciding on criminality of accused; adjudicating on federal disputes;  and finally, in exercising extraordinary power of judicial review to enforce the fundamental rights of millions against the mighty State power.  Undoubtedly, its role in the enforcement of fundamental rights goes to the root of constitutional governance. However, this enforcement of fundamental rights itself has two dimensions. The traditional role in upholding fundamental freedoms touch civil liberties including free speech and an activist approach in implementing socio-economic rights which are claims or positive rights to food, shelter, health, etc. No reason to show deference towards majority governments The framers of the Constitution of India (COI) in 1950 unhesitatingly chose to enact a limited form of government. The idea of holding the State as accountable before the ordinary court of law was uppermost in their design of things for the Constitution. Going beyond the English doctrine of judicial review over administrative actions, the framers vested powers in the High Courts and Supreme Court to take a dig at the legislations passed by the Parliament or state legislatures. Even constitutional amendments were not given immunity from amenability to judicial review. The suggestion coming from some legal luminaries that the Supreme Court should have deference towards the majoritarian decisions has no foundation in modern constitutionalism. Indeed, the idea is a ghost of authoritarianism. Those who think of fitting such an idea into the democratic Constitution must know that they are trying to fit a square peg in a round hole.  Moreover, the  present representative system is imperfect. The first past the post system of election depends on securing more votes than rivals which may not constitute a majority of the votes polled in the election. At the national level, even though the present ruling party in India won 303 seats out of 542 seats in the Lok Sabha election held in 2019, it secured only about 38 per cent of votes. In fact, these 38 per cent voters formed less than 20 per cent of the total population. Even in 1952, 1957, 1962, 1967, 1971 or 1984, when the Indian National Congress won hands down, the support of the total population to the ruling party was only around 20 per cent. Therefore, this theory of judicial deference in favour of majoritarian governments is fundamentally fallacious, if not a ridiculous proposition.  Undoubtedly, the judiciary is a legitimate arbiter between the government and its critics in a democratic set up. The only instance when the judiciary may have deference to the executive or slow down its intervention, could be in the situation when the decisions sought to be challenged are bipartisan. However, in the absence of such bipartisan decisions, the Supreme Court is expected to act fearlessly against the majoritarian regime. SC’s journey as the upholder of fundamental rights In the last seven decades, the Supreme Court has played a stellar role except during the Emergency. However, its non-interventionist role in the recent past is equated with the unfortunate role it played during the Emergency. But, the last word is yet to be written on this. Hope the Supreme Court asserts its constitutionally legitimate interventionist role and protects the migrants and decides quickly on the validity of political detentions and restores 4G internet in the Kashmir valley. The veiled arguments of the Union in Kashmir matters, which is really founded on the demised Korematsu case decided by the United States Supreme Court during World War II, will be hopefully shown its way out by the Supreme Court of India. The first three decades after enactment of the COI in 1950 saw the judiciary asserting its traditional role of upholding freedoms and equality by undoing even the most popular measures relating to abolition of vestiges of feudalism by land reforms. The Supreme Court upheld fundamental rights even at the cost of being seen institutionally as a relic of rural capitalism or a friend of kulaks. This was the period in Indian judicial history when legalism was at its best. However, when Emergency was imposed, decreeing the suspension of fundamental rights in Part III of the COI by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, the Supreme Court ended with a disastrous decision in ADM Jabalpur case. The judges (except Justice H R Khanna) surprisingly placed life and liberty at the mercy of the majoritarian government by declining to exercise jurisdiction and rule on the legal validity of detention of political opponents.  The Supreme Court read COI as an artificial construct on a dry piece of clay. The mandate of common law or natural law that nobody shall be deprived of liberty except in accordance with law and as tested by an independent judiciary was shockingly sent down the Yamuna to the Ganges and finally flushed into the Bay of Bengal. Rising from the ignominy, the Supreme Court began its next phase and focused on the interests of masses. During the Emergency, the COI was amended by the 42nd Amendment Act of 1977 to incorporate the words ‘socialist’ and ‘secular’ in the Preamble. Taking a leaf from the ideals of socialism, the judiciary turned into an activist institution. The requirement of locus standi, which acted as gatekeeper in Anglo Saxon jurisprudence, was relaxed. The decision in Maneka Gandhi in 1978 mandated a test of reasonableness in the procedure established by law. The meaning of life was creatively interpreted as life with dignity. Socio-economic rights were read into Article 21.  Sometimes, but not always, assistance was drawn from the Directive Principles of State Policy parked in the COI. On first reading of Article 21, it doesn’t seem to encapsulate the rights as claims against the State. It appears as a negative right or freedom. However, Supreme Court animated by the incorporation of word socialism in the preamble of COI, read Article 21 as incorporating positive rights or as claims against the State. A concept of affirmative action or the State responsibility towards its citizens was introduced. Even otherwise, doctrine of positive rights is consistent with international obligations assumed by India under the United Nations International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 1966. The refashioned juridical artifacts paved the way for judicial activism in implementing the said socio-economic rights. Article 21, weaponised as a positive right, was armed by the judiciary to wake up the inactive State or its officials. The Supreme Court has issued hundreds of directions to governments at the Centre and States to provide education, food, water, shelter, transportation, etc. on the premise that inaction by the State is illegal. The Supreme Court has also knocked out various archaic prison laws. The observance of strict legalism in enforcing freedom and equality, ignoring Korematsu-style arguments by the Union, and implementation of socio-economic rights based on humanitarian jurisprudence built for decades from case to case cannot and should not be given up on the specious argument of a majoritarian doctrine. Interventionist Judiciary is a necessary shining sword of modern constitutionalism. (Mohan Katarki is a senior advocate at the Supreme Court of India. Views are personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-case-for-an-interventionist-judiciary-846445.html
06-06-2020||South||Former footballer dies of COVID-19 in Kerala||A native of Parappanangadi in Malappuram district of Kerala, he died at Manjeri Medical College Hospital in the district. His wife and four other members in the family were also reported to be infected.  Sources said that Hamsakoya was a former footballer. He played in the Nehru Cup and Santosh Trophy tournaments. Hamsakoya was with his son in Maharashtra during lockdown. He returned to Kerala on May 21 with his wife, son and his family. Six of them were later tested as COVID positive. Hamsakoya's condition worsened as he suffered from heart ailments and also developed pneumonia, sources said.   With this, the number of COVID-19 deaths in Kerala reached 16. One among them was a native of Mahe that comes under Puducherry. Hence Kerala has not included him in the state's tally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/former-footballer-dies-of-covid-19-in-kerala-846351.html
06-06-2020||South||Coronavirus: Tamil Nadu caps COVID-19 treatment charges in private hospitals||The government also said private hospitals should not charge any fee over and above the fixed slab for treatment. According to a press release issued by the Health Department, private hospitals should not charge more than Rs 7,500 a day for those admitted in general wards, while the maximum amount to be charged in ICU is Rs 15,000 per day.  Categorising private hospitals into four groups – A1, A2, A3, and A4, -- the government said the charges should not exceed Rs 7,500 for the first two categories and Rs 5,000 per day for the third and fourth categories in case of asymptomatic or patients with mild symptoms who are admitted to general wards. In the case of patients with severe symptoms who need Intensive Care Treatment (ICU), the charges are fixed at Rs 15,000 per day for all four categories. “The charges announced by the government are the maximum. No fee over and above the permitted charges can be collected from the patients," the press release said. The government’s move to cap the treatment charges comes amidst a slew of complaints from the general public that private hospitals were fleecing patients for COVID-19 treatment. The announcement also comes days after the government brought COVID-19 treatment under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CMCHIS).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-tamil-nadu-caps-covid-19-treatment-charges-in-private-hospitals-846373.html
06-06-2020||South||Coronavirus: Antibody tests to be conducted in Kerala from June 8||The state had reported 111 postive cases on Friday, the highest single day spike, prompting Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to declare the situation as "grim". Vijayan also said the antibody tests would be conducted on a large scale to check if there was any community spread in the state. Health Secretary Dr Rajan Khobaragade said the tests would begin from June 8. "It is a surveillance done on a scientific basis. From the community various segments will be under the zone of consideration," he told PTI. The state hasreceived 14,000 kits through ICMR and 10,000 of these have been given to different districts. Another 40,000 kits are expected in the next three days, the CM said. The plan is to conduct up to 15,000 antibody tests per week to check for community spread. If anyone's antibody test turns out positive, then a PCR test would be conducted to confirm the infection,he had said. The government is also aware that with rising cases, the easing of lockdown restrictions would be a huge challenge. More than one lakh people are expected to come to the state from abroad in June. The Chief Minister had announced that places of worship, malls and restaurants would open from June 9, but social distancing and all other protocols should be strictly followed. Those above 65 years and children below nine would have to stay away from places of worship.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-antibody-tests-to-be-conducted-in-kerala-from-june-8-846383.html
06-06-2020||South||210 new COVID-19 cases in Andhra Pradesh, tally climbs to 4,460||Coronavirus cases rose sharply by 210 to 4,460 in Andhra Pradesh on Saturday, while the toll due to the infection stood at 73. The state government stopped releasing any details about the cases though new hotspots were emerging by the day in almost every district. 'Jaggery town' Anakapalle near Visakhapatnam reported at least 18 COVID-19 cases in one day, though it remained Corona-free all these days, sources here said. In the state Secretariat here, five more coronavirus cases were added as employees of different departments tested positive n the last 24 hours. Employees Association leaders said an employee each in Planning, RTGS, Revenue and Municipal Administration departments tested positive for the virus.  Four other Secretariat staffers had already tested positive for the virus since the beginning of the week. The Secretariat has now become the latest hotspot for coronavirus even as the state government made it mandatory for all employees and visitors to install 'Aarogya Setu' mobile App in their phones for entering the premises. Of the 210 fresh cases reported in the state in the last 24 hours, ending 9 am on Saturday, 161 were state residents and 41 were those who came from other states. Also, eight foreign returnees also tested positive, the COVID-19 bulletin said. So far, 2,601 people were discharged from hospitals after treatment. There are a total of 1,786 active cases in the state. The number of tests conducted touched 4,36,335 with a positivity rate of 1.02 per cent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/210-new-covid-19-cases-in-andhra-pradesh-tally-climbs-to-4460-846391.html
06-06-2020||South||Coronavirus: Goa mosques delay reopening till June 30||In view of the steep rise in the cases of COVID-19 positive cases, the Association of All Goa Muslim Jamats, an apex religious body of Muslims in the state on Saturday, announced that mosques in Goa would continue to be shut till June 30 amid the fear of community transmission. The Roman Catholic Church in Goa has also expressed unwillingness to open its doors on June 8, citing the fluid situation related to COVID-19 in Goa. The decision to delay the re-opening of mosques comes two days before the central government's 'Unlock-1' guidelines allow for religious places to open on June 8. "We the executive committee members of the Association of All Goa Muslim Jamats have decided to delay the re-opening of all masjids in the state of Goa till June 30 for the safety of members of our community and society," the statement issued by the Association's president Shaikh Bashir Ahmed said. "In Goa, since June 1, COVID-19 positive cases have been on a rose. We have touched almost 196 cases (including those who are cured) in the past one week and it's an alarming spike in positive cases," the statement added. The Goa Church in a statement said, that it is "critically assessing" the fluid situation related to the emergence of COVID-19 infections in various parts of Goa, it is not "in a position to declare our places of worship open from tomorrow, June 8". "When we eventually decide to open up, with prudence, vigilance and careful discernment, it will be in consonance with the State Government’s SOPs, which we expect to receive by then," the statement also said. Catholic account for 26 per cent of Goa's population, while Muslims account for nearly 7 per cent. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Friday had announced that places of religious worship could open as per the central government guidelines but had cautioned against holding mass religious gathering and community prayers in large clusters. Over the last one week, the state which was zero-COVID for more than a month until May, witnessed a spike in the number of positive cases, with the official tally of active COVID-19 cases currently at 130.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-goa-mosques-delay-reopening-till-june-30-846411.html
06-06-2020||South||Make online plan for visits to Saneeswara temple: Lt Governor||Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry Kiran Bedi on Saturday called upon the devout people in the Union Territory to adopt online plans for visits to the shrine of Lord Saneeswara (Saturn) in Tirunallar near Karaikal. She probably took a cue from the system adopted by the management of the Tirupati Tirumala temple in Andhra Pradesh. In a press release, the former IPS officer who has been holding regular video-conferencing with various officials said the people should ensure wearing of masks, follow social distancing and adhere to basic sanitation and hygiene. She asked the people to also avoid crowding and use more online service wherever available for visits to various places of worship be it temples, churches and mosques. She said her requests were made as a precaution to reduce community spread of COVID-19 in Puducherry. She further said three Secretaries to the administration-Ashok Kumar, Poorva Garg and K Mahesh- were reaching out to the people of Puducherry through Doordarshan and All India Radio as per instructions and protocols set by the Centre from June 8 when places of worship would re-open.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/make-online-plan-for-visits-to-saneeswara-temple-lt-governor-846426.html
06-06-2020||South||TN govt will bear higher education expenses of salon owner's daughter: Palaniswami||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister K Palaniswami on Saturday announced that the state government would bear the higher education expenses of a salon owner's daughter in Madurai who was lauded by Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his COVID-19 relief work. The salon owner, Mohan of Madurai district, spent his savings earmarked for the education of his daughter Nethra to buy and distribute groceries and vegetables for the poor during the lockdown period, Palaniswami said and appreciated his gesture. "The Tamil Nadu government will bear the higher education expenditure of Nethra," the Chief Minister said, adding, it was to honour Mohan's help for the destitute with dedication, sans selfishness during the pandemic. He greeted the 13-year girl who reportedly convinced her father to spend his savings for the needy. On May 31, in his "Mann Ki Baat" broadcast, Prime Minister Modi had said "..There are innumerable people who are willing to give their all in the service of others. One such gentleman is K C Mohan of Tamil Nadu. Shri Mohan ji runs a salon in Madurai. Through sheer hard work, he had saved five lakh rupees for his daughter's education. But he spent the entire amount in the service of the needy and the underprivileged in these difficult times."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tn-govt-will-bear-higher-education-expenses-of-salon-owners-daughter-palaniswami-846441.html
06-06-2020||South||POCSO Act invoked against man accused of killing nine||A case under the POCSO Act has been registered against a man accused of killing nine people whose bodies were found in a well near here last month after his alleged inappropriate behaviour with a girl surfaced, police said on Saturday. During the investigation, the mans alleged inappropriate behaviour with the minor, a distant relative of the deceased, came to light and the case registered under the POCSO Act after she complained to police, they said. The man is currently in judicial custody,lodged in a Warangal jail. According to police,he allegedly killed the nine people to cover up the killing of a woman. Claiming to have cracked the case, police had, on May 25, said it was a cold-blooded murder allegedly carried out by the 24-year-old man to cover up his recemt killing of a woman related to the family. Sanjay Kumar Yadav was arrested on May 25 following investigations by six special teams. He confessed to the crime, police claimed, three days after bodies of the nine, including six members of a family, were fished out of the well in Gorrekunta village.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/pocso-act-invoked-against-man-accused-of-killing-nine-846488.html
06-06-2020||South||Sabarimala temple to reopen on June 14, No-COVID certificate required for pilgrims from other states||With worship centres in Kerala set to reopen from Tuesday for pilgrims, the government and Devaswom boards decided to strictly restrict pilgrims at major temples like Sabarimala Ayyappa temple through advance reservation and to insist on a no-COVID certificate for pilgrims from other states. Sabarimala temple will be opened by June 14 for monthly pooja and will remain open till June 28 for the annual festival that begins on June 19. Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran that devotees from other states would have to produce a medical certificate proving that they were not infected with COVID-19. Devotees would be allowed only through the virtual queue system. Only up to 200 pilgrims would be allowed in one hour. No pilgrims would be allowed to stay back, said the minister. At Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple also a maximum of 600 devotees would be allowed every day through advance booking system. Only a maximum of 60 marriages would be allowed at the temple every day and the number of participants would be restricted to 10. Meanwhile, a cleaning drive was carried out at the 1,248 temples under the Travancore Devaswom Board on Saturday. All churches and mosques were also issuing guidelines for devotees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/sabarimala-temple-to-reopen-on-june-14-no-covid-certificate-required-for-pilgrims-from-other-states-846506.html
06-06-2020||South||Father, son accused in elephant killing absconding; Worker prepared the explosive packed food||A father and son who are the key accused in the killing of a pregnant elephant in Kerala were still absconding, while the third accused held on Friday in learnt to have confessed that he himself prepared the explosive-filled dry coconut. Wilson, who is a plantation worker, was suspected to be involved in many such killings along with the two others accused, who are owners of the plantation in Palakkad district where the trap was laid. As the elephant got injured, the gang tried to chase away it from their premises owing to fear of being caught. While there were still allegations that the trap was aimed at the elephant, forest department officials said that from the modus operandi it seems that the target was wild boar itself and the intention was illegal meat sale. While Wilson was produced before court and remanded to judicial custody, search for the two others have been intensified. A probe into the poaching and illegal meat sale by the gang would be initiated, said the police and forest department sources.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/father-son-accused-in-elephant-killing-absconding-worker-prepared-the-explosive-packed-food-846511.html
06-06-2020||South||Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams warns stern action against employees maligning its image||Authorities of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, who are finding themselves in one controversy after another, are dealing sternly with employees who supposedly have put them on the spot.   At the same time, the TTD officials are taking the instances of fake news, insolent content about the temple on social media to the police, who have registered cases against several people. While placing some employees under suspension, the TTD has launched a vigilance enquiry on the suspected employees who have let “confidential” information into the public space. Last month, the TTD, which manages the famed Lord Venkateswara temple, had faced nationwide censure when a notification towards auction of some of the devotee donated lands was revealed. The said document was widely reported by news outlets and circulated on social media. In the wake of huge outcry, the TTD board of trustees had to, eventually, drop all such plans. And to clear the air, the TTD trustee board which met on May 28 decided to publish a white paper on the temple’s properties spread across the country. This week, another commotion was caused over a contentious version of Uttara Ramayana written by a school kid, appearing in the TTD published Sapthagiri magazine. The story claimed that Lava was the only original progeny of Sita-Rama and that Kusa was a figurine made from grass and brought to life by the magical powers of Saint Valmiki, as DH had reported on Wednesday. The BJP had staged a protest attacking the TTD for “allowing such distortions in the Hindu revered scripts.” Netizens too advised TTD “not to encourage such falsifications.”   On Saturday, it is revealed that the chief editor and an editorial assistant of Sapthagiri were put under suspension. Though the same article was rejected in 2016-17, it appeared in the April 2020 edition, troubling the TTD. “Even before the magazine was released in the market, it was somehow procured by some people thus giving scope to raise a controversy,” officials said. Referring to the storm over the public auction of TTD properties and the Sapthagiri article, TTD Joint Executive Officer Basant Kumar said that a vigilance enquiry is initiated on employees who resorted to “activities damaging the devotees' sentiments and reputation of the institution.”   Two employees of the estate department dealing with properties are under the vigilance probe. “If the document leak is the deed of one or both of them is being ascertained. A report would be sent to the higher-ups for necessary action,” Kumar, an IAS officer, told DH. Kumar stated “a malafide campaign” as on to smear the TTD reputation. “To put an end to such motivated campaigns, the TTD Board had decided to publish a white paper on the affairs of all TTD properties. But even before the report is readied, the details were telecast by an electronic media channel on May 30 and 31,” the JEO said.   Police cases Tirumala II Town police registered a case against a person who posted on Facebook that Sudha Narayanamurthy has submitted resignation to her membership of TTD trust board.  Following an email complaint from a devotee Tamil Maiyyan that Tamil Actor Shiv Kumar had posted a video on Facebook urging devotees to not visit Tirumala alleging anti-social activities at the holy pilgrim place, Tirumala police registered a case. Police have also registered a case against three men - Macherla Srinivasulu, Prashant and Mungara Shivraj for spreading fake news during Covid-19 lockdown period that Srivari darshan would remain suspended till June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/tirumala-tirupati-devasthanams-warns-stern-action-against-employees-maligning-its-image-846525.html
06-06-2020||South||Many mosques in Kerala to continue restriction amid coronvirus pandemic||Many mosques in Kerala have decided to continue with the restrictions on devotees as the COVID scenario in Kerala was worsening. While a joint meeting on mahal committees in Ernakulam decided that the mosques in the district shall continue with the restrictions until the situation improves, many prominent mosques across the state including the Palayam Juma mosque in Thiruvanthapuram city, Moideen mosque and Nadakkavu mosque in Kozhikode, were among those which already decided to continue with the restriction on devotees.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/many-mosques-in-kerala-to-continue-restriction-amid-coronvirus-pandemic-846536.html
06-06-2020||South||Telangana defers SSC exams after HC bars Hyderabad due to high number of COVID-19 cases||The Telangana government, on Saturday late evening, decided to suspend the SSC examinations scheduled to be held from Monday. The decision was taken following the Telangana High Court orders on Saturday allowing the Chandrasekhar Rao government to conduct the Secondary School Certificate examinations in the state, barring Hyderabad where positive cases are surging. The 10th exams which first began on March 19 were suspended after two papers because of the increasing COVID-19 cases and the subsequent imposition of the lockdown. In a revised schedule, the education department had announced to conduct the remaining exams from June 8 till July 5 with a two-day gap between two papers. Though the HC allowed the government to conduct exams in rest of the state, the education department apparently opined that it would be a complicated and futile exercise since results would have to be announced for all at the same time. Besides, the HC has reportedly asked the government to review the pandemic situation at the centres every week to continue with exams there. An announcement on exams is expected after a review by Chief Minister Rao.    Alarming proportion of cases from Hyderabad   While Telangana has a total of 3496 COVID-19 cases till Saturday night, most of these cases are from Hyderabad. Out of the 206 fresh cases of Saturday, 152 are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area. Out of the 143 fresh cases on Friday, 116 are from here. Thus, earlier in the day, the High Court disallowed exams in the GHMC jurisdiction comprising Hyderabad, Ranga Reddy and Medchal districts. Hyderabad students along with those from other districts unable/unwilling to appear now were allowed to write the advanced supplementary exams at a later date as regular exams, as a special case for this year alone. The exam decision was earlier challenged in the HC by one Bala Krishna Mandapati raising concerns about the safety of children congregating at the exam centres in the pandemic time. Though stating exams are an essential part of the education system, the HC has placed the well-being of children above everything.  The Telangana education department then assured the court of all necessary precautions including change of exam centres from smaller to larger schools, colleges. Child rights activists critical of “the government’s insistence” to go-ahead with the schedule, have now welcomed the suspension decision.  “The education department has unnecessarily ventured into conducting 10th exams despite opposition from various quarters. It should realize the coronavirus spread and act sensibly. Exams should be conducted only when a normal situation prevails,” Achyuta Rao, honorary president, Balala Hakkula Sangham told DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-defers-ssc-exams-after-hc-bars-hyderabad-due-to-high-number-of-covid-19-cases-846552.html
06-06-2020||South||19 deaths reported in a day: Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally crosses 30,000||The death toll due to Coronavirus infection in Tamil Nadu mounted to 251 with 19 persons being reported dead, the biggest single-day spike since the outbreak, on Saturday alone, even as the total number of Covid-19 cases in the state crossed the 30,000-mark. Of the 19 deaths, 10 were reported in private hospitals, while the remaining nine patients died in government hospitals in the state. Though the government claims that the state’s mortality rate that stands at less than one per cent, which is well below the national average, the number of deaths has increased in the past few weeks. And what is more worrying, according to experts, is the number of people below the age of 50 succumbing to the virus. On Saturday alone, four persons in the age group were reported dead with one person, a 30-year-old man, losing his life within 10 minutes of admission at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) here. According to the data analyzed till June 4, 53.5 per cent of the deceased were above 60 years of age, while 38.5 per cent were between 40 and 60, and 8 per cent were below 40 years of age. Also, 66.5 per cent of these died are men, while 32.5 per cent are women. And the government has blamed 83.5 per cent of deaths till June 4 on comorbidities, while classifying only the remaining 16.5 per cent as exclusive Covid-19 deaths. As many as 1,458 persons tested positive for Coronavirus on Saturday in Tamil Nadu with Chennai, the state capital, alone accounting for 1,146 patients. The state’s tally went up to 30,152, while the number positive cases in Chennai mounted to 20,993. The only positive factor is that the number of discharges is much more than active cases, which indicates recovery of people tested positive is increasing every day. The state’s active cases stand at 13,503 while the number of discharges is 16,395. Also, the state tested 16,022 samples on Saturday, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 5,76,695, the highest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/19-deaths-reported-in-a-day-tamil-nadu-s-covid-19-tally-crosses-30000-846555.html
06-06-2020||State||Foundation to be laid for Kempegowda statue in Bengaluru on June 27||The foundation stone will be laid on June 27 for the 108-foot tall mammoth bronze statue of Bengaluru's founder Kempegowda near the international airport named after him. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the Kempegowda Development Authority on Friday. "As June 27 marks the 511th birth anniversary of Kempegowda, so the date has been fixed, after discussing with the Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa it will be finalised," Deputy Chief Minister C N Ashwath Narayan, who is also the the vice-president of the Kempegowda Development Authority, said on Friday evening. He said famous sculptors Ram V Sutar and Anil R Sutar, who designed and constructed 27-ft Mahatma Gandhi statue between Vidhana Soudha and Vikas Soudha here have been given the contract and an agreement would be signed with them at the earliest. The 597 feet statue of Sardar Patel, "the statue of unity" in Gujarat, considered to be the worlds tallest, was designed by Ram V Sutar. Noting that the statue of Kempegowda is expected to cost about Rs 66 crore, the DCM said, the model of the statue was ready and it would be finalised once the Chief Minister has a look at it. "We want to complete the work in one years time." A 23-acre land in front of the Kempegowda International Airport has been identified for the construction of the statue and the Bengaluru International Airport Ltd has also agreed to it, he said. "The area around the statue will be specially developed. The total cost will be about Rs 80 crore and it will be one of the prime attractions," he added. Ashwath Narayan also said a plan worth Rs 41 crore has been prepared to develop Kempegowda's tomb at Kempapura in Magadi taluk in Ramanagara district, and the area surrounding the tomb, including the village lake, will be developed. "For this, we need to acquire some land that will cost an estimated Rs 17 crore." Kempegowda, referred as "Nadaprabhu", was a feudatory ruler under the erstwhile Vijayanagara Empire who founded Bengaluru in 1537. He is revered by the Vokkaliga community that is dominant in Old Mysuru and other parts of southern Karnataka. The move is being seen as an attempt by the BJP to reach out to the dominant Vokkaliga community, seen as vote of JD (S), and to Congress to some extent.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/foundation-to-be-laid-for-kempegowda-statue-in-bengaluru-on-june-27-846390.html
06-06-2020||State||Hotels, restaurants can re-open if norms are followed: B S Yediyurappa||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Saturday said hotels and restaurants would be allowed to re-open, but the precautionary measures laid down by the Centre against coronavirus were mandatory. The Chief Minister on Friday held a meeting with the tourism and transport department, also stakeholders, regarding revival of tourism in the state. Hotels associations and transport companies have said they would follow the guidelines issued by the government, an official press release said here. The Karnataka government had said it would go by the Centre's direction on opening religious places of worship, shopping malls, hotels, restaurants and other hospitality services on June 8. Buses, hotels and taxi owners association placed some demands at the meeting, the release said, adding that Yediyurappa informed them that he would examine their demands and take appropriate decisions. The Chief Minister also released a handout regarding the guidelines that need to be followed as the tourism department is opening hotels, guest houses and tourist destinations. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, Tourism Minister C T Ravi and senior officials of the department participated in the meeting. The government had, on Thursday, said safaris, trekking, jungle lodges and resorts in areas that fall outside the COVID-19 containment zones can re-open provided they adhere to social distancing, hygiene as issued by the governments.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hotels-restaurants-can-re-open-if-norms-are-followed-b-s-yediyurappa-846412.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Precautionary measures mandatory for hotels, restaurants: Karnataka CM||Hospitality services, including restaurants will resume operations across Karnataka on June 8.  Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said Saturday that restaurants and hotels will be allowed, but following the prescribed precautionary measures is mandatory.  The hotel owners association and representatives of transport companies assured the CM that that they would strictly follow the government’s guidelines, according to a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office.  According to guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, hotels are to ensure hand sanitisers and thermal screening at the entrance, only asymptomatic staff and guests, face masks at all times, social distancing, recording guests details (travel history, medical condition etc) along with ID and self-declaration form, digital payments and so on. With the Tourism department all set to open its hotels, hospitality wings and tourist spots, Yediyurappa released a booklet on the guidelines that have to be followed.    Yediyurappa also held a meeting with tourism and transport officials along with stakeholders to discuss the way forward. The associations of hotels, bus and taxi owners placed their demands, which Yediyurappa said will be examined.  “Among the southern states, the entry tax (for tourists) in Karnataka is the highest. Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry and Telangana have an agreement. It was discussed that Karnataka should have a similar agreement, including Goa and Maharashtra, which will help free movement of tourists,” Tourism Minister CT Ravi told reporters, adding that Yediyurappa directed officials to reach out to the neighbouring states.  Because the state’s entry tax is high, travel agents in Kerala and Tamil Nadu exclude Karnataka from their itinerary, Ravi said. “So, those coming to Ooty end up avoiding Mysuru.”  Vehicle tax will be halved for the month of June, Ravi said, referring to a demand made by the tourist taxi owners’ associations. “It was waived for April and May. In June, only 50% of the vehicle tax will be collected,” Ravi said. “We wanted to waive it in full, but we can’t do that considering the economic difficulty for the government if revenues don’t flow in,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/precautionary-measures-mandatory-for-hotels-restaurants-karnataka-cm-846499.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka CM orders action against illegal goods transport||While noting that several transport companies were misusing e-way bills, Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa has directed tax officials to crack the whip on them.  The e-way bill is a system introduced by the Centre under the GST, wherein anyone transporting goods worth more than Rs 50,000 has to carry a document containing details of the transporter, the goods being transported and the receiver. However, officials have pointed out that some transport companies duplicated the bills. Not only this, companies were overshooting the delivery time prescribed for transport of certain regulated goods. In a review meeting Saturday on commercial tax collection, Yediyurappa discussed ways in which the monitoring of these bills could be strengthened. Officials informed him that road vigilance teams in the state has been increased to 116 (from 77 earlier) in order to intensify the vigilance. Until now, these teams have inspected 2.89 lakh transport vehicles and 7.46 lakh e-way bills. Of these, 300 unlawful cases were identified, the tax officials told Yediyurappa, according to an official release.  That apart, Yediyurappa also directed tax officials to conduct a survey of commercial complexes in metros that collect a monthly rent of more than Rs 20 lakh.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-cm-orders-action-against-illegal-goods-transport-846508.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||COVID-19 infections breach 5,000 mark in Karnataka; 378 new cases and 280 discharges in a day||The total number of COVID-19 infections in Karnataka breached the 5,000 mark, as 378 new positive cases and two related fatalities have been reported, taking the death toll to 59, the Health department said on Saturday. The day also saw 280 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of 378 new cases reported, 333 are returnees from other states, majority of them from neighboring Maharashtra. As of June 6 evening, cumulatively 5,213 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed in the state, which includes 59 deaths and 1,968 discharges, the Health department said in its bulletin. It said, out of 3,184 active cases, 3,173 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 11 are in ICU. The two deaths reported include- a 55-year-old woman, who was resident of a containment zone in Bidar district. She was diagnosed with SARI symptoms and presented with cough, breathlessness and weakness. Admitted to a designated hospital on May 16, the patient died on June 5. A 82-year old woman, who was a resident of a containment zone in Vijayapura district. She was a known case of Diabetes Mellitus, Hypertension and Ischemic Heart Disease, and died at her residence on May 27. The deceased has tested positive for COVID-19. According to the bulletin, while 333 out of 378 new cases are returnees from other states, 8 are with international travel history. Remaining cases included contacts of patients who earlier tested positive, those from containment zones, with history of ILI and SARI. Contact history of some patients is under tracing. Among the districts where the new cases were reported, Udupi accounts for 121 cases, followed by Yadgir 103, Kalaburagi 69, Dakshina Kannada 24, Bengaluru Urban 18, six each from Vijayapura and Davangere, Belagavi 5, Gadag 4, three each from Mandya, Hassan, Dharwad and Haveri, two each from Raichur, Chikkaballapura and Uttara Kannada, and one each from Bidar, Tumakuru, Kolar and Koppal. Udupi district tops the list of positive cases, with a total of 889 infections, followed by Kalaburagi 621 and Yadgir 476. Among discharges Bengaluru urban still tops the list with total 276 discharges, followed by Mandya 170 and Kalaburagi 166. A total of 3,72,582 samples were tested so far, out of which 11,862 were tested on Saturday alone. So far 3,61,382 samples have reported as negative, and out of them 11,431 were reported negative on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/covid-19-infections-breach-5000-mark-in-karnataka-378-new-cases-and-280-discharges-in-a-day-846510.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Maharashtra returnees continue to swell infections in Udupi, Yadgir||Udupi and Yadgir districts witnessed yet another surge of 100-plus Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours (ending 5 pm on Saturday). The coastal district recorded 121 fresh cases while Yadgir saw 103 infections. With a biggest single-day spike, Udupi is inching towards 1,000-mark. The district has reported 889 cases, of which 785 are active. Deputy Commissioner G Jagadheesh told reporters, “All 121 people who tested positive for novel coronavirus on Saturday are Maharashtra returnees. Among the infected are 16 children and 34 women. Primary contacts of all infected have been traced and quarantined.” According to the bulletin released by Health and Family Welfare department, 21 patients have walked out of hospitals post-recovery in Udupi district on Saturday. So far, 103 patients have been discharged in the district. It’s neighbour Dakshina Kannada saw 24 fresh cases. Of which seven are UAE returnees, one Turkey returee, 11 Maharashtra returnees while the contact tracing for the remaining five cases are underway. Meanwhile, Maharashtra returnees continued to swell COVID numbers in Kalyana Karnataka districts. The region on Saturday saw 176 fresh infections with Yadgir alone accounting for 103 cases. Kalaburagi reported 69 more cases, Raichur two and Kopal and Bidar registered one case apiece. A 28-year-old man from Bidar has a travel history to Delhi while the remaining cases have Maharashtra link. With yet another three-figure mark, Yadgir leapfrogged Bengaluru Urban to become the third worst-affected district in the state. The district has, so far, reported 476 cases (407 active). The numbers will go further up in the coming days. Kalaburagi’s Covid-19 tally jumped to 621 with 69 fresh cases on Saturday. Among the cases are 16 children in the age-group of 1 to 10 years. After a week’s lull, Koppal district saw a fresh Covid-19 case on Saturday. A 28-year-old male from Kanakgiri, who had returned from Mumbai recently, tested positive for Covid-19 while undergoing institutional quarantine. The district now has three active cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/maharashtra-returnees-continue-to-swell-infections-in-udupi-yadgir-846540.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Govt slashes maximum marks for KPSC exams||The state government has notified changes in the recruitment process for gazetted probationers (Group A and B). The candidates will now write their exam for 1,250 marks, down from 1,750 marks. The government has also reduced the score for interviews (personality tests) from 200 to 50. According to the Karnataka Recruitment of Gazetted Probationers (Appointment by Competitive Examinations) (Amendment) Rules 2020, the exams for these posts would henceforth be held for only five subjects instead of the seven subjects in practice until now.  Recruitment examination for gazetted probationers is conducted by the Karnataka Public Service Commission. At present, candidates write exams for seven subjects including two optional subjects of their choice. Of these, the government has dropped two papers which were conducted for 250 marks each, thereby reducing the overall total score from 1,750 to 1,250.   Further, while the personal interview was being held for 200 marks till now, according to the notification, it will be conducted for 80 marks. That apart, if a candidate secured more than 80 per cent or less than 40 per cent in the personal interview, the interview board had to provide in writing the reason for the same, according to the new regulations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/govt-slashes-maximum-marks-for-kpsc-exams-846541.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Safety measures mandatory for hotels, restaurants: CM||Hospitality services, including restaurants will resume operations across Karnataka onJune 8.  Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa said Saturday that restaurants and hotels will be allowed, but compliance with the prescribed precautionary measures was mandatory.  The hotel owners association and representatives of transport companies promised the chief minister that that they would strictly follow the government’s guidelines, according to a statement from the Chief Minister’s Office.  According to guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, hotels are to ensure hand sanitisers and thermal screening at the entrance, only asymptomatic staff and guests, face masks at all times, social distancing, recording guests details (travel history, medical condition etc) along with ID and self-declaration form, digital payments and so on. With the Tourism department all set to open its hotels, hospitality wings and tourist spots, Yediyurappa released a booklet on the guidelines to be followed.  Yediyurappa also held a meeting with tourism and transport officials along with stakeholders to discuss the way forward. The associations of hotels, bus and taxi owners placed their demands, which Yediyurappa said will be examined.  “Among the southern states, the entry tax (for tourists) in Karnataka is the highest. Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry and Telangana have an agreement. It was discussed that Karnataka should have a similar agreement, including Goa and Maharashtra, which will help free movement of tourists,” Tourism Minister CT Ravi told reporters, adding that Yediyurappa directed officials to reach out to the neighbouring states.  Travel agents in Kerala and Tamil Nadu exclude Karnataka from their itinerary since the state’s entry tax is high,, Ravi said. “So, those coming to Ooty end up avoiding Mysuru.”  Vehicle tax will be halved for the month of June, Ravi said, referring to a demand made by the tourist taxi owners’ associations. “It was waived for April and May. In June, only 50% of the vehicle tax will be collected,” Ravi said. “We wanted to waive it in full, but we can’t do that considering the economic difficulty for the government if revenues don’t flow in,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/safety-measures-mandatory-for-hotels-restaurants-cm-846542.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Registering on Seva Sindhu portal mandatory: Karnataka govt asks Railways to make announcements||The Karnataka government has asked the railways to make announcements at originating stations that it was compulsory for passengers travelling to the state to register themselves on the ‘Seva Sindhu’ portal through which they can be tracked. In a letter to Chairman Railway Board on Saturday, Chief Secretary of the state T M Vijay Bhaskar said many passengers are not aware of this mandatory rule of the southern state. He said thousands of passengers are coming to Karnataka from New Delhi, Bihar, Maharashtra and other states through trains everyday, but most of them are not registered under the Seva Sindhu portal of the Government of Kamataka. "If passengers are not registered under Seva Sindhu, the state will not be able to track them. Therefore, it is necessary to create awareness among the passengers regarding registration under the portal. "Hence, it is requested to give instructions to origin railway stations to make announcements that ‘It is compulsory for all passengers travelling to Karnataka to register in Seva Sindhu portal. Otherwise they will not be allowed for home quarantine’, and also to give passengers awareness (about this) at the time of booking tickets,” Bhaskar said in his letter to the national transporter. Seva Sindhu portal, under the control of the Karnataka government, provides various online services to the citizens of the state. Currently, this portal is playing an important role in helping those stranded amid the COVID-19 pandemic to fill online registration forms for availing e-passes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/registering-on-seva-sindhu-portal-mandatory-karnataka-govt-asks-railways-to-make-announcements-846543.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP core panel zeroes in on three RS hopefuls||The BJP core committee on Saturday finalised three names for the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections. One of them is said to be Ramesh Katti, the brother of 8-time ‘disgruntled’ MLA Umesh Katti, who had been mounting pressure on the party.  According to sources, two other names - incumbent Prabhakar Kore and hotelier Prakash Shetty - will also be sent to the party’s central leadership.  The party was also considering RSS leader M Nagaraj and BJP vice-president Nirmal Kumar Surana, sources said.  The biennial elections will be held as the term of four incumbents - D Kupendra Reddy (JD-S), Prabhakar Kore (BJP), M V Rajeev Gowda and B K Hariprasad (both Congress) will end June 25.  The last date to file nominations is June 9 and elections will be held on June 19. MLAs will elect members of the Rajya Sabha and a candidate requires 45 votes. The BJP, with 117 MLAs in a 223-member Assembly, can ensure victory for two candidates. So, the BJP central leadership is expected to finalise two candidates who will be fielded.  The Congress has already fielded veteran Mallikarjun Kharge, whereas the JD(S) is still undecided, but its MLAs want supremo H D Devegowda to contest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-core-panel-zeroes-in-on-three-rs-hopefuls-846546.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Six IAS officers transferred||The government on Saturday transferred six senior IAS officers, which include appointments to departments that are playing a key role during the Covid-19 pandemic. The officers and their new postings are as follows: Rajkumar Khatri, additional chief secretary (ACS) Labour and concurrent charge of Agriculture; Ganga Ram Baderiya, ACS Backward Classes Welfare and concurrent charge as MD, KSIIDC; N Manjunath Prasad, principal secretary, revenue and concurrent charge of disaster management, Bhoomi and UPOR; T K Anil Kumar, principal secretary tourism and concurrent charge of medical education; Mohammed Mohsin, commissioner, resettlement and rehabilitation; Rajender Kumar Kataria, secretary, horticulture and sericulture.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/six-ias-officers-transferred-846547.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Lost job and returned to Karnataka? Govt wants to help||If you have been part of a skilled workforce in any industry outside the state or country, and are now in search of employment, you can register with the skill development corporation to find a job.  While taking note that several skilled workers from Karnataka settled in other states or countries have now lost jobs in the wake of the pandemic, the state government has decided to reach out to such people and help them find jobs. A person can register with the Karnataka Skill Development Corporation on the portal https://migrantkar.kaushalkar.com/, by keying in basic details. Once the registration is done, the department concerned will reach out to the candidate. Speaking to DH, Deputy Chief Minister Ashwath Narayan, who is also in charge of skill development said that the portal was recently launched to help skilled workforce from all sectors ranging from engineers and nurses to masons. “On one hand, several people from our state who had gone abroad or to other states in search of employment have now come back owing to the crisis brought about by the pandemic. On the other hand, skilled migrant workforce in our state, have now gone back to their natives. Hence there is a huge requirement for jobs. For instance, there is a huge demand for skilled workforce in the construction industry. This is but one example. We hope to fill this employment gap through this portal,” he explained.  While trying to create a database of all those in need of employment, the government was simultaneously creating another database of available jobs across different sectors. “We will launch another portal soon with information about jobs available. We are coordinating with industry representatives in this regard,” Ashwath Narayan added.  According to officials in the department, going by the number of people registered on Seva Sindu, about 1.50 lakh people were back in Karnataka and required jobs. The department was also in the process of ascertaining a more accurate figure, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/lost-job-and-returned-to-karnataka-govt-wants-to-help-846548.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Revive MySugar factory, Siddaramaiah tells govt||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Saturday urged the government not to privatise MySugar factory in Mandya and instead take up its modernisation. Siddaramaiah, in a letter to the chief minister said that the company founded by Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar in 1933 was instrumental in the growth of Mandya district.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/revive-mysugar-factory-siddaramaiah-tells-govt-846550.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannadigas in Gulf countries: Mumbai MP writes to BSY||Mumbai MP and senior BJP leader Gopal Shetty has urged Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa to ensure the evacuation of Kannadigas stranded in the Gulf countries in wake of Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Shetty, who represents the Mumbai North parliamentary seat, has written a formal letter to Yediyurappa with a copy to Minister for External Affairs S Jaishankar. Shetty shot off the letter after receiving representations from the Kannadiga community members working in Qatar. Giving the example of Kerala, he said that it has already arranged many flights from Gulf countries to evacuate their citizens but unfortunately there are hardly any flights arranged by Karnataka,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannadigas-in-gulf-countries-mumbai-mp-writes-to-bsy-846554.html
06-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||App, portal to manage, mitigate flood in urban areas unveiled||A mobile app and a portal offering technology-driven solutions to manage and mitigate floods in urban areas were launched here on Saturday by Karnataka Revenue Minister R Ashoka. The mobile app 'Bengaluru Megha Sandesha' was developed to disseminate information on rainfall and flood forecast, location-specific dynamic weather directly to the public. "The in-built features of the app and the information provided for a city is the first of its kind in the country," a press release said. This is a system of providing rainfall, flood forecasts and early warning to the officials of government agencies in the city through SMS to their mobile phones, social media platforms and a dedicated web portal, the release said. The information provided would help the civic authorities act in advance and manage the floods, it said. The portal 'Varunamitra' is for information on the weather. The information provided is based on real-time data from 100 telemetric rain gauges installed and maintained at various locations across the state, it said. Rainfall forecast is based on the weather research and forecast models developed by the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), Ahmedabad, the release said. The information on flood forecast is based on the hydrological model, hydraulic routing and automation of the results. The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, along with the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), took up this project on the urban flood model for Bengaluru city. The project was funded by the Central government's department of science and technology, the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/app-portal-to-manage-mitigate-flood-in-urban-areas-unveiled-846579.html
06-06-2020||Uttara Kannada, Belagavi City||Vehicle suspected of transporting beef set on fire near Belagavi||Suspecting that cow meat was being transported to Goa, unidentified persons set goods vehicle on fire near Karle village in Belagavi taluk on Friday night. Incident came to the fore on Saturday. Usually, vehicles carrying vegetables, milk and other essentials being transported to Goa and other towns plying via Karle village near Belagavi.  Sources said that for the past few days vehicles carrying meat were stopped and were handed over to police by section of activists suspecting it to be cow meat.  Persons who set the vehicle on fire were yet to be identified. Jurisdictional Belagavi Rural police have rushed to the spot. More details were awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/uttara-kannada-belagavi-city/vehicle-suspected-of-transporting-beef-set-on-fire-near-belagavi-846335.html
06-06-2020||West||Maharashtra liquor home delivery: 9.47 lakh opt for service so far||Over 9 lakh people have ordered liquor home across Maharashtra since May 15 in the coronavirus-induced lockdown, Excise Commissioner Kantilal Umap said on Friday. On Friday itself, 59,498 people got liquor delivered to their homes, of which 34,004 were in Mumbai, he informed. "Between May 15 and June 5, a total of 9,47,859 people availed home delivery service for liquor. As many as 1,20,547 people applied online for permits and 1,10,763 applications were approved. Offline permits are also available in excise department offices, costing Rs 100 for a year and Rs 1,000 for a lifetime permit," he said. "We registered 77 cases on June 5, arrested 43 people for liquor trafficking, seizing stock worth Rs 9.6 lakh. Since March 24, when lockdown was announced, 7,225 cases were filed and 3,344 people arrested. We seized 622 vehicles as well as liquor worth rs 18.67 crore," Umap informed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-liquor-home-delivery-947-lakh-opt-for-service-so-far-846259.html
06-06-2020||West||Ved Marwah, former Governor and ex-Delhi top cop, dies in Goa||Former Governor of Mizoram, Manipur and Jharkhand, Ved Marwah, who had also served as the Delhi Police Commissioner in the 1980s, died in Goa on Friday, a police official said. He was 87. He breathed his last at a private hospital in Mapusa town in North Goa, officiating Director General of Police (DGP) of Goa, Jaspal Singh, said. Marwah was admitted to the hospital almost three weeks back after he suffered a fall at his residence in Goa. "He passed away around 7.30 pm on Friday," Singh said. Marwah lived with his family at Siolim village in North Goa, he said. "He was a very illustrious police officer, who headed the force when terrorism was at its peak. He led the battle against terrorism," the DGP said. Marwah had served as the governor of Manipur(1999- 2003), Mizoram (2000-2001) and Jharkhand (2003-2004). He was the police commissioner of Delhi from 1985-88 and served as the third director general of the elite National Security Guard from 1988-90. He was also the adviser to the governors in Jammu and Kashmir and Bihar. He had also penned a book"Uncivil Wars: Pathology of Terrorism in India". Marwah was on the governing council of the Asian Academy Of Film And Television. Former Chief Election Commissioner of India, S Y Quraishi, expressed his grief over Marwah's death. "I am shocked to know that Shri Ved Marwah former CP Delhi passed on. He was once my boss as JS Women's Development, the best I ever had. He was President @StStephensClg Alumni Assn. I was VP wth him. Pray for peace for his soul. @CafeSSC," Quraishi said in a tweet. The Goa DGP's official Twitter handle said, "We are deeply saddened at the loss of a great leader of the police force. Sh. Ved Marwah, IPS led the force from the front through difficult times and served as a Governor to 3 states. Our thoughts and prayers are with the family. @goacm."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/ved-marwah-former-governor-and-ex-delhi-top-cop-dies-in-goa-846320.html
06-06-2020||West||Mumbai, adjoining areas get pre-monsoon showers||Residents of Mumbai and the adjoining areas woke up to a rainy Saturday as pre-monsoon showers lashed these parts. According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the Colaba weather station reported 18.6 mm rainfall in the 24 hours till 8.30 am on Saturday, while the Santacruz weather bureau recorded 64.9 mm rainfall during the same period. "The spell was intense for about 30 minutes in the morning," an IMD official said. "This is pre-monsoon rainfall...Neighbouring Thane and Dombivli, too, witnessed moderate rains early morning," the official added. The IMD predicted that the skies are likely to remain generally cloudy and there is a possibility of light to moderate rains or thundershowers in Mumbai.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-adjoining-areas-get-pre-monsoon-showers-846327.html
06-06-2020||West||Here’s why Jalgaon in Maharashtra has a COVID-19 death rate four times the national average: Report||Maharashtra state government has now set up a 10-member committee to audit each death and assess the reasons for such a high death rate other than the health profile of fatalities, says the report. The website reports that on May 28, Tafazzul Shah aged 57, whose condition was said to have worsened was not given ventilator support by the doctors. His nephew, an Unani doctor entered the isolation ward to intubate Shah after the doctors did not act to help the ailing man. The isolation ward was reported to have 20 other COVID-19 patients. Shah died a few hours later, the report said.  The report says that results for COVID-19 tests take up to 10-12 days in the district and that it requires 250-300 daily tests. The district sends samples to Dhule district. If Dhule’s capacity to test is exhausted, the samples are sent to Aurangabad or Pune, says the report. As many as 22 samples were lost during one such transportation, the website reports. There may be more than a single reason for the high death rate of COVID-19 in Jalgaon, reports the publication. The high death rate could be attributed to several reasons such as testing delays, poor patient monitoring, neglect in the healthcare system and easy entry and exit of non-COVID patients in isolation wards.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/here-s-why-jalgaon-in-maharashtra-has-a-covid-19-death-rate-four-times-the-national-average-report-846344.html
06-06-2020||West||Mumbai Police's order for action against fake news is legal: Maha||Justifying the Mumbai Police's order that stipulates criminal action against anyone spreading false and fake information on social media, the Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court that reasonable restrictions can be imposed to safeguard public order. A division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Amjad Sayed was on Friday hearing two public interest litigations (PILs) challenging the legality of an order dated May 23, passed by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Operations). The order said that action would be taken against any person, who spreads incorrect, fake information on social media. It further said that any person who holds the 'Admin' position of any social media group, shall be held personally liable for dissemination of any false or incorrect messages circulated in the group. According to the petitions filed by advocate Sheshanath Mishra and independent journalist and co-founder of NGO 'Free Speech Collective' Geeta Seshu, the order violates the rights of citizens guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India (right to freedom of speech and expression). Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, appearing for the government, however, contended that the order is "perfectly" legal in view of Article 19(2) of the Constitution, which authorises the government to impose reasonable restrictions upon freedom of speech and expression in the interest of public order. The court noted that the issue requires to be examined even though a plain reading of the order reveals that its validity is effective only till June 8, 2020 and directed the government to file an affidavit within three weeks. The petition filed by Mishra claimed that the police order aims to muzzle the voice of common citizens and prevent them from criticising the government's handling of the pandemic. Seshu's counsel Mihir Desai argued that the police have not followed due procedure prescribed under section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-polices-order-for-action-against-fake-news-is-legal-maha-846358.html
06-06-2020||West||COVID-19: Rajasthan records one more death, 44 fresh cases||The toll due to COVID-19 rose to 219 in Rajasthan on Saturday, with one fresh fatality and the number of cases climbed to 10,128 as 44 more people tested positive for the disease, officials said. The death was reported from Kota district, they said. Of the fresh cases, 14 were reported from Pali, 10 from Churu, nine from Jaipur and three from Kota. Baran, Bikaner, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Dausa, Dholpur and Jodhpur reported one case each, an official said.  There are 2,525 active COVID-19 cases in the state. A total of 6,855 patients have been discharged after treatment, he said. P||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-rajasthan-records-one-more-death-44-fresh-cases-846361.html
06-06-2020||West||COVID-19: Mumbai MP writes to Karnataka CM B S Yediyurappa to ensure evacuation of Kannadigas stranded in Gulf||Shetty, who represents the Mumbai North parliamentary seat, has written a formal letter to Yediyurappa with a copy to Minister for External Affairs S Jaishankar.   Shetty shot off the letter after receiving representations from the Kannadiga community members working in Qatar.  "Thousands of Kannadigas particularly from coastal Karnataka are working in Qatar and other Gulf countries. There are many parents who visited there to see their loves ones and are also stuck and cannot come back to their home state because of the lockdown.  They all have requested to organise a special flight from Qatar to Karnataka," he said.  "Giving the example of Kerala, he said that it has already arranged many flights from Gulf countries to evacuate their citizens but unfortunately there are hardly any flights arranged by Karnataka," he said.  Shetty stated that people are facing difficulties and hence the government must do everything possible to facilitate their return.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-mumbai-mp-writes-to-karnataka-cm-b-s-yediyurappa-to-ensure-evacuation-of-kannadigas-stranded-in-gulf-846368.html
06-06-2020||West||Woman dies at Jaipur railway station, later tests positive for COVID-19||A 65-year-old woman has tested positive for COVID-19 after she died at the Jaipur railway station while de-boarding a train, officials said on Saturday.  Railway officials said that as soon as the woman reached the railway station on Friday, she fell unconscious and was declared dead. The body was sent to a hospital where her samples were taken and she was found COVID-19 positive.   Ninety-one passengers travelled in the same coach of Mumbai-Jaipur Express in which the woman travelled. Later, all the co-passengers were immediately quarantined here as a precautionary measure.  Railway authorities have been asked to send the other passengers in quarantine who travelled with the woman, Jaipur District Collector Dr Jogaram said.  Since the woman was not carrying any phone or identification, the Additional District Magistrate ordered an inquiry if she was screened at the Mumbai railway station. The toll due to COVID-19 rose to 219 in Rajasthan on Saturday, with one fresh fatality and the number of cases climbed to 10,128 as 44 more people tested positive for the disease, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/woman-dies-at-jaipur-railway-station-later-tests-positive-for-covid-19-846376.html
06-06-2020||West||MSEDCL pegs loss due to cyclone at Rs 1.25 cr in Thane, Palghar||The state-run Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) on Saturday pegged the losses incurred due to cyclone Nisarga at Rs 1.25 crore across parts of Thane and neighbouring Palghar district. The MSEDCL, also known as Mahavitaran or MahaDiscom, in a statement, said that its Kalyan circle office bore the maximum brunt of the cyclone that flattened 168 power poles and destroyed eight transformers as well as power lines of 32 -km length in the areas under it. The power supply in almost all the affected areas has been restored, it said. MSEDCL's Kalyan circle comprises its mandal offices in Kalyan, Vasai and Palghar, which cover areas including Dombivli, Kalyan East and West, Ulhasnagar, Ambernath, Badlapur, Murbad, Shahapur, Titwala, rural parts of Thane district, Vasai, Virar, Wada, Nalasopara, Palghar, Jawhar, Mokhada, Vikramgad and Boisar, it said. The cyclone destroyed several electricity poles and transformers in these areas and affected the power supply. "As per the preliminary estimates, property worth around Rs 1.25 crore has been damaged," it said. The cyclone had made landfall near Alibaug in Raigad district on Wednesday afternoon.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/msedcl-pegs-loss-due-to-cyclone-at-rs-125-cr-in-thane-palghar-846381.html
06-06-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray inaugurates coal mine, calls for low pollution||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday inaugurated the Western Coalfields' Adasa coal mine near Nagpur via video conferencing and stressed the need for proper utilisation of such mines with the focus on lowering pollution levels. Speaking after the inauguration, Thackeray said if focus is kept on production of quality coal, then problems of shortage of power in the country will end. He rued that despite ranking fourth in the world in terms of the number of coal mines, India is still importing coal. Simultaneously, two mines in Madhya Pradesh were inaugurated by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. The two undergroundmines in Sharda and Dhankasa in Madhya Pradesh have incurred a total capital expenditure of Rs 849 crore. Union ministers Nitin Gadkari and Prahlad Joshi also joined online. "Coal is very important for power generation. If focus is kept on production of quality coal, then problems of shortage ofpower in the country will end. Rural areas especially farmers will get uninterrupted and affordable electricity supply," the CM said. Thackeray hoped that coal mines would ensure low pollution levels. "They should be environment friendly," he added. He said starting the mine was a very important step under the 'Mission Begin Again' or the phase-wise reopening of public and economic activities in Maharashtra. The Adasa coal mine is set up with investment of Rs 334 crore, a Western Coalfields official said, adding that it will produce 1.5 million metric tonnes of coal per year. "About 550 people will get jobs (at the mine)," he said. The official further said that 14 coal mines with the investment of Rs 11,500 crore will start operations in Maharashtra in the next four years, and 13,000 people will get employment. Thackeray also underlined the need that farmers reap benefits of power production through coal mines. "If electricity is generated for development it is good, but at the same time it would be more beneficial if farmers receive uninterrupted power supply during daytime at lower cost," the chief minister said. "WCL is doing a good job and if the coal reserves available in Maharashtra and the entire country are properly utilised then the electricity requirement in the country can be used to its capacity. "Similarly, at the same time while increasing the electricity capacity and moving ahead in development, the side effects like coal dust, coal ash affecting the environment should also be taken care of," Thackeray said. He said a coal mine should have a specific life span, and it should be closed ensuring that it doesn't harm environment. Thackeray underlined that even 75 years after Independence, the struggle to double the income of farmers is still on. "While generating electricity capacity can we try to fulfil the demands of farmers for low cost electricity? Development should also work towards addressing woes of farmers," he said. While replying to a query of Nagpur MP and Union minister Gadkari on the status of Nagpur-Nagbhid metro broad gauge, Thackeray said all preparations had been done and the line would be inaugurated soon. As Gadkari was talking about the works done by the BJP-led Central government in the last six years, Thackeray said in a lighter vein that he had done these works in the last six months after coming to power in Maharashtra. "You are also behindthis.. The support given by you is beneficial for the state as well as the country," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-inaugurates-coal-mine-calls-for-low-pollution-846396.html
06-06-2020||West||Gujarat: Fake notes of over Rs 7 lakh face value recovered, 2 held||Fake currency notes of Rs 7.68 lakh face value were recovered and two persons were arrested in this connection at Palanpur in Banaskantha district of Gujarat, a police official said on Saturday. The duo was arrested late on Friday night based on a tip-off, the official said. "Palanpur's Special Operations Group (SOG) team arrested two persons and recovered 384 fake currency notes of Rs 2,000 denomination from them," he said. The accused- Hamir Patel and Rama Patel- were passing through Palanpur on their way to Deesa in two separate four- wheelers. After being tipped off, the police arrested them from Charotar village, around 10 kms from Palanpur, an SOG official said. A bag full of fake notes as recovered from one of the vehicles, he added. The duo has been booked under section IPC section489 (using as genuine forged or counterfeit currency notes)., the official said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-fake-notes-of-over-rs-7-lakh-face-value-recovered-2-held-846406.html
06-06-2020||West||Mangor Hill causing spike in Goa COVID-19 cases: Minister||The spike in COVID-19 cases in Goa is due to the situation in Vasco's Mangor Hill area, which has been declared a containment zone, and there is no threat of community transmission of the coronavirus infection, state health minister Vishwajit Rane said on Saturday. The state currently has 196 COVID-19 cases. "The spike in cases in Goa is due to cases from Mangor Hill, which are a result of local transmission and not community transmission. The Goa government is ready to face any situation to ensure the safety of its people," Rane said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mangor-hill-causing-spike-in-goa-covid-19-cases-minister-846438.html
06-06-2020||West||Maharashtra govt to procure 10,000 vials of Remdesivir: Tope||The Maharashtra government will procure 10,000 vials of the drug Remdesivir for treating coronavirus patients, Public Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday. The expensive medicine is being made available for the poor and needy patients in the state, he said. "GoM to procure 10k vials of Remdesivir. Based on evidence from Laboratory, animal and clinical studies, It has generated promising results in MERS-CoV and SARS which are also caused by Corona Virus," Tope tweeted. "WHO (World Health Organisation) Suggests it may have some positive effects in COVID-19 treatment. This expensive medicine is being made available for poor & needy patients," he added. As of Friday, Maharashtra had reported 80,229 coronavirus cases and 2,849 deaths, which are the highest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-govt-to-procure-10000-vials-of-remdesivir-tope-846461.html
06-06-2020||West||Rajya Sabha polls: As 3 MLAs resign, Congress in Gujarat moves flock to resorts||Rattled by resignations of three MLAs ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls, the Congress in Gujarat on Saturday shifted several of its legislators to resorts and bungalows near their constituencies to thwart any "poaching" bid, a party leader said. With the resignations of Akshay Patel and Jitu Chaudhary on June 3 and that of Brijesh Merja on June 5, the Congress' strength in the 182-member House has been reduced to 65. The effective strength of the House, however, stands at 172 as of now as ten seats are currently vacant - two due to court cases and the rest because of resignations. While, several MLAs from north Gujarat were shifted to a resort near Ambaji in Banaskantha district, those from south and Central Gujarat were moved to private bungalows in Anand, Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said, adding that legislators from Saurashtra region were shifted to a resort in Rajkot. "The MLAs were asked by party high command to arrive in resorts in Anand, Ambaji, and Rajkot after completing their work on Saturday. They will arrive in these resorts on the basis of the zone-wise location of their constituencies. Many of them have arrived. Others will reach there soon," he said. He said senior leaders of the Congress will interact with MLAs and discuss the current situation and upcoming Rajya Sabha elections. Doshi said MLAs might continue to stay in these resorts until the day of the election for four Rajya Sabha seats in Gujarat, i.e on June 19. Earlier, the Congress had moved its MLAs to a resort in Jaipur in March this year after five of them had resigned ahead of the March 26 elections to the Upper House. The polls were deferred due to the coronavirus-driven lockdown. With the reduced strength at 65, the Congress may find it difficult to win two Rajya Sabha seats for which it has fielded senior leaders Bharatsinh Solanki and Shaktisinh Gohil. A party MLA said Solanki remains the second preference after Gohil, and that they will vote as per the directive of the party on June 19. "All 65 MLAs are united. There is no internal factionalism in the Congress. Bharatsinh (Solanki) himself knows he is the second candidate. It is the party's decision. We will cast our vote as per the directive of the party. State unit party president Amitbhai Chavda has also announced that Shaktisinh is our primary candidate," said MLA Vikram Madam. Congress leaders have accused the ruling BJP of adopting means like "blackmailing, threatening or using money to poach its MLAs". "In each case, we can see how these people in power are either offering money or positions or blackmailing MLAs to make them resign. It is clear these (three) MLAs were bought over with crores of rupees," he said. The BJP, which has 103 MLAs in the Assembly, has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara, and Narhari Amin for the June 19 polls. While the Bharatiya Tribal Party has two MLAs, the Nationalist Congress Party has one legislator and there is one Independent legislator, Jignesh Mevani.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/rajya-sabha-polls-as-3-mlas-resign-congress-in-gujarat-moves-flock-to-resorts-846497.html
06-06-2020||West||Goa reports 71 new COVID-19 cases in single day, tally 267||Goa on Saturday reported 71 new COVID-19 cases, the highest rise in a single-day, taking the total case count to 267, a Health department official said. Many of the fresh cases have been reported from Mangor Hill area in Vasco town of south Goa which was declared a containment zone on Wednesday. Of the 71 new cases, a significant 62 were linked to Mangor Hill, he said. Of the rest 9 cases, three had come from Delhi in a flight while as many others had travelled in a train from neighbouring Maharashtra, he said, adding that remaining three had travelled from Maharashtra and Karnataka to Goa. He said 1,389 of the 2,311 samples tested on Saturday returned negative. Meanwhile, State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane clarified that no community transmission has set in Goa and the cases are being reported due to local transmission. "Majority of the patients who have tested positive are from Mangor Hill area," Rane said. Goa's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 267, new cases 71, deaths nil, discharged 65, active cases 202, samples tested till date 27,402.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-reports-71-new-covid-19-cases-in-single-day-tally-267-846530.html
06-06-2020||West||Maharashtra sets up panel to fix coronavirus testing charges at private labs||The Maharashtra government has formed a four-member committee to ascertain charges of COVID- 19 tests conducted at authorised private laboratories in the state, state Health Minister Rajesh Tope said on Saturday. According to an official statement, Tope said the rates will be fixed within seven days. State Health Assurance Society CEO Sudhakar Shinde will head the committee, which will have Joint Director of Directorate of Medical Education and Research Ajay Chandanwale and Grant Government Medical College and Hospital professor Amita Joshi as members and health services director as member secretary, the statement said. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has allowed 44 government and 36 private laboratories in the state to carry out coronavirus tests. While the tests are free at government laboratories, the ICMR fixed charges at private laboratories at Rs 4,500. "The kits required for conducting the tests were being imported then (when charges of tests at private laboratories were fixed by ICMR). Now kits are being manufactured in the country itself and are available. Hence, ICMR has conveyed to negotiate with the (private) laboratories and fix the test rate. The rates will be finalised in seven days," said the statement. Private laboratories can charge for tests at current rates (fixed for the district in which they are located) till the new ones are finalised, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-sets-up-panel-to-fix-coronavirus-testing-charges-at-private-labs-846535.html
06-06-2020||West||Gujarat COVID-19 cases rise by 498 to 19,617; death toll 1,219||Gujarat on Saturday reported 498 new coronavirus positive cases and 29 deaths, including 26 in Ahmedabad district, taking the total case count to 19,617, and fatalities to 1,219, state health department said. The number of recovered cases also rose to 13,324 with 313 more patients getting discharged from hospitals, it said. With this, there are 5,074 active cases in Gujarat. As many as 61 patients are on ventilator, the statement said. The state has so far tested 2,45,606 samples. Ahmedabad reported 289 new cases, followed by Surat (92) and Vadodara (34), it said. While the total cases in Ahmedabad rose to 13,968, the number of cases in Surat went up to 2,033 and 1,258 in Vadodara, it said. Ahmedabad city has so far reported deaths of 994 coronavirus patients and recovery of 210 patients, followed by Surat (25) and Vadodara (23), the statement said. Among 17 other districts that reported fresh COVID-19 cases are Gandhinagar (20), Rajkot (8) and Valsad (7). Gujarat COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 19,617, new cases 498, deaths 1,219, discharged 13,324, active cases 5,074 and people tested so far 2,45,606.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-covid-19-cases-rise-by-498-to-19617-death-toll-1219-846544.html
