07-06-2020||Comment||A post-COVID-19 plan for future of our cities||COVID-19 is essentially an urban phenomenon. It originated in the large thriving Chinese city of Wuhan and spread quickly to other cities of the world. Although originating in Asia, the geography of the pathogen’s occurrence reveals that it has primarily targeted the flourishing cities of the wealthy west, with the glamorous New York showing the maximum fatalities. In India, over 75% of the total number of positive cases have occurred in the top 35 urban agglomerations, with 13 metropolitan cities accounting for about 65% of cases.  After nearly 60 days of lockdown, as governments relax the restrictions and cities come back to life, the question that haunts city dwellers’ minds is, what will city life be like in the future? There is no doubt that all classes of people have been affected and we are confronted with new challenges. The nature of work, the mode of travel, our social relations and lifestyle, may all undergo a change. Can we learn some lessons COVID-19 has offered us and plan for a better future for our cities? Here are some takeaways. One of the biggest gains from the lockdown was the drastic reduction in urban pollution levels. This was the result of the near absence of movement of motor vehicles on roads. So, in the interests of a clean environment and health of the people, the first priority should be to move away from an auto-dependent mobility pattern and adopt a strategy that promotes non-motorised transport. This would mean redesigning the street architecture to accommodate more bicycles and walkways. Some narrow and congested streets must be pedestrianised, like for instance, Commercial Street and Avenue Road in Bengaluru. Secondly, we must aggressively encourage the use of public transport by making it more accessible and affordable, especially for the poorer sections. Intermediate transport like autos and cabs is required to connect commuters to the last mile. For quite some time, they may have to carry a limited number of passengers and there will be no carpools. What is needed is a well-planned multi-modal transportation system with convenient connectivity to different modes of transport. One of the most painful outcomes of the lockdown is the loss of jobs, particularly for the migrant workers who had made cities their home to earn their livelihoods, rendering a variety of services. Suffering from the loss of jobs and the loss of dignity caused by the lockdown and some inept handling by the authorities and employers, they started trekking back to their homes. This will lead to two consequences.  One, a drastic reduction in the workforce in cities seriously affecting the economy, and secondly, pressure on the rural economy to generate more employment. How many will return to their original places of work at a future date is uncertain. All this point to the need to evolve a migration policy at the city level to ensure that the workers at the bottom of the pyramid are treated as a dignified labour force who contribute substantially to the urban economy.  Job opportunities The policy should include matters relating to their shelter needs as they move into the city, the job opportunities depending on the skills and preferences of the individuals and the safety and security of the migrant population. As cities are major contributors to the national economy, we must plan to maximise the economic potential of urban agglomerations and other promising towns. The aim must be to promote local economic growth and create employment. The time is now appropriate to initiate action to decongest large cities by shifting some businesses and offices to smaller cities and towns. It is, however, essential to build infrastructure in and around the new areas where certain activities are proposed to be shifted or new activities created.  Urban health has now emerged as a key issue in managing cities. While scientists may be grappling to find a new vaccine for the present virus, we never know when a new pandemic may break out. Our health system must be equipped to deal with new types of diseases from hitherto unknown sources.  A new concept called ‘One Health’ which aims to integrate the management of the health of wildlife, livestock and humans has been advocated by the One Health Institute at the University of California, Davis. It seeks to regularly check for possible infections from livestock and wild animals that are farmed and traded and high human risk populations. We may consider adopting such an approach. In the light, of the new developments, we need to review the prevailing urban planning practices. The traditional land use and infrastructure development planning must yield place to more comprehensive planning that prioritises health, environment, employment and equity. The recent cyclone Amphan that hit the coastal areas of West Bengal and Odisha, serves as a warning to the authorities and the people to be prepared to deal with more than one disaster at a time.  Urban areas will have to be designed and planned to survive the effects of climate change and disasters. Architects will have to redesign existing buildings to provide for more ventilation and natural light and reduce the use of air conditioners. Builders will have to rethink raising huge skyscrapers. Any city plan will have to be inclusive with space for the poor, the vulnerable and the migrant sections who are subject to the maximum stress during times of crisis. Finally, a word about the management of lockdown in India. While we may take pride in having restricted the impact of the virus in terms of the number of cases and deaths, the credit should go in large measure to the lower levels of government - the state, district and city administrations that have borne the brunt of implementation of the guidelines. A key lesson from Covid-19, particularly to the Centre, is that greater the decentralisation, more effective will be the governance.  (The writer is former Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/comment/a-post-covid-19-plan-for-future-of-our-cities-846855.html
07-06-2020||First Edit||Coronavirus: States must go for more testing||When the numbers of COVID-19 cases reported from various states are leaping, the number of tests for the disease are not increasing proportionally. India has ranked low among countries hit by the disease in terms of the number of tests done per million from the early days of its spread and it continues to be so. This is despite the claims made by the Central and state governments that testing and disease surveillance would be ramped up. Over 45 lakh tests have been done in the country till now. But tests per 1,000 people are only 0.08 in India compared with 1.16 in the United States and 1.02 in Italy. Mumbai, the most affected city, conducts only 4,000 tests per day, and Delhi over 8,000 tests. Both cities have not significantly increased the test numbers in the past few weeks. They account for about 30% of the cases in the country but do only 5% of the testing.   Over one lakh tests are now carried out in the country per day, but many experts think that it must be increased 10 times in the next few weeks to get a clear idea of the incidence of the disease and to take appropriate steps to counter it.  All states seem to be reluctant to increase testing. This is strange and even counter-productive. The intention seems to be to slow down testing so that the official number of cases is low. When more tests are done, there will be more positive cases which need to be admitted and taken care of. This is probably dissuading the states from conducting enough number of tests. But the norm is that tests should be increased when cases pick up.  Though the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has issued guidelines on testing, different states are implementing them differently. The Delhi government has decided that asymptomatic direct contacts of infected people will be tested only if they are in the high-risk categories. This is wrong because asymptomatic people are also carriers of disease, accounting for about 30% of the transmission. There are other constraining conditions in other states. By not testing enough, the infection can only be hidden, and the incidence of the disease postponed, but by then it would be transmitted to many others. Testing not only helps provide early treatment to infected persons but also gives a better picture of the spread of the disease so that governments can tailor their strategies to deal with it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/coronavirus-states-must-go-for-more-testing-846852.html
07-06-2020||In Perspective||Time to focus on rural non-farm economy||The COVID-19 pandemic and the ensuing lockdown have shattered economies across the world, devastating the lives of millions. The migrant workers in India, primarily hailing from rural regions, are the first ones to lose jobs. This forced them to return to their villages, with many walking thousands of kilometres and some dying on way home. This goes to demonstrate that during a crisis which creates a profusion of anxiety and fear, home is the haven of safety and security, especially for those workers who have an informal contractual job or depend on daily wages to survive. Studies have shown that rural to urban migration in India is caused largely by rural unemployment and agrarian distress (push factors), not the enticement of a higher standard of living (pull factor) attainable in cities. The decision of moving away from home perhaps carries a high level of personal disutility for most migrants. Against this backdrop, the pandemic has showcased the structural fault lines of the rural economy wherein lies the origin of much suffering that we see today.  As the crisis will take time to abate, returning migrants will now seek jobs at their source. As the contractual nature of their work does not guarantee employment upon return to cities, leaving them to secure a means of livelihood back home. With farming generally offering meagre returns and working as an agricultural labourer being seasonal, the rural non-farm sector has the potential to play a vital role in generating year-round employment opportunities.  As per the NSSO (National Sample Survey Office) 67th round data, the non-farm sector accounted for 36% of total rural employment, an increase from 27.3% in 2009. While this is an encouraging trend, the recent NSSO 73rd  round data shows that as high as 91% of rural non-farm enterprises are own-account enterprises, meaning that they employ only household labour (no hired labour) with a rather low value addition per worker (Rs 55,495 annually).  Of the rural non-farm enterprises, only 35% are engaged in manufacturing and the rest are in services,  of which, almost 50% are in trading. In the category of trading, 88% are again own-account enterprises, implying that most rural trading establishments are probably petty shops, which may barely support a family.  For our agro-based rural sector, food processing industries are considered to hold much promise, but  analysing  NSSO data, we observe that this sector too is dominated by own account enterprises where more than 50% are either stagnant or contracting.  Thus, a need has arisen to encourage the growth of remunerative manufacturing and service sector units in villages. This need is crucial today, owing to the high influx of return migrants and uncertainty of their future employment in cities due to the pandemic. Organisation into clusters by leveraging of local resources and involvement with the supply chain by the rural non-farm enterprises can help achieve value addition as well as employment generation.   Farm and non-farm linkages here are crucial, and with the adoption of more innovative farming, much can be achieved. To encourage such activities, focused policies and more importantly, their implementation strategies including handholding at the initial stages, are necessary.  Our village-level survey in Karnataka shows that the rural non-farm sector faces two major problems: inadequate finances and a lack of knowledge. Access to credit In relation to the first concern - access to credit - schemes are aplenty. For example, the finance minister announced recently the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan allocating funds for MSMEs. The MUDRA Yojana is another massive credit scheme that can potentially be beneficial, provided the non-farm sector is able to take up remunerative and scalable projects instead of petty businesses as we see today which usually are not able to receive credit support.   This brings us to the second, more critical issue pertaining to knowledge, technology and planning. Our field visits in Karnataka have revealed that many rural households lack the knowledge about innovative or remunerative ventures and can only think of opening a kirana store or renting out a tractor as plausible activities.  The Organic Jaggery Technology Park established through state support in Mudhol, Karnataka,  shows how agro-processing can benefit farmers. More such initiatives are necessary to make a significant difference in rural livelihood. Now, farmers in Mudhol are planning to set up processing units within their farms, thereby moving directly into non-farm activities.  If allied activities like packaging and transportation can also find root in villages, more employment-generating establishments can develop. Forming joint liability groups of small village entrepreneurs is helpful in accessing credit without any security. With educated youth looking for new venues to channel their talents, management and engineering graduates hailing from these regions can leverage digital marketing platforms to promote local businesses.   Herbal product development with their packaging and marketing is another remunerative and employment-generating activity. Similarly, one can develop village tourism and industries around it. It would provide several service-related jobs and also create a market for local handloom, handicraft, food and beverages. Developing skills at the local level, bringing promising entrepreneurs by providing incentives or linking villages with such entrepreneurs, starting technology parks in rural areas are ways to bridge the knowledge gap.  The coronavirus crisis calls upon our policymakers to do at a much larger scale what has been elusive so far -- transforming the structure of the rural economy and giving it the stability needed not just to survive but also to thrive and brighten the lives of millions, who right now see a bleak future ahead.  (Meenakshi Rajeev is Professor and Anush Hariharan is Research Assistant at ISEC, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/time-to-focus-on-rural-non-farm-economy-846853.html
07-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus: Home quarantine for two journalists and their cameramen in Karnataka for interstate travel||The district administration has directed two journalists and their cameramen to remain in home quarantine for visiting Mantralayam to get information on reopening Raghavendra Swamy mutt for public darshan.  The mutt is in Karnool district of neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. The journos have been directed to be in home quarantine for undertaking inter-state travel.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-home-quarantine-for-two-journalists-and-their-cameramen-in-karnataka-for-interstate-travel-846712.html
07-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Social distancing to be 'mantra' as places of worship open for public in Karnataka on June 8||Social distancing will be the 'mantra' while traditional practices such as 'archana' and giving 'teertha' (holy water) will be missing in places of worship in Karnataka when they open for devotees from Monday with a slew of restrictions after almost a three-month-long hiatus due to coronavirus lockdown. Temples and mosques will reopen on Monday but the Church is set to allow its faithful from June 13, giving itself time to sensitise them and parish priests about the guidelines to be followed as part of the fight against the deadly virus. Places of worship have remained shut for public since March 24 when the first phase of national lockdown was enforced. The state government has allowed religious places to open for public in line with the Centre's guidelines as part of Unlock 1 and issued the standard operating procedure (SOP) with do's and don'ts including compulsory face mask for both devotees and priests, thermal screening and barring entry for children below 10 years and elders above 65. In a bid to prevent spread of coronavirus which has affected over 5,000 people in the state, it has specified conditions such as social distancing, no distribution of 'teertha' (Charanamruta) or 'prasada', no temple bells for devotees and a bar on special 'pooja' or 'archana'. Accordingly, the temples, mosques and churches have painted social distancing boxes where the devotees will have to stand in queue and wait for their turn, wile masks have been made mandatory for all, including priests. They have also arranged sanitisers, santiser tunnels and thermal screening guns. "We have been directed not to organise special pooja. We will not give any teertha or prasada. There will be sanitisers at the entry points. There will be thermal screening too," Krishna, Executive Officer of five-century-old Vasanta Vallabharaya Temple at Vasantapura here, told PTI. N Srinivas, a priest of a temple at Halasuru in the city, said devotees will come, pay their obeisance and leave. "There will be no congregation, no sitting inside the temple and no special prayers. People will have to come, bow before the deity and leave," he said. Mosques in Karnataka have also taken precautions to keep off the virus. "There will be queue management with social distancing boxes, sanitisers, sanitiser tunnels and thermal screening at the entrance itself," Maqsood Imran, Khateeb-o-Imam of Bengaluru Jama Masjid told PTI. According to him, tanks for mandatory ablutions have been emptied and mats removed from the mosque. "Earlier, 10,000 people used to pray together in our mosque but after the new norm, we can accommodate only 1,500 people. If there are more devotees insisting to pray inside the mosque then, we will arrange prayers in batches," Imran said. The Archdiocese of Bangalore has deferred the opening of churches for masses till June 13 to sensitise the Roman Catholic Christians before letting them come to the churches. The copy of standard operating procedure was received on Saturday evening and accordingly, a meeting was convened where it was decided to open the churches on June 13, public relation officer of the archdiocese J A Kantharaj told PTI. "We have deferred opening churches till June 13. We have 130 Roman Catholic churches under our jurisdiction. It is a big responsibility to allow devotees to come in. So, the next five days will be spent on educating visitors and making necessary preparations in our churches," he said. A report from Mangaluru said Dakshina Kannada District Khazi P M Ibrahim Musliyar announced guidelines to be followed while offering prayers in mosques from Monday. People with symptoms of cold and cough will not be allowed in the mosques and maintaining social distance during Namaz is mandatory. Each person should bring from home the mat required for Namaz and mosques should be opened only during prayers, he said in a release. Mangaluru diocese bishop Peter Paul Saldanha in a circular requested all parish priests to make the required arrangements to open churches and to have religious services adhering to the government guidelines. Thermal screeners, sanitizers and seating should be arranged and volunteers posted to regulate entry, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/social-distancing-to-be-mantra-as-places-of-worship-open-for-public-in-karnataka-on-june-8-846731.html
07-06-2020||National||China wants India to oppose pandemic politics||Army Corps commanders from India and China on Saturday held extensive discussions to end the month-long stand-off in eastern Ladakh, with the communist country also conveying to New Delhi through diplomatic channels to oppose the “politicisation” of the Covid-19 pandemic by the US. The meeting between senior military leaders was led by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, GOC of Leh-based 14 Corps from the Indian side, and Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander, South Xinjiang Military region, representing the China’s People’s Liberation Army. Sources said the discussions continued for more than three hours, but there was no immediate statement about the outcome from either side. After the meeting in Moldo, located opposite Chushul in eastern Ladakh, Lt Gen Singh returned to Leh and briefed Army Chief Gen M M Naravane and Northern Command Chief Lt Gen Y K Joshi. The details are being deliberated upon within the government involving the Prime Minister’s Office, National Security Advisor, Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of External Affairs.  Hours before the talk between military commanders, senior diplomats from China and India had a video conference interaction on the way forward. Beijing wants New Delhi to oppose what it calls the “politicisation” of the Covid-19 pandemic by President Donald Trump’s administration in the United States. The video conference set the framework for talks between commanders of both countries.  After the meeting, Sun Weidong, China’s ambassador to India, tweeted: “They (senior diplomats of India and China) also agreed that #China & #India should deepen cooperation on fight against #COVID19 epidemic, support the #WHO, resolutely uphold and promote multilateralism & (and) safeguard common interests of developing countries.”  The MEA, in a press release issued in New Delhi, stated: “The two sides also exchanged views on the challenge posed by the Covid-19 pandemic and cooperation in various multilateral forums.”  The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, however, issued a separate press release in Beijing, stating that the two sides agreed to deepen cooperation to deal with the Covid-19 crisis and oppose “politicisation of the epidemic situation”. India refrained from joining the US in blaming China for the pandemic. It also did not echo US President Donald Trump’s allegations against the World Health Organisation that it has been biased towards the Chinese and had not alerted the US and other nations well in time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/china-wants-india-to-oppose-pandemic-politics-846590.html
07-06-2020||National||COVID-19 patients with severe pneumonia should be considered for shifting to ICU||Symptomatic COVID-19 patients who have "severe pneumonia" with a respiratory rate of 30 breath per minute should be considered for shifting to ICU, according to a clinical management protocol for adult patients suffering from the disease. A COVID-19 patient with severe pneumonia also has an oxygen saturation level (Spo2) of less than 90 per cent, on room air, it said. An office memorandum, dated June 5, has been issued regarding “Clinical management protocol for adult patients with confirmed COVID-19 infection” using best practices, ICMR revised national clinical management guidelines and available evidence for patient care, prepared by the Department of Medicine, Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC), the Delhi health department said. LNJP Hospital, a dedicated COVID-19 facility under the Delhi government, is attached to MAMC. According to the protocol, a symptomatic COVID-19 patient with severe pneumonia with a respiratory rate of 30 breath per minute and Spo2 level of less than 90 per cent should be considered for shifting to an ICU. The protocol prepared by the MAMC also mentioned that patients with comorbidities, like diabetes, hypertension, should be managed as per the existing standard protocol. The demographic factors associated with comorbidities are age of 60 and above; obesity with a BMI of over 30 per cent, pre-existing pulmonary disease, hypertension, chronic kidney disease, cardiovascular disease, immune suppression, HIV infection, pregnancy. Delhi recorded 1,320 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday taking the COVID-19 tally in the city to over 27,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 761, authorities said. The highest spike in fresh cases -- 1513-- was recorded on June 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-patients-with-severe-pneumonia-should-be-considered-for-shifting-to-icu-846618.html
07-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 7||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,57,178 as of June 7.     States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 7,191 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1,19,293 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-7-846624.html
07-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 7, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-7-2020-edition-846625.html
07-06-2020||National||No breakthrough yet, but diplomats, military commanders to keep talking to defuse India-China border tension||India and China will continue to hold talks to defuse tension along their disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh, as no breakthrough could be achieved in the meeting between the military commanders of the two nations on Saturday. The commanders of the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) held a meeting at Chushul-Moldo point on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – on Saturday. Though the meeting was held in a “cordial and positive atmosphere”, it did not immediately result in the Chinese PLA withdrawing its soldiers, who over the past few weeks transgressed the LAC in several locations on the bank of the Pangong Tso lake and Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh and entered into Indian territory. The Indian Army too will not immediately withdraw additional troops it deployed as a countermeasure to the build-up by the Chinese PLA along the disputed boundary.  New Delhi and Beijing, however, agreed to “continue the military and diplomatic engagements to resolve the situation and to ensure peace and tranquility in the border areas”.  The Indian and Chinese military commanders also agreed “to peacefully resolve the situation in the border areas in accordance with various bilateral agreements and keeping in view the agreement between the leaders (of the two nations) that peace and tranquility in the India-China border regions is essential for the overall development of bilateral relations”, according to a press-release issued by the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi on Sunday. “Both sides also noted that this year marked the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries and agreed that an early resolution would contribute to the further development of the relationship,” “Accordingly,” the MEA stated in New Delhi, “the two sides will continue the military and diplomatic engagements to resolve the situation and to ensure peace and tranquility in the border areas.” India and China inked as many as five agreements in 20 years between 1993 and 2013 to put in place a number of Confidence Building Measures to manage the occasional flashpoints along the long disputed boundary between the two neighbouring nations, including face-offs between the patrolling units of the border guards and the militaries of both sides as well as the stand-offs. Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, led the delegation from India in the meeting with the Chinese PLA officials on Saturday. China’s delegation was led by Maj Gen Liu Lin, commander of the South Xinjiang Military Region of the Chinese PLA. A day before the meeting between the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA commanders, the senior diplomats of the two nations had discussed the situation along the LAC through video-link between New Delhi and Beijing on Friday. The video-conference had ended with both sides reiterating commitment to the consensus reached between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping during the two “informal summits” they had in April 2018 and October 2019. The senior diplomats had also agreed not to allow the differences to turn into disputes.  The Indian Army asked the Chinese PLA during the meeting on Saturday to fully restore the status quo ante that had prevailed along the LAC before May 5 – the day a scuffle between the soldiers of the two nations had broken out on the bank of the Pangong Tso lake.  The Chinese PLA over the past few weeks deployed nearly 5000 soldiers in a large camp set up recently at Galwan Valley within the territory claimed by China – while hundreds of its personnel transgressed the LAC in at least three locations and entered several kilometers into the areas claimed by India. The Indian Army too responded by rushing additional troops “in adequate numbers”.  The build-ups by both sides escalated tension along the LAC – three years after the bilateral relations between the two nations had hit a new low over a 72-day-long military face-off between the two nations at Doklam Plateau in western Bhutan. The informal summit between the Prime Minister and Chinese President at Wuhan in central China in April 2018 had brought about a thaw in the relations, which, however, again came under stress after Beijing joined Pakistan’s propaganda against the August 5, 2019 decision of the Modi Government in New Delhi to strip Jammu and Kashmir of its special status and to reorganize the state into two Union Territories.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-breakthrough-yet-but-diplomats-military-commanders-to-keep-talking-to-defuse-india-china-border-tension-846645.html
07-06-2020||National||India records single-day spike of 9,971 COVID-19 cases; death toll 6,929: Health ministry||India registered its highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases for the fifth consecutive day on Sunday, with 9,971 new infections taking the country's tally to 2,46,628, while the death toll rose to 6,929, according to the Union Health Ministry. India registered 287 deaths in the last 24 hours since Saturday morning. India had raced past Spain on Saturday to become the fifth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic. Now, only the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK are ahead of it. The number of active COVID-19 cases stands at 1,20,406, according to the Health Ministry. A total of 1,19,292 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the Ministry said. "Thus, around 48.36 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior ministry official said. The total confirmed cases includes foreigners.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-single-day-spike-of-9971-covid-19-cases-death-toll-6929-health-ministry-846650.html
07-06-2020||National||India surplus in face mask production, allow exports to clear inventory: Industry||With India's surplus face mask capacity choking production lines, the medical device industry has asked the government to lift the ban on the export of non-N95 masks to help manufacturers clear unsold inventories and resume production at full capacity. The government had in March banned the export of all kinds of masks to avoid any shortage in the country at a time when the COVID-19 outbreak had started gaining momentum. Last month, it allowed export of non-medical and non-surgical masks made of cotton, silk, wool, and knitted materials but the export of all medical and surgical masks remained prohibited. With manufacturers ramping up production of face masks since the outbreak of COVID-19, India has turned into a surplus nation choking production lines. "We request you to kindly intervene for opening up exports of surgical three-layer masks other than N95/N95 respirator masks as currently, we have surplus capacity lying with manufacturers," the Association of Indian Medical Device Industry wrote to the government. The capacity with manufacturers is more than enough to cater to the domestic requirement. "These manufacturers are stopping or slowing down production since the last 15-20 days as they have unsold inventory and falling demand and falling market prices," it wrote.  India, according to the association, has a production capacity of 1.5 billion three-layer masks and after accounting for domestic demand, the surplus capacity is 532.03 million. Out of the manufacturing capacity of 59.4 million pieces of four-layer masks, 1.9 million is spare capacity. Similarly, the country has 5.05 million surplus capacity of reusable/washable masks. It has a production capacity of 31.2 million pieces of N95 masks, of which 1.05 million is surplus, it said. It listed 43 leading manufacturers of face masks in the country and detailed their production capacity and surplus. "There is also additional capacity being added with... imported machines. There may be other manufacturers not listed with us," the association wrote. It sought the intervention of the chairman of the Empowered Committee of Essential Medical Equipment and secretary, Department of Pharmaceuticals for opening up the exports of surgical masks to balance supply and demand as well as for India to emerge as the second country in the world for masks after China.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-surplus-in-face-mask-production-allow-exports-to-clear-inventory-industry-846653.html
07-06-2020||National||COVID-19: IOC says Unlock 1.0 to revive fuel sales soon||Weeks after the coronavirus lockdown led to fuel sales nosediving to record lows, Indian Oil Corp (IOC), the nation's largest oil firm, sees demand returning with the resumption of economic activities. The company said though it is on track to spend the approved capital expenditure for 2020-21, it has "critically examined all CAPEX proposals for rationalisation of cost and time frame." "The company is also conscious of the costs and has also undertaken rationalisation measures in this direction," it said without giving details. Fuel sales had dropped in April after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced a nationwide lockdown to control the spread of COVID-19 infections. The lockdown shut factories and offices took most vehicles off roads, stopped train movement, and suspended air travel. "The demand for petroleum products dropped by 46 per cent in April 2020. The sales of petrol, diesel and jet fuel (ATF) in April 2020 were down by 61 per cent, 56.7 per cent and 91.5 per cent respectively as compared to April 2019," it said in a regulatory filing on the impact of COVID-19. Due to certain relaxations by the Centre and some state governments starting last month, sales for the products improved in May as compared to April 2020. "However, the sale for these three products was still lower by 38.9 per cent as compared to May 2019."  India will see more opening up from June 8 with malls and markets resuming operations. "It is expected that with the opening up of lockdown and revival of the economy on the strength of the economic package, the sales would soon get revived," it said. "Further, the recent increase in international prices of crude oil and petroleum products, as well as rupee appreciation, has to some extent already offset the inventory losses and forex losses." IOC said though there was no closure of any of its refineries due to a drop in demand for petroleum products, their operations were curtailed to the level of 39 per cent in April. However, the improved demand for petroleum products in May 2020 resulted in higher capacity utilisation of refineries to the extent of 75-80 per cent and is further being ramped up. "The drop in the sale of petroleum products resulted in a significant fall in revenue collections for the company. In order to meet its contractual and statutory obligations, the company had to borrow funds which resulted in a substantial increase in borrowings. "However, since then the borrowings have reduced significantly with the increase in sales and lower crude oil prices," it said, but did not give specific figures. Stating that COVID-19 had severely impacted businesses across the world, IOC said the oil industry in general and the company, in particular, came under the twin assault of drop in crude oil prices as well as demand destruction. The government announced the nationwide lockdown in the last week of the financial year 2019-20 (April 2019 to March 2020) and therefore it did not have a significant impact on sales and operations for the fiscal. Petroleum product sales had witnessed a demand growth of 1.9 per cent in 2019-20 till February 2020. "However, the same declined by 18 per cent in March 2020 due to the lockdown, dragging down the growth for the full year to 0.22 per cent," it said. COVID-19 impacted the crude oil and product prices across the world, which saw a significant fall by March 31, 2020. "The company being the largest PSU oil marketing company in the country having its refineries and marketing infrastructure spread across the country, maintains a significant level of inventories for its operations. "The drop in the prices of crude oil and products impacted the financial statements for 2019-20, due to inventory loss," it said, adding the financial statements for 2019-20 are presently under finalisation. IOC said to manage the crude oil inventory, planned crude import was either deferred or cancelled with mutual consent. "Some crude cargoes meant for our refineries were even sold for the Strategic Petroleum Reserves of the Government of India." With all domestic and international flights being suspended, civil aviation business was badly affected, it said. "The situation has been closely monitored by the top management of the company on daily basis since the price crash and subsequent lockdown, to take prompt actions for continuity of business operations in an optimised manner, keeping the market well supplied as well as to ensure safety of the employees and frontline personnel engaged in production/delivery of petroleum products," IOC added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-ioc-says-unlock-10-to-revive-fuel-sales-soon-846655.html
07-06-2020||National||Adherence to lockdown keep Daman, Diu COVID-19-free||The Daman and Diu districts of the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli have not reported any COVID-19 case so far, and the administration has attributed this to strict implementation of the lockdown orders and commitment of 'corona warriors'. There are nearly 2.5 lakh industrial workers in Daman and Diu, which are also quite popular among tourists, the Union Territory's administrator Praful Patel said on Sunday. Despite bordering Gujarat and being close to Maharashtra, two of the worst affected states, Daman and Diu have remained free of the viral disease so far because public followed the lockdown guidelines, he said. While Dadra and Nagar Haveli has reported 19 COVID-19 cases, there has been no case so far in Daman and Diu. "We have managed to achieve this success because our 'corona warriors' worked with full commitment. We succeeded in making people adhere to the lockdown for 75 days. We managed to have zero cases in Daman and Diu because people followed the lockdown with full commitment," Patel said. However, authorities remain alert as the Union Territory lies close to Gujarat and Maharashtra. According to the data provided by the health department of the Union Territory, as many as 17,965 samples have been tested so far for COVID-19, including 12,130 in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 4,723 in Daman and 1,112 in Diu.  Of these, 19 samples from Dadra and Nagar Haveli have so far tested positive for coronavirus, but none from Daman and Diu, a health official said, adding that results of 1,039 samples are awaited. As many as 6,026 people, including 3,444 in Dadra and Nagar Haveli, 977 in Daman, and 1,605 in Diu, were kept under quarantine and completed the mandatory period, he said. As of now, 2,290 people are still under quarantine, the official added. "We have collected samples of people with travel history, those showing symptoms, and also random samples as per the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines," the Union Territory's programme officer for communicable diseases Meghal Shah said. "Travels were restricted during the lockdown, and we screened and collected samples of each and every person traveling to Daman, Diu, or Silvassa. Now, with the lockdown being eased, people can enter the border through checkpoint only with a valid e-pass," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/adherence-to-lockdown-keep-daman-diu-covid-19-free-846658.html
07-06-2020||National||Odisha reports one more COVID-19 fatality, death toll rises to 9||A 55-year-old man died due to COVID-19 in Odisha, taking the number of coronavirus fatalities in the state to nine, a health department official said on Sunday. He was suffering from tuberculosis and other comorbidities, he said. "Regret to inform that a 55-year-old male patient of Ganjam district, who tested positive for COVID-19, has passed away, while under treatment in hospital," the department said in a statement. Meanwhile, 75 more people from 16 districts tested positive for the virus during the last 24 hours, pushing the tally in the state to 2,856, of which 1,129 are active cases. Till Saturday, 1,716 patients have recovered from the deadly disease, the department said. Ganjam district tops the list of COVID-19 cases at 598, followed by Jajpur with 319 infections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/odisha-reports-one-more-covid-19-fatality-death-toll-rises-to-9-846666.html
07-06-2020||National||No COVID-19 treatment for outsiders in Delhi for some months: Kejriwal||All hospitals in the national capital, barring those run by the central government and private hospitals performing specialised surgeries, have been reserved for treating only Delhi residents to ensure that an influx of people from outside do not squeeze availability of COVID-19 beds with the easing of lockdown. Delhi government expects a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases in the capital in the near future and a decision to restrict treatment for outsiders in the Delhi government-run hospitals and those in the private sector was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet based on an expert committee's recommendations and suggestions from public. The decision also comes against the backdrop of the Delhi government deciding to open the borders from Monday. Delhi government has also decided not to open hotels and banquet halls from Monday, as they anticipate that these facilities may need to be converted into COVID-19 hospitals once the cases surge. However, restaurants, shopping malls and religious places will open from Monday as allowed in Central government's Unlock 1.0 guidelines.  According to the government decisions, all the around 10,000 beds in Delhi government-run hospitals will be earmarked for residents of the capital. Beds in private hospitals are also earmarked for Delhiites only.  However, another 10,000 beds in hospitals run by the Central government remained untouched and people from other states can avail facilities there. Exceptions have also been provided to certain private hospitals which conduct special surgeries like transplantation and oncology related procedures to allow admission of people from other states.  Announcing the decisions, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said there is a need to "balance" the situation and the decisions taken would help in that direction. Kejriwal said he had last week sought suggestions from people regarding opening hospitals for outsiders when the borders are opened. He said a large number of people are going to come to Delhi and this could result in further rise in cases.  He said 7.5 lakh people send in their suggestions and 90% were of the view that it should be reserved for Delhiites. An expert panel appointed by the Delhi government also recommended the same saying if people from outside are allowed, Delhi beds will be filled in three days and the capital would need 15,000 beds by June-end and 42,000 by mid-July.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/no-covid-19-treatment-for-outsiders-in-delhi-for-some-months-kejriwal-846667.html
07-06-2020||National||Lockdown: Goa churches, mosques not to reopen from Jun 8||Churches and mosques in Goa have decided to remain closed for some more time, even though the state government has allowed reopening of religious places from Monday as part of the lockdown relaxations. Temple committees, however, are yet to take a call on opening their shrines for devotees in the coastal state. Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said religious places in the state can open from Monday, but no mass activities will be allowed there in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak in the country. Till Saturday, Goa reported 267 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 202 are active cases, as per official figures. A spokesman of the Goa Church on Sunday said looking at the COVID-19 situation in the state, churches would not be opened from Monday and they would wait for some more time to decide on it. "We would like to inform our priests and faithful that we are critically assessing the novel coronavirus-related fluid situation that has come upon our state. Therefore, we are not in a position to declare our places of worship open from tomorrow, Father Barry Cardozo, director of the Diocesan Centre for Social Communications Media, said in a statement. When we eventually decide to open up, with prudence, vigilance and careful discernment, it will be in consonance with the state governments SOPs (standard operating procedures), which we expect to receive by then, he said.  Churches across the coastal state, which has nearly 30 per cent Catholic population, have been shut since lockdown came into force in March. Several priests have since then been addressing the religious masses online. Easter and other festivities were held without the gathering of parishioners. In the wake of the COVID-19 situation in the state, the Association of All Goa Muslim Jamats has also decided to defer reopening of mosques till June 30. "Since June 1, COVID-19 cases in Goa have been on a rise. We have touched almost 196 positive cases in the past one week and its an alarming spike in positive cases,the association's president Shaikh Bashir Ahmad said in a statement. Hence, the Association of All Goa Muslim Jamats executive committee members have decided to delay the reopening of all masjids in Goa till June 30, 2020, for the safety of members of the community and society, he said. "We are issuing this advisory and request committee members/heads of jamats of masjids across Goa to implement our advisory, which is issued keeping in mind the rapid spread of COVID-19 cases in our state, and halt it from becoming a community transmission, he added. Meanwhile, representatives of all major temples across the state have decided to meet on Sunday to decide on reopening their religious places. "A meeting of officials of nine major temples will be held to decide on the reopening, but considering the situation, it is likely that temples wont open on June 8, a trustee of one of the prominent temples in North Goa district said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lockdown-goa-churches-mosques-not-to-reopen-from-jun-8-846673.html
07-06-2020||National||Akhilesh Yadav hits out at UP govt over death of pregnant woman in ambulance||Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav asked the Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday how many beds had been arranged for the "future generation" after a pregnant woman died in an ambulance in Greater Noida as she was allegedly denied admission by several hospitals. "The death of a pregnant woman while searching a hospital is extremely sad," Yadav tweeted, attaching a PTI news tweet of the incident. "The (UP) government should tell that if it has arranged 1 lakh beds for corona (patients), then why it has not reserved some beds for the future generation?" he asked. The SP leader's statement comes a day after an eight-month pregnant woman died in an ambulance after a frantic 13-hour search for a hospital bed failed as over half-a-dozen facilities denied her treatment. "The BJP government should also tell that till now, how many hospitals have been made," Yadav added. Neelam, 30, and her husband Vijender Singh, 30, knocked the doors of eight hospitals, including government ones, before she died in the ambulance outside a facility in Greater Noida on Friday, the family had told PTI. The Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration has ordered an inquiry into the incident.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/akhilesh-yadav-hits-out-at-up-govt-over-death-of-pregnant-woman-in-ambulance-846677.html
07-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Eminent scientist suggests shift-system in schools when they reopen||An eminent scientist on Sunday suggested a shift system in schools to prevent spread of the coronavirus and continuing with online classes with focus on project-based learning in a big way to promote creativity. Former Director General of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) V K Saraswat supported the idea of online teaching in the absence of regular classes in view of closure of schools due to the COVID-19 pandemic. But, he said it should be organised in far better and more interactive ways so that delivery of knowledge can be better. The NITI Aayog member stressed the need for schools to have a strategy when they reopen keeping in mind the safety of students. May be they will have to organise shifts so that within the same space they can handle the students; May be they will have to employ more teachers, and they can run two shifts. "May be half the strength in a class can come in the morning and others in the afternoon.  Or students of first to sixth standard can come in the morning and seventh to tenth can come in the afternoon, Saraswat told PTI. Reopening strategy will have to be worked out by the education department, added the former Chief Scientific Advisor to the Defence Minister. Along with normal classes, online education should be continued as a regular system in future, and promoted in a big way because that is the way technology is going to help delivery of knowledge, he added. Saraswat also raised the pitch for reforms in the education sector, saying India is facing the problem of rote learning. Rote learning has to give way for more project-based teaching, he underlined. Children should be made to work on projects at home and that can be done online. That will also support the changeover from rote learning to creative learning. I personally believe the education delivery system -- primary, secondary and college levels -- has to be completely changed because creativity in India is less and creativity would come only if we replace rote learning with project-based learning, Saraswat said. On some academics holding the view that the marks-based model is killing the education system in India as it does not promote creativity, he said evaluation of any outcome is important. Even when we perform in our normal way, evaluation cannot be replaced. Otherwise, you cant find out how much you have succeeded in delivery. Certainly evaluation cannot be dispensed with. He did not agree with some experts, who favoured a single, uniform system for school education in India by dispensing with CBSE, ICSE and state boards. I am not for normalising everything in life. I personally believe variety should be there. This concept of one kind of a system is okay for a Communist society, society which was trying to drive everybody like a herd, he said. Creativity comes with variety, and there is nothing wrong in having different kinds of education system, but one thing which is important is we have to integrate vocational training as part of the education curriculum," Saraswat said. Vocational part cannot be kept away from the education system, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-eminent-scientist-suggests-shift-system-in-schools-when-they-reopen-846678.html
07-06-2020||National||Delhi government lifts 'special corona fee' on liquor from Jun 10, but raises VAT||Liquor in Delhi will be cheaper from June 10 as the AAP government on Sunday decided to withdraw '70 per cent Special Corona Fee' on their sale in the national capital, an official said. The government, however, increased the Value Added Tax (VAT) on all categories of liquor from 20 per cent to 25 per cent, the official said. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. The 'Special Corona Fee' was imposed last month on the Maximum Retail Price of liquor bottle as the government looked to earn additional revenue, hit badly due to the coronavirus lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-government-lifts-special-corona-fee-on-liquor-from-jun-10-but-raises-vat-846680.html
07-06-2020||National||16 years on, four cops accused in Khwaja Yunus case reinstated||An assistant police inspector and three constables, who were suspended 16 years ago for the alleged custodial killing of Ghatkopar blast case suspect Khwaja Yunus, have been reinstated in service by Mumbai Police, an official said on Sunday. The four policemen, who were suspended in 2004, are facing trial on various charges, including murder and destruction of evidence, in the Yunus case. Following their reinstatement on Friday, assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and constables Rajendra Tiwari, Sunil Desai resumed duty in the local arms unit on Saturday, while constable Rajaram Nikam was reinstated in the motor vehicles department, a police official said. Vaze, a 1990 batch police officer and an encounter specialist, was arrested in 2004 and chargesheeted in the alleged custodial killing case for concealment of facts. He resigned from the police force in November 2007. But, his resignation was rejected pending inquiry against him, the official said. Khwaja Yunus, 27, a native of Maharashtra's Parbhani resident, was an engineer and used to work in Dubai. He was detained soon after the December 2002 Ghatkopar bomb blast case. While the police claimed Yunus escaped when he was being taken to Aurangabad for questioning, a Criminal Investigation Department (CID) inquiry ordered by the Bombay High court on a petition filed by his father earlier revealed he died in police custody. The inquiry had indicted 14 policemen, but the government sanctioned prosecution of only four - Vaze, Tiwari, Nikam and Desai - who are facing charges of murder, voluntarily causing grievous hurt to extort confession, fabricating evidence, and criminal conspiracy in the case. A prosecution witness earlier told a sessions court here that Yunus was stripped, and beaten on chest and abdomen with a belt in a lockup.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/16-years-on-four-cops-accused-in-khwaja-yunus-case-reinstated-846690.html
07-06-2020||National||Kerala gangrape case: NCW seeks action taken report from Kerala Police||The National Commission for Women on Sunday sought an action taken report from the Kerala Police on the rape of a woman by her husband and his friends in front of her five-year-old child. The 25-year-old woman was sexually assaulted after being forced to consume liquor, police said. The NCW has taken suo motu cognisance of the incident and expressed concern about the grave violation of safety and security of women in the state, which it said, "cannot be overlooked and needs to be addressed immediately". "The Commission was informed by Superintendent of Police, Thiruvananthapuram (Rural) that six accused have been arrested in the matter. NCW has also been apprised that the victim's medical examination has been conducted and the survivor and her children were in safe custody," the NCW said in a statement. "The Commission has also written to R Sreelekha IPS, DGP, Kerala directing to appraise it at the earliest with the action taken report in the case till filing of the charge sheet," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-gangrape-case-ncw-seeks-action-taken-report-from-kerala-police-846695.html
07-06-2020||National||74 new COVID-19 cases in Chhattisgarh; tally rises to 997||Chhattisgarh continued to see a spike in COVID-19 cases with 74 more people, mostly migrant workers, testing positive for the disease, taking the state's tally to 997, a health official said on Sunday. The new patients also included a doctor from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Raipur, and two lab technicians, he said. "The total number of people who tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday surged to 97, with 74 more such cases found late in the night, the official said. The COVID-19 count in the state is now 997. Of the 74 cases, 42 were reported from Kabirdham district, 11 from Raipur, six from Durg, three each from Balodabazar and Jashpur districts, two each from Raigarh, Mahasamund, Korba, and Bilaspur districts while one case came from Bemetara, the official said. "The new patients in Kabirdham included 40 migrant labourers who recently returned to their native villages from different parts of the country and were kept in quarantine centres, a lab technician, and a rural staff of the health department," another official said. A doctor and a lab technician of AIIMS, Raipur, were also among the new patients reported from the capital, a PRO of the institute said. Four patients have so far died in the state. Chhattisgarh COVID-19 figures are as follows: positive cases-997, new cases-74, deaths-four, discharged-259, active cases-734, people tested so far-85,346.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/74-new-covid-19-cases-in-chhattisgarh-tally-rises-to-997-846696.html
07-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Shramik trains play cradle to over three dozen newborns||Ishwari Devi has named her daughter Karuna. Reena's son is Lockdown Yadav. The two babies share nothing in common, except the extraordinary situation they were born in: on-board Shramik Special trains during a devastating pandemic, that has a bearing on all aspects of human lives, including the names they got.  "Compassion, 'seva bhav'," says Karuna's father Rajendra Yadav, explaining the name of his child when asked if 'corona', or 'coronavirus', had any influence on them while deciding the name. "People told me to name her after the disease. How can I name her Corona when it has killed so many people and destroyed lives?" he told PTI over phone from his village in Dharampura in Chhattisgarh. "We have named her Karuna, meaning compassion, seva bhav, which we all need during these difficult times." Karuna was born on-board a Shramik Special train at perhaps the most difficult times that the country has seen in decades -- the COVID-19 pandemic has killed close to 7,000 people, infected nearly 2.5 lakh and upended business activities, leading to people losing their jobs and families their livelihoods. Describing the troubled times the duo had to face back in Bhopal, where Yadav worked as a mason, he said he had no job or money on him and they were going hungry.  "I thought if I leave Bhoapl then, I will be able to make it in time for her to deliver the baby at our native place. If my wife had delivered the baby in Bhopal, how would I have fed her and the child? Now, thanks to the Railways, both my wife and daughter are healthy and fine," he said. Ishwari is one among more than three dozen women who battled hunger and unemployment in advance stages of their pregnancy and gave birth in unfamiliar conditions -- on-board a train, their babies handled by unknown co-travelers who shared their joy. Reena, who gave birth on-board a Shramik Special train from Mumbai to Uttar Pradesh, has named her son Lockdown Yadav to forever remember the tough times he was born in. "He was born in such a difficult situation. We want to name him Lockdown Yadav," she said. Another woman, Mamata Yadav, boarded the Jamnagar-Muzaffarpur Shramik Special train on May 8. Alone. She wanted to give birth with her mother by her side at her village in Chhapra district of Bihar. But, by the time her destination station in Bihar arrived she had a companion in her arms. Mamta’s compartment was turned into a labor-room-of-sorts with other passengers moving out. A team of doctors along with railway staff supervised Mamta’s condition as she delivered a healthy baby girl, the official said. "We have a system to deal with medical emergencies,” said railway spokesperson RD Bajpai. "Whenever a passenger needs help, our on-board staff alerts the next station where medical aid is available and the doctors who live in railway colonies around the station are always there to deal with any emergency,” he said. "We are happy that we managed to provide help in time every time and in each case, the baby and the mother have been healthy." Mamta and her little one were allowed to continue their journey, officials said. Meena Kumbhar, 19, delivered a baby boy on an Odisha-bound train on June 5. The baby, the 37th child to be born on the migrant special trains, got a surprise a day later when the general manager of the East Coast Railway gave gifted him Rs 5,000. "We want to continue this tradition. Many of our officials have come together and decided that whenever a child is born on these trains in our zone, we will give them a gift as a token of our sharing their joy," a spokesperson for the ECoR said. On May 18, nine-month pregnant Sangeeta boarded a Shramik Special train from Bengaluru for her hometown in Uttar Pradesh. Onboard, she delivered a healthy baby boy with the help of her co-passengers. Soon after, she was provided with medicines and when she reached a team of doctors awaited her with supplies. The Bangalore Police shared a photo of the baby sent to them by the couple. On May 22, Madhu Kumari (27) delivered a baby during her journey home to Uttar Pradesh. When she went into labor, the railway staff present in the train informed the RPF. The baby was born before the train reached Jhansi Railway Station. She got medical attention at Jhansi station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-shramik-trains-play-cradle-to-over-three-dozen-newborns-846700.html
07-06-2020||National||Delhi BJP chief, party MLAs detained during protest against AAP govt||Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta and his party's MLAs were detained for alleged violation of lockdown norms on Sunday after they gathered at Rajghat to protest against the AAP government over "deteriorating" healthcare services in the city. Gupta, along with 14 others, was detained for organising the protest in violation of the lockdown norms, a senior police officer said. The detained BJP leaders were taken to Rajender Nagar police station and released later. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Bidhuri said the BJP will continue to protest against the AAP government over alleged deteriorating healthcare services in the national capital. "The Delhi BJP president was detained by the Delhi Police at Rajghat during a protest against the Kejriwal government for the collapse of health services in Delhi," a statement by the party said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/delhi-bjp-chief-party-mlas-detained-during-protest-against-aap-govt-846702.html
07-06-2020||National||UP govt challenges single-bench order halting selection process of 69,000 basic teachers||The Uttar Pradesh government has challenged a single-bench order staying the appointment process of 69,000 assistant basic teachers in the state. The special appeal has been listed for June 9 before a division bench, comprising justices Pankaj Jaiswal and Dinesh Kumar Singh. It has been filed by the Examination Regularity Authority (ERA) on behalf of the state. In its appeal, the ERA has said the single-judge bench order was unwarranted and illegal. The bench of Justice Alok Mathur on June 3 had stayed the selection process, prima facie finding that certain questions and answers were ambiguous and wrong and, hence, it required fresh scrutiny by the UGC.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-govt-challenges-single-bench-order-halting-selection-process-of-69000-basic-teachers-846703.html
07-06-2020||National||Culture ministry nod to open 820 ASI monuments which have places of worship from June 8||The Union Culture Ministry on Sunday approved opening of 820 Archeological Survey of India-protected monuments which have places of worship from June 8, Minister Prahlad Patel said. However, sources said around 65 such monuments in Maharashtra are unlikely to be opened in view of the large number of coronavirus cases in the state. The culture ministry has decided to open only those monuments among the over 3,000 ASI-maintained sites where religious events take place, such as Nila Mosque at Hauz Khas enclave, the Qutub archaeological area and Lal Gumbad in Delhi. As many as 3,691 Centrally-protected monuments and archaeological sites maintained by the ASI were shut from March 17 in view of the coronavirus crisis. The minister said all coronavirus-related protocols issued by the Union health ministry would be followed by the monument authorities. According to sources, wearing of masks might be made the norm for visitors at such sites. In a tweet, Patel said, "Today, the culture ministry has approved the opening of 820 of its living monuments under the ASI from June 8. All protocols issued by the MHA and the health ministry will be followed." Among the ASI monuments having places of worship which would be opened from Monday include 114 from the northern region, 155 from the central region, 120 from the western region, 279 from the southern region and around 100 from the eastern region, officials said. The highest number of such monuments are in Vadodara (77), followed by Chennai (75), Dharwad (73) and Bengaluru (69). Statewise, Uttar Pradesh has 111 such monuments, followed by Maharashtra with 65 and Madhya Pradesh with 60. The Centre had on May 30 said that 'Unlock-1' would be initiated in the country from June 8 under which the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown effectuated on March 25 would be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions would remain in place till June 30 in the country's worst-hit areas. The Health Ministry on Thursday released SOPs for reopening offices, hotels, shopping malls, restaurants and religious places. Some of them have already re-opened in parts of the country and a few others are scheduled to re-start in the next phase of unlocking from Monday. The stakeholders will be responsible for following the guidelines. The guidelines released by the MHA state that hand hygiene (sanitiser dispenser) and thermal screening provisions are to be made compulsory at the entrance. Only asymptomatic persons shall be permitted entry at premises. All persons will be permitted entry only if they are using masks or face covers. It also stated that footwear or shoes should be preferably taken off. It also stated that in order to manage the queue and ensure social distancing in the premises, specific markings must be made with sufficient distance and separate entry and exit should be organized for the visitors. When queuing for the entry, a minimum of 6 feet distance should be maintained at all times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/culture-ministry-nod-to-open-820-asi-monuments-which-have-places-of-worship-from-june-8-846718.html
07-06-2020||National||Govt mandates special sticker on registration plates of BS-VI vehicles||The government has mandated a one-centimetre green sticker on registration plates in all BS-VI compliant motor vehicles. The order will come into force from October 1, 2020. "...Vehicles complying with BS-VI emission norms shall have 1 cm green strip at the top in the third registration plate," as per a notification issued by the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways. The order was issued amending the Motor Vehicles (High Security Registration Plates) order, 2018. Earlier, the government has said that from April 1, 2019, all motor vehicles will be fitted with tamper-proof, high security registration plates (HSRP). This HSRP or third number plate will be fitted on the inside of the windshield of each new manufactured vehicle by the manufacturers. Under the HSRP, a chromium-based hologram is applied by hot stamping on the top left corner of the number plates both at the front and back besides laser-branding of a permanent identification number with a minimum of 10 digits into the reflective sheeting on the bottom left of the registration plate. The third number plate will also have colour coding for the fuel used in the vehicle. The colour coding is done in order to detect polluting vehicles from the non-polluting ones. A Road Transport and Highways Ministry official said it has been brought-forth that the BS-VI emission standards, which have been mandated from April 1, 2020, provide for strict emission norms, and requests were to made to have distinct identification for such vehicles as is being made in other countries. "Accordingly, a feature in form of a unique strip of green colour of 1 cm wide on top of the existing third registration sticker for the purpose of BS-VI vehicles of any fuel type i.e. -- for petrol or CNG, which have a light blue colour sticker and a diesel vehicle which is of orange colour sticker -- will have a green strip of 1 CM on top has been mandated," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-mandates-special-sticker-on-registration-plates-of-bs-vi-vehicles-846722.html
07-06-2020||National||Digital divide may turn shift to online classes into an operational nightmare, warn experts||From virtual classes to open-book exams, the coronavirus pandemic may have forced classroom learning online but the digital divide in the country may turn it into an "operational nightmare", experts have warned. Suicide by a Kerala schoolgirl allegedly over not having access to a smartphone to attend classes, stories of students in remote areas having to sit on rooftops to catch Internet, siblings competing to get their parents' gadgets are just a few case studies of the existing "worrisome" digital divide, they said. According to the Key Indicators of Household Social Consumption on Education in India report, based on the 2017-18 National Sample Survey, less than 15 per cent of rural Indian households have access to Internet as opposed to 42 per cent in urban households. A mere 13 per cent of people surveyed (aged above five) in rural areas -- just 8.5 per cent female -- could use the Internet. The poorest households cannot afford a smartphone or a computer, according to the survey. "The implications of school closures in the country due to COVID-19 pandemic are not just about education. They are manifold. The Kerala schoolgirl's death, pictures of a girl trying to study from a tilted rooftop to get signals, three kids in a house trying to have their share of their parents' phone to attend the lessons, these are worrisome case studies. "An unprecedented social disaster can be avoided if more entities pitch into short-term and long-term future of the children in this digital divide," said Rajni Palriwala, HOD, Department of Sociology, Delhi University. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of a slew of measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. A nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day. As per official statistics, there are over 35 crore students in the country. However, it is not clear as to how many of them have access to digital devices and Internet. While the government has announced easing of certain restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed.   "It is good that we have moved online for teaching and learning to ensure that schooling is not completely suspended. But there is a flip-side to it too. When the world has moved indoors and technology has taken over major roles, the digital have-nots are pushed to the edge. Sooner or later they will be left out of the race. "The students in rural India or the poor populace in urban centres are having extreme difficulties in using such services and we don't have any policy in place to address that. In a way, we are only heading towards an operational nightmare," a Delhi University professor said. The professor is among a group of four faculty members who have written a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind against Delhi University's decision to conduct online exams through open-book mode, saying it will push students belonging to economically weaker section and those with disabilities on the wrong side of the digital divide. "Education is the greatest equalizer but the coronavirus crisis has come as a setback to this journey in important ways. When schools and colleges move online, students with lesser digital access get further disadvantaged, and those without any digital access are at risk of dropping out altogether. "Especially, at the school level, the digital divide poses a risk of nullifying some of India's hard-won enrolment gains," said Sangeeta D Gadre, a professor at Kirori Mal College. The principal of a school in Haryana's Mewat, who refused to be identified, said, "Like every other country, India is also witnessing an e-learning boom. Classes on Zoom, WhatsApp and Skype are becoming the norm. But the digital disparity is growing starker as more schools begin to adopt virtual tools." "We are reading a lot about how learning is happening online, but are not able to implement it here (Mewat) for the simple reason that not everyone has access to a smartphone or Internet. There can be no shortcuts to either learning or inclusivity. Our policy-makers need to address the fact that online courses will exclude numerous students," she said. Infosys Chairman Nandan Nilekani has also flagged the issue, saying the shift to online learning is only a "short-term response". "Reimagining education and staying ahead of the curve should be the number 1 priority for the government right now. For households that don't have access to smartphone or feature phone, we will have to use our physical infrastructure. "People may not have a device but they could be close to a digital service centre which will have the devices. Worksheets can be delivered to students and once student finishes the worksheets it can be delivered back to the centres. The centres can then upload the worksheet. Himachal is doing this. We will have to innovate," he said at a virtual conference on "Reimagining Education". Urvashi Sahni, a fellow at the Center for Universal Education at the Brookings Institution, said, "Technology has the potential to achieve universal quality education and improve learning outcomes. But in order to unleash its potential, the digital divide (and the embedded gender divide) must be addressed". "Access to technology and Internet is an urgent requirement in the information age. It should no longer be a luxury," she said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/digital-divide-may-turn-shift-to-online-classes-into-an-operational-nightmare-warn-experts-846726.html
07-06-2020||National||SC to consider Aadhaar review plea on June 9||A Constitution bench of the Supreme Court would on Tuesday take up a plea for reconsideration of September 29, 2018 judgement upholding constitutional validity of Aadhaar. A five-judge bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud, Ashok Bhushan and L Nageswara Rao would on June 9 consider, in chamber, the review petition filed by former child rights panel chief Shanta Sinha and others. The petitioners here sought an open court hearing and permission to make oral submission on the ground that important issues relating to the interpretation of the Constitution arose in the present case.  The review petition, filed by advocate Vipin M Nair, challenged the correctness of the Aadhaar judgment passed by a majority of 4:1. Among various grounds, it contended the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and other subsidies, benefits and services) Act, 2016 was incorrectly certified as a Money Bill by the Speaker of the Lok Sabha. It further claimed that the Aadhaar failed to meet the strict standard laid out in Article 110(1) (provision on Money Bill) of the Constitution. "For a legislation that has serious implications on the rights of citizens to be passed without consideration of the Rajya Sabha is nothing but a fraud on the Constitution," it quoted the minority view in the Aadhaar judgement. A written note settled by senior advocate Shyam Divan for review of the matter pointed out that a five-Judge constitution bench in a judgment, delivered on November 13, 2019 in the case of Rojer Mathew vs South Indian Bank Ltd, has already doubted the correctness of the Aadhaar judgment. The court had then referred the issue relating to interpretation of Article 110 of the Constitution, to a larger bench. In their support, they also cited the Sabarimala review judgement passed on November 14, 2019 in which a five-judge bench, at the stage of hearing review petitions, first granted an open-court hearing. And then upon finding inconsistency with the law laid down with respect to interpretation of Article 25 and 26 of the Constitution, the court had referred the matter to a larger bench of nine-judge for an authoritative pronouncement on the law. They also relied upon a decision of a nine-judge constitution bench of of May 11, 2020 again in the case Sabarimala, where the top court, while considering the maintainability of the reference, held that in review petitions arising out of writ petition, the Supreme Court had wide and unhindered powers to correct the position of law.  In 2018, the top court upheld the validity of Aadhaar programme, saying in balancing the rights to privacy and dignity of individuals, it was serving much larger purpose by reaching hundreds of millions of deserving persons. It, however, had restricted the use of Aadhaar to benefits and subsidies and struck down the orders mandating the citizens to link their unique 12-digit numbers with bank accounts and mobile numbers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-to-consider-aadhaar-review-plea-on-june-9-846733.html
07-06-2020||National||Record single-day spike of 9,971 COVID-19 cases; death toll 6,929: Health Ministry||India registered its highest single-day spike of COVID-19 cases for the fifth consecutive day on Sunday, with 9,971 new infections taking the country's tally to 2,46,628, while the death toll rose to 6,929, according to the Union Health Ministry. India registered 287 deaths in the 24 hours since Saturday morning. India had raced past Spain on Saturday to become the fifth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic. Now, only the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK are ahead of it. The number of active COVID-19 cases stands at 1,20,406, according to the Health Ministry. A total of 1,19,292 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the Ministry said. During the last 24 hours, a total of 5,220 COVID-19 patients have been cured, the ministry said. "Thus, around 48.37 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior ministry official said. The tally of confirmed cases includes foreigners. The Indian Council of Medical Research has further ramped up the testing capacity for detecting the novel coronavirus in infected persons. The number of government labs has been increased to 531 and private labs to 228, taking the total number of labs to 759. As many as 1,42,069 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested till now to 46,66,386. Deaths in India per lakh population (0.49) are much lower than the world average of 5.17 and are the lowest among countries that have eased lockdown such as Germany (10.35), Italy (55.78), the UK (59.62) and Spain (58.06), as per a WHO situation report cited by the Health Ministry. Cases in India per lakh population (17.32) are much lower than the world average of 87.74 and are the lowest among countries that have eased lockdown such as Germany (219.93), Italy (387.33), the UK (419.54) and Spain (515.61). Of the 287 deaths reported since Saturday morning, 120 were from Maharashtra, 53 from Delhi, 29 from Gujarat, 19 from Tamil Nadu, 17 from West Bengal, 15 from Madhya Pradesh, 13 from Rajasthan, 10 from Telangana, three from Jammu and Kashmir, two each from Karnataka, Punjab and Chhattisgarh and one each from Kerala and Bihar. Of the total 6,929 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 2,969 deaths, followed by Gujarat with 1,219 deaths, Delhi with 761, Madhya Pradesh with 399, West Bengal with 383, Uttar Pradesh with 257, Tamil Nadu with 251, Rajasthan with 231, Telangana with 123 and Andhra Pradesh with 73 deaths. The death toll reached 59 in Karnataka and 50 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 39 fatalities due to the disease, Bihar has 30, Haryana has 24 deaths, Kerala has 15, Uttarakhand has 11, Odisha has eight and Jharkhand has reported seven deaths so far. Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh have registered five COVID-19 fatalities each. Assam and Chhattisgarh have recorded four deaths each. Meghalaya and Ladakh have reported one COVID-19 fatality each, according to the Health Ministry data. According to the Ministry's website, more than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities. The highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 82,968, followed by Tamil Nadu at 30,152, Delhi at 27,654, Gujarat at 19,592, Rajasthan at 10,331, Uttar Pradesh at 9,733 and Madhya Pradesh at 9,228, according to the Health Ministry data updated in the morning. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 7,738 in West Bengal, 5,213 in Karnataka, 4,915 in Bihar and 4,510 in Andhra Pradesh. It has risen to 3,952 in Haryana, 3,496 in Telangana, 3,467 in Jammu and Kashmir and 2,781 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 2,515 coronavirus infections so far, while Assam has 2,397 cases. A total of 1,807 people have been infected with the virus in Kerala and 1,303 in Uttarakhand. Jharkhand has registered 1,000 cases, Chhattisgarh has 923, Tripura has 747, Himachal Pradesh has 400, Chandigarh has 309 cases, Goa has 267, Manipur has 157, Nagaland has 107, and Puducherry and Ladakh have 99 cases. Arunachal Pradesh has 47 COVID-19 cases, while Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Meghalaya have registered 33 infections each. Mizoram has reported 24 cases and Dadar and Nagar Haveli has 19 cases, while Sikkim has reported seven cases till now.  "8,605 cases are being reassigned to states," the Ministry said on its website adding, "our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR." State-wise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/record-single-day-spike-of-9971-covid-19-cases-death-toll-6929-health-ministry-846734.html
07-06-2020||National||BIF pushes for implementation of Trai's public wi-fi recommendations, rues delay||The Broadband India Forum (BIF) on Sunday threw its weight behind regulator Trai's recommendations on public wi-fi, saying its implementation will help achieve the government's 'Broadband for All' and 'Digital India' objectives and aid business and job creation. In a statement, BIF rued that in the period of four years that Trai's recommendations "remained unactioned", the country could have suffered a "large and irretrievable loss". BIF President T V Ramachandran said Trai's recommendations on public wi-fi will encourage village level entrepreneurship and provide large employment opportunities at local level, especially in rural areas, thus propelling socio-economic development and inclusion, as well as rural digital connectivity. Last week, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) had contested the Department of Telecom's views that public data office aggregators (PDOAs) which had been proposed by it, should operate under licence norms applicable for internet providers (ISPs) and virtual network operators (VNOs). "Asking PDOAs to operate under Unified Licence (VNO-ISP), which is designed to regulate integrated ISPs, would defeat the whole purpose of this exercise, and kill the innovation at initial stage itself...the authority does not agree with the DoT proposal of granting UL (VNO-ISP) license to PDOA," Trai said. The regulator has said that registrations for PDOA, app provider and Central Registry Agency -- all of which form crucial elements of its blueprint for proliferation of broadband through public wi-fi networks -- should have pan-India operations permission. "Further, for pan India operations a one-time registration fee of Rs 10,000 for app provider and PDOA is recommended," Trai said responding to the views received from the Department of Telecom (DoT) on its past recommendations on public wi-fi networks. Trai has argued that regulating PDOAs through the existing unified licence or VNO licence norms would not be feasible as aggregators would not be able to comply with many terms and conditions of such licence. Under the 'unbundled and distributed model' mooted by Trai for proliferation of broadband through public wi-fi networks, a PDO (interested companies, even small shop owners) can establish and maintain wi-fi hotspots and delivery of broadband services. The PDO would be supported by PDO aggregator and app provider in performing other functions. A PDOA would aggregate multiple wi-fi hotspots being operated by individual PDOs and authorise authenticated subscribers to use them for accessing broadband services. BIF stated that in the interregnum of four years that Trai's public wi-fi recommendations remained unactioned, the country "could well have suffered a large and irretrievable loss". "If these TRAI recommendations had been accepted back then, the common man, the economy and the nation as a whole would have reaped rich and wondrous benefits...if we go by World Bank's finding in 2009, that a 10 per cent increase in broadband penetration leads to a 1.38 per cent increase in GDP growth for low income countries (like India); or as shown again by ICRIER in 2017, that a 10 per cent increase in total internet traffic in India leads to... 3.3 per cent increase in GDP," it said. BIF said that the telecom regulator's recommendation on public wi-fi will result in explosive growth in business and employment opportunities for small local or village-level entrepreneurs, kirana stores, tea-shops and the likes, besides providing affordable broadband to all. The think-tank and policy forum for digital communications noted that India's broadband penetration is currently less than 50 per cent if one takes into account unique subscribers, although there are about 686 million total broadband connections, majority of whom are in the urban areas and having multiple SIMs. The percentage of users who access broadband using public wi-fi hotspots are minimal due to lack of availability of the same, BIF said. PTI MBI ABM ABM||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/bif-pushes-for-implementation-of-trais-public-wi-fi-recommendations-rues-delay-846737.html
07-06-2020||National||86% of COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu asymptomatic, says CM K Palaniswami||As many as 86 per cent of Tamil Nadu's COVID-19 cases have been found to be asymptomatic, and the lockdown and related curbs have helped keep the pandemic under check, Chief Minister K Palaniswami said on Sunday. In a statement detailing the various efforts taken to address the COVID-19 situation since February, he also said that the state's mortality rate was the lowest when compared to even some foreign countries, besides other Indian states. Tamil Nadu, he said, also had the best recovery rate. "While the pandemic has severely affected the state's economy, various measures have been rolled out to put it back on track, and even some new investments have been attracted as a result," he added. Tamil Nadu has so far reported 30,152 positive cases, including 251 deaths and over 16,000 people have been cured of the virus. "About 5.50 lakh tests have been conducted in Tamil Nadu till June 4, 2020. Through these tests we came to know that 86 per cent of corona-affected persons had no symptoms at all," Palaniswami said. Soon after the outbreak of coronavirus in China in January this year, the state government started acting from February itself, he said. Measures included checks at railway stations and airports, sealing of the borders and the government implementing the lockdown in March, he said and lauded the people for abiding by the curbs. But for public support, the situation could have been worse, Palaniswami added. So far, the government has allocated over Rs 4,033 crore towards various efforts regarding COVID-19, even as the health infrastructure has been strengthened with measures, including appointment of more doctors and nurses, he said. Increasing the number of testing labs and hospitals in public and privte sectors was also done. While there was no bar on farming and related activities during this period, efforts were also taken to steer the economy back on track. This included the setting up of a high-level panel to attract investments, especially from firms leaving certain other countries. As a result, investors from the US, France and the UK, among others, had signed pacts recently worth Rs 15,000 crore that would bring in 47,000 job opportunities, the Chief Minister added. Sops to MSMEs like moratorium on repayment of debts and provision of new loans were other measures. Food security was also being ensured with the government providing free essentials for three months starting April to over two crore ration card holders while poor, destitute and migrant workers were also being provided with food through community kitchens and Amma Canteens, he said. The government was taking all steps for people's welfare but they should also cooperate more in its fight against the contagion, he said. "It won't be possible to prevent the spread of the disease with a lack of public support though the government may impose curfew and other curbs," he said. Personal precautions like wearing face mask, practising hand hygiene, duly following social distancing and staying indoors were important for this purpose, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/86-of-covid-19-cases-in-tamil-nadu-asymptomatic-says-cm-k-palaniswami-846738.html
07-06-2020||National||Disclose preliminary enquiries into corruption complaints closed without FIRs: CIC to CBI||In a major decision to promote transparency in the CBI, the Central Information Commission (CIC) has ordered disclosure of preliminary enquiries into corruption complaints which have been closed by the probe agency without registering any FIRs during 2014-18. The Commission while delivering the order agreed with the views of an RTI applicant that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is otherwise exempted from the ambit of the RTI Act, does not have immunity from disclosing records related to "allegations" of corruption and human rights violation held by it. The preliminary enquiries, being "records" held by the agency carrying "allegations" of corruption, cannot be denied under the exemption from the Right to Information (RTI) Act enjoyed by the agency and should be judged in conformity to its provisions, the applicant said. "...Commission directs the CPIO to provide the preliminary enquiry number, summary of allegations, date of registration and date of closure of the preliminary enquiries pertaining to allegations of corruption which have been closed by the agency without registering regular cases between 2014-2018," Information Commissioner Divya Prakash Sinha said. The case pertained to the RTI application filed by this correspondent on May 2, 2018 seeking from the CBI the copies of all the PEs having allegations of corruption which have been closed by the agency without registering an FIR during 2014-18, along with details about date of registration, date of closure and reasons behind the closure. A Preliminary Enquiry (PE) is the first step initiated by the CBI to assess criminality in prima facie allegations levelled by a complainant. If the allegations appear to be serious enough, the agency proceeds with an FIR or else PE is closed. PE remains an internal document as no closure reports are filed in the court thereby not allowing any public scrutiny of reasons behind not initiating full scale investigation with an FIR in a particular complaint or input. In case of the FIRs, the CBI has to file a final report in the form of charge sheet or a closure report in a special court after conclusion of the probe leaving it to the court whether to accept or reject the probe document. After a Supreme Court order, all FIRs are placed in public domain within 24 hours but the contents of PEs and their findings are not disclosed by the agency. When the details of PEs were sought under the RTI Act, the CBI rejected the application within seven days on two grounds -- Section 24(1) for its exemption from the RTI Act and Section 8(1)(g) related to protection of information the disclosure of which can affect life and physical safety of any person or identify the source of information or assistance given in confidence for law enforcement. While Section 24(1) completely exempts the CBI and other security and intelligence agencies from the RTI Act but a proviso says this exemption will not apply to the information pertaining to allegations of corruption and human rights violations. "The appellant has highlighted the issue of lack of transparency and probity in the domain of preliminary enquiries, as these remain distant from public scrutiny and he has sought for this information in the capacity of an ordinary citizen, without whatsoever ostensible personal interest," Sinha said. Asserting that disclosure will strengthen the structure of the CBI, Sinha said there is an overriding public interest in the disclosure of this information as envisaged under Section 8(2) of the RTI Act as it concerns allegations of corruption against public servants that were enquired into by the premier investigating agency for a period of five years. "Such disclosure will strengthen the structure of this vital law enforcement arm of the government, per contra, the opacity will only add to casting aspersions on its working," Sinha said. Citing his previous order in a separate case, Sinha said the cases referred to, investigated or enquired by the anti-corruption branch of the CBI invariably pertain to allegations of corruption only and the CBI and the Commission cannot be oblivious to the imperativeness of applying a judicious rationale while assessing the applicability of the proviso to Section 24(1) of the RTI Act in such cases pertaining to the anti-corruption branch. "In the instant case also, the above paradox holds true, in as much as appellant specifically sought information regarding preliminary enquiries made into allegations of corruption. Yet, the CPIO (Central Public Information Officer) and FAA (First Appellate Authority) failed to appreciate the same and rather denied the information in almost what seems like mechanical disposal of RTI applications and first appeals," he said in the present order. He said the Commission is by and large convinced with the primary averment of the appellant that the information sought pertains to allegations of corruption. Sinha said the appellant has sought for the information of cases pertaining to a period of five years, it is difficult to imagine how one would narrow down these many cases to pose endangerment to life and physical safety of the suspects or the concerned officer(s). "Neither the material on record nor the disposition of the appellant during hearing suggest any perceivable threat that he can pose to the said individuals," Sinha said and allowed inspection of preliminary enquiries in the event it is not being made available in the form requested for by the RTI applicant.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/disclose-preliminary-enquiries-into-corruption-complaints-closed-without-firs-cic-to-cbi-846739.html
07-06-2020||National||Ram Temple construction to begin from June 10||The construction of the Ram Temple would begin from June 10 in Ayodhya. According to the seers, who were associated with the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Trust, which would be overseeing the construction in Ayodhya, the construction work would start after performing 'Rudrabhishek' (a special puja performed to please Lord Shiva) from Wednesday. ''Rudrabhishek will be performed before starting the construction work..Lord Rama had also performed rudrabhishek before launching attack on Ravana,'' said Mahant Kamal Nayan Das, the heir apparent of Teerth president Nritya Gopal Das, in Ayodhya. There is no clarity on the number of seers performing the puja and also those attending the ceremony. ''The numbers do not matter,'' the Mahant said. He said that levelling work of the land on which the Ram Temple would be constructed has been completed. The company, which has been assigned the task of construction, had also signaled that it was ready to start the construction work. Earlier a place had been created for shifting the idols of Lord Ram. The idols would remain in the temporary structure until the sanctum sanctorum of the new was completed. The mahant said that the stones, which had already been carved and kept at the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) workshop at Ayodhya, would be used in building the temple. His remarks assume significance as several prominent seers in Ayodhya had rejected the VHP's model for the proposed Ram Temple and had sought changes in its design. These seers, who included Digambar Akhara chief Mahant Suresh Das and former BJP MP Ram Vilas Vedanti, both members of the Ram Janmabhoomi Trust, had also alleged that those, who had spearheaded the Ram Temple movement, were completely 'sidelined'. VHP, however, refused to change the design and virtually termed the opposing seers as 'Ravana'.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ram-temple-construction-to-begin-from-june-10-846742.html
07-06-2020||National||Army foils infiltration bid along LoC in north Kashmir||Army has foiled an infiltration bid along the Line of Control in Naugam sector of Jammu and Kashmir, officials said on Sunday. On the night of June 3, a patrol team of the Indian Army along the LoC spotted a group of Pakistani terrorists trying to infiltrate into Indian territory, an army spokesperson said. He said on being challenged, the infiltrators retrieved back under the cover of darkness and inclement weather. "In a hurry, the infiltrators left behind their rucksacks with winter clothing, batteries and other equipment to be used for their attempted crossing of the fence," he said. The spokesperson said repeated attempts of infiltration in north Kashmir continue to be foiled by the alert and watchful Army units based on sound intelligence, thus blunting the nefarious designs of Pakistan to foment trouble in the Valley.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/army-foils-infiltration-bid-along-loc-in-north-kashmir-846753.html
07-06-2020||National||NDA will get two-thirds majority in Bihar under Nitish’s leadership: Amit Shah||Former BJP president and Union Home Minister on Sunday sounded the poll bugle for the ensuing Bihar Assembly elections, slated for November this year, and hoped the NDA would return to power under Nitish Kumar’s leadership with a two-thirds majority. In a first-of-its-kind digital rally, also called virtual rally, Shah dwelt at length how the Narendra Modi government ensured that over 1.25 crore migrants, stranded in different states, reached their home by trains and buses. “Everyone is aware of the sweat and blood of a Bihari worker invested in the growth of this country. This is why once Quarantine Centres in Bihar (and other states) were ready, we started Shramik Special trains from May 1 onwards to ferry lakhs of migrant workers to their home state,” said Shah, emphasising that his virtual rally should not be treated as an election rally. “This is not the time to do politics. I am here to point out how Narendra Modi worked tirelessly to fight COVID-19. In the process, other chief ministers too extended support. In Bihar, Nitish and Sushil Modi (the chief minister and deputy chief minister) deserve special appreciation for relentlessly fighting this pandemic,” said Shah. With an eye on the Dalit vote-bank, the Union home minister also praised LJP leader and Union Food and Civil Supplies Minister Ram Vilas Paswan. “Now that ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme has been launched, one can avail the benefits of PDS (public distribution system) either in Patna or Mumbai, whereever a person is working,” said Shah. He also listed the achievements of the Modi government and dwelt at length on issues like Article 370, Triple Talaq, Ram Mandir, One rank-one pension (OROP), Ayushman Bharat, Ujjwala Yojna and financial aid to farmers. Shah ended his speech by reposing faith in the leadership of JD (U) president and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. “We hope the NDA will return to power with a two-thirds majority under Nitish’s able leadership,” said Shah, showering praise on his ally.   The BJP claimed that lakhs of party supporters heard Shah’s speech through TV, mobile, facebook and other digital modes of communication. Earlier in the day, the RJD leaders, including former chief minister Rabri Devi and Leader of the Opposition Tejashwi Yadav, observed ‘Garib Adhikar Diwas’ by beating plates and utensils. Their agitation was to protest Shah’s virtual rally on Sunday, which essentially was a launch of electioneering for Bihar Assembly polls. “At a time when the state is fighting the dreadful disease coronavirus, the BJP is holding a virtual rally, which is highly objectionable,” said Tejashwi. The Left parties, comprising the CPI, CPM and CPI-ML, too staged a dharna on Sunday to protest Shah’s virtual rally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/nda-will-get-two-thirds-majority-in-bihar-under-nitish-s-leadership-amit-shah-846754.html
07-06-2020||National||Monsoon to advance into West Bengal, Odisha & NE states by June 11-12: MeT Dept||With the likely formation of a low pressure area over east central Bay of Bengal by Tuesday, Monsoon is set to advance into West Bengal, Odisha, Sikkim and some parts of northeastern states by June 11-12, the Met department said here on Sunday. The low pressure area is likely to move west- northwestwards and become more marked by Wednesday, regional Met director G K Das said. "Due to the formation of the low pressure area, conditions are likely to become favourable for advance of Southwest Monsoon into some parts of northeastern states, Sikkim, Odisha and West Bengal during June 11-12," Das said. The metropolis and several south Bengal districts were lashed by moderate rain on Sunday afternoon, bringing in relief from the scorching summer heat, which hovered between 37 degree Celsius and 40 degree Celsius in different places in the region. Some areas in the city were waterlogged due to the rain. The weatherman in its forecast said that rain or thundershower will occur at a few places in south Bengal districts for the next three days, following which it is likely to occur in many places of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/monsoon-to-advance-into-west-bengal-odisha-ne-states-by-june-11-12-met-dept-846757.html
07-06-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh teachers' exam topper doesn't know name of President||One would have expected Dharmendra Patel to possess a good knowledge about the country, given the fact that he had scored almost 95 per cent in the Uttar Pradesh Assistant Teachers' Recruitment examination and was among the toppers. Instead, Patel, a resident of UP's Prayagraj district, failed to even tell the name of the President of India. Already mired in controversy following the revelation that at least four questions, which had been asked in the exam, were wrong resulting in a stay on the appointment process by the Allahabad high court, it was alleged that several candidates, who had been declared successful in the exam, had resorted to unfair means. The police have arrested three successful candidates, including Dharmendra on Saturday. Dharemndra was quizzed by the police officials in Prayagraj and it was revealed that there were several like him. ''He failed to state the name of President of the country,'' said a senior police official in the district. The officials said that they had recovered a diary from the possession of Patel in which was written the names of many other candidates like him. There was also one Archana Tewari, an upper caste candidate, whose name appeared in the list of successful candidates from the OBC category. Interestingly, the state government had started the process of appointing 69,000 teachers, who had cleared the exams but the high court stayed the process a few days back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-teachers-exam-topper-doesnt-know-name-of-president-846758.html
07-06-2020||National||Govt sets up task force to study link between marriage age and Maternal Mortality Rate||Government has set up a task force to examine the correlation between marriage, age of motherhood as well as Maternal Mortality Rate, following up on the Budget announcement to set up a mechanism to look into the "entire issue about age of a girl entering motherhood". The ten-member task force, headed by prominent politician and activist Jaya Jaitly, was set up on June 4. The task force will submit its report by July 31. In her budget speech in February, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has said, “women’s age of marriage was increased from 15 years to 18 years in 1978, by amending erstwhile Sharda Act of 1929. As India progresses further, opportunities open up for women to pursue higher education and careers. There are imperatives of lowering MMR as well as improvement of nutrition levels. Entire issue about age of a girl entering motherhood needs to be seen in this light. I propose to appoint a task force that will present its recommendations in six months’ time..”  According to the Terms of Reference, the Task Force will examine the correlation of age of marriage and motherhood with health, medical well-being and nutritional status of mother and neonate/infant/child, during pregnancy, birth as well as key parameters like Infant Mortality Rate (IMR), Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR), Total Fertility Rate (TFR), Sex Ratio at Birth (SRB) and Child Sex Ratio (CSR). It will also suggest measures for promoting higher education among women, suitable legislative instruments or amendments in existing laws to support the recommendations of the Task Force and a detailed roll-out plan with timelines to implement its recommendations. The members of the Task Force include Niti Aayog member (Health) Dr Vinod Paul and Secretaries of Union Ministries of Health and Family Welfare, Women and Child Development, Higher Education, School Education and Literacy and Legislative Department as well as Najma Akhtar (New Delhi), Vasudha Kamath (Maharashtra) Dr. Dipti Shah (Gujarat).||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-sets-up-task-force-to-study-link-between-marriage-age-and-maternal-mortality-rate-846759.html
07-06-2020||National||Uttar Pradesh ATS arrests arms supplier to Khalistani terrorists||The Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad on Sunday arrested an alleged arms supplier to Khalistani terrorists, a senior officer said. Additional Director General of the ATS, Dhruva Kant Thakur, said, "The UP ATS has arrested Javed, an arms supplier to Khalistani terrorists, from Hapur. Javed is a resident of the Kithore area of Meerut. His interrogation is on and the Punjab Police has been informed about the arrest." Thakur said Javed has also supplied illegal arms to criminals in Amritsar. He was arrested following an input from the state special cell, Amritsar, the ADG said. In a statement issued here, the UP ATS said,"Javed had supplied illegal weapon to Dharminder Singh, a resident of Ludhiana, who was involved in the murder of a senior RSS office-bearer of Punjab, Brig (retd) Jagdish Kumar Gagneja. The NIA is probing the case. Ashish, an accomplice of Javed, was arrested earlier." Dharminder Singh is a member of the Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) and currently lodged in the Tihar Jail. In November 2019, Javed on the instructions of Dharminder Singh, had given three pistols to his aide, the ATS said in the statement. ATS officials said a number of pro-Khalistan terrorists have been caught in western UP and the Punjab Police was searching Javed for quite some time. In May, in a joint operation by the Uttar Pradesh ATS and the Special Operation Group of the Punjab Police, Tirath Singh, a suspected terrorist owing allegiance to the Khalistan movement was arrested from Thapar Nagar in Meerut. He was handed over to the Punjab Police after interrogation. In February 2020, the UP ATS arrested Ashish, a key arms supplier of Khalistan Liberation Force, from Haridwar. In November 2019, the ATS arrested a man and his accomplice from the state's Shamli district for their alleged involvement in supplying arms and ammunition to pro-Khalistan terror groups.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/uttar-pradesh-ats-arrests-arms-supplier-to-khalistani-terrorists-846764.html
07-06-2020||National||Labour Ministry's 11 employees test COVID-19 positive in Shram Shakti Bhawan: Source||As many as 11 officials of Ministry of Labour and Employment have tested COVID-19 positive, according to a source. The staff are being tested for COVID-19 after two employees found positive last week, which led to closure of Shram Shakti Bhawan that houses the ministry for two days on June 4 and 5 for sanitisation. "A joint secretary, a steno, a principal private secretary, a private secretary, six multi task assistants and a driver have been tested COVID-19 positive in the Ministry of Labour and Employment," the source said. The source also informed that the Labour Secretary Heeralal Samariya and an additional secretary have been found COVID-19 negative in initial testing. Shram Shakti Bhawan is expected to open on Monday after following standard operating procedures. The government on last Wednesday ordered sealing of Shram Shakti Bhawan for two days. Subsequently, the building, which also houses power and Jal Shakti ministries, was sealed on Wednesday evening for thorough sanitisation of the ministry's office and common areas. All employees working in the building were asked to work from home on Thursday and Friday. The closure of building for two days was part of standard operating procedure for fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. Under the SOP, if two or more than two employees are found COVID-19 positive then the entire building housing the ministry or department is sealed for sanitisation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/labour-ministrys-11-employees-test-covid-19-positive-in-shram-shakti-bhawan-source-846770.html
07-06-2020||National||Former High Court justice accuses Bishop of Mysore of sexual misconduct, murder||Former Bombay HC justice Micheal Saldanha has accused Bishop of Mysore KA William of murder, sexual misconduct, corruption by “letting loose a virtual reign of terror” in the Diocese of Mysore.  Catholic Bishops' Conference of India (CBCI) President, Cardinal Oswald Gracias, who is also the Archbishop of Bombay, was also copied on the legal notice that read as, “Following the deaths of four priests – two murders, one hanging and one so-called accident, the Bishop of Mysore has let loose a virtual reign of terror in the Diocese.” Addressing the alleged corruption part of it, the notice stated, "He has used the underworld mafia and protection from the local police… it has already resulted in as much as 23% of the Catholic Laity leaving the church. For the last one year, this man has been asked to leave, but he defiantly carries on terrorising". According to Saldhana, Bishop Machado has ignored 17 written complaints “fully backed by evidence,” all of which have come from “men of credibility,” a majority of them being priests. Justice Saldanha has also accused Bishop William of calling an urgent meeting on a 12-hour notice to pronounce a transfer order against 37 priests, who had complained regarding Bishop William’s alleged involvement in criminal offences, misappropriation of funds and sexual misconduct. The notice read, “and in three minutes, pronounced a transfer order, which can be defined as revenge transfers targeting the priests who had complained against him, and sending eminent scholars to remote villages where there is not even drinking water." Earlier several parishes had filed complaints to Pope Francis against Bishop William accusing him of practising factionalism, favouritism, illegal parenthood, sexual liaisons and corruption. Bishop William, along with Father Leslie Moras, was involved in the 2019 Mysore Church sex scandal when a woman, who worked in their church, had accused them of seeking sexual favours. Speaking to Mid-day, Justice Saldhana said that he had spoken to all the 37 priests, who are the complainants and can vouch for their credibility. "There has been unabated womanising by this man and evidence has been produced. There are also instances of him defaulting on church money. Each time he had a problem with a woman, there were large payoffs." Melwyn Fernandes, secretary of Association of Concerned Catholics (AOCC), who has been trying to highlight Bishop William's alleged misbehaviour since last year, told Mid Day, "There are allegations of murders of priests being camouflaged as accidents. I call upon the Archbishop of Bangalore Peter Machado and CBCI President Cardinal Oswald Gracias to immediately suspend the Bishop of Mysore and to get the police to institute a high-level inquiry into the murders of innocent priests, as well as the transfers."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/former-high-court-justice-accuses-bishop-of-mysore-of-sexual-misconduct-murder-846778.html
07-06-2020||National||Gujarat's COVID-19 tally crosses 20,000-mark; deaths 1,249||Gujarat's count of coronavirus patients crossed the 20,000-mark after 480 new cases were reported on Sunday, while the death toll rose to 1,249 as 30 more succumbed to the infection, the state health department said. The number of patients in the state now stands at 20,097, it said. A total of 319 COVID-19 patients were discharged from hospitals on Sunday, taking the number of recovered persons to 13,643, the department said. Currently there are 5,205 active cases in the state, with 69 patients on ventilator support. The condition of 5,138 others is stable. Ahmedabad reported 318 out of the total 480 cases on Sunday, and 21 out of 30 fatalities across the state. The tally of cases in Ahmedabad district crossed the 14,000-mark at 14,285, while the death toll crossed the 1,000 -mark to stand at 1,015, the department said. Surat reported 64 new cases and Vadodara 35, which took the number of patients in these two districts to 2,097 and 1,293 respectively. Of the total 16 districts where new cases were detected on Sunday, Gandhinagar reported 19 and Mehsana six . Of the 30 deaths reported in the state Sunday, 21 were from Ahmedabad, two from Surat, and one each from Banaskantha, Bharuch, Gandhinagar, Panchmahal, Mehsana, Kutch and Rajkot. As many as 2,11,569 people are in quarantine facilities in Gujarat, the health department said. A total 2,51,686 samples have been tested so far in the state, it further said. Gujarat's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 20,097, new cases: 480, deaths: 1,249, discharged: 13,643, active cases: 5,205 and people tested so far: 2,51,686.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/gujarats-covid-19-tally-crosses-20000-mark-deaths-1249-846802.html
07-06-2020||National||Health Ministry 'feigns' ignorance about COVID-19 hospitals; CIC intervenes||Two Union Ministers provided numbers of COVID-19 hospitals through official channels but the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) refused to publicise the locations of such facilities claiming it has no such details, prompting the Central Information Commission (CIC) to "advise" officials to disclose the information. The Ministers could not have given such details without the existence of a list but the MoHFW officials have "feigned ignorance of the facts" stated by the Ministers, Chief Information Commissioner Bimal Jhulka said in his order. Acting on a complaint by transparency activist Venkatesh Nayak, who sought district-wise details of COVID-19 hospitals, Jhulka asked the officials to fill the information gap in the battle against COVID-19 by publishing a list of all COVID-19 treatment facilities designated across the country.  Nayak had on April 17 sought the details of facilities designated as COVID-19 hospitals across the country through RTI query with MoHFW, which transferred it to other organisations, including the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). However, he did not receive the required details, which he had requested to be put on MoHFW website, prompting him to approach the CIC. Nayak pointed out that Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar had written an article and posted on the website of government's media arm Press Information Bureau (PIB) on May 5, which said the country had then 700 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals with over two lakh plus isolation beds and 15,000 ICU beds. On May 13, the MoHFW issued a statement on Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan's review meeting with Punjab government in which he was quoted as saying that the country has 900 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals with 1,79,882 beds and 2,040 dedicated COVID-19 health centres with 1,29,689 beds besides with 8,708 quarantine centres and 5,577 COVID-19 Care Centres with 4,93,101 beds. In his order, Jhulka said the statements of both the ministers "presuppose the existence of a list of such hospitals and treatments centres" in the custody of MoHFW. Without such a list, he said, the Ministers would not have been able to mention the aggregate figures in their writings and discussions.  "There is no reason why the list of such hospitals and treatment centres cannot be made public suo motu under Section 4(1)(b) of the RTI Act," Jhulka said. Referring to Nayak's assertion that the ICMR has already mapped COVID-19 testing centres on Google Map and made it accessible to people, he said there was no reason why a similar list of COVID-19 hospitals and treatment centres could not be made public.   "Important decisions are being made by governments involving huge interventions in the healthcare and daily lives of billions of people as they seek to secure social, economic and cultural well-being of its population and uphold the rule of law. It is essential that the decisions themselves and the senior decision makers involved are thoroughly documented in order for the Governments to remain accountable both during and after the crisis for future generations to be able to learn from these actions," Jhulka said. Last month, the Central Information Commission had asked the Ministry of Labour and Employment to make public details of stranded migrant labourers after the office of Chief Labour Commissioner (CLC) responded to an RTI query by Nayak that such data was not available with it. Following the CIC direction, DH has reported, the office of CLC on June 2 uploaded the data.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-feigns-ignorance-about-covid-19-hospitals-cic-intervenes-846803.html
07-06-2020||National||Jitendra Singh launches COVID BEEP app, says 'effective antidote' to pandemic||Awareness and not anxiety is the key to fighting the coronavirus pandemic, Union Minister Jitendra Singh said on Sunday at the launch of ‘COVID BEEP’, the country’s first indigenous wireless physiological parameters monitoring system for the affected patients. Singh also said COVID BEEP would emerge as an effective antidote to the pandemic which the entire world is currently grappling with, a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry said. Launching COVID BEEP, developed by Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) medical college, Hyderabad in collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Hyderabad and the Department of Atomic Energy, he stressed on the importance of prevention and awareness in dealing with this pandemic effectively as the process of unlock has started in a phased manner after a lockdown for over two months. COVID BEEP, that stands for Continuous Oxygenation & Vital Information Detection Biomed ECIL ESIC Pod, is India’s first indigenous, cost effective, wireless physiological parameters monitoring system for COVID-19 patients, according to the statement. The latest version of COVID BEEP has incorporated NIBP (non-invasive blood pressure) monitoring, ECG (electrocardiogram) monitoring and the respiratory rate, the statement said. “COVID BEEP will greatly reduce the transmission risk as well as help save resources like personal protective equipment (PPEs),” it said. Singh, the Minister of State for Personnel, said that awareness and not anxiety, is the key to fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, it said. He said COVID BEEP is a perfect example of how synergy amongst the reputed institutes of India can offer solutions to most of the challenges faced by the country with minimum cost and thereby make the country ‘Atmanirbhar’ in the true sense. Singh also appreciated the work of Department of Atomic Energy, under which ECIL falls, in developing solutions to many health related issues. Contrary to the popular perception, the Department of Atomic Energy is actively involved in promoting the benevolent use of nuclear energy for the greater welfare of mankind, he said. “Be it in the field of generating electricity, augmenting agricultural produce, food preservation or administering the much renowned oncology centre by the name TMC in Mumbai, the department of atomic energy has always risen to the occasion to stand by the country in its hour of need,” the statement said. The development of COVID BEEP is another step in the same direction, it added. Prior to Singh, Minister of State for Home Affairs G Kishan Reddy, Secretary Department of Atomic Energy, K N Vyas, Dean ESIC medical college, Prof Srinivas, Chairman and Managing Director ECIL, Hyderabad, Rear Admiral Sanjay Chaubey (Retd) also spoke on the occasion, underlining the importance of such inventions in the present context, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/jitendra-singh-launches-covid-beep-app-says-effective-antidote-to-pandemic-846804.html
07-06-2020||National||CRPF jawan succumbs to COVID-19; 11th death in paramilitary forces||A 37-year-old Central Reserve Police Force jawan suffering from cancer has succumbed to COVID-19, taking the total number of deaths due to the disease in the country's largest paramilitary force to three, officials said on Sunday. They said the jawan, a constable of the 141st battalion, died at a hospital here on Friday. The jawan was under treatment for oropharyngeal cancer since April and was later found infected with the novel coronavirus that claimed his life, the officials said. This is the third death due to COVID-19 in CRPF, which has about 3.25 lakh personnel, and 11th among the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPFs), or the paramilitary forces. The Central Industrial Security Force has reported four deaths, the Border Security Force two and the Sashastra Seema Bal and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police one each. The CAPFs, according to the latest data, had over 1,550 coronavirus cases, out of which more than 1,100 have recovered. These forces, with a combined strength of about 10 lakh, are deployed in a variety of roles in internal security and border guarding domains under the Union Home Ministry.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/crpf-jawan-succumbs-to-covid-19-11th-death-in-paramilitary-forces-846810.html
07-06-2020||National||Rights of migrants protected since start of lockdown, Karnataka tells SC||The Karnataka government has told the Supreme Court that rights of the migrants have been protected right from the inception of the lockdown on March 25 by providing food or ration, and shelter and benefit of Shramik Trains to those who wanted to travel back to their native places. Even prior to the order passed by this court on May 28 for free travel and food, the state had agreed to pay the train and bus fare of all migrants who wished to travel out of Karnataka and for those who wanted to return to the state. Technology has been deployed to determine the number of migrants, it said. "As on June 3, about 9,13,742 migrant workers have registered to travel outside the state on the Seva Sindhu portal. About 3.00 lakh migrant workers have already departed the state, and an effort has been made to match the details of migrant workers who have left with those registered on the Seva Sindhu Portal," the state government has said. The state government said till May 31, nine Shramik trains have been arranged for bringing persons into the state from Maharashtra, Delhi, Haryana, and Punjab and the expenses for travel for bringing in migrant labourers and students into the state has been paid fully by it. Until June 01, 217 Shramik Special Trains have been operated from Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Udupi, Mysuru, Hassan, Hubballi, and Bellary, carrying about 3,07,661 migrant workers to different States, such as Bihar, West Bengal, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Manipur, and Tripura.  On the data available on the Seva Sindhu portal regarding the number of persons registered to travel to respective states, a request has been sent to the Divisional Railways Manager, Bengaluru, to operate 101 Shramik Special Trains from May 30 to June 10, 2020, it added.  In an affidavit filed in Suo Motu matter on problems and miseries of migrants, the state, represented by Advocate General Prabhuling Navadgi, also said the government provided ration to inter-state and intra-state card holders.  Migrant workers from other districts within the state and those migrants from other states were permitted, right from the outset, to avail ration under the PDS, irrespective of the fact that they may possess a ration card from another state, it said.   Other measures: * In addition to trains, 933 KSRTC buses used to take 25,431 passengers to various states.  * May 30, 2020, Chief Secretary fixed responsibility on police and local administration to take all migrant workers walking on road to designated mustering centre or relief centres. *Over 81 lakh cooked food packets and 9.5 lakh ration kits distributed.  *State has proactively taken steps to deposit Rs 5,000 each to around 13,62,438 construction workers registered Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board, amounting to a total of Rs  681.22 crore till May 28.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rights-of-migrants-protected-since-start-of-lockdown-karnataka-tells-sc-846816.html
07-06-2020||National||Impossible to say why Gujarat has highest COVID-19 mortality rate in country: Doctors||A group of expert doctors, part of a special task force formed by the state government to assess coronavirus (COVID-19) crisis in Gujarat, on Sunday said there is no "apparent reason" behind the high mortality rate in the state compared to other states in the country. The doctors have opined that pre-existing diseases and delay in hospitalisation are probably some of the reasons that could be behind the highest fatality rate. Meanwhile, COVID-19 tally in the state crossed 20,000 on Sunday with detection of 480 fresh cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 20,097. The death toll also increased to 1249 after 30 more patients were reported dead in the same time period. Ahmedabad city alone has reported 14,285 cases and 1015 deaths. For more than two months, the mortality rate among COVID-19 patients has been over six percent in the state, while in Ahmedabad city the figure is over seven percent. The national average is below three percent. Dr Tejas Patel, a noted cardiologist and Padma Shri Awardee, who is part of the group of doctors, said on Sunday in a news briefing in Gandhinagar that "There is no exact reason behind the high or low mortality rate that we can ascertain for sure. It behaves differently in different regions or countries like Italy, Britain, Spain or even the United States which all have different figures. As of today, it is impossible to give an answer as to what causes the high mortality rate." Principal Secretary, health, Jayanti Ravi who was also present in the briefing, later said that "Our death audit or analysis has found that in 84 per cent of the cases there were high risk (above 60 years of age or below 10 years) and comorbid factors that led to the deaths. The other factor, which we have found, is late admission (of patients). We have seen that even educated people delay in approaching hospital upto four to five days that leads to fatalities."   "Live with coronavirus" With lockdown almost lifted and restaurants and shopping malls opening from Monday, the group of the doctors said that "people will have to live with the virus and the panic will fade away once 70 per cent of the people get infected who will give herd immunity." Dr Patel said that "people will start living with the virus the way we are already doing in case of dengue or swine flu." The doctors, however, warned that sanitisation, mask and social distancing are going to become "new normal" and people should adhere to them when in public places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/impossible-to-say-why-gujarat-has-highest-covid-19-mortality-rate-in-country-doctors-846823.html
07-06-2020||National||COVID-19: Govt says 'fine-tuning' strategy, slams reports claiming experts not consulted||Asserting that coronavirus is a "new agent" about which not everything is known, the government on Sunday defended the timing of imposition of the lockdown and rejected as "baseless" media reports expressing concerns that it did not take inputs from technical experts while drawing up its COVID-19 strategy. The government also said it is "fine-tuning" its strategy based on emerging knowledge and experience on the ground. In a statement, the Health Ministry said a section of the media is reporting on the decisions regarding India's approach to the pandemic and asserted that the decision on the lockdown was taken in the background of rapid escalation of COVID-19 cases. "The doubling rate of cases had dropped to a low level, pointing toward a dangerous trajectory of high case load and high mortality, as experienced by many western countries. The possibility that our health systems could soon be overwhelmed with COVID-19 patients seemed to be real," the ministry said. There was all round consensus on the lockdown among all state governments, it said. The government has already shared information on the impact of the lockdown and other restrictions to avert lakhs of infections and thousands of deaths, as also enormous gains in the health system and people's preparedness, the ministry said. It said policies and strategies need to be calibrated to keep pace with the rapidly evolving situation the nation is faced with. "This virus is a new agent, not everything is known about it as yet. Government is fine-tuning the strategy based on emerging knowledge and experience on the ground," the statement said. "As is well known in public health, different stages of epidemic demand different responses, and the nuanced, step-wise response is known to be a positive characteristic of a resilient health system," it said. The ministry also said there are some reports in a section of the media expressing concern about the government’s efforts towards containment and management of COVID-19 to have excluded the larger wisdom of technical experts. "These apprehensions and allegations are unfounded and baseless. The government is constantly in consultation with experts for technical and strategic inputs, scientific ideas and domain-specific guidance to address the COVID-19 pandemic," the statement said. A National Task Force (NTF) for COVID-19 is constituted by Secretary DHR-cum-DG- ICMR with Member (Health) NITI Aayog as Chairperson and Secretary (DoHFW) and Secretary (DHR) as co-chairs, it said The NTF comprises 21 members including technical or domain experts from the government and outside the government, the ministry said. Predominant expertise in the Task Force is from public health and/or epidemiology, it noted. Given the complexity and implications of the COVID-19 pandemic, the group has experts from medicine, virology, pharmacology and programme implementation domains as well, it highlighted. The task force has constituted four expert groups and the groups on Epidemiology and Surveillance (13 members) and on Operations Research (15 members) almost entirely comprise of public health and epidemiology experts from the government and non-government arena. The task force has held over 20 meetings and has systematically contributed towards the scientific and technical response to the pandemic, it said. Among other contributions, the Task Force has issued guidelines on testing, prevention, treatment and surveillance.  In addition to the NTF, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has also constituted a group of experts with public health experts as members, the statement said. The people, the WHO and the global health community have appreciated India’s proactive and pre-emptive approach to COVID-19, it stated. Compared to countries that have eased lockdowns such as UK, Italy, Spain and Germany, India has reported the lowest number of cases per lakh population, at 17.23 cases per lakh population and 0.49 deaths per lakh population, it said, citing a WHO Situation Report. The various policy decisions, interventions and strategies for containment and management of COVID-19 have been placed in the public domain and its impact has been shared with people through various media platforms, regular media briefings, daily press releases from various ministries and departments, panel discussions on electronic and social media, the statement said. The nationwide curbs were first announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 24 for 21 days in a bid to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. The lockdown was first extended till May 3 and then again till May 17. It was further extended till May 31 and now has been extended in containment zones till June 30.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-govt-says-fine-tuning-strategy-slams-reports-claiming-experts-not-consulted-846824.html
07-06-2020||National||Govt to decide on resuming international flights once countries ease restrictions on foreigners' entry: Hardeep Singh Puri||India will take a decision on resumption of international passenger flights as soon as countries ease restrictions on entry of foreign nationals, Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Sunday. Countries like Japan and Singapore have put significant restrictions on entry of foreigners amid the coronavirus pandemic. "A decision to resume regular international operations will be taken as soon as countries ease restrictions on entry of foreign nationals. Destination countries have to be ready to allow incoming flights," Puri said on Twitter. India resumed its domestic passenger flights on May 25 after a gap of two months due to the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. "Most countries have less than 10 per cent international operations because they are allowing entry only to their own citizens & have placed restrictions on foreign nationals," the minister stated. Many countries are allowing inbound flights from a few nations, but have placed restrictions like quarantine or isolation, he said. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in India. However, special repatriation flights are being operated by Air India and other airlines to countries across the world under the Vande Bharat Mission. On June 1, Puri said several factors like the lockdown in metro cities and the ban imposed by various countries on the entry of foreigners need to be addressed before resuming international passenger flights in India. Airports in West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana and Tamil Nadu have been allowed to handle a restricted number of daily domestic flights as these states do not want a huge influx of flyers amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/govt-to-decide-on-resuming-international-flights-once-countries-ease-restrictions-on-foreigners-entry-hardeep-singh-puri-846825.html
07-06-2020||National||Haryana, Goa, Telangana Odisha report highest single-day rise in COVID-19 cases||Haryana, Telangana, Goa, Odisha, Jharkhand have reported a fresh surge in COVID-19 patients as India added almost 10,000 new infections on Sunday to touch 2.46 lakh confirmed cases of the highly infectious disease. As on Sunday, India reported an increase of 9,971 new cases, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 2,46,628, while the death toll spiked by 287 in a single day to touch 6,929. According to the health ministry, as many as 1,20,406 patients were under medical supervision, while 1,19,293 persons have been cured and discharged from hospitals or special COVID-19 facilities. “The recovery rate is 48.37% amongst COVID-19 patients,” the ministry said. While Maharashtra continued to account for the maximum increase in cases – 2,739 in a single day to touch 82,968 confirmed cases, followed by Tamil Nadu 1,458 (30,152), Delhi 1,320 (27,654), Gujarat 498 (19,592) and Rajasthan 247 (10,331). However, the states of Haryana (355), Telangana (206), Goa (71), Odisha (173), Jharkhand (119) and Manipur (25) were reporting a fresh surge with their highest single day hikes so far. According to the Centre for Systems Science and Engineering at the John Hopkins University (JHU), India ranks fifth in the world in the list of nations with maximum number of COVID-19 cases. Worldover, according to the JHU, Covid-19 cases are fast approaching the seven million mark with US reporting the maximum cases 1,92,00,61 followed by Brazil (6,72,846), Russia (4,67,073), UK ((2,86,295), India (2,48,228) and Spain (2,41,310). According to a DH COVID-19 Tracker, India had 2,53,216 confirmed cases while the death toll had risen to 7,070 at 8:00 p.m. on Sunday. On Saturday, India had tested 1,42,069 samples for Covid-19 through its network of 531 government laboratories and 228 private testing facilities. The total number of samples tested thus far is 46,66,386, an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/haryana-goa-telangana-odisha-report-highest-single-day-rise-in-covid-19-cases-846829.html
07-06-2020||National||COVID-19 ‘bomb’ explodes in J&K as 620 test positive in single day||Jammu and Kashmir’s COVID-19 count on Sunday crossed 4,000 mark with the highest ever single-day spike of 620 new positive cases on Sunday while the death toll rose to 41. The number of active cases stood at 4087 with 2830 active positives and 1216 recoveries. The recovery rate has considerably declined in the past week due to the growing number of cases. While most cases from Kashmir division were contacts of known cases, in Jammu division, most of the new cases were among those returning from outside. The new cases include 60 pregnant women, 24 health workers, three prisoners and several security forces personnel. The previous highest spike in fresh cases - 285 - was recorded on June 4. While the first case was reported on March 9, the first 1000 patients took 77 days to accumulate till May 15. In the next 16 days till May 31, the total number of positive cases in J&K rose to 2446. In the first week of June, 1641 new cases have been reported. According to the daily Media Bulletin of the 620 new cases, 583 were reported in Kashmir while 37 were reported from Jammu division. Fresh cases were reported from all the 10 districts of Kashmir valley, taking the total tally in the division to 3198. The highest jump was in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district that registered 161 new cases, while northern Baramulla district reported 132 new cases. It is for the first time since the outbreak of deadly virus in March that any district in the Union Territory reported more than 100 cases in a single day. In the Jammu division, the fresh cases were recorded in seven out of ten districts, taking the division’s tally to 889. So far, 1216 cases have recovered with 1016 of those are from Kashmir and 200 from the Jammu division.   Earlier in the day, a COVID-19 positive from Kolkata, and a tailor by profession died at a Srinagar hospital taking the total toll in J&K to 41. Medical Superintendent of SMHS hospital, Dr Nazir Choudhary said the administration is arranging the burial for him in a nearby locality. Jammu and Kashmir is among the highest COVID-19 case density areas in the country which is over 326 cases per million of the population. According to the 2011 census, J&K’s population is 12.5 million.  The national average per million population so far is 184. With poor health infrastructure and climatic conditions Valley also becomes one of the most high-risk zones for the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-bomb-explodes-in-jk-as-620-test-positive-in-single-day-846830.html
07-06-2020||National||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh to address first 'virtual rally' in Jammu on June 14||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh will address the first ever 'virtual rally' in Jammu on June 14 to speak about the Centre's achievements, Jammu and Kashmir BJP president Ravinder Raina said on Sunday. This was disclosed by Raina while reviewing the arrangements for the 'virtual rally' at a meeting with senior functionaries at the party headquarters here, a party release said. The defence minister will address the party activists and general public through a digital rally on June 14 at 10.30 am. "He will share the achievements of the Central government, its landmark decisions and also shed light on other issues of national and regional importance,” Raina said. The BJP has decided to conduct its most of its programmes online due to the prevailing crisis following the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic, the party leader further said. “Party's organisational meetings and regular interaction to take feedback are being done through audio and video bridges. Even all the senior party leaders are guiding ground level activists through digital modes,” he said. Party General Secretary (Organisation) Ashok Kaul asked the party leaders to ensure all necessary arrangements for the success of the digital rally in Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-to-address-first-virtual-rally-in-jammu-on-june-14-846831.html
07-06-2020||National||COVID-19: With Unlock 1.0, a new normal sets in from today||No touching of the deity in a temple; no sprinkling of holy water or distribution of prasadam in a religious place and no cloth napkin in restaurants - these are some of the things that would be new normal as India embarks on Unlock 1.0 With religious places, hotels, restaurants and shopping malls set to reopen from Monday, the Centre has issued SOPs for each of these sectors to minimise the chances of spreading of COVID-19 infections. While elderly individuals of more than 65 years of age and children below 10 are advised to stay at home, others have been permitted to resume their earlier routines to the extent possible subject to the social distancing norms and health precautions.  Touching of statues, idols and holy books are not to be allowed. Also, no physical offerings like prasadam, distribution or sprinkling of holy water are to be allowed inside a religious place, says the SOP on religious places. For places like Sikh Gurdwaras that have round the clock community kitchens (langar), the guidance is to follow the social distancing norms while preparing and distributing food. Also, temples and Gurudwaras that play devotional songs live, have been asked to switch to recorded songs rather than live choir or singing groups. For restaurants, the advice is to use disposable menus and good quality disposable paper napkins instead of cloth napkins. For buffet service, the restaurants will guide the patrons to follow social distancing norms. At the eateries, contactless mode of ordering and digital mode of payment (using e-wallets) are to be encouraged. The tables have to be sanitized each time a customer leaves. The Unlock 1.0 notwithstanding, the overall thrust would be on takeaways rather than dine-in service. The home delivery staff would have to be checked by a thermal scanner before they start the ride for the delivery.  Once they reach a customer's home, the delivery boys are advised to leave the food packet at the door steps rather than handing over to the customer. For government offices, routine issue of visitors and temporary passes should be suspended and visitors with proper permission of the officer who they want to meet, should be allowed after being properly screened.  As far as feasible, office meetings should be done through video conferencing. It has also been advised to stagger office hours and lunch breaks (coffee breaks too) to avoid gathering of too many people at a common place. Hand hygiene, face mask, respiratory etiquettes and thermal scans are some of the common norms that are to be followed at every sector.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-with-unlock-10-a-new-normal-sets-in-from-today-846832.html
07-06-2020||National||Centre to issue revised guidelines as coronavirus cases rise?||With rising cases of coronavirus across the country, the Centre is reportedly set to issue new guidelines for citizens that need to be followed strictly. The report added that several states have also expressed their concern to the Centre regarding social distancing norms and other protocols being flouted and want the Centre to issue stringent guidelines. With only the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK ahead of it, India now stands among the top five worst-hit nations by the pandemic. The total number of infections has now crossed over 2,50,000. The death toll surpassed 7,000 as of June 7.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/centre-to-issue-revised-guidelines-as-coronavirus-cases-rise-846836.html
07-06-2020||National||3,000 cops coronavirus positive in Maharashtra, 30 dead: Home minister Anil Deshmukh||About 3,000 police personnel and officers have tested positive for coronavirus so far in Maharashtra and 30 of them have died, state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said here on Sunday. He said it was unfortunate that police personnel constitute the highest number of COVID-19 fatalities among frontline workers. "Police personnel have been posted at nakabandi duty, and also at quarantine and isolation facilities for the last three months," the home minister told reporters when asked about the high number of police personnel contracting the infection. Queried about the number of inmates being released from various jails in the state to de-congest them in view of the COVID-19 crisis, Deshmukh said a total of 9,671 inmates have been released on temporary bail. He said a total of 31 temporary facilities have been created in 24 districts to keep new jail inmates. When asked about the jail where liquor baron Vijay Mallya will be likely to be lodged after his extradition from UK, Deshmukh said it is the lookout of the Centre, but we will make proper arrangements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/3000-cops-coronavirus-positive-in-maharashtra-30-dead-home-minister-anil-deshmukh-846848.html
07-06-2020||National||Judges' panel postpones meeting to review functioning of Supreme Court||The suspense over the decision on bar bodies' including SCBA's demand to resume regular courtroom proceedings in the Supreme Court is likely to continue for the time being as a three-judge panel headed by seniormost judge Justice N V Ramana postponed its June 5 meeting with bar leaders to review the functioning of courts in view of COVID-19. The high-powered committee, also including Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit, had the meeting scheduled with the bar leaders on June 5 at Judges' Guest House here to “review the functioning of the Supreme Court in the light of surging pandemic due to COVID-19 cases in NCT Delhi and adjoining area”. Sources said now a few more judges are likely to be included in the existing three-judge panel to decide the crucial issue of resumption of regular courtroom hearings in place of proceedings through video-conferencing, which are going on since March 25 when the COVID-19-induced lockdown was imposed. They said the decision on the review meeting is likely to be taken soon. The Supreme Court Bar Association (SCBA) led by its president Dushyant Dave had written to member lawyers on June 4 seeking their views on resumption of regular courtroom proceedings for apprising the judges' panel of its views. Favouring resumption of open courts, Dave had also said, “Administration of justice cannot remain virtually closed for an indefinite period”. BCI (Bar Council of India), SCBA and SCAORA (Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association) have been demanding resumption of physical courtroom hearings. SCBA said there was an “existential question” and without the court's functioning, lawyers, except a privileged few, are in dire need “for the court to start to give them a chance to work and livelihood". Bar bodies also said the virtual court system was not working well in favour of many lawyers, who either did not have access to the technology or were not well-versed with it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/judges-panel-postpones-meeting-to-review-functioning-of-supreme-court-846854.html
07-06-2020||National Politics||Ahead of Amit Shah's rally, RJD beats utensils in protest||Hours before Union Home Minister Amit Shah's virtual rally in Bihar on Sunday, RJD leaders and workers staged protests, beating utensils and blowing conches against what their leader Tejashwi Yadav dubbed as the ruling party's celebration of the devastation caused by COVID-19 and the lockdown. A large crowd gathered outside 10, Circular Road, the residence of former Bihar Chief Minister Rabri Devi, where she stood alongside Tejashwi and her elder son Tej Pratap Yadav and party workers -- all clanging steel plates with spoons-- while standing inside circles drawn on the ground to ensure social distancing. Huge police contingents were deployed at the protest site, a stone's throw from the official residence of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, and also the house of state health minister Mangal Pandey, a senior BJP leader who has been drawing flak from the opposition for alleged poor handling of the pandemic. The deafening sound of utensils clanging together and blowing of conches reverberated through various parts of the state. "They (the JD(U)-BJP government) are celebrating the devastation caused by COVID and the lockdown," Tejashwi Yadav alleged in his brief interaction with media during the protest, referring to Shah's rally scheduled later in the day. No untoward incidents or skirmishes between the opposition party supporters or police were reported from anywhere.  Tejashwi Yadav accused the Nitish Kumar government of treating migrant workers as second class citizens and raked up the withdrawn circular by police headquarters voicing apprehension that the return of a large number of jobless labourers could pose a law and order problem. "The government is treating the poor people of Bihar like 'goonda and lootera'," the younger son of RJD supremo Lalu Prasad, who has already been declared the party's chief ministerial face for the assembly election due in October- November, said. He also took a swipe at Shah's digital rally when the state and the country were ravaged by the pandemic. The ruling dispensation could have used digital technology for providing relief to the millions of poor affected by the calamity. But that seems to be none of its concern. The digital rally is an obvious indication that they are merely interested in pursuing their hunger for power, he said. Yadav said the protest was aimed at ensuring that the poor, who have been hit the hardest by the pandemic, got their due. There was no representation of RJD allies, including the Congress, former Union minister Upendra Kushwaha's RLSP, former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi's HAM or VIP at the protest.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-amit-shahs-rally-rjd-beats-utensils-in-protest-846687.html
07-06-2020||National Politics||TMC, BJP gear up for 2021 polls in Bengal with virtual campaigns, rallies||With less than a year to go before West Bengal assembly polls, the political face-off between the ruling TMC and its principal challenger BJP is set to get intense, with both the parties pulling out all the stops to connect with people in virtual space amid the lockdown. Given the unrelenting rise in coronavirus cases, physical distancing and minimal human contact have become the new norm everywhere, leaving the arch-rivals of Bengal politics to bank on social media for garnering support. The BJP and the TMC, which have been at each other's jugular over the handling of the COVID-19 situation, migrant workers' plight and cyclone Amphan, are all set to launch a blitzkrieg on various virtual platforms, tearing into each other over these issues. The TMC was first off the block with its supremo Mamata Banerjee holding a virtual meeting with functionaries and public representatives on June 5, outlining the party's strategy for the polls. The Bengal BJP will take the plunge on June 9, with Union Home Minister and senior BJP leader Amit Shah kicking off a virtual rally. West Bengal BJP president and MP Dilip Ghosh said it was important to prepare a plan of action to highlight the poor governance of the TMC-led dispensation, as well as to reach out to the netizens. "We can very well say that Amit Shah Ji, will launch the virtual campaign for the 2021 assembly polls. Due to COVID, it is not possible to organize rallies or mass gatherings. So we are resorting to social media campaigns to connect with the people and highlight the TMC's poor governance in the state. COVID and cyclone Amphan will be the major poll planks for the next year's polls," Ghosh told PTI. The saffron camp, which had last week released a "nine-point charge-sheet" against Mamata Banerjee's rule of as many years, has recently floated a social media drive christened 'Aar Noi Mamata' (no longer Mamata’s rule). According to state BJP sources, the party is planning to conduct more than 1,000 virtual rallies, covering every nook and corner of the state. "As cadres have been sitting at home for the past two months, these virtual rallies and online programmes will motivate them and boost their morale. We will organize such rallies, with our state and district leaders addressing people across Bengal. The cadres will send out messages and videos over Whatsapp highlighting the failures of the state government in resolving migrant crisis," the BJP leader said. The TMC government, which had been facing flak over alleged mismanagement of the COVID situation and delay in restoration work post-Cyclone Amphan, has also launched a massive drive last week, with public representatives in their assembly constituencies conducting virtual meetings. Senior state minister and TMC leader Firhad Hakim said the party would have to effectively counter the BJP's propaganda, and its "practice of peddling fake news", while highlighting the "excellent work of our government over the past nine years. "Mamatadi had asked us to make preparations for 2021 assembly polls, without further delay. We have been asked to promote the achievements of the state government and the failures of the Union government in tackling the COVID situation and migrant workers' crisis, despite the unplanned lockdown," Hakim said. The party will draw people's attention to the state government's recent move to transfer Rs 20,000 to the bank accounts of each of the five lakh families affected by the cyclone, and the assurance of an additional Rs 28,000 to them under the MNREGA scheme. The TMC's online team has been circulating videos and pictures of the apparent "mishandling" of the pandemic in Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. According to TMC sources, Banerjee has also instructed district-level leaders to start door-to-door campaigns in adherence to social distancing norms, while emphasizing on the importance of maintaining transparency at the grassroots. "In the post-COVID world, the campaigns will no longer be the same. The thrust will be more on online initiatives," a TMC leader said. The opposition CPI(M) and Congress, however, slammed both the parties for shifting focus to poll campaigns, amid the “insurmountable” crises. It is a wonder how the two parties can talk about "political campaigns at this hour, when thousands of hapless people are still waiting for relief", a CPI(M) leader said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/tmc-bjp-gear-up-for-2021-polls-in-bengal-with-virtual-campaigns-rallies-846747.html
07-06-2020||National Politics||No Congress MLA will defect in Madhya Pradesh: Digvijaya Singh||Contrary to Gujarat, no defections of Congress MLAs will take place in Madhya Pradesh ahead of the elections for three Rajya Sabha seats, senior party leader Digvijaya Singh said on Sunday. In the light of resignations by 22 MLAs of the Congress in March this year, which led to the fall of Kamal Nath government, Singh demanded a stricter anti-defection law in the country. On three MLAs of the Congress resigning as the members of the Gujarat Assembly in the last few days ahead of the June 19 elections to Rajya Sabha, Singh accused the ruling BJP of playing "politics of money" and resorting to "horse trading". "The BJP has earned a lot of money and is engaged in the politics of horse-trading, so it is hard to say about MLAs switching sides," he said. Singh said the MLAs who wanted to leave the Congress had done so in Madhya Pradesh. "Those who decided to stay in the party have passed a tough exam. So, this (defection) is not going to happen in MP," Singh said while addressing a press conference. In March this year, 22 MLAs of the Congress, led by former Guna MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, had resigned and joined the BJP. On defection of Scindia, Singh said, "I used to tell Scindia that he will lead the Congress in Madhya Pradesh for the next 25 years as Kamal Nath and I are growing older. But, he was impatient and ardently desired to become a minister in the Modi cabinet". Singh said Scindia was like a son to him. "His father (late Madhavrao Scindia) had made his place as a brave and honest leader in the Congress," he said. Singh said the Congress always treated Jyotiraditya Scindia with a lot of respect. "Priyanka Gandhi Vadra used to hold workers' meetings at the residence of Scindia. Rahul Gandhi had said that Scindia was the only person who could meet him any time without appointment. What was the need for him to leave the party after he lost one election (from Guna in 2019)?" Singh asked. He said a strict anti-defection law introduced by then prime minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1985, barring elected representatives from contesting for six years in the event of defection, should be re-introduced. "Peoples' mandate is being purchased...Our country needs a strict anti-defection law that was introduced by Rajiv Gandhi in 1985," he said. On the Congress' prospects in 24 bypolls in Madhya Pradesh, whose schedule is not yet announced, Singh said the party would ask people to punish the "traitors" who have betrayed their trust by joining the BJP. He demanded that the ruling BJP continue with the loan waiver scheme launched by then CM Kamal Nath. "We will take the loan waiver scheme to the people and ensure that the Congress wins all the bypolls and Kamal Nath becomes the chief minister again," he said while dismissing reports of differences between him and Nath. Singh also criticised the state government for "diluting" labour laws. "Lockdown is an opportunity for the BJP to help its rich friends," he added. Singh also opposed a proposal by the government to set up private mandis, terming it "anti-farmer". He also demanded details of the buses claimed to be operated by Shivraj Singh Chouhan government for ferrying five lakh migrant labourers during the lockdown. "Fare was charged from passengers," he alleged. Responding to a query, Singh said that he would oppose fielding of former deputy leader of opposition Choudhary Rakesh Singh, who had quit the party, in the bypolls. After joining the BJP, Choudhary had returned to the Congress during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-congress-mla-will-defect-in-madhya-pradesh-digvijaya-singh-846752.html
07-06-2020||National Politics||Congress shifts 21 Gujarat MLAs to Rajasthan; FIR against Rajkot resort where legislators were lodged||The Congress on Sunday shifted 21 of its Gujarat MLAs to a resort in Abu Road in Rajasthan and alleged that the BJP was indulging in horse-trading ahead of the June 19 polls for four Rajya Sabha seats. After the resignations of three MLAs, the Congress, whose strength has been reduced to 65 in the 182-member House, had earlier shifted its legislators to three resorts in Rajkot, Ambaji in Banaskantha district and Anand in Gujarat to thwart any "poaching" bid. However, a police complaint was on Sunday filed for alleged violation of lockdown norms against a resort in Rajkot district where the Congress had lodged some of its MLAs. A party leader said that "21 Congress legislators are camping at a resort in Abu Road . More are about to come from North Gujarat on Monday". Abu Road is in Sirohi district of Rajasthan which shares its border with Banaskantha. Gujarat Congress President Amit Chavda hit out at the BJP government in Gujarat, saying instead of fighting the coronavirus crisis it was busy using its machinery to poach the MLAs of other parties. "At a time when government should work to save lives of people from coronavirus crisis, the government is busy using its machinery for threatening and horse trading of people's representatives. Our MLAs are camping here to decide on future strategy," Chavda told reporters in Abu Road. The BJP has refuted the allegations of horse-trading. The Congress had in March also taken its MLAs to a resort in Jaipur after five party legislators resigned before the March 26 Rajya Sabha polls, which were subsequently postponed due to the coronavirus lockdown. Gujarat Police registered an FIR against the owner and manager of Neelcity Resort in Rajkot under Indian Penal Code Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) for opening the resort for Congress MLAs, in alleged violation of the lockdown notification which does not allow hotels and restaurants to open till Monday. "We have lodged the first information report (FIR) against the owner and manager of the Neelcity Resort where Congress MLAs are staying. They have been booked for flouting the lockdown notification by opening the resort," University Road police station inspector R S Thakar said. As per central and state government guidelines, hotels and restaurants can start operations from June 8, while Congess MLAs from Saurashtra region were lodged in the Rajkot resort on Saturday. Over the last few days, Congress' Akshay Patel, Jitu Chaudhary and Brijesh Merja resigned as legislators. Earlier, Pravin Maru, Pradyumnasinh Jadeja, Soman Patel, JV Kakidia, and Mangal Gavit resigned in March. The BJP, having 103 MLAs in the Assembly, has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara, and Narhari Amin. With the reduced strength of 65, the Congress may find it difficult to win two Rajya Sabha seats for which it has fielded Bharatsinh Solanki and Shaktisinh Gohil. A party MLA said Solanki remains the second preference after Gohil, and that they will vote as per the directive of the party on June 19. "All 65 MLAs are united. There is no internal factionalism in the Congress. Bharatsinh (Solanki) himself knows he is the second candidate. "It is the party's decision. We will cast our vote as per the directive of the party. State unit party president Amitbhai Chavda has also announced that Shaktisinh is our primary candidate," said MLA Vikram Madam. Besides the BJP and Congress, the 182-member Assembly also comprises two MLAs of the Bharatiya Tribal Party, one MLA of the NCP and an Independent legislator, Jignesh Mevani. The effective strength of the House, however, stands at 172 as of now as 10 seats are currently vacant - two due to court cases and the rest because of resignations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/congress-shifts-21-gujarat-mlas-to-rajasthan-fir-against-rajkot-resort-where-legislators-were-lodged-846780.html
07-06-2020||National Politics||14 lakh Facebook users watched Shah's digital Bihar rally: BJP||The BJP on Sunday claimed that more than 14 lakh users joined the first of its kind digital political rally addressed by Home Minister Amit Shah from the party headquarters here. Also, the rally clocked up 1.5 lakh views on Youtube and 66,000 views on Twitter, BJP's media co-incharge Sanjay Mayukh said. Shah on Sunday addressed a digital political rally, Bihar Jan Sanvaad, for the poll-bound Bihar. Mayukh claimed that Bihar Jan Sanvaad was trending on Twitter when Shah addressed the rally. Besides digital platforms, Mayukh, a MLC from Bihar, also claimed that crores of people watched the rally via various TV channels.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/14-lakh-facebook-users-watched-shahs-digital-bihar-rally-bjp-846790.html
07-06-2020||National Politics||BJP playing politics using money power, Amit Shah insulted people of Bihar by holding poll rally: Congress||The Congress on Sunday accused the BJP of playing politics using money power at a time the country was fighting the COVID-19 pandemic and termed Union Home Minister Amit Shah's 'virtual rally' an insult to the people of Bihar. Setting the tone for Bihar assembly polls, Shah held the first of its kind 'virtual rally', in which he addressed the people of Bihar from the national capital using the Internet and broadcast mediums and said the state has moved from "jungle raj to janta raj" under the NDA rule. Congress leader and former Union minister Akhilesh Prasad Singh said Shah was holding a rally with politics in mind at a time when people of Bihar were dying due to coronavirus and many were stranded in various parts of the country. The BJP spent around Rs 100 crore on the 'virtual rally', he claimed, adding that around one lakh mobile phones were distributed among the people. While the Central government does not have money to transport migrant workers back home or provide them food, the BJP has got so much money to spend on political rallies, wondered Singh, a Congress Rajya Sabha member. "At a time the country is fighting COVID-19, the BJP is holding such political rallies. They are trying to lure the people of Bihar with their money power. This is injustice towards the people of Bihar, who have been insulted," Singh said at a virtual press conference. The former union minister said while people in Bihar were dying and enough COVID-19 testing was not being done, BJP was holding political rallies. This, he said, was an insult of people of the state. "The BJP is trying to do politics on the basis of their money power. People are seeing their political design. The people of Bihar are watching the way they have been insulted. They will teach the BJP a lesson and throw this party out of power whenever elections are held," he said. The Congress leader said the people of Bihar have suffered so much in the last three months that they would not have had even during the British rule. He alleged that while 45 lakh COVID-19 tests were done all over the country, not even one lakh were done in Bihar. "This was being done deliberately so that the real figure of coronavirus infection does not come out," he alleged. Singh said this was not the time to play politics but to help people and save those affected by the deadly virus and the lockdown. The Congress leader also accused Chief Minister Nitish Kumar of having done nothing to contain the virus in Bihar. He would turn out to be the "most inefficient" chief ministers in the country, Singh said. Though former BJP chief Amit Shah asserted that this rally had nothing to do with Bihar poll campaign and was aimed at connecting with people during the fight against COVID-19, he expressed confidence that the alliance will get a two-third majority in the state assembly polls under Nitish Kumar's leadership.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-playing-politics-using-money-power-amit-shah-insulted-people-of-bihar-by-holding-poll-rally-congress-846809.html
07-06-2020||National Politics||No more party chief but Amit Shah remains king of BJP poll strategy||Nearly six months after he made way for J P Nadda for Party Presidency, Home Minister Amit Shah remains the king as far as the party’s political strategy and electoral management go. So when he sounded the poll bugle for Bihar, addressing a Bihar Jansamvad rally during flagging the ‘core’ achievements of Modi government in the last six years in the event "having nothing to do with elections', he left no one in doubt that Shah is not just like any other party President who can be passed off so immediately. His stamp on the party remains irrespective of whoever leads it. Shah was literally the face of BJP campaign in Delhi Assembly polls of February, criss-crossing the state in the prestigious poll battle even as he had quit as party chief in the middle of the election campaign in January itself, passing the baton of party leadership to Nadda. Shah’s era has been a golden one for BJP growth ever since he took over as party chief in July 2014 immediately after Narendra Modi-led BJP stormed to power with single party majority, a feat achieved by any party after 30 years in which too, Shah had played a key role delivering for BJP 71 of 80 Lok Sabha seats in Uttar Pradesh in which the party was out by power since 11 years by then. Barring few reverses in last three years, Shah pulled out a string of victories for the party in state after state including bringing first ever government in North East in Assam but the glory of the moment was 2019 general elections, which broke the record of its previous mandate and won a whopping 303 seats for itself and 353 for NDA. After having lost three states—Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan in 2018, Maharashtra in 2019 and Jharkhand and Delhi in 2020 February, BJP snatched Madhya Pradesh from Congress in May this year in a coup of sorts, inducting former Union Minister Jyotiraditya Scindia. In July 2019 it had also managed to wrest Karnataka from JDS-Congress combine after having lost it in 2018. Retaining Bihar in 2020 is important for BJP, which lost it in 2015 when Nitish Kumar out of NDA in 2013, formed a formidable Opposition alliance only to come back to NDA again in 2017. Bihar has 40 Lok Sabha seats and Shah went to conquer by dividing equal numbers of seats between BJP and JDU in 2019 Lok Sabha polls to keep the alliance intact, a strategy that paid off well. In 2021, West Bengal goes to polls, where the BJP after winning nine times more Lok Sabha seats (18 in comparison to just 02 in 2014), is hoping high. There are indications that Shah, who changed the party into a giant election machinery, will have a significant role to play in both Bihar and West Bengal polls, which together have 82 seats. UP with 80 Lok Sabha seats goes to polls in 2022. Shah’s stamp will also be seen in BJP organisational rejig in July when new general secretaries will take over after Nadda became President. Hence, Nadda’s new team will have Shah’s ‘blessing’. Nadda, who is close to Shah as well as Modi, is unlikely to come in the way as Shah takes the political call in party for some more time with Modi remaining engrossed in govt affairs. Despite the Home Ministry’s busy schedule,  the party has fallen back on Shah’s astute political skills to reach out people in Bihar which goes to polls in next four months at a time NDA faces joint opposition attack on the issue of migrants, which constitute a major vote base in Bihar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/no-more-party-chief-but-amit-shah-remains-king-of-bjp-poll-strategy-846849.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: police file chargesheet against 410 people||Delhi police have charge-sheeted 410 people in 78 cases in connection with the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February, officials said Saturday. Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after citizenship law supporters and protesters clashed with each other in the area, leaving 53 people dead. Following the violence, the body of Intelligence Bureau staffer Ankit Sharma (26) was found in a drain in Chand Bagh, where he lived. Police arrested Aam Aadmi Party leader Tahir Hussain in the case. In the charge sheet, police has said there was a deep-rooted conspiracy behind the riots and Sharma was targeted by a mob led by Hussain. Delhi police head constable Ratan Lal was also killed during the clashes. He was attached to the office of the Assistant Commissioner of Police, Gokulpuri.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-police-file-chargesheet-against-410-people-846592.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Lt Guv G C Murmu approves creation of J&K Forest Development Corporation||The Administrative Council headed by Lt Governor G C Murmu on Saturday approved the creation of Jammu and Kashmir Forest Development Corporation (JKFDC) as a registered company under the Companies Act, an official spokesperson said. The JKFDC will replace the State Forest Corporation which ceased to exist after the reorganisation of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. For registration of the company, the authorised share capital was fixed at Rs 10 crore divided into 1 lakh equity shares of Rs 1,000 each, an official spokesperson said. It was decided that the Board of Directors will include Administrative Secretaries of departments of forest, ecology and environment, finance, industries and commerce, rural development, tribal affairs along with Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Managing Director, JKFDC, the official added. He said the assets and liabilities of the disbanded entity would be transferred to the newly established JKFDC and the former's permanent staff will continue working with the latter under the existing terms and conditions of services till new regulations are framed and adopted. The Administrative Council, which met under the chairmanship of Murmu here, approved the constitution of a committee of officers to prepare a roll out plan on the financial, legal and administrative status, functions and scope of the JKFDC. The council also approved allotment of additional 250 kanal (31.25 acres) of land at Rakh-i-Gund Akshan in Bemina area of Srinagar for expansion of judicial ifrastructure including construction of a new High Court complex, the spokesperson said. The new allotment comes in addition to the 250 kanal of land that was transferred to the High Court earlier in December 2019, the spokesperson said. He said the creation of judicial infrastructure on land aggregating to 500 kanals (62.50 acres) will meet the twin objectives of decongesting Srinagar city and strengthening judiciary as it will house diverse ancillary legal facilities at one place. As per the requisition by the department, the spokesperson said additional land is needed not only for the construction of High Court Complex but also to develop allied infrastructure like mediation centre, arbitration centre, litigant's facility, food court among others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lt-guv-g-c-murmu-approves-creation-of-jk-forest-development-corporation-846615.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi Medical Association slams Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal for issuing 'warning', condemns FIR on Ganga Ram||A Delhi medical body on Saturday slammed Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for "issuing warning" to hospitals amid rising cases of COVID-19 in the national capital, officials said. The Delhi Medical Association (DMA), in a statement, also condemned the FIR filed against the authorities of the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, a leading private facility that has been charged with "violating rules for registering coronavirus tests". "Delhi Medical Association strongly condemns the way Delhi CM (chief minister) is warning the doctors and threatening the hospitals about COVID-19 patients admissions and tests," the DMA said. "Doctors who are serving the people of Delhi tirelessly from last two months in this pandemic crisis risking their lives feel insulted by the way they are being treated," it said. Kejriwal on Saturday warned of strong action against some private hospitals allegedly refusing admission to COVID-19 patients and involving in "black-marketing" of beds, and said his government is going to issue an order stating that hospitals cannot deny treatment to such people. The Delhi government will depute medical professionals at all hospitals who will update availability of beds for coronavirus patients at an official app and ensure admission of such patients, he said. "Hospitals are backbone of healthcare and are serving the patients COVID or non-COVID," the DMA said, and alleged, "they are being penalised and government instead of praising their efforts is issuing new diktats daily". "Doctors of Delhi are already overworked and overstressed in this hour of pandemic crisis and the state government is unnecessarily putting pressure on healthcare systems," the statement said, claiming the support of its 15,000 members. The medical body demanded a coordination committee for medical professionals and the Delhi government; adequate testing facilities; smoother patient transfers and cremations; and nodal officers for overall coordination of COVID-19 care, the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-medical-association-slams-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-for-issuing-warning-condemns-fir-on-ganga-ram-846620.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Seven collectors among 16 IAS officers transferred in Madhya Pradesh||The Madhya Pradesh government has transferred 16 IAS officers, including collectors of seven districts and divisional commissioner of Indore. The state government has appointed new collectors in Dewas, Dhar, Rewa, Mandla, Narsinghpur, Singrauli and Agar Malwa districts, as per an order issued on Saturday night. The newly-appointed collectors are Alok Kumar Singh (Dhar), Ilayaraja T (Rewa), Ved Prakash (Narsinghpur), Anil Kumar Khare (Mandla), Chandramauli Shukla (Dewas), Rajiv Ranjan Meena (Singrauli) and Avdhesh Sharma (Agar Malwa). The existing district collectors of six of these districts, except Singrauli, have been shifted as deputy secretaries in the state secretariat, an official said. Bhopal Municipal Commissioner B Vijay Dutta has also been transferred as deputy secretary in the state secretariat and replaced by V S Choudhary Kolsani, who was till now Singrauli's district collector. Besides, Indore divisional commissioner Akash Tripathi has been replaced by Pawan Kumar Sharma, who was commissioner of the Narmada Valley Development Authority. Tripathi has been appointed as managing director of the Jabalpur-based Madhya Pradesh Power Management Company.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/seven-collectors-among-16-ias-officers-transferred-in-madhya-pradesh-846648.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Eight-year-old boy sodomised in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar||An eight-year-old boy was allegedly sodomised by a man in Uttar Pradesh's Muzaffarnagar district, police said on Sunday. The boy, who was found unconscious, was undergoing treatment at a local hospital here, SHO HN Singh said. According to a complaint lodged by the boy's family on Saturday, the minor had taken his goats for grazing in a forest when the accused, identified as Nitu Singh, took him away and allegedly sodomised him. A case under relevant sections of the IPC was registered against the 23-year-old accused and a search was underway to nab him, the SHO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eight-year-old-boy-sodomised-in-uttar-pradeshs-muzaffarnagar-846656.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Three more COVID-19 deaths in Rajasthan||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 234 in Rajasthan on Sunday, with the state recording three more deaths. The number of cases climbed to 10,385 as 48 more people tested positive for the disease, officials said.   Two deaths were reported from Jaipur and one from Baran district, they said. Of the fresh cases, 24 were reported in Jaipur, four in Bharatpur, three in Jhunjhunu, and Kota besides cases in other districts.  Jaipur has reported maximum COVID-19 cases (2,212) and 108 deaths in the state followed by 1,762 cases and 21 deaths in Jodhpur. There are 2,545 active COVID-19 cases in the state. A total of 7,050 patients have been discharged after treatment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/three-more-covid-19-deaths-in-rajasthan-846672.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Centuries old mela at border likely to be cancelled due to COVID-19 pandemic||The much-famed annual fair of Baba Chamliyal on the International Border in Ramgarh sector of Samba district in Jammu and Kashmir is likely to be cancelled this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The annual mela at the shrine of Baba Dilip Singh Manhas in ‘no man’s land’ along the border, nearly 42 km from Jammu city, falls on June 27 this year. The tradition has been going on for over three centuries. Usually, the process of holding the joint religious event would commence a month before a Pakistani delegation was received at the border event to pay obeisance at the dargah popularly known as Baba Chamliyal. However, sources said no ceremony will be held at the Border this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A local English daily, quoting an unnamed BSF officer, said there are 90 per cent chances that the mela will be cancelled this year as no process has been initiated by now which as per routine should have begun by the start of June. “The temple of Baba Ji is totally locked at present and there is no movement of devotees at the shrine except a pujari who offers pooja in the morning and evening as per the routine,” he said. In 2018 and 2019, the mela fell victim to strained relations between India and Pakistan. As tensions escalated between the two nuclear-armed neighbours, it was suspended in 2018 for the first time since India and Pakistan gained independence. In usual times, the BSF would handover holy ‘shakkar’ and ‘sharbat’ (holy soil and water) to the Rangers for people of Pakistan followed by a flag meeting between them. On the Pakistani side the mela lasts three days beginning last Thursday of June every year in Saidawali village of Sialkot which is opposite Chamliyal village on the Indian side of the border. Pakistan Rangers used to handover a 'chaddar' (ceremonial cloth) and sweets to BSF who in return presented 'shakkar and sharbat' that many believe cured skin ailments. Before the 1971, Indo-Pak war, Pakistani devotees were permitted to visit India’s side of the border. However, after that only Pakistani Rangers were permitted to take part in the fair to offer Chaddar on behalf of the Pakistani populace. Baba Chamliyal, after whom the village is named, lived more than 320 years ago and is revered by the people of all faiths. The shrine is barely one and a half kilometres from the Zero Line and has thousands of followers on either side of the border.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/centuries-old-mela-at-border-likely-to-be-cancelled-due-to-covid-19-pandemic-846684.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||J&K’s COVID-19 recovery rate decreases considerably to 32%||The recovery rate that was over 50% percent three weeks ago has now slipped to below 33% in the Union Territory. As per official figures, on 15 May, out of 1013 cases, 489 were active positives and 513 had recovered while 11 had died. The recovery rate then was more than 50%. On 23 May, out of 1569 positive cases, 774 were active positives while the same number was of recovered patients besides 21 deaths. The recovery rate was exactly 50%.    Jammu and Kashmir saw a record single-day jump of 409 coronavirus cases and four deaths on Saturday, pushing the infection tally to 3684 and the death toll to 39. Out of 3684 positive cases, 1126 have recovered which signifies that over 32% of the cases had recovered. Around 80 per cent of the people who were tested positive for COID-19 had no symptoms. Doctors, however, say in such a scenario, the recovery rate of COVID-19 patients is not a right denominator. “Those who are asymptomatic don't have to recover, they only have to turn negative. Unfortunately, hospitals are largely being used as quarantine facilities,” a senior doctor said. Director of tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar, Dr AG Ahanger says that community spread was a reality in Kashmir. “Kashmir is facing a community spread of COVID-19 for sure. We have to accept it and learn to live with it,” he was quoted by a local news gathering agency as having said. However, Dr Ahangar, people shouldn’t panic and instead get ready to fight the pandemic. “We have to take precautions to minimize the effect of community spread. Guidelines already in public domain need to be followed in spirit,” the top medico said. As J&K like the rest of the country is easing its lockdown requirements through a graded, preemptive and proactive approach, the administration has issued standard operating procedures for operation of public and semi-public environments where the virus has a higher chance to spread. The new guidelines aim to instill COVID appropriate behaviour to contain the chain of transmission while allowing social and economic activity to resume.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-s-covid-19-recovery-rate-decreases-considerably-to-32-846699.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Kashmiri woman held for planning terror acts tests positive for COVID-19 in NIA custody||A Kashmiri woman, who was arrested earlier this year for allegedly planning a terror attack in the country during the anti-CAA protests here, has been sent for treatment after the National Investigation Agency informed a court that she tested positive for COVID-19. Submitting a medical report before the Metropolitan Magistrate, the NIA, while moving an application for judicial remand of Hina Bashir Beigh, her husband Jahanzaib Sami and Abdul Basith till July 4, informed that the woman accused had tested positive for COVID-19 conducted ahead of shifting her to Tihar Jail. In her one-page order, the judge said the accused, who were produced through video conference, were remanded to judicial custody till July 4. However, accused Hina Bashir Beigh shall be immediately taken to LNJP hospital for her treatment for COVID-19 and upon completion of her treatment, she shall be remanded to Tihar Jail for the remaining judicial custody till July 4, the order said. The court also asked the NIA to send her judicial custody remand papers along with the medical report to Tihar Jail superintendent to take immediate steps for custody in the hospital during the course of her treatment. The three accused, allegedly having links with Islamic State Khorasan Province (ISKP), were arrested by the special cell of Delhi Police in March this year and later sent to judicial custody on March 23. Basith was already lodged in jail in another case being probed by the NIA when the Delhi Police arrested him in the present matter. The case was later transferred to the NIA, which lodged a case on March 20 under sections 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 124-A (sedition) and 153-A (provocation for causing riot) of IPC and sections 13 (punishment for unlawful activities) and 20 (being member of terrorist gang or organisation) of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). The NIA had approached a special court here seeking custodial interrogation of the three accused, which was allowed for 10 days by the judge on May 20, with a direction to Tihar jail authorities to hand over their custody to NIA "after conducting their COVID-19 test and ensuring that it was found negative". The NIA took their remand on May 29 after the test result had come negative. The custody ended on Sunday. The agency said the accused were following the ideology of ISIS and planning for a terror strike in India and also recruiting cadres for ISKP. "In one audio message Abdul Basith said to Jahanzaib to motivate and prepare some guys who may be used for lone wolf attack and kill the people through a truck or lorry by running them over on people," the Delhi Police had earlier said. Police said the trio was in contact with Abu Ushman al Kashmiri, who is the head of Indian affairs of ISKP. Beigh's lawyer advocate M S Khan has filed an application seeking interim bail for two months for her, saying "Delhi is struggling to cope up with the rising number of coronavirus positive cases" and that there is "lack of proper treatment facilities in government hospitals". The COVID-19 tests of accused persons were conducted on June 6 on the directions of the court, while their 10-day custodial interrogation ended on Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/kashmiri-woman-held-for-planning-terror-acts-tests-positive-for-covid-19-in-nia-custody-846713.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||SC to consider on Monday plea by former minister's wife against his detention in J&K||The Supreme Court would on Monday consider a plea by former Union Minister Prof Saifuddin Soz's wife against his detention in Jammu and Kashmir with the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5, 2019. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee would take up the petition filed by Mumtazunnisa Soz on June 8. In the petition filed by advocate Sunil Fernandes, Mumtazunnisa Soz contended the octogenarian leader has been illegally and arbitrarily detained for the past ten months purportedly under the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act, 1978 without having been provided with the materials indicating grounds for it. "All efforts by him to obtain a copy of the detention order have been of no avail due to the illegal, arbitrary exercise of powers by the Jammu and Kashmir administration," she claimed. Her plea claimed that the detention was not only illegal, malafide and unconstitutional, it was also extremely appalling. The petitioner contended that the house arrest ordered against Prof Soz was also "arbitrary, whimsical and fanciful deserves to be quashed on the anvil of Articles 14, 21 and 22 of the Constitution". She also pointed out Prof Soz has not committed a breach of peace, neither has he disturbed the public tranquility, nor is he likely to do any wrongful act that will occasion a breach of peace or cause any disturbance of public tranquility.  Several senior politicians of Jammu and Kashmir were put under detention in August, last. Former Ministers Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah were subsequently released. Former Chief Minister Mahbooba Mufti's daughter Iltija has also challenged her mother detention before the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-to-consider-on-monday-plea-by-former-ministers-wife-against-his-detention-in-jk-846717.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Support for terrorism nearly wiped out in Jammu and Kashmir, people want peace: Senior Army officer||Recent "uncoordinated" acts of violence in North Kashmir are "signs of desperation" by militants which are not finding resonance among people who want to get out of the cycle of violence, a fact visible in the sharp dip this year in the recruitment of local youths in terror groups, a senior Army officer has said. Lt Gen B S Raju, heading the Kashmir-based XV corps, feels the basic premise of terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir is to create sensationalism that is backed by false separatist narratives and propaganda sponsored from Pakistan. These acts of terrorism are "...not finding much favour amongst the awaam (public), these uncoordinated terrorist acts are a sign of desperation. There is no semblance of any space where terrorists or separatists are in control," Gen Raju told PTI in an email interview. "Overall, the people want a solution, they want to get out of this cycle of violence and that is the reason that the support for terrorism has been all but wiped out," he said. Asked about the recent spurt of terrorist violence in North Kashmir in which the army lost its Colonel and a Major and the CRPF lost its personnel, Gen Raju said these attacks in no way indicate increased presence of terrorists. "In fact, to the contrary, the recruitment of local youth in the terrorist outfits has also reduced by nearly half from 2018 to 2019 and is even lesser in 2020," he said, adding that the terrorist cadres "are in a self-preservation mode." While the army refused to divulge the number of local youths who joined militancy, Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh had earlier said that 218 local youths had joined militant outfits in 2018 but only 139 joined in 2019. There is no official figure of the number of local youths having joined terror groups this year but sources in the intelligence agencies have indicated that around 35 local youths have disappeared in 2020 and joined militant groups. However, Gen Raju says that more and more young men are participating in sports, skill development initiatives, job opportunities and education. "The online registration for the upcoming recruitment rally has seen close to 10,000 youths registering, which is nearly double the numbers last year. Government has helped them build a better future for themselves and support their families and this fact is a testament to the change being ushered in Kashmir," he said. Gen Raju said one should not read much into increased number of terror acts in North Kashmir and said the dynamic nature of terrorism and the ability to change locations or tactics as per the pressure of the security forces is a common characteristic worldwide. "Our counter infiltration and counter terrorism grids have inherent flexibility to adapt themselves to these dynamic shifts," he said. He said the other factor worth taking note of was that Pakistan always wants to disrupt normalcy in the Kashmir valley through its actions. "Pakistan's persistence in infiltrating terrorists, proliferating false propaganda is intended to disturb peace and its actions in fomenting trouble was well anticipated," he said. The senior army officer said the spurt in militancy is not in North Kashmir but restricted to the border districts and that is primarily due to the large number of infiltration attempts and terrorists wanting to create a base there to receive infiltrators. "We are prepared for any contingency, in coordination with all stakeholders like the army, JK police, CAPF, intelligence agencies and the civil administration," Gen Raju said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/support-for-terrorism-nearly-wiped-out-in-jammu-and-kashmir-people-want-peace-senior-army-officer-846723.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Five militants killed in encounter with security forces in J-K's Shopian||In one of the biggest gun battles this year, five militants, including a top commander of Hizb-ul-Mujahideen outfit, were killed in a fierce encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s restive Shopian district on Sunday. The gun battle erupted during wee hours of Sunday after a joint team of Army’s Ist Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Reban village of Shopian,  following ‘specific inputs’ about the presence of a group of militants in the area. A police officer said the operation turned into an encounter after hiding militants fired at the search party, which was retaliated. “The firing continued for almost eight to 10 hours during which the security personnel also faced stone throwing. The situation was brought under control by additional forces and suspending the internet,” he said and added that all the five militants hiding in a residential building were killed. Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar while confirming the killing of five militants said the operation has ended. Three AK-47 rifles and two pistols were recovered from the encounter site. Police didn’t reveal the identity of the slain militants as part of a new strategy, where local ultras are quietly buried at faraway places to avoid huge funerals amid COVID-19 pandemic. However sources identified one of the slain militants as Farooq Asad Nali, a self-styled divisional commander of the Hizbul. He was A++ category militant and had managed to escape from an encounter in the Yaripora area of neighbouring Kulgam district two weeks ago. There has been an increase in anti-militancy operations in the Valley since March. Since the lockdown, a total of 49 militants and two of their associates have been killed while 24 security forces personnel, including two in ceasefire violations, have lost their lives. Since the beginning of this year 87 militants have been killed across Kashmir in dozens of encounters with security forces. 154 militants were killed in gun battles across Kashmir in the first seven months of 2019.   In the next five months, only 20 militants were neutralized by the security forces as anti-insurgency operations almost came to a halt as security and communication clampdown was imposed to prevent civilian protests in the wake of revocation of Article 370 on August 5. Last month J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh had said that less than 240 militants were active in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/five-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-j-ks-shopian-846727.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||As COVID-19 cases surge, Delhi govt strengthens surveillance system at district-level||Amid spurt in coronavirus cases in the national capital, the Delhi government has begun work on strengthening surveillance system at district-level and defined responsibilities for dedicated nodal officers. Authorities said a detailed mechanism will be universally followed to augment the capabilities of the deliverables of the district surveillance units. Delhi has 11 districts, including North Delhi, South Delhi, West Delhi and Central Delhi. Barring June 1, when it saw a spike of 990 cases, Delhi has been recording over 1,000 fresh cases everyday from May 28 to June 6, the highest being 1,513 on June 3. The city recorded 1,320 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, taking the tally to over 27,000-mark, and the death toll due to the disease mounted to 761, the authorities said. In an order issued on June 4 by the Directorate General of Health Service of Delhi, it said that in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases on a daily basis, a large number of related activities being undertaken across the districts "need to be strengthened" by instituting a system. And to augment the capacity of the deliverables of the district surveillance units a defined mechanism will be "universally followed", it said. The districts are required to "follow-up all the laboratory confirmed positive cases of COVID-19 through the continuum of care till the outcome of the patients", the order also said. Defining key functions and responsibilities of dedicated nodal officers, the authorities said at district surveillance officer-level, the DSO will ensure that all positive cases of the district which are available on the ICMR portal shall be owned up and those which do not belong to the district will be intimated for transfer to the ICMR via email with a copy to the state surveillance unit, the order said. Similarly, all the cases of deaths in a district will be "duly line listed" and shared with the state surveillance unit to facilitate reconciliation of deaths reported at hospitals, either by patients being brought dead or dying at hospitals. The Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) also said the number of healthcare workers getting infected with COVID-19 is "also on the rise". And the line listing of such positive cases are also to be maintained at the district-level and to be shared with state surveillance unit (SSU) on a daily basis for reconciliation of data, it said. Several hundreds of healthcare workers in Delhi have tested for COVID-19 till date. As cases continue to surge, heads of the Delhi government hospitals have been directed by the city government to procure and stock "sufficient supplies" of medical equipment for "at least the next three months", including, personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, oxygen masks, surgical consumables and gloves. For nodal officers at home isolation, they have to ensure that district health teams are deployed to assess the feasibility of home isolation for laboratory confirmed cases of COVID-19 reported for the day, officials said. The nodal officer for transfer of patient coming in ambulance will triage patients according to their symptoms, and facilitate shifting of these patients to appropriate COVID care centre for admission. The order also specifies the assigned task for nodal officers for the containment zones. The number of containment zones in the city on Saturday rose to 169, from 154 on Friday.  The nodal officer for the containment zone shall share daily survey report with the district authorities and the SSU, officials said. This nodal officer shall also ensure that sanitisation of home of COVID-19 positive patients are carried out by local bodies, and collection and appropriate segregation of biomedical waste from residence of home isolation patients. The total number of COVID-19 positive patients under home isolation stands at 11,267,  the Delhi Health Department said on Saturday. Similarly, key responsibilities have been assigned for nodal officers for contact tracing and those for data management, the order said. The nodal officer for lab testing shall ensure that collection centres download the RT-PCR app and the mandatory fields of address and phone number are filled correctly, it said. Daily reporting of lab tests and results should be intimated to the SSU of Delhi, the order said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/as-covid-19-cases-surge-delhi-govt-strengthens-surveillance-system-at-district-level-846736.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Jaipur firm deploys 7 humanoid robots to cut down physical interaction among employees||With a COVID-19-battered world hard-pressed to maintain social distancing, a private firm here has deployed seven humanoid robots and other artificial intelligence techniques to reduce human to human interaction almost next to nil in its functioning. From carrying files from one person to another to marking the attendance of its employees and taking visitors’ temperature and regulating their entry to the office, the robots have taken upon themselves a slew of works requiring human interactions in the office. A robot guards the entry gate to welcome visitors, performs thermal scanning to check their body temperature and sounds an alert if the visitor is not wearing a face mask. The robotic guard’s artificial intelligence is synced with the working of the entry gate, which opens up only after it gets a green signal from the robot. In a situation when most of the offices have stopped taking biometric attendance, the firm has tasked another robot to mark employees’ attendance through facial recognition. Another humanoid robot can make its way to assigned employees with a tray carrying files, other documents and even tea and snacks. The deployment of these humanoid robots has greatly reduced the chances of human interaction in the office and that of the employees contracting infection, said Ramesh Chaudhary, the director of RC Enterprises, a Jaipur-based electronic appliances manufacturing firm. Office employees now need not go to their seniors or colleagues to have documents checked, he said. The company is planning to soon deploy more robots in its office, even for works like watering the garden and carrying necessary items to different floors of the office building. “The aim is to promote safety, hygiene and physical distancing. Doors, fans, ACs are completely automated and the robots are being further used to maintain physical distancing and hygiene,” said Chaudhary. The humanoid robots use artificial intelligence (AI) and Internet of Things (IoT) to do their jobs. They need not follow any pre-determined route on the floor and can navigate their way on their own, said Chaudahry, detailing robots’ various features. They can even take the lift and reach an employee on another floor, said Chaudhary, adding when they start running out of power, they head straight towards the charging point.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jaipur-firm-deploys-7-humanoid-robots-to-cut-down-physical-interaction-among-employees-846740.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||From the Newsroom: Delhi's govt & private sector hospitals to reserve beds only for residents||From the Newsroom today, Delhi government-run hospitals and those in the private sector in the national capital will be reserved only for residents "for some months" to ensure that an influx of people from outside do not squeeze availability of COVID-19 beds.  Retail prices of petrol and diesel have been increased by 60 paise a litre nationwide. India and China will continue to hold talks to defuse tension along their disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh, as no breakthrough could be achieved in the meeting between the military commanders of the two nations on Saturday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/from-the-newsroom-delhis-govt-private-sector-hospitals-to-reserve-beds-only-for-residents-846756.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||UP govt may order high-level probe in school teacher's mysterious job, Rs 1 crore pay||The Uttar Pradesh government may hand over the case involving a school teacher, who allegedly worked simultaneously in 25 schools and earned over Rs 1 crore as salary in 13 months, to the UP police Economic Offences Wing (EOW). Though a teacher was arrested in Kasganj district, UP’s Basic Education Minister Satish Dwivedi on Sunday said it was still not clear as to who the real culprit was. "At present, we have caught a woman and an investigation is on. If any departmental involvement is found, the matter may be handed over to the EOW of UP police," Dwivedi told PTI on Sunday. Anamika Shukla was arrested on Saturday when she had gone to the office of Kasganj Basic Shiksha Adhikari (BSA) Anjali Agarwal to tender her resignation fearing arrest after her fraud was reported in the media. The BSA called the police and got Shukla arrested. The minister said once the "real" Anamika is caught, only then it will be clear as to who all are involved. Dwivedi said, "The one who was caught in Kasganj is Anamika Singh. I also came to know from (a section of the media) that the name of Priya Jatav is surfacing in Baghpat's Baraut -- the place where Anamika Shukla was originally posted. It seems that the documents of a meritorious girl was used at various places by girls to get job." The minister was not sure whether Anamika's surname was Shukla or Singh or they were different people or who was Priya Jatav. Asked if it was clear as to who the real culprit was, he answered in the negative. "If any departmental involvement is found, and a need is felt, a high-level probe by external agencies like the EOW (of UP police) can be held,” he said. As the matter hogged media headlines, the state government ordered Additional Director, Basic Education department, to probe the matter. According to the reports, Shukla worked in 25 schools and drew a total salary of over Rs 1 crore in 13 months. There are allegations that she worked as a science teacher in Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya in Ambedkar Nagar, Baghpat, Aligarh, Saharanpur, Prayagraj and other places. KGBV teachers are appointed on contract and get Rs 30,000 pay.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/up-govt-may-order-high-level-probe-in-school-teachers-mysterious-job-rs-1-crore-pay-846776.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Pakistan violates ceasefire along LOC in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara, Baramulla districts||Pakistani troops violated the ceasefire and resorted to unprovoked firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in Keran and Rampur sectors of Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday, the Army said. At about 11:00 am and 12:40 pm, Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation along the LoC in Keran and Rampur sectors of Kupwara and Baramulla districts respectively, an Army spokesman said. He said the Army is retaliating befittingly to the Pakistani aggression and the enemy positions have been targeted with high precision.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pakistan-violates-ceasefire-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-kupwara-baramulla-districts-846779.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Scattered rains keep temperatures in check in north India; no significant change likely in 4-5 days||Scattered rainfall and thundershowers in several parts of northern India led to below-normal temperatures in the region on Sunday, with the weather department ruling out any significant rise in the mercury over the next four-five days. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the southwest monsoon was advancing with favourable conditions and was expected to arrive in West Bengal and Odisha by June 11-12. No heatwave is likely over the country in the next five days, it added. In Delhi, light rains brought the mercury below the 35 degrees Celsius-mark during the day. The Safdarjung Observatory recorded 5.6 mm rainfall till 5:30 pm and a maximum of 34.8 degrees Celsius, five notches below normal. The weather office said partly cloudy sky and strong surface winds (up to 30 kilometres per hour) were likely on Monday and the maximum and minimum temperatures were expected to settle at 37 and 24 degrees Celsius respectively. Moisture-laden easterly winds due to a probable low pressure area in the Bay of Bengal will bring rains in Delhi-NCR on June 12 and June 13, it said. The mercury dropped in most of the parts of Rajasthan as well due to rainfall recorded since Saturday night. Till 8.30 am on Sunday, 32 mm rainfall was recorded in Kotda of Udaipur, 31 mm in Ramgarh of Alwar, 30 mm in Alwar, 29 mm in Begusar of Chittorgarh, 28 mm in Jagpura of Banswara, 22 mm in Pali, 18 mm in Chittorgarh's Bhopalsagar, 14 mm in Alwar's Behror, 14 mm in Karauli, 14 mm in Salumbar of Udaipur, 10 mm in Danpur of Banswara, 10 mm in Pipalkunth in Pratapgarh, 10 mm in Sanchore and eight millimetre in Vallabhpur of Udaipur, the weather office said. Kota received 15.4 mm rainfall during the day and Churu recorded 10.2 mm, besides a drizzle in Dabok, it said. The maximum temperature was recorded at 41.6 degrees Celsius in Bikaner, 40.5 degrees Celsius in Jaisalmer, 39.6 degrees Celsius in Sriganganagar, 39.5 degrees Celsius in Barmer, 39.2 degrees Celsius in Churu, 38.8 degrees Celsius in Jodhpur, 38 degrees Celsius in Jaipur, 37.5 degrees Celsius in Ajmer, 36.2 degrees Celsius in Kota and 35.2 degrees Celsius in Dabok. The Meteorological department has forecast strong winds with thunderstorms in Bikaner, Churu, Sriganganagar, Ajmer, Baran, Bhilwara, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Dungarpur, Jaipur, Jhalawar, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Dausa, Sirohi and Udaipur. The maximum temperatures across areas of Haryana and Punjab hovered 7-12 notches below normal limits following rainfall in isolated places in the two states between Saturday night and Sunday morning. Chandigarh, the common capital of the two states, recorded a high of 31.6 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal. In Haryana, Ambala recorded a high of 31.7 degrees Celsius, Karnal 27.6 degrees Celsius, Hisar 34.5 degrees Celsius and Narnaul registered a maximum temperature of 36.5 degrees Celsius, the weather office said. In Punjab, Amritsar recorded a high of 33.2 degrees Celsius, Ludhiana 33.6 degrees Celsius and Patiala 31.6 degrees Celsius. Very light to light rain and thundershowers occurred at isolated places in Uttar Pradesh too. Meerut received 26.2 mm rainfall, while Jhansi recorded 1.6 mm, the weather office said. State capital Lucknow recorded a maximum temperature of 36.1 degrees Celsius, 3.5 degrees below the season's average, while the minimum temperature settled at 24.3 degrees Celsius. Jhansi was the hottest place in the state at to 39.3 degrees Celsius, followed by Agra (38.1 degrees Celsius), Hardoi (37.5 degrees Celsius) and Allahabad and Kanpur (37.3 degrees Celsius each). According to the Met department, the weather is most likely to remain dry in the state on Monday and Tuesday. It has forecast rain/thundershower at isolated places in the state on June 10. The IMD said the southwest monsoon has advanced into some more parts of Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and the Bay of Bengal, adding that conditions were becoming favourable for its further advance. With the likely formation of the low pressure area over east central Bay of Bengal by Tuesday, the monsoon is set to advance into West Bengal, Odisha, Sikkim and some parts of northeastern states by June 11-12, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/scattered-rains-keep-temperatures-in-check-in-north-india-no-significant-change-likely-in-4-5-days-846797.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Himachal Pradesh's COVID-19 recovery rate improves to 52.45%||With a total of 214 patients being cured of COVID-19 so far, Himachal Pradesh's recovery rate on Sunday reached 52.45 per cent, officials said. Nineteen patients were discharged on Sunday, Additional Chief Secretary R D Dhiman said, adding that now the state has 188 active cases. Eight patients recovered in Kangra, followed by four in Chamba, three each in Bilaspur and Una and one in Hamirpur district, Special Secretary (Health) Nipun Jindal said. The recoveries include four patients who had been shifted from Solan district to a private hospital outside the hill state. Hamirpur has the highest number of recoveries at 59, followed by 58 in Kangra, 29 in Una, 19 in Chamba, 16 in Solan, 12 in Bilaspur, nine in Mandi, eight in Shimla, three in Sirmaur, and one in Kullu. On Sunday, seven more people tested positive for the disease. Among other places, the cases were ported in Kangra (four), Hamirpur (two) and Mandi (one). Hamirpur has the highest number of active cases in the state at 63, followed by 50 in Kangra, 16 in Solan, 13 in Una, 11 in Chamba, 9 in Bilaspur, 10 in Mandi, eight in Sirmaur, three each in Shimla and Kullu, and two in Kinnaur.  The total number of COVID-19 cases in the state stands at 408 and fatalities at six. The fatalities include that of a Delhi resident 70-year-old woman, who had been staying at a factory's guest house in Baddi in Himachal Pradesh since March 15. She died at PGIMER Chandigarh on April 2.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/himachal-pradeshs-covid-19-recovery-rate-improves-to-5245-846821.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Haryana can't be harsh like Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal: Health Minister Anil Vij||Targeting Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over his decision to reserve hospitals run by the city government and private entities for Delhiites only during the coronavirus crisis, Haryana Health Minister Anil Vij on Sunday said the state will not deny treatment to outsiders as it cannot be "harsh" like the AAP supremo. "We cannot put restrictions and deny treatment to anyone if he/she, who is from outside Haryana and falls ill in the state or is taken ill while in transit. We will treat such patients. We cannot be harsh like Kejriwal," Vij said. He was asked to comment on Kejriwal's announcement that the hospitals run by the Delhi government and private entities will only treat Delhiites during the coronavirus crisis while the city's borders will be reopened from Monday. With the raging COVID-19 crisis in Delhi, Vij said he had got requests from some people in their individual capacity who were wanting to know if beds were available in Haryana for coronavirus patients. "In the past few days, many have contacted me saying they were not getting beds in Delhi," he said. Vij said the recovery rate and rate of doubling of COVID-19 cases dropped in Haryana as a number of cases has been reported during the past over a week. He, however, hoped there will be some improvement once these patients are discharged. The state's recovery rate has fallen to nearly 31 per cent from over 65 per cent about a fortnight back while the rate of doubling of infections has come down to 7 days from 16 earlier. Asked to comment on spurt in cases during the past over a week, Vij said these cases either have a travel or contact history. Replying to a question, the Health minister said there is no community spread in any of the districts in Haryana. He said the state will ramp up the number of tests per million population to 10,000 from the present nearly 5700. Haryana is conducting 5,669 tests per million population. "I think we must be in the top four states in the country in terms of number of tests we conduct. We are planning to take it to 10,000 tests per million in the coming days," Vij told reporters. Around 1.5 lakh people in the state have been tested for the disease so far. According to the 2011 Census, the population of Haryana is 2.53 crore. The total number of coronavirus cases in Haryana has crossed 4,000 and the state has reported 24 COVID-19 deaths. Most of the cases have been reported from Gurgaon, Faridabad and Sonipat districts, all of which fall in the National Capital Region (NCR). The worst-hit Gurgaon alone has close to 1,800 COVID-19 cases with four deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/haryana-cant-be-harsh-like-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-health-minister-anil-vij-846837.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi violence: Police file charge sheet before court against 6 in 85-year-old woman's murder case||Delhi police filed a charge sheet before a court here on Sunday against six persons in a case of alleged murder of an 85-year old woman, who choked to death when her house was torched during the communal violence in northeast Delhi in February. The crime branch filed the charge sheet before Metropolitan Magistrate Rakesh Kumar Rampuri against six persons who were allegedly part of a mob that set fire to Akbari Begum’s house leading to her death. The court has put up the matter for consideration of the charge sheet on June 21. The charge sheet was filed against Arun Kumar, Varun Kumar, Vishal Singh, Ravi Kumar, Prakash Chand, and Suraj Singh for offences of rioting (147 an 148), unlawful assembly (149), murder (302), attempt to murder (307), dacoity with murder (396), mischief by fire (436), trespass (455), causing disappearance of evidence (201), disobedience of public servant’s order (188) and common intention (34) under the Indian Penal Code. All the accused are in judicial custody. The offences entail a maximum punishment of death penalty. The crime branch has filed 13 charge sheets till now in cases related to northeast Delhi riots. It was investigating 59 cases related to murder and rioting. According to the charge sheet, on February 25, when the mob torched Begum’s house, while other members escaped to the roof, the octogenarian could not reach the rooftop. She subsequently died due to asphyxia (suffocation to inhalation of smoke) and her charred body was found on a folding bed, police said. The FIR was registered on the complaint of her son Saeed Salmani who had a garment shop on the ground floor of the building. In his complaint, he said his four-storey building was allegedly torched by the mob, destroying his garment workshop, burning his house and looting jewellery and cash from them too. Salmani had gone out to purchase milk when the incident took place, the complaint said. Begum’s charred body was recovered when the police officials and the fire department were able to douse the fire successfully, the police said. Her family members were rescued from the rooftop. The charge sheet said six persons were arrested based on the videos that went viral on social media, statements of police officials who rescued her family members, statements of eyewitnesses and other technical evidence including call detail records. Further investigation is going on to identify other accused in the case, police added. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-violence-police-file-charge-sheet-before-court-against-6-in-85-year-old-womans-murder-case-846860.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Opposition terms AAP govt's decision on Delhi hospitals 'insensitive'||Opposition BJP and Congress on Sunday attacked the AAP government for reserving its hospitals along with private ones for Delhi residents, alleging it was an insensitive move to divert attention from "collapsing" health services and "failures" to tackle the coronavirus pandemic. Expressing apprehension that the hospitals may get swamped by people from other states, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier in the day announced that the hospitals run by the Delhi government and private entities will be restricted to the city dwellers till the rising COVID-19 cases are contained. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said any person, whether from Delhi or outside, should be treated in hospitals of the city. "This decision of the Kejriwal government is insensitive. They are trying to divert attention from the real issues which are failure of the Kejriwal government to tackle the corona pandemic and collapsing healthcare system in Delhi," Gupta charged. No immediate reaction was available from the ruling Aam Aadmi Party over BJP's charges. Delhi Congress president Anil Kumar alleged it was a diversionary tactics of the AAP government to shift focus from shortage of beds for COVID-19 patients in the national capital. "There are not enough number of beds for coronavirus patients in Delhi. Kejriwal should tell if his government will deny treatment to large number of people from other states, specially from UP and Bihar, who live in Delhi but do not have any identity or address proof," Kumar said. Delhi BJP chief Gupta said the AAP government has not been able to provide adequate facilities to COVID-19 patients from the city, let alone those from other states. Announcing the decision of his government, the chief minister said over 90 per cent (of nearly 7.5 lakh people) in Delhi suggested that the hospitals should be reserved for Delhiites till the COVID-19 situation exists. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said hospitals run by the Centre will have no such restriction, and if people from other states come to the national capital for specific surgeries, they can get medical treatment at private hospitals. A five-member expert committee has also suggested reserving the Delhi hospitals for the city residents, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/opposition-terms-aap-govts-decision-on-delhi-hospitals-insensitive-846880.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Congress, BJP target Kejriwal for shutting Delhi hospitals for outsiders||Congress and BJP on Sunday slammed the Delhi government’s decision to shut the doors of the hospitals in the national capital to non-residents citing the burgeoning Covid-19 situation. “No Indian resident, except Delhi residents, will be treated in Delhi’s hospitals! So, National Capital will deny health care to Nation’s citizens in National Capital Delhi,” Congress’ chief spokesman Randeep Singh Surjewala said here. Surjewala described the decision of the Delhi government as “bizzare & perverted” and also accused the Modi government of becoming a “silent abettor”. Newly-appointed Delhi BJP President Aadesh Kumar Gupta took to the streets to protest against the Delhi government decision and courted arrest for flouting the lockdown guidelines. Gupta, who was appointed as the Delhi BJP President on June 2, staged protests against the Delhi government decision at Rajghat along with some party workers. Besides the decision to shut Delhi hospitals to non-residents, the BJP workers also raised slogans against the AAP government’s handling of the Covid-19 outbreak in the national capital. Former Delhi Congress President Ajay Maken accused the Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of “inadequate preparedness” in tackling the Covid-19 outbreak. “The Delhi government should have strengthened the health infrastructure before opening restaurants, shopping malls and borders,” Maken told reporters through a videlink. Maken lashed out at the Aam Aadmi Party government for indulging in “image-making and event management”, and demanded that state-run hospitals must be opened up for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/congress-bjp-target-kejriwal-for-shutting-delhi-hospitals-for-outsiders-846881.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||17-year-old boy beaten up by 2 men for photo on social media with gangster: Delhi Police||A 17-year-old boy was allegedly beaten up and threatened with a pistol by two men in Delhi's Chaawla area over a photo uploaded on the social media by one of his friends, in which they could be seen with a "criminal", police said on Sunday. The boy is active on Tik-Tok, they added. The incident, which was recorded on a mobile phone, took place on June 3 and the video clips went viral on the social media on Saturday, following which the police said they contacted the boy and registered a case. In one of the videos, the boy is seen being abused and attacked by the two men. Holding a pistol in his hand, one of the men threatens the boy and says, "I will make you a Tik-Tok star now." He is also seen slapping the boy. The boy is heard apologising to the men several times. In another video, one of the men is seen attacking the boy and pointing a gun on his head. He says, "You want to be a gangster.... Say sorry now." The boy then apologises to them. During enquiry, the boy told the police that one of his friends uploaded a profile picture on WhatsApp of them standing with a gangster named Ashu. Ashu is a murder accused, who is currently lodged in Bhondsi Jail. The boys know him as they live in the same area, a senior police officer said. The boy had warned his friend against uploading a photo with a "gangster" but his friend did not remove the photo, he added. However, when the WhatsApp photo came to the notice of Ashu's associates, they thought the boys were trying to be a part of their gang and so, they attacked one of them, the officer said. The police said they will question Ashu in connection with the incident as the boy alleged that the men were sent by him. All angles are being probed, they said, adding that one of the accused had been identified, while efforts were on to identify the other and arrest them.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/17-year-old-boy-beaten-up-by-2-men-for-photo-on-social-media-with-gangster-delhi-police-846886.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||Malls, restaurants, religious places to open in Delhi from June 8; hotels to remain shut||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has announced that malls, restaurants and religious places in the national capital would open from Monday after more than two months since the coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed, but banquet halls and hotels would remain closed. At an online briefing on Sunday, Kejriwal said hotels and banquet halls might be converted into hospitals in the coming days to treat coronavirus patients and therefore, they would remain shut. "Malls, restaurants and religious places will be opening from Monday in Delhi in accordance with the Centre's guidelines," he said. The city government will comply with the instructions of the Centre and its experts like maintaining social distancing and wearing of masks at these places, Kejriwal said. "In view of the rising number of coronavirus cases, we might attach hotels and banquet halls with hospitals and convert them into hospitals. Hotels and banquet halls will not be opened for now," he said. The Centre had said on May 30 that "Unlock-1" would be initiated in the country from June 8 and the lockdown would be relaxed to a great extent. The Delhi government also issued an order allowing opening of restaurants, shopping malls and places of worship except in the COVID-19 containment zones, "subject to compliance with the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare". Kejriwal urged the elderly people, who are at a higher risk of contracting the coronavirus, to confine themselves in a room and not to interact with even the family members in order to protect themselves. Delhi has so far registered over 27,500 coronavirus cases, including 761 deaths.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/malls-restaurants-religious-places-to-open-in-delhi-from-june-8-hotels-to-remain-shut-846889.html
07-06-2020||North and Central||CM Yogi Adityanath inspects hospitals in Gorakhpur, Basti||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath visited Gorakhpur and Basti districts on Sunday and inspected the emergency wards of government hospitals, according to a statement issued by the CMO. In Gorakhpur, Adityanath inspected the emergency ward of the district hospital, and also visited the duty room and wards, the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said. In Basti, the chief minister held a meeting with the officials and public representatives at the Police Line auditorium, and also inspected the emergency ward of the district hospital. The chief minister said top priority should be given to provide employment to labourers who have returned to the state. Instructions were issued to prepare a work plan for the next six months, while keeping in mind all the employment schemes of the Centre and the state government. Employment should be provided as per local needs to the migrants who had returned to the state. Separate work should be allotted to the self-help groups, so as to provide employment to them, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cm-yogi-adityanath-inspects-hospitals-in-gorakhpur-basti-846893.html
07-06-2020||Opinion||It’s impossible to boycott Chinese products and brands||One of the non-medical impacts of Covid-19 has been the race among politicians all over the world to produce goods within their country rather than import them from China. In India, a narrative of self-reliance is being propagated. The logic is simple. If people buy products made fully in India, Indian businesses will benefit, and the economy will do well. QED. This logic is all wrong. India saw more than four decades of import substitution between 1947 and 1991, when imports were discouraged, and Indian businesses were encouraged to produce for Indian markets. ‘Atmanirbharta’ is nothing but import substitution with a new name, which can be sold well over WhatsApp and other social media. The quality of most products during the import substitution days was quite bad. As the economy opened up after 1991, the choice of products on offer in the open market went up dramatically. This is primarily because there is competition among firms. When import substitution is the norm and companies need to produce just for the internal market, almost anything goes, simply because there is very limited competition internally, and companies know they can’t compete in the international market anyway. If you are wondering why many Indian companies still can’t compete on the international front, herein lies the reason. Indian firms aren’t productive enough. This explains why imported products from China have become so popular over the years. Imports from China peaked at 16.4% of overall imports in 2017-18. They fell to 13.7%, after we started making imports from China an ego issue. Between April 2019 and February 2020 (the first 11 months of 2019-20), imports from China rose again to 14.1% of all imports. It is worth remembering here that no one is forcing Indians to buy Chinese products. But they still do so, simply because they offer more value for money than a locally produced one. Imports from China peaked at $76.4 billion in 2017-18 and fell to $70.4 billion in 2018-19. In the first 11 months of 2019-20, they have stood at $62.6 billion. Almost 97% of these imports were manufactured products. Chemical products, engineering products and electronic goods form 19.5%, 30.9% and 31.9%, respectively, of the overall imports from China. There is a Chinese import in almost all aspects of our lives. The medicines we have (ingredients that go into making medicines are imported from China). The electricity we use (electrical machinery is imported from China). The computer I am typing this piece on (most laptops are assembled in China). Even the milk I use to make coffee is dependent on Chinese imports (industrial machinery for dairy). The food we eat may have used fertiliser imported from China. Hence, mobile phones are not the only products being imported from China. The interesting thing is that mobile phone imports have gone down over the years. Nevertheless, Rekha Mishra and Anand Shankar of Reserve Bank of India’s international trade division point out that the “decline in mobile phone imports has been accompanied by an increase in imports of mobile phone parts.” So, mobile phones are basically being assembled in India, which is a very low value-adding activity. This has happened as customs duty on mobile phones has been increased over the years making imports expensive. As Philip Coggan writes in More in the context of making imports expensive: “It is possible that companies will switch to domestic suppliers. But those suppliers are bound to have higher costs. If they did not, companies would not be importing the product in the first place.” This higher cost of self-reliance will ultimately have to be paid by the Indian consumer. Interestingly, other than wanting the country to be self-reliant, the government also wants Indian manufacturers to become a part of global supply chains of big companies. This is where the contradiction is inherent. In order to be a part of global supply chains, companies need to be able to compete globally. How will they become competitive by only producing for the domestic economy and not facing international competition? Hence, rather than clamping down on imports and promoting the narrative of self-sufficiency mindlessly, it makes more sense for the government to work towards creating an environment which allows Indian entrepreneurs to become more competitive. This includes doing away with tax terrorism, not changing regulations frequently, improving physical infrastructure, doing away with inspector raj, and so on. Also, when it comes to Chinese money, a research paper published by the think tank Gateway House, points out: “Chinese tech investors have put an estimated $4 billion into Indian start-ups. Such is their success that over the five years ending March 2020, 18 of India’s 30 unicorns are now Chinese-funded.” These include some of the biggest brands like BigBasket, Byju’s, Dream 11, Flipkart, MakeMyTrip, Ola, Oyo, Paytm, Policy Bazaar, SnapDeal, Swiggy and Zomato. Of course, there is also the Chinese funded TikTok, which is the biggest video-app in India now. People who want to boycott China should start by not giving their money to these brands and finally work their way up to figuring out if the electricity in their house is being produced by machinery imported from China. The point being, Chinese products and Chinese brands are so well-entrenched in our daily lives, it is impossible to boycott them. The only thing we can possibly do is compete.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/it-s-impossible-to-boycott-chinese-products-and-brands-846596.html
07-06-2020||Opinion||Darwinism in full play as the pandemic rages||If you are, like most people, anxiously awaiting the good news that the lockdown has finally been lifted, in all likelihood you missed out on all the other news that have been making the headlines recently. Here is a sample of those headlines: “How data can aid the fight against COVID-19”; “Facebook invests $5.7 billion in Indian internet giant Jio”; “Chile will issue ‘immunity cards’ to people who have recovered from the virus”; “Why the wealthy fear pandemics”; “Miami’s rich-poor divide is exposed by flawed Covid-19 testing”; “With selective coronavirus coverage, China builds a culture of hate”; “In India, a pandemic of prejudice and repression.” I find the above disconcerting because the overall theme of the articles’ contents reflects social Darwinism or ‘survival of the fittest’. It is hard not to miss the pivotal roles played by social media, e-commerce and money in setting the parameters of coronavirus testing, which is crucial to containing the pandemic. Now that Facebook has acquired a 9.9% stake in Reliance Jio, it is only a matter of time before FB ends up owning Jio, whose assets of $26 billion pale in comparison to FB’s $133 billion. If you think it won’t happen, think again. Walmart’s attempt to enter the Indian market in a big way was initially rebuffed, but it found a backdoor by buying up Flipkart, India’s e-commerce ‘giant’. At the time of the takeover, Flipkart had assets worth $2 billion versus Walmart’s $236 billion. FB’s first attempt to enter the India market by offering ‘Free Basics’ was strongly rebuffed. It has since found a backdoor by zeroing in on Jio. All of this does not bode well for the public. In an incredibly self-serving op-ed piece in the Washington Post, Facebook’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg opined that Facebook was in a unique position to help researchers and health authorities get the information they would need to respond to the pandemic since it knew the identities of large numbers of people. Quoting from the op-ed piece, “The world has faced pandemics before, but this time we have a new superpower: the ability to gather and share data for good.” Note the use of the words ‘we’ and ‘superpower’. While we lost the war on privacy a long time ago, I think there is still time to contain its fallout. When a successful vaccine is developed, I presume FB will be in a unique position to identify aggrieved communities to whom the vaccine should be made available. Just as effectively as it did in the Cambridge Analytica scandal? In two recent coronavirus testing studies done in California, one set of volunteer participants was drawn from a random sample of email addresses and telephone. The second set of participants was obtained through advertising on Facebook. The first people to volunteer came from wealthy neighbourhoods. Even though the population of New York State is 19.4 million (55% white, 15% black) and that of the State of Nebraska is 1.93 million (86% white, 4% black), NY received a paltry $12,000 in federal aid per infected case while Nebraska received more than $380,000. Likewise, in Europe, Hungary and Poland (both countries have been actively gutting democratic institutions over the past two years) which have recorded around 1,143 and 545 coronavirus deaths respectively, received 48 million Euros in assistance, whereas Italy and Spain, which have more than 60,000 deaths between them, received 6.5 million Euros. As an article in the Guardian newspaper nicely put it, “Using Big Tech to tackle coronavirus risks swapping one lockdown for another.” To which I might add, physical lockdown is only temporary and will end, sooner or later, but the virtual lockdown never will.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/darwinism-in-full-play-as-the-pandemic-rages-846597.html
07-06-2020||Opinion||The Fragile States of America||The life of tinpot fragile states has come to America. Rioters are pillaging the towns, the military is on standby, and the President is hiding in an underground bunker. Images from Washington DC this past week might have come straight out of a Hollywood apocalypse movie. One aerial shot showed the Washington Monument rising up from amidst fire and smoke. If this were Africa or Arabia, the United Nations Security Council would be thinking of a peacekeeping mission. The protesters don’t seem to have any faith left in State institutions and rule of law is non-existent. Meanwhile, the President has embraced his despotic impulses much more fully these past few days. He wants his military to commit war crimes on the streets: “When the looting starts, the shooting starts,” he infamously said, picking a police chief’s line from 1967, during the Civil Rights movement (somewhere, Gaddafi is rolling in his grave). Things got so bad that even Twitter – the platform for the world’s bigots and xenophobes – had to append public advisories to a couple of his tweets. Since this is an election year, there is both good and bad news for America. The good news is that this is not, in fact, Africa or Arabia; democracy is resilient, and institutions still stand. Many governors and mayors have spoken up against racism and long-running police brutality. In some cities like Miami and Newark, the police apologised to the protesters. In Flint, Michigan, a sheriff reached out to protesters and marched with them. In many ways, Trump’s unhinged experiment seems to have come to a head: He upturned long-respected traditions of presidential dignity and maturity by calling them “politically correct”. His uncouth and racist rhetoric polarised the masses and made peace difficult to keep. But voters can now make a change in the White House and proclaim that political indecency is no longer acceptable. In the long term, they can use the momentum of that victory to push police reforms at the grassroots – in the states and the counties. But alas, there is also bad news. The protests have brought fire and brimstone to the streets – and it’s hard to say how many people consider that to be worse than racist politics. Trump will turn the rioting into a national security issue. He will point out that the progressives are murderous anarchists and insinuate that the whole country will burn if they win. He will also continue to try to impress his voters with machismo by invoking the military and various obscure presidential powers. If Trump succeeds in his strongman response to the protests, he may win the election, courtesy of votes from those who value order above all else. But he will continue to reign over a deeply divided country. The experience of these protests will destroy whatever little trust there still is between conservatives and progressives in the United States. And Trump 2.0 will only be far angrier and more unhinged than Trump 1.0, as the President tries to exploit that divide. On the world stage, there will be little American leadership left. Between its botched handling of COVID-19 and these ongoing protests, America’s credibility as an advanced democracy lies in tatters. And so do the rights of millions elsewhere: Hong Kong, for instance, is gasping for breath under Chinese despotism, with little useful support from anywhere. A lot of this might sound familiar to Indians. Indeed, rarely in history have the political trajectories of India and the United States converged so remarkably – from poisonous hate rhetoric and police brutality, to a divided society and damaged global credibility. For both our sakes, let’s hope that democracy fights back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-fragile-states-of-america-846599.html
07-06-2020||Opinion||The community vision of Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar||The making of the cultural ethos of modern Karnataka owes a debt to the efforts of Nalvadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar (1884-1940). As the Maharaja of Mysore for nearly four decades, between 1902 and 1940, he cultivated a humanistic vision of community co-existence that shaped old Mysore culture in important ways. At the formal ceremony of assuming the rulership of Mysore, on August 8, 1902, the 18-year-old Krishnaraja Wadiyar declared that he, like his parents before him, would “continue to promote the welfare of all classes and creeds among my subjects.” This commitment to social care without discrimination appeared over the years to be more than a token gesture. Krishnaraja Wadiyar’s education, which made him proficient in three languages -- English, Kannada and Urdu -- let him relate richly to the world. He gave fluent public speeches in each of these languages. He also acquired an acquaintance with Vedanta, Islamic, Christian, Jaina and Buddhist theologies as well as general Western philosophy. Identifying himself as Hindu, and on occasion, as Ursu, the caste community he hailed from, Krishnaraja Wadiyar was fully secure in relating to the other religions around him. He was proud that his ancestors built a new Jumma Masjid in Mysore city, which had taken over from Srirangapatna as the new capital of the state in 1799. While laying the foundation stone for the first Young Men of Christian Association in Bangalore in 1912, he expressed confidence that “its influence, religious, moral and educational, will be all for the good, not only of its Christian members but also of the young men belonging to other religions who will pass their leisure hours within its walls.” While Krishnaraja Wadiyar recognised the significance of religion in the lives of Indians, the country, in his view, was above all religions in political matters. In his Chancellor's address at the first convocation ceremony of Banaras Hindu University, in 1919, he expressed an “earnest hope” that the new university would “attract by the quality of its secular education, the young of all religious persuasions in India. The institution should be Indian first and Hindu afterwards.” The idea that the country, and not any of the social communities living inside, offered the basis for a political community stayed firm in Krishnaraja Wadiyar. At the inaugural ceremony of a newly built mosque in Mysore in 1922, he noted: “I look upon you all, whether Hindus, Mahomedans or others, as equally dear to me. I hope that you will bear in mind the fact that you are Mysoreans first and all the rest next, owing a duty to the State...” His concerns though did not remain within a narrow frame. He believed, for example, in “the promotion of inter-racial and international fellowship.” An ethic of reconciliation and mutual support anchored his vision of achieving justice among communities. Expressing his “earnest desire to see all classes of my subjects represented in just proportion in public service,” at a meeting of non-Brahmin leaders in mid-1918, Krishnaraja Wadiyar hoped that the measure of reserving posts in the government would not result in “a cleavage” among the people. He exhorted the non-Brahmin leaders to ensure that their work “did not in any manner mar the unity and harmonious relations which have hitherto existed to a great extent among the different classes of my subjects” which were “an essential condition of all real progress.” He continued: “I appeal to the Brahmin community also to behave likewise in a conciliatory and tolerant spirit towards the other classes” and felt certain that the “Brahmin officers” would “cooperate with my government in advancing the interests of the other classes also in the State and show practical sympathy with them in their natural aspirations.” In asking the upper and lower castes to realign themselves to the new demands of social justice, he had placed his faith in their moral capacity to act selflessly. On numerous occasions, Krishnaraja Wadiyar asked the better off communities to actively aid the not-so better off ones. He passionately held that it was “the sacred duty of the more advanced communities…to extend a helping hand to less fortunate communities.” The absence of a historical account of the dozens of schools and hostels built for Dalit children across Mysore during his political tenure is indeed unfortunate. Taking all religions to be quests for “the same eternal truths,” Krishnaraja Wadiyar expressed “sorrow” to see the clashes “over the externals of religion” in various parts of India and “rejoiced” that such a “spirit” of “following the shadow rather than the substance” was not found in Mysore.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/the-community-vision-of-nalvadi-krishnaraja-wadiyar-846600.html
07-06-2020||Opinion||Stuck with relatives through the lockdown? My sympathies||The COVID-19 pandemic has led to many disturbing revelations about the lack of infrastructure, the rise in domestic violence during the lockdown, the complete apathy towards migrants, and so on. Those of us who are fortunate enough to not have to deal with these issues have smaller complaints. The Sisyphean task of washing up and cleaning and sanitizing everything that enters the house, for instance. There are some who are stuck with relatives, neighbours, or worse, with partners they were about to divorce. Even the Ramayana, which presents so many such relationships as ideal, has a passage complaining about how terrifying relatives can be. When Vibhishana, Ravana’s brother, advises him to release Sita, Ravana is incensed, and goes off on a rant about relatives and all the trouble they cause. Ravana makes his point by remembering a song that elephants sang in the forest when men tried to snare them with ropes. Here is the elephants’ wisdom, in Arthur Ryder’s translation— “We fear no fire, nor goad, nor sling/Nor any man that lives/We do not fear a single thing/Except our relatives.” With all the lay-offs, both past and looming, there are many who can sympathise with Hitopadesha, which declares, “It is decidedly better to live in a forest with lions and elephants where no one dares to step foot, with a hundred inconveniences, with grass for a bed and bark for clothes, than among relatives when you have no money.” One can only imagine what taunts the author had endured! Besides, staying in close proximity all day and all night can put a strain on the best of relationships. Hearing the same boring joke or the same condescending laugh for the hundredth time a day will likely cause something to snap. The epics barely record any marriages ending badly, but the Ramayana has one such story. King Ashvapati, Kaikeyi’s father, had a boon which gave him the power to understand the speech of all living creatures. However, if he revealed what he understood to anyone else, he would die. Once, while in bed, he heard a bird’s shrill cry and burst into laughter. His queen, who must have been in a bad mood already, was incensed at his laughter, and demanded to know the reason. When he told her that he would die if he told her the reason, she replied: “You better tell me why you laughed, and then you may live or die as you wish!” Well, the inevitable happened and the king cut off ties with the queen. But relatives and neighbours can be far more annoying for another reason—in India, lavish family functions and religious events count as emergencies that simply cannot be postponed, come rain, sunshine, or pandemic. We cannot exactly preach to the populace where our politicians brazenly flaunt their children’s weddings, sans masks and social distancing, on social media. Case in point: Former Karnataka CM HD Kumaraswamy’s son’s wedding just about a month ago. Did you notice how political leaders from other parties rushed to support him? Their unity reminds me of Yudhishtira’s words of advice to his brothers, “When we fight amongst each other, we Pandavas are five, and they, the Kauravas, are a hundred. But when an outsider threatens us, we are one hundred and five.” It’s our bad luck that the Kauravas are united in our case. A final word on Indian weddings: There’s a saying in Sanskrit about what various people want out of a wedding. “The bride wants a good-looking husband. Her mother wants him to be wealthy. Her father wants him to be well-educated. The relatives want his family to be nice. Everyone else wants a sumptuous meal.” Now, I don’t know if I agree with the first four, but the last statement is absolutely true. And sumptuous meals should wait until we don’t need to wear masks any longer, please!||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/stuck-with-relatives-through-the-lockdown-my-sympathies-846601.html
07-06-2020||Panorama||The COVID pandemic and Karnataka’s fiscal conundrum||COVID-19 pandemic has devastated economic activities across states. Our country is under lockdown since March 24, 2020 to till day. Presently, we are under the fifth phase of the lockdown where the majority of the restrictions are being removed with a measured and phased manner. Now, along with controlling the spread of pandemic, the state governments are working on the revival of the economy. No doubt, there was slowdown even before the onset of Covid-19 pandemic. The GDP growth rate for the last quarter is 3.1% as announced by the Central Statistical Organisation (CSO). The growth rates were 4.1%, 4.4% and 5.2% for third, second and first quarters of FY 2019-20, respectively. The provisional estimates of GDP growth rate for FY 2019-20 is estimated as 4.2% and it has declined from 6.1% in 2018-19. These figures indicate that economy was under slowdown even before the onset of Covid-19 pandemic. The Centre and the Karnataka governments have taken many steps to address the economic slowdown which intensified due to Covid-19 pandemic. Many economic packages have been announced by the Union government. The state Karnataka also announced economic packages to needy including ASHA workers, construction workers, auto-rikshaw and taxi drivers, weavers, farmers, street vendors etc. The government, in advance, has released ration to all ration card holders. In addition, more expenditure than budgeted towards heath sector through strengthening health infrastructure, cost of testing and treatment and cost of institutional quarantine are foreseeable. Now comes the problem of financing these expenditures and also the committed expenditure as budgeted for FY 2020-21. As defined in the Medium-Term Fiscal Plan 2020-24 of Government of Karnataka, the committed expenditure consists of salaries and wages, pensions, interest payments, subsidies, administrative expenses, transfers to local bodies and grants-in-aid. These expenditures constitute nearly 85% of total expenditure of the government and hence reduction is difficult. Karnataka’s fiscal position as per 2020-21 budget estimates was under distress. The reasons are as follows. State’s revenue source consists of three major items. First, state’s own revenue resources; second, state’s own non-tax revenues; and third, transfers from the Centre. The Central transfers consist of tax shares of the states in the divisible pool and grants as recommended by the Finance Commission. We are under the Fifteenth Finance Commission (FFC) period. The FFC has submitted its report only for the year 2020-21 and the final report for remaining four years is still awaited. The FC recommends vertical devolution and horizontal devolution based on an adopted criterion where the former is the tax sharing between Centre and states and the latter on the distribution of this devolution among the states. The FFC has reduced the states’ share in the divisible pool from 42% as laid down by Fourteenth Finance Commission to 41%. As per the criteria adopted by the FFC for horizontal devolution, Karnataka’s share has been reduced to 3.646% under the FFC period as against the Fourteenth Finance Commission’s recommendation of 4.713%. This accounts for a decline in tax devolution to Karnataka by around Rs 11,215 crores. Generally, the Finance Commission also recommends several grants consisting of revenue deficit grants, local bodies grants, sector-specific grants, performance grants etc. Karnataka does not receive any revenue deficit grants from the Centre as its revenue account shows post-tax devolution revenue surplus. The revenue deficit grants are given to states which show a deficit in the revenue account even after tax devolution from the Centre. Fortunately, FFC has noticed that the sum of devolution and revenue deficit grants are going to decline between 2019-20 and 2020-21 for three states - Karnataka, Mizoram and Telangana. The FFC has recommended Rs 5,495 crore as special grants to Karnataka. Sectoral grants Surprisingly, the FFC has not recommended any performance-based grants and sector-specific grants to states for the FY 2020-21 except for grants towards the improvement of nutrition. This would further reduce transfers from the Centre to states and accordingly to Karnataka. Covid-19 and resultant lockdown in the state has severely affected its own revenue resources mobilisation. Own revenue consists of commercial taxes, state excise duties, motor vehicle taxes, stamps and registration duties etc. State excise duty realisation during April was almost nil. The GST collections are going to face a big dip as the economic activities were restricted. Except for the pharmaceutical, FMCG and other essential activities, GST realisation in other sectors was negligible. For instance, e-Way bill generated during April 2020 was around Rs 90 lakh as against Rs 4.1 crore in March 2020 and around Rs 5.5 crore during February 2020. This indicates the intensity of decline in economic activity. Due to lockdown, motor vehicle taxes, stamps and registration duties have also not realised during April 2020. During the month of April and May 2019, Karnataka realised 15% of budgeted revenue receipts. But during the present financial year, there will be a drastic decline. If there is a 20% shortfall in revenue mobilisation against what is budgeted for FY 2020-21 and assuming the given budgeted expenditure, the state would face a revenue deficit nearing to 2% of GSDP and fiscal deficit around 4.5% of GSDP. This calculation has taken GSDP figures as given in 2020-21 budget. However, there will certainly be a reduction in economic growth rate this year as indicated in many studies. A recent report released by State Bank of India on May 26, 2020, estimated a GSDP loss of 11.4% to Karnataka amounting Rs 2 lakh crore. If this GSDP decline is incorporated in the calculation of the fiscal ratios, then the state’s revenue deficit crosses 2% of GSDP and fiscal deficit crosses 5% of GSDP. This will be the highest deficit ratios for Karnataka since its landmark fiscal reforms through the enactment of Karnataka Fiscal Responsibility Act (KFRA) in 2002. As per the KFRA, the fiscal deficits to be less than 3% of GSDP and revenue deficits to be nil. Given the present fiscal distress, crossing these caps and more borrowings are inevitable for Karnataka this year. However, once the economic activities gear up, the state can reach its steady path of economic growth in the medium term. (The writer is with Fiscal Policy Institute, Bengaluru)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/panorama/the-covid-pandemic-and-karnataka-s-fiscal-conundrum-846856.html
07-06-2020||Right in the Middle||A vignette of grief||“Love is so short, forgetting is so long,” said Pablo Neruda the Chilean poet in his poem "Tonight I can write the saddest lines." True grief has no closure. We carry it with us like a gaping wound. Sometimes the end comes so fast and there is no time to transition from one phase to the other. It is a matter of wonder how a life spent together seems so brief, so infinitesimal. Absence becomes a haunting presence. In those spaces of absence I hear the voice, the footsteps, I sense the presence and in my mind’s eye, the million expressions I knew. The smile, the glint of anger, the glow of happiness, the gentleness of love. We filled in each other’s sentences and thoughts and our silences were companionable silences. We were each other’s souls, each other’s alter egos. People come and go offering their condolences and in spite of their best efforts but words seem too frail, too inadequate to assuage the pain. In the randomness of life, death comes unannounced when least expected. In the quiet aftermath, we realise that mortality is the stuff of life and the vanity of grieving for those we must soon follow Love is an emotion that is larger than those who love because everyone has loved and ennobled it.  The capacity of the human heart to love and grieve and carry pain and build memories in the ruins of loss is enormous. I understand the unreasonableness of and the absurdity of longing for permanence in an ever-evolving world. We must accept the trauma of death we are all heir to, have the gratitude for what we had and understanding that nothing is meant to last. When we mourn someone we also mourn ourselves as we were and as we will never be again. Nothing changes, the inexorable laws of nature decree the universe will run as it does, friends and strangers move on in their own orbits. We are but insignificant specs in the ominous scheme of things, prisoners of the human predicament. In my naivete I ask myself, "how does the sunshine and the birds sing in my sorrow?”     No one could have expressed the colossal emptiness of life for those left behind better than the Hindi poet Kedarnath Singh, who wrote on his wife's 28th death anniversary, "she was gone/and then were gone one by one/many days and flocks of birds/ and several languages/ and numerous water sources were gone/from the world/Once she was gone.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/right-in-the-middle/a-vignette-of-grief-846859.html
07-06-2020||Second Edit||Right ‘message’ to police from Delhi HC||The Delhi High Court has reaffirmed a most important principle of criminal jurisprudence which says that bail is the norm and jail is the exception, in a case in which the norm had to be underlined with emphasis. It has also made a salutary assertion, which again was worth repeating, that the job of the court is to dispense justice and not to send any kind of message to the public. The court granted bail to an accused in a case related to the communal violence in Delhi earlier this year, rejecting the claim of the Delhi Police that granting bail to him would send an adverse message to society. Feroze Khan, a truck driver, is an accused in the case. According to the defence, there is no evidence that points to his involvement in the crime that he is charged with.  Justice Anup Bhambahani made it clear that bail cannot be denied if the court is convinced that there is need to keep the accused in judicial custody for the purpose of investigation and prosecution. He also said that ‘the prison is primarily for punishing convicts, not for detaining undertrials in order to send any ‘message’ to society.”  The court also declared that it “will be loath to depriving a person of his liberty, in the court’s name, on the mere ipse dixit of the state, when it finds no substantial basis or reason for doing so’’. This is an important assertion, relevant and timely because there is reason to assume that the state is acting with malice through the Delhi Police against members of the minority community in cases relating to the violence, though most victims were from the community. At the same time, many leaders and workers of the BJP who are known to have incited or participated in the violence have been spared. Many people who participated in the anti-CAA protests have been arrested in connection with communal violence. A number of persons, including student leaders of Jamia Milia and JNU, were arrested recently. One Delhi court even remarked that the investigation “seems to be targeted only towards one end’’.  The Delhi High Court’s observations are important in the context of the investigation into the Delhi violence, and as a general rule and guideline for the police and the lower judiciary anywhere. Jails are overcrowded with undertrial prisoners and their rights are grossly violated. Justice is denied when they are locked up before conviction and even before trial.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/right-message-to-police-from-delhi-hc-846851.html
07-06-2020||South||Man 'kills' father to secure PSU job on compassionate grounds in Telangana, say Police||To secure a job on compassionate grounds, a man allegedly killed his 55-year old father, a PSU worker, with his mother and younger brother being part of the plot and sought to project it as a death due to heart attack in a village in Telangana, police said. The 25-year old man, a polytechnic diploma holder, strangulated his father to death using a towel on May 26 while the latter was asleep in their house in Kothur village in neighbouring Peddapalli district. Police said they have arrested the two sons while their mother was absconding. They also seized two mobile phones and the towel, used in the crime. The trio had plotted the killing to get a job on compassionate ground for the elder son of the deceased, who was a pump operator in the state-run Singareni Collieries Limited at Godavarikhani in Peddapalli district. After the elder son killed his father, the next day morning the family informed others that he died of a heart attack and prepared for the funeral. As some people raised doubts over it, he was forced to inform police following which they sent the body for post- mortem and launched an investigation.  Police found the man carried out the killing after his mother and younger brother accepted his proposal. "In order to get the job of his father in Singareni Collieries, the man ended the life of his father," Ramagundam Police Commissioner V Satyanarayana said on Saturday. A case has been registered against the three under the Indian Penal Code sections 302 (murder), 120-B (conspiracy), 201 (giving false information) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention). The profit-making Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL), a coal mining firm jointly owned by the Telangana and the central governments, offers employment to a dependent of its employee who dies while in service.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/man-kills-father-to-secure-psu-job-on-compassionate-grounds-in-telangana-say-police-846704.html
07-06-2020||South||Naval ship arrives in Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu with 700 repatriated Indians from Maldives||Indian Navy Ship 'Jalashwa' on Sunday repatriated 700 Indian nationals stranded in Maldives, making its second port call at the VOC Port here with a similar exercise this week. INS Jalashwa had earlier this week brought stranded Indians from Sri Lanka and has repatriated about 2700 Indians so far as part of the navy's "Operation Samudra Setu" initiative. The bulk of the repatriated persons, 686, hailed from Tamil Nadu while the others belonged to Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry, VOC Port officials said. The ship left Port of Male on June 5 and arrived here on Sunday. On arrival, the passengers were screened by the Port Health Officials and their luggage was sanitised as part of the health protocols. They were later sent to their respective districts by designated buses, official sources said. The Indian Navy, under its ambitious "Operation Samudra Setu" programme, had repatriated Indian nationals from the Maldives and Sri Lanka in its two vessels--INS Jalashwa and INS Magar on May 10, May 12, May 17 and June 2. This was part of the Centre's initiative to repatriate stranded Indians in foreign countries through air and sea routes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/naval-ship-arrives-in-tuticorin-in-tamil-nadu-with-700-repatriated-indians-from-maldives-846801.html
07-06-2020||South||Student's online study affected as school seized mobile phone||A school at Kannur district in Kerala refused to return a phone seized from a student even after the academic year was over and hence the student, as well as her younger brother, could not attend the online classes for the next academic year that already commenced. After the matter became controversial with the family petitioning Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and senior police officials and a local MLA intervening the school authorities agreed to return the phone soon. Shasa, who was a tenth-standard student of Puthiyangadi Jama-ath Higher Secondary school on the outskirts of Kannur, took her mother's smartphone to the school on school youth festival on October 16, 2019. The school authorities seized the phone from her citing that students were not supposed to bring the phone to school. Shasa's mother Sameera told DH that she allowed her daughter to take the phone as there was no school bus on that day and if she was late to return after youth festival she can contact home. Moreover, since it was her last year in school she wished to take pictures with friends. Sameera said that though she approached the school authorities several times afterwards seeking the phone, even after the end of the academic year, the school authorities took an adamant stand that phone won't be returned. "I am the lone breadwinner of the family comprising three children and I somehow managed to buy the phone for our use.I can't afford to buy a new one as my younger son who is now in eighth-standard and online classes commenced," said Sameera, who is a tailor by profession. Even as the school authorities now assured to return the mobile phone, local MLA T V Rajesh offered a television or tablet computer to the family. Meanwhile, several other students of the school were also alleged to be facing the same plight. Kerala recently witnessed a girl hailing from a weak Dalit family ending life allegedly owing to the mental stress as she could not attend online classes owing to unavailability of television or smartphone or computer at home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/students-online-study-affected-as-school-seized-mobile-phone-846807.html
07-06-2020||South||1,515 new COVID-19 cases in a single day in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu reported its biggest single-day spike on Sunday with 1,515 persons testing positive for Coronavirus, even as 18 people, including a 20-year-old pregnant woman, died due to the infection taking the death to 269. Chennai topped the list with 1,156 cases, including one “imported case” and its neighbouring districts Chengalpattu (135), Tiruvallur (55), and Kanchipuram (16). These four districts account for 25,848 of the total 31,669 positive patients in the state. The active cases stood at 14,396 while the number of discharges rose to 16,999, the Health Department said in its daily bulletin. For the first time, the state released district-wise testing data with Chennai topping the list with 1,21,950 tests so far and Coimbatore a distant second with 22,872 tests. Of the 18 deaths, 13 were reported from government hospitals, while the remaining five patients died in private hospitals in the state. Of the 18 persons who died, the government said 15 had co-morbid conditions and only three did not have any underlying health condition at the time of admission. Also, the state tested 16,275 samples on Saturday, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 5,92970, the highest in the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/1515-new-covid-19-cases-in-a-single-day-in-tamil-nadu-846813.html
07-06-2020||South||Meet Nethra, a 13-year-old girl who helped the needy using savings for her education amid the coronavirus pandemic||The mobile phones at the household of barber C Mohan in Madurai have not stopped ringing since May 31. And since then, there is a steady stream of visitors to the humble dwelling in which Mohan, his wife Pandiselvi and 13-year-old daughter Nethra are living. The family deserves the new-found fame as it spent over Rs 5 lakhs that Mohan has been saving for Nethra’s higher education to help the needy and feed the poor during the over two-month lockdown to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. And the idea of spending the savings to help the poor came from none other than Nethra herself. “She is my only daughter and I had been saving small amounts of money which rose to Rs 5 lakhs. And when my daughter asked me to donate the entire savings to alleviate the sufferings of fellow human beings, I could not say no,” Mohan, who runs a barber shop in Madurai, told DH. The family’s Nobel act came to light after Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke about Mohan’s “good work” in his Mann Ki Baat radio address on May 31. Not just visits by locals and friends, Nethra and Mohan have been inundated with congratulatory calls for the past one week from politicians and celebrities alike. “A lot of my school friends have come home in the past one week to congratulate me. And it is a very good feeling. We did not expect the Prime Minister to mention about our good deeds in his address,” Nethra told DH. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami too pitched on Saturday and announced that the state government will take care of the educational expenses of Nethra, who has also been appointed as 'Goodwill Ambassador (GWA) for the Poor' by an NGO, United Nations Association for Development and Peace (UNADAP). Nethra said she asked her father to spend the money meant for her higher education as she “knows the pain of being hungry” and “left with nothing.” In 2013, the family lost all the money they had as her father’s friends “cheated him” and came onto the street literally, she said.  “I know what it means to be hungry as our family struggled to get three-square meals a day back in 2013. I did not want people to go hungry and suffer like us. That is why I asked my father to spend the money to help the needy. We should help when people are in distress,” Nethra added. Nethra, who wants to pursue civil services and join the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), is clear that the new-found fame and glory will not bring any change to her “helping tendency”. “I have been taught not to forget the past. I will continue to help people in whatever way I can. I am also resolute in my dream to pursue IAS and make myself available to the people,” she said. Mohan said people should pitch in to help the needy with whatever they can during such times. “We saw people suffering because of the lockdown and my daughter asked me to help them. Likewise, if people who can afford to help others pitch in, we can light up several lives,” Mohan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/meet-nethra-a-13-year-old-girl-who-helped-the-needy-using-savings-for-her-education-amid-the-coronavirus-pandemic-846814.html
07-06-2020||South||More churches, mosques in Kerala to remain shut||As the COVID-19 scenario in Kerala continues to be alarming, many more mosques and churches decided not to resume services till June 30, while the Sree Padmabnabha Swami temple in Thiruvananthapuram decided to allow darshan from June 9. The Major Archeparchy of Ernakulam - Angamaly said in a statement that status quo would be maintained at the churches under the archdiocese till June 30. However, churches would remain opened for individuals to offer prayers. Marriages and their functions would be allowed as per the government prescribed norms. While many mosques on Saturday announced the decision to maintain status-quo till June 30, on Sunday more mosques followed suit The Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple decided to allow up to 750 devotees every day from June 9 through an online token system. Sabarimala Ayyappa temple and Guruvayur Srikrishna temple also decided to allow pilgrims through online tokens.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/more-churches-mosques-in-kerala-to-remain-shut-846815.html
07-06-2020||South||Over hundred COVID-19 cases in Kerala for third day||With 107 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday, Kerala witnessed over 100 COVID-19 positive cases for the third consecutive day, taking the number of active cases to 1,095. The state will be initiating 10,000 anti-body test daily from Monday to check community spread. Among the 107 cases on Sunday, only seven were through local contact while 99 were persons from abroad and other states. The state so far managed to keep the spread of COVID-19 through local spread to around 10 per cent. However, with more relaxations in lockdown norms from this week, the state is keeping fingers crossed. Meanwhile, the spike of fresh cases over the last few days is also the outcome of increasing the number of daily COVID-19 tests from around 1,200 to 3,000 from last week. So far 1,913 persons were tested COVID-19 positive in Kerala, of which 803 already recovered, 15 died and 1,095 were under treatment.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/over-hundred-covid-19-cases-in-kerala-for-third-day-846817.html
07-06-2020||South||Free foodgrains reach to only 20.26 lakh migrants so far: Govt data||The state governments have been able to supply free foodgrains to only 20.36 lakh migrant beneficiaries so far against the target of 8 crore migrants, who do not have central or state ration card, according to data released by the Union Food Ministry on Sunday. To ensure migrants do not go hungry due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the central government had on May 14 announced 5 kg free foodgrains per person and 1 kg chana per family to 8 crore migrants for two months as part of the Rs 20 lakh crore economic package. The free food is to be distributed to those who do not have either central or state ration cards. In a statement, the Union Food Ministry said, "The states and union territories have lifted 4.42 lakh tones of foodgrains and distributed 10,131 tonnes of foodgrains to 20.26 lakh beneficiaries". The analysis of the data shows that the number of migrant beneficiaries who have received free grains comprise only 2.25 per cent of the total target. Also, the quantity of grains distributed remains less compared to the total 7.99 lakh tonnes to be distributed in May and June. States have adopted different models for distribution of free foodgrains to migrants. Some are distributing cooked meals along with dry ration, while some are issuing food coupons. In case of free distribution of chana, the ministry said that it approved 39,000 tonne of the pulse for distribution to 1.96 crore migrant families for two months. Around 28,306 tonne of chana/chana dal have been dispatched to the states and UTs. Out of which, 15,413 tonne have been lifted, it said. "631 tonne of gram has been distributed by the states and UTs," it added. Similarly, under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY), states have achieved 92.45 per cent coverage in distribution of free grains in April, 87.33 per cent in May, while 17.47 per cent so far in June. States have lifted 105.10 lakh tonnes of grains, of which 36.98 lakh tonne in April, 34.93 lakh tonne in June and 6.99 lakh tonne so far in June, it said. As regards pulses, the total requirement for the three months is 5.87 lakh tonne. So far, 4.71 lakh tonnes of pulses have reached the states/UTs, while 2.67 lakh tonnes of pulses has been distributed, the ministry added. Under the PMGKAY, the government is providing 5 kg free foodgrains per ration card holder and 1 kg pulses per beneficiary family for three months till June. This is over and above the subsidised grains given under the National Food Security Act. Since the lockdown was announced on March 24, the ministry said about 111.02 lakh tonnes of foodgrains have been lifted and transported through 3,965 rail rakes. Apart from the rail route, transportation was also done through roads and waterways.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/free-foodgrains-reach-to-only-2026-lakh-migrants-so-far-govt-data-846818.html
07-06-2020||South||Body of COVID-19 man thrown into pit in Puducherry||In yet another case of dignity being denied in death, the body of a 42-year-old man who died of COVID-19 was hurriedly thrown into a pit by government workers in Puducherry last week. A video of the incident which has now come to light has gone viral on the social media triggering an outrage. The incident comes nearly two months after a neurosurgeon, Dr Simon Hercules, was buried by his colleague with his bare hands in the dead of the night following protests due to “misconception” that COVID-19 could spread from dead bodies. After last week’s incident came out in the public thanks to the viral video, the Puducherry Government has ordered an inquiry. Sources said the Puducherry District administration will go into the incident and find out what went wrong with regard to burial of the 42-year-old man. The video shows four men in personal protective equipment (PPEs) carry the body of the 42-year-old man from an ambulance and a few second later, one of the men is heard telling an official that they “have thrown the body.” The sources added that the man, who is a native of Chennai, came to Puducherry to meet his in-laws house and was rushed to a hospital after he complained of chest pain. He was declared dead on arrival at the hospital, but his COVID-19 samples came out positive. As the video went viral, several took to Twitter to condemn the incident and question why people should be denied dignity in death.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/body-of-covid-19-man-thrown-into-pit-in-puducherry-846826.html
07-06-2020||South||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to hold review meeting on COVID-19||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will hold a meeting on Monday to review the measures taken for containment of coronavirus, implementation of the lockdown in the state and other related issues. The meeting is scheduled to be held at 4.30 PM on June 8 to discuss matters pertaining to COVID-19 and decisions will be taken accordingly, an official release said. Health Minister E Rajender, senior officials will take part in the meet. Telangana has been witnessing a major surge in COVID-19 cases, with more than 200 fresh cases being reported on Saturday alone, taking the tally of positive cases in the state to 3,496. On May 31, the state government had extended the lockdown in containment zones till June 30 even as it lifted the restrictions on inter-state movement of people. Rao will also hold another review meeting tomorrow at 2 PM to take a call on the conduct of class 10 board examinations. Education Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy and other officials will participate in it, another release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-cm-k-chandrasekhar-rao-to-hold-review-meeting-on-covid-19-846834.html
07-06-2020||South||87-year-old man dies of COVID-19 in Kerala||An 87-year-old person died of COVID-19 in Kerala on Sunday evening. He has been identified as Kumaran of Engadiyoor, about 25 kilometres from Thrissur town. Kumaran was under treatment at a private hospital over the last few days owing to breathing difficulties. He was shifted to Thrissur government medical college hospital by Sunday afternoon after testing COVID-19 positive, where he died. His source of infection was yet to be traced. Several doctors, nurses and other staff of private hospital were  quarantined. So far 17 persons died of COVID-19 in Kerala of which one was a native of Mahe that comes under Puducherry. Hence, Kerala has not included him in state's tally.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/87-year-old-man-dies-of-covid-19-in-kerala-846867.html
07-06-2020||South||Telangana bans trials of clothes in malls; No prasadam or holy water in religious places||Trial of clothing or accessories has been banned in shopping malls in Telangana, while religious places would not see any offerings like prasadam or holy water when all of these open on Monday after almost a three-month gap due to the coronavirus lockdown. These were among the slew of directions issued in a Government Order on Sunday, while allowing reopening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places from June 8. These had remained shut since March 24 when the first phase of the national lockdown came into effect. Standard Operating Procedures would have to be followed by managing committees, trusts or societies running religious institutions, hotels, restaurants and shopping malls and any failure to comply with them would lead to closure of the premises and attract penal provisions as per law. In religious places, no offerings like prasadam or holy water, among others, would be allowed, while community kitchens, langars (community kitchen of Sikhs), Annadanam (sacred offering of food) need to follow social distancing norms during preparation and distribution of food. The government also banned touching of idols, holy books, mazars (a Muslim shrine or enshrined tomb). Common prayer mats should be avoided and devotees asked to bring their own for the purpose, the order said. Wherever necessary, disposable paper tokens should be used for management of queues at religious places, it said. Face masks are mandatory for all people at these places and air conditioning, wherever installed, should be set at temperature range of between 24 C to 30 C and relative humidity range of 40 per centto 7O per cent, the GO said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/telangana-bans-trials-of-clothes-in-malls-no-prasadam-or-holy-water-in-religious-places-846888.html
07-06-2020||State||Builders in Karnataka eyeing to bring back migrant workers||Facing a shortage of labour, some top builders in the city have initiated efforts to bring back the migrant workers, who have returned to their native places following the COVID-19 lockdown, and are holding parleys with Railway authorities for operation of special trains to ferry them. After the lockdown was announced, many construction projects came to a halt and accordingly the labourers were rendered jobless. These migrant workers preferred to go back to their home state as they were not paid when the projects were stopped and were caught in the big financial mess. Many of these migrants even chose to cover thousands of kilometres by foot when even trains, buses or any motor vehicles were not operating. Keeping their woes in view, the Centre decided to run the Shramik Special trains to ferry them to their native places. But, after they were gone, the builders found themselves in a lurch. An executive of a builder told PTI "Yes, our builder and a few others are in talks with the Railways to run the special train to bring back the labourers." She said nothing has been materialised as of now. According to her, the builders took the contact numbers of the workers when they left the city to their home states and are now contacting them one by one. The South Western Railway has so far sent 3.11 lakh migrant workers in 216 Shramik Special trains starting from May 3 to June 6.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/builders-in-karnataka-eyeing-to-bring-back-migrant-workers-846741.html
07-06-2020||State||Two die of coronavirus in Karnataka; 239 new cases confirmed||Fatalities due to coronavirus reached 61 in Karnataka with two more deaths, while 239 more tested positive for the viral infection, pushing the tally in the state to 5,452, the health department said on Sunday. The total COVID-19 cases in the state include 2,132 discharges, 3,257 active cases and 61 deaths. A 61-year-old woman suffering from hypothyroidism and was diagnosed with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) died on Saturday whereas a 57-year-old man having filariasis and chronic nyeloid leukemia died on Sunday in Bengaluru. Most of those who contributed for Sunday's new cases were interstate passengers. 183 passengers, most of whom returned from Maharashtra were tested positive for the virus, the health bulletin said. According to the health department, 39 coronavirus positive cases were reported in Kalaburagi and Yadagiri, 38 in Belagavi, 23 in Bengaluru urban, 17 each in Dakshina Kannada and Davangere, 13 in Udupi, 12 in Shivamogga, nine in Vijayapura, seven in Bidar, six in Ballari, five each in Bengaluru Rural and Hassan, three in Dharwad, two each in Gadag and Uttara Kannada and one each in Mandya and Raichur.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/two-die-of-coronavirus-in-karnataka-239-new-cases-confirmed-846766.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Udupi Krishna mutt to not open on June 8||Eshapriya Tirtha Swami, Paryaya Admar Mutt seer said that the Udupi Krishna mutt will not be open to devotees on June 8. Devotees will have to wait for another 20 to 30 days for darshan of Lord Krishna.  He said that if doors were opened, devotees from different parts would arrive. "We want to ensure health of our staff and devotees. Krishna mutt has a tradition of offering puja rituals by the seers of Ashta mutt. If anyone is infected, it will affect the puja rituals."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/udupi-krishna-mutt-to-not-open-on-june-8-846663.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Masjids in Udupi wont open on June 8||Udupi Jilla Muslim Okkuta has decided to open masjids for devotees only after government issues guidelines.  Okkuta president Yasin Malpe said that mansjids in the district will not be opened on June 8. "Despite allegations against the Muslim community on the spread of COVID-19, the community members unitedly helped the people irrespective of caste, creed and religion during the lockdown period." MP flayed Further, Okkuta condemned the derogatory statement issued by Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje on Tablighis. The Okkuta demanded her resignation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/masjids-in-udupi-wont-open-on-june-8-846679.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka guidelines for religious places restrict holy communion, require daily disinfection of mosques||Disinfecting mosques everyday, restrictions on receiving Holy Communion during mass and other prayers at churches, and commencing and finishing prayers in "minimum permissible time" are among the guidelines issued by the Department of Minority Welfare, Haj and Waqf, as religious places open on June 8. In addition to those, duties are assigned to management committee, devotees, imams and muezzins of mosques. Devotees will now have to perform Wazu (Ablution) at their homes, and carry their own namaz carpets to the mosque. The guidelines directed management committees to avoid common prayer mats, disinfecting entire msajid after Isha namaz and at regular intervals and staggered timings for Friday prayers. Imams of mosques are restrained from long zikr or dua, complete Friday prayers in 15 mins and are directed to fix timings for batches to finish the Farz salath. While mosques will open for all five daily prayers, dargahs will open only between 10 am to 4 pm. No holy communion Churches are allowed to hold public masses on Sundays, with directions to celebrate it on week days if the number of participants is more. The use of liturgical booklets and hymnals are prohibited, and "Holy Communion shall be received strictly on hand or other alternatives prescribed by the bishop for the time being". The guidelines restricted church activities for Eucharistic services alone, preventing other events such as rosary, novena prayers, baptism, first communion, marriage and others. Churches are also encouraged to live stream masses for those who cannot attend due to various reasons, and the priest of a parish will ensure strict implementation of measures to contain COVID-19. Gurudwaras are also encouraged to commence and finish prayers in minimum permissible time, and notify Sunday prayer timings of three separate batches if necessary. Extra devotees in all religious institutions will have to wait outside maintaining social distancing norms, until a prayer session is complete. Both Jain Basadis and Buddhist Viharas will have to finish prayers as soon as possible. At Viharas there will be no distribution of goutham prasadi nor use of pooja wheels attached to stupas. At Zoroastrian Agyaris, presence of more than four devotees in the kebla, touching priests' hand while offering sukhad is not permitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-guidelines-for-religious-places-restrict-holy-communion-require-daily-disinfection-of-mosques-846721.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kannada actor Chiranjeevi Sarja passes away||Promising Kannada actor Chiranjeevi Sarja died of heart attack in Bengaluru on Sunday. He was 39.  The actor collapsed while speaking to his father on phone around 1.10 pm. He was immediately rushed to Apollo Hospital in Jayanagar. Doctors declared him dead on arrival. Dr Govindaiah Yatheesh, Unit Head, Apollo Specialty Hospital, Jayanagar, said, "Actor Chiranjeevi Sarja was talking to his father at 1.10 pm. He was sweating and collapsed. It is around the same time they left the house. At 2.20 pm he reached Apollo Hospital in Jayanagar but had died on the way. The cause of death seems cardiac. But the family has not requested for an autopsy. We have handed over the body to the police." His throat swabs have been sent to laboratory for a report, according to sources. Last rites will be conducted at the farmhouse of his grandfather Shakti Prasad at Jakkenahalli in Madhugiri taluk in Tumakuru district on Monday. Due to COVID-19 guidelines, only a few people, including his family members, artistes from the Kannada film industry and some Jakkenahalli residents will be permitted to be present, according to the family sources. Shakti Prasad's family has a house and farmhouse at the village. The family constructed Ahobala Lakshminarasimha Swamy temple at Jakkenahalli. The family members attend the Brahma Rathotsava at the temple every year without fail. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa condoled the actor's death saying that the Kannada film industry has lost a good actor. “He was a shining star in the galaxy of artistes. It's disappointing that he died at a young age,” former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy tweeted. KPCC President D K Shivakumar termed the news of the actor’s death as shocking. The actor had a bright future. Producer K Manju called Chiranjeevi Sarja a hard working actor. Actor Aditi Prabhudeva, who shared the screen with him in Singa film, termed him as an actor known for simplicity and such actors are rare in the film industry. The eldest son of Ammaji and Vijay Kumar, Chiranjeevi Sarja, was born on October 17, 1980. The nephew of mutlilingual South Indian actor, Arjun Sarja, he had married Meghana Raj, the daughter of Prameela Joshai and Sundar Raj on May 2, 2018. He began his career in the Sandalwood with Vayuputra in 2009. Shivarjuna, released days before the lockdown was imposed, is his last film. He had signed for four films which are under shooting currently . He acted in about 22 films, including Kempe Gowda, Gandedhe, Dandam Dashagunam, Chiru, Amma-I Love, Khaki, Aadyaa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kannada-actor-chiranjeevi-sarja-passes-away-846735.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka asks railways to make annoucement about mandatory registration in Seva Sindu portal by passengers||The Karnataka government has asked  Indian Railways to make announcements at originating stations, where Karnataka bound trains starts, that it was compulsory for passengers travelling to the state to register themselves on the ‘Seva Sindhu’ portal. Karnataka Chief Secretary Vijay Bhaskar in his letter to Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav said that many passengers are not aware of this mandatory rule of the southern state. The mandatory registration of all passengers in Seva Sindu portal made to track passengers those entering Karnataka, the Chief Secretary said. Though thousands of passengers are coming to Karnataka from New Delhi, Bihar, Maharashtra and other states through trains every day, most of them are not registered under the Seva Sindhu portal of the Government of Kamataka. "Hence, it is requested to give instructions to origin railway stations to make announcements that ‘It is compulsory for all passengers travelling to Karnataka to register in Seva Sindhu portal. Otherwise, they will not be allowed for home quarantine’, and also to give passengers awareness (about this) at the time of booking tickets,” Bhaskar said in his letter to the national transporter. Seva Sindhu portal, under the control of the Karnataka government, which also issues e-passes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-asks-railways-to-make-annoucement-about-mandatory-registration-in-seva-sindu-portal-by-passengers-846805.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Youth ends life to 'experience death'||A 26-year-old man committed suicide by consuming poison "to experience death" in Gowraganahalli village of Koratagere taluk. The deceased, identified as Dhananjay, has recorded a Tik Tok video before ending his life. "I am ending my life to get an experience of death," he is heard saying in the video. Dhananjay was rushed to the hospital after he consumed pesticide. However, he did not respond to the treatment. He was married four months ago. A case has been registered in Koratagere police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/youth-ends-life-to-experience-death-846838.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Rights of migrants protected, Karnataka tells SC||The Karnataka government has told the Supreme Court that rights of the migrants had been protected right from the inception of the lockdown on March 25 by providing food, or rations, and shelter and benefit of Shramik Trains to those who wanted to travel back to their native places. “Even prior to the order passed by this court on May 28 for free travel and food, the state has agreed to pay the train and bus fare of all migrants who wished to travel out of Karnataka and for those who wanted to return to the state. Technology has been deployed to determine the number of migrants,” it said. “As on June 3, about 9,13,742 migrant workers have registered to travel outside the state on the Seva Sindhu portal. About 3.00 lakh migrant workers have already departed the state, and an effort has been made to match the details of migrant workers who have left with those registered on the Seva Sindhu Portal,” the state government has said. The state government said till May 31, nine Shramik trains have been arranged for bringing persons into the state from Maharashtra, Delhi, Haryana, and Punjab and the expenses for travel for bringing in migrant labourers and students into the state has been paid fully by it. A total of 217 Shramik Special Trains have been operated till June 1 from Bengaluru, Mangaluru, Udupi, Mysuru, Hassan, Hubballi, and Ballari, carrying about 3,07,661 migrant workers to different states, such as Bihar, West Bengal, Orissa, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Assam, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Manipur, and Tripura. On the data available on the Seva Sindhu portal regarding the number of persons registered to travel to respective states, a request has been sent to the Divisional Railways Manager, Bengaluru, to operate 101 Shramik Special Trains from May 30 to June 10, 2020, it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rights-of-migrants-protected-karnataka-tells-sc-846839.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||RS polls: Gowda to announce decision today||Former prime minister H D Deve Gowda will announce his decision on whether he will contest the Rajya Sabha elections from Karnataka, scheduled to be held on June 19, on Monday. The senior leader is yet to announce his decision, even though JD(S) leaders were keen on his candidature at a recent meeting of the party. State Congress president D K Shivakumar has hinted at backing Deve Gowda's candidature. "There is no question of supporting BJP (for Rajya Sabha polls) as we are a secular party. We have fielded only one candidate and high command will decide (whether to back JD-S) on another seat," he said. Numbers in the Legislative Assembly ensure two seats for the BJP and one for Congress. JD(S) is short of a few seats in the Assembly to win a Rajya Sabha seat. According to JD(S) sources, Gowda is likely to contest the election. He had lost the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, contesting from Tumkur. While BJP is yet to announce its candidates, it is learnt that they aren't against the former PM's candidature. But the party is wary of the message this would send to its voters. Veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge will file his nomination for Rajya Sabha on Monday. The senior leader was recently cleared by the party high command to contest from the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/rs-polls-gowda-to-announce-decision-today-846840.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||KSE admits to dissent in party over ministerial berths||RDPR minister and senior BJP leader K S eshwarappa on Sunday said that the BJP core committee had zeroed in on the candidates for the upcoming Rajya Sabha and Vidhana Parishat (Legislative Council) elections and now it is up to the party’s central leadership to decide on the list. “It’s true a few leaders, who didn’t get ministerial berths, are unhappy. But the BJP is like a family and the family members will express their aspirations and disappointments. Our leadership will talk to and placate the unhappy leaders,” Eshwarappa told reporters. When asked whether the Congress and the JD(S) would take advantage of the infighting in the BJP, Eshwarappa said, “ Congress lost several of its members and eventually lost the power. The JD(S) is grounded. BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel and Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa will resolve the issues in the state unit.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kse-admits-to-dissent-in-party-over-ministerial-berths-846841.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Low pressure in Bay of Bengal to intensify monsoon in state||The southwest monsoon will intensify in parts of interior Karnataka during the week. A low-pressure region is forecast in Bay of Bengal for June 8 or 9, resulting in fairly widespread rainfall in interior Karnataka districts including Bengaluru Urban while intensifying rainfall in coastal Karnataka and Malnad region. The encouraging forecast for agricultural sector in the state came in the wake of good pre-monsoon showers. G S Sreenivasa Reddy, Director, Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Cell (KSNDMC) told DH that monsoon will intensify in the entire state from June 10 due to the effect of the low-pressure region in Bay of Bengal. “Both coastal and interior districts will receive good rainfall upto June 13,” he said. During the course of the week, the Northern Limit of Monsoon - now passing through Karwar, Shivamogga and Tumakuru in the state, is expected to cover the entire state. According to data available, Karnataka received normal rainfall during the first week of monsoon and during the pre-monsoon season. In the first week of monsoon season, Karnataka received 44 mm rainfall against a normal of 36 mm. Though there is a slight deficit in rainfall in South Interior Karnataka region, it will be bridged quickly as monsoon progressed, Reddy said. During the pre-monsoon from March 1 to May 31, Karnataka recorded 123 mm rainfall against a normal of 125 mm. Rainfall was 10% above normal in South Interior Karnataka, while it was 14% less in coastal and 11% less in North Interior Karnataka region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/low-pressure-in-bay-of-bengal-to-intensify-monsoon-in-state-846842.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Tell K’taka-bound passengers to register on portal, Rlys urged||The Karnataka government has asked Indian Railways to make  announcements at originating stations of Karnataka-bound trains starts that it was compulsory for passengers travelling to the state to register themselves on the ‘Seva Sindhu’ portal. Karnataka Chief Secretary T M Vijay Bhaskar, in his letter to Railway Board Chairman V K Yadav, said many passengers are not aware of this mandatory rule of the southern state.The mandatory registration of all passengers in Seva Sindhu portal helps track passengers entering Karnataka, the Chief Secretary said. Though thousands of passengers are coming to Karnataka from New Delhi, Bihar, Maharashtra and other states through trains every day, most of them are not registered on the Seva Sindhu portal of the Kamataka government. “Hence, it is requested to give instructions to origin railway stations to make announcements that ‘It is compulsory for all passengers travelling to Karnataka to register on Seva Sindhu portal. Otherwise they will not be allowed to undergo home quarantine,” the chief secretary said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/tell-k-taka-bound-passengers-to-register-on-portal-rlys-urged-846843.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||3 DD channels sought for school education: minister||The state government has requested the Centre for three Doordarshan channels for school education in these times of Covid and beyond, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, the minister said, "The pandemic has hit the education sector hard. The Education department is faced with multiple challenges in framing syllabus, holding classes, physical education among others. We have no options but to adapt with this unprecedented situation." "We have received good response to Makkalavani YouTube channel and an educational programme being aired on DD Chandana. I have apprised the Centre about the need for three more DD channels to support the students' learning in these testing times," the minister said. He added, the state is expecting guidelines from the Centre on the same. "This time, 18,48,203 students have registered to write SSLC exams. A thermal gun each for 200 students will be given to screen the students during exams. The infected and those from containment zones have been barred from taking exams, starting June 25. However, they will be allowed to write supplementary exams as freshers," the minister explained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/3-dd-channels-sought-for-school-education-minister-846844.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Kumaraswamy attacks govt over BPL cards||Former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy came down hard on the state government for demanding tractor and other vehicle owners to return their Below Poverty Line (BPL) ration cards, here on Sunday. Terming the decision as an ‘indication of stupidity’, he alleged that the decision showed that the state government appeared keen to harass and persecute farmers. During a review meeting of Food and Civil Supplies department held last week, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa had threatened to initiate legal action if government employees and owners of tractors and other vehicles did not return their BPL cards. “The government, which has demanded farmers to return their BPL cards, have made tractors, (and) vehicles as a criteria. Isn’t the government encouraging scientific farming, (and) tractor purchase. Is it not stupid to ask a farmer to purchase a tractor and then use it as a criteria to rob him of the BPL card?” he said. Though true beneficiaries should get benefits, it should not be a reason to hurt farmers. “There are several shortcomings in the public distribution system, (and) vested interests. This should be abolished first,”he said. The government, before threatening to strip farmers of BPL cards, should realise that the card is the basis for the several amenities provided by the government, the JD(S) leader added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/kumaraswamy-attacks-govt-over-bpl-cards-846845.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Teachers worried as govt tells them to report for duty||Lakhs of teachers working with government schools in the state are worried about their health as the Department of Primary and Secondary Education has insisted that they report for work from Monday. A circular issued by the department says that all teachers report to work from Monday (June 8) and start the admission campaign and also identify out-of-school children by visiting households. Following the order, the teachers have expressed concerns over their health as several schools were used as quarantine centres.  Basavaraj Gurikar, president, Karnataka State Primary School Teachers Association said, “We have even written to the Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar in this regard with a request not to put our lives at risk.” Containment zones The teachers are also worried about the schools which were used as quarantine centres. “Health department has used several schools as quarantine centres in rural areas and we have no information about sanitisation of those schools post quarantine,” says Gurikar. “There are some schools which are in containment zones and we were not informed about alternative arrangements,” says a teacher. There are over 1.66 lakh teachers working at 43,000 government schools across the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/teachers-worried-as-govt-tells-them-to-report-for-duty-846846.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Young district Yadgir yearns for better health infra||A spike in Covid-19 positive cases has exposed poor medical infrastructure in Yadgir, the youngest district of the state, carved out of Kalaburagi in December 2009. This is the only district in Kalyana Karnataka region where a government medical college is yet to be established.  The district is facing a shortage of specialist doctors to treat Covid-19 patients with co-morbidities. Till Friday, the district had 373 positive cases (345 active), securing an unwanted fourth position in the state. The district was coronavirus-free till May 11 and lost green zone tag after a couple who travelled back from Ahmedabad tested positive on May 12.    According to district administration sources, over 14,000 migrant labourers have travelled back to the district from Maharashtra after the lockdown norms were eased. They kept coming in Shramik trains. Positive cases are being reported in large numbers among the Maharashtra returnees. However, the shortage of specialists has kept the district administration on tenterhooks. The new district hospital has been converted into Covid-19 hospital even before its inauguration. Government hospitals are functioning with about 50% doctors as the doctors are reluctant to work, given the poor infrastructure, the sources said.   Deputy Commissioner M Kurmarao told DH that this shortage has not come in the way of treating Covid patients. Positive patients have been categorised as symptomatic, asymptomatic, moderate, vulnerable, mild and very mild. There will be normal treatment for patients with very mild symptoms. Specialist doctors are required for patients with co-morbidities. Such patients will be sent to the ESIC hospital or Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences, both in Kalaburagi, for specialised treatment. So far, the district has luckily not reported such patients. As the people are testing positive for the infections before being symptomatic, it has become easy for the doctors to treat them. “We have kept ready Covid Care Centres for positive patients,” the DC said. Except Yadgir, other districts (Kalaburagi, Raichur, Ballari, Bidar and Koppal) in the region have medical colleges.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/young-district-yadgir-yearns-for-better-health-infra-846847.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Restriction on Holy Communion, Friday prayers||Disinfecting mosques every day, restrictions on receiving Holy Communion during mass and other prayers at churches and commencing and finishing prayers in “minimum permissible time” are among the guidelines issued by the Department of Minority Welfare, Haj and Waqf as religious places open on June 8. The guidelines specify the dos and dont’s at Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist and Zoroastrian places of worship to contain the spread of Covid-19 pandemic. These will be in addition to the general guidelines issued to religious places of worship. Devotees will now have to perform Wazu (Ablution) at their homes, and carry their own namaz carpets to the mosque. The guidelines directed mosque management committees to avoid common prayer mats, disinfect entire masjid at regular intervals and staggered timings for Friday prayers. Imams of mosques should complete Friday prayers in 15 minutes. While mosques will open for all five daily prayers, dargahs will open only between 10 am to 4 pm. Churches are allowed to hold public masses on Sundays, with directions to have it on week days if the number of participants is more. The use of liturgical booklets and hymnals are prohibited, and “Holy Communion shall be received strictly on hand or other alternatives prescribed by the bishop for thetime being”. Churches are also encouraged to live stream masses for those who cannot attend due to various reasons, and the priest of a parish will ensure strict implementation of measures to contain Covid-19. Gurudwaras are also encouraged to commence and finish prayers in minimum permissible time and notify Sunday prayer timings in three separate batches, if necessary. Extra devotees in all religious institutions will have to wait outside, maintaining social distancing norms, until a prayer session is complete. Both Jain Basadis and Buddhist Viharas will have to finish prayers as soon as possible. At Viharas there will be neither distribution of goutham prasadi nor use of pooja wheels attached to stupas. At Zoroastrian Agyaris, presence of more than four devotees in the kebla or touching tray/priests’ hand while offering sukhad is not permitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/restriction-on-holy-communion-friday-prayers-846871.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Four staff nurses at Davangere dist hospital contract virus||Six health workers - four staff nurses and two Group D workers of Health department - from the designated Covid Hospital in Davangere have tested positive for novel coronavirus on Sunday. The district reported 17 fresh infections in the last 24 hours (ending 5 pm on Sunday) taking its Covid-19 tally past 200-mark. The health workers - five women and a man - have been working at the district hospital for quite sometime. The contact tracing for all six, aged between 31 and 50, is underway. This apart, five people, including four women, are believed to have contracted the virus from Patient 4093, a 83-year-old woman from Basavarajpet who died of Covid-19 on May 31. A nine-year-old boy, a contact of a head constable from Badawane police station (P 3637), has tested positive for Covid-19. Three people have contracted the disease from Patient 1247, a 35-year-old woman from SJM Nagar. A 71-year-old woman from a containment zone also contractedthe virus. On the bright side, the district has seen 150 discharges, so far. As on June 7, it has 47 active cases. 2 Jindal workers test +ve Two Jindal factory workers were among four who tested positive for Covid-19 in Ballari district on Saturday. Two workers of Torangallu-based factory, aged 34 and 48, contracted the virus from their colleague who tested positive to the disease recently.A 45-year-old woman, a Mumbai returnee, and a 54-year-old man with a travel history to Andhra, also tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday. All four have been admitted to Ballari Covid-19 Hospital, said Deputy Commissioner S S Nakul. After a prolonged quiet period, Belagavi saw 38 fresh infections. According to the Health department’s bulletin, all cases reported on Sunday are Maharashtra returnees. According to sources, many tested positive after they returned home from institutional quarantine. Hence, the process of tracing and quarantining their primary contacts is underway. The district, as on June 7, has a total case count of 301. Of which, 149 are active cases. Meanwhile, the virus hotspots of Kalyana Karnataka - Yadgir and Kalaburagi districts - recorded 39 cases each with Maharashtra returnees accounting for 75 of them. Two UAE returnees from Kalaburagi also tested positive while contact tracing for an elderly woman is underway. Udupi district, which witnessed an explosion of cases in the last one week, saw just 13 infections on Sunday. The coastal district, however, tops the Covid-19 case list in the state at 902. Dakshina Kannada and Shivamogga are other two districts to have reported cases in double digits with 17 and 12 respectively.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/four-staff-nurses-at-davangere-dist-hospital-contract-virus-846879.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Sandalwood actor Chiranjeevi Sarja no more||Promising Kannada actor Chiranjeevi Sarja died of heart attack here on Sunday. He was 39. The actor, according to sources, collapsed while speaking to his father on phone at around 1.10 pm. He was immediately rushed to Apollo Hospital in Jayanagar and he was in an unresponsive state according to the doctors. Dr Govindaiah Yatheesh, Unit Head, Apollo Specialty Hospital, Jayanagar, said, “Actor Chiranjeevi Sarja was talking to his father at 1:10 pm. He was sweating and collapsed. It is around the same time they left the house. At 2:20 pm he reached Apollo Hospital in Jayanagar and the cause of death seems cardiac arrest. But the family has not requested for an autopsy. We have handed over the body to the police.” His throat swabs have been sent to laboratory for a report, according to sources. Sources close to the family revealed that the last rites will be conducted at the farmhouse of his grandfather Shakti Prasad at Jakkenahalli in Madhugiri taluk of Tumakuru district on Monday.  Chiranjeevi Sarja, the nephew of multilingual South Indian actor, Arjun Sarja, began his career in the Sandalwood with Vayuputra in 2009. Shivarjuna, released days before the lockdown was imposed, is his last film. He acted in about 22 films, including Kempe Gowda, Gandedhe, Dandam Dashagunam, Chiru, Amma-I Love, Khaki and Aadyaa. He married Meghana Raj, the daughter of Prameela Joshai and Sundar Raj in May 2018. The couple were expecting a baby. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, former CM H D Kumaraswamy, KPCC President DK Shivakumar condoled the sudden demise of Chiranjeevi Sarja.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/sandalwood-actor-chiranjeevi-sarja-no-more-846885.html
07-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||State Covid tally goes up by 239||The state reported 239 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, which is the lowest number recorded in the last five days, but is the seventh highest single-day rise in the state’s ongoing pandemic so far. The maximum number of the new cases were registered in Kalaburagi and Yadgir (with 39 each), followed by Belagavi with 38 cases. A majority of cases (183) are returnees travelling back to Karnataka from states, including 177 individuals who came from Maharashtra. A further nine cases are international travellers, all of whom came from Kuwait (5) or the United Arab Emirates.  Two individuals were identified as having the disease after health officials discovered that they had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and 10 were identified as positive after they showed symptoms of Influenza Like Illness (ILI). The addition of new cases keeps Kalaburgi at the top stop with 660 total cases, trailed by Yadagiri with 515 cases. According to the State War Room data, the doubling rate of these two districts have five and eight days respectively.  The most problematic district in the state, as per State War Room charts is Udupi, which has been beset by a swarm of cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/state-covid-tally-goes-up-by-239-846892.html
07-06-2020||West||Situation under control, says BMC after gas leak complaints||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Sunday said the situation is under control after several residents complained of suspected gas leak from Chembur, Ghatkopar and adjoining areas in the city. Many residents complained of suspected gas leak from Chembur, Ghatkopar, Powai, and Vikhroli areas late on Saturday night, an official of the BMCs disaster management cell said. "Situation is under control. All necessary resources have been mobilised. Origin of the smell is being investigated. 17 fire appliances are on field equipped with public announcement system and ready for a response if required," the BMC tweeted. A fire appliance is a vehicle designed to assist in firefighting and other rescue operations. It is normally based on truck chassis and weighs over 12 tonnes. "All concerned agencies have been mobilised to check the source of the foul smell being complained of by several residents in the areas of Chembur, Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg, Vikhroli & Powai," the corporation added. Asking people in these areas not to panic, the civic body said the situation is being monitored. "Anyone having problems due to the foul smell please put a wet towel or cloth on ur face covering the nose," it tweeted. Shiv Sena minister Aaditya Thackeray, whose party controls the BMC, tweeted, "Situation is under control. I urge all not to panic. All possible and necessary resources are mobilised. "With regards to the foul odor across some parts of Mumbai, as of now, the Mumbai Fire Brigade has been activated with its SoPs. I appeal to all to stay indoors, not panic. Close your windows," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/situation-under-control-says-bmc-after-gas-leak-complaints-846642.html
07-06-2020||West||Thane engineer develops Coro-bot to combat coronavirus challenges||With the ever-growing challenges of COVID-19, a Thane-based instrumental engineer has developed a robot that can perform multiple tasks. Pratik Tirodkar from Thane,  near Mumbai,  came up with the idea of developing a robot which would dispense food, water and medicines to coronavirus patients in their wards without the physical presence of nurses and other care-givers. Pratik was inspired by PM Narendra Modi’s Make in India vision and his clarion call for innovation. Coro-bot cuts the requirement of physical contact of nurses and ward boys with the patient. It delivers food, water, medicines to them and can interact with them using a camera. Patients are cautioned through audio reminders to sanitise their hands before they pick up things from trays. The robot has 3 trays which can carry 10-15 kg weight each and storage of 30 kg capacity at the bottom. Hence it can easily carry supplies for 10-15 people at a time.The sensors in dispensers ensure that liquids or sanitisers flow quickly when we hold our hand below it and flow is cut-off when the hand/glass is removed from underneath the dispensing area. This ensures minimal wastage.The robot illumination feature using LED lights which makes sure that it can be easily used during the night as well.It also has small PC-like set-up at the top for work and entertainment. Coro-bot not only allows sanitisation by users but it also sanitises itself to avoid spreading of viruses through surface contact. It has 3 nozzles at the back to spray disinfectant on itself. Moreover, it goes on sanitising the path it treads by using UV lights which do the primary sanitising of its path. "I wanted to make this robot basically for our ward-boys and nurses who are at the forefront of treating corona patients'. But due to lockdown it became difficult to procure necessary material for the same," Tirodkar said. He got help from Kalyan MP Shrikant Shinde. "I, along with team of my 3-4 employees, made customizable components as many regular parts were not available due to the lockdown. When some of the components become available as the lockdown restrictions ease, we will improve the appearance of the robots", said Pratik.Pratik also added that his unit has the capacity to make 2-3 robots per week, however the prototype took only 15-20 days to be made. Currently it is being used at Holycross Hospital in Kalyan. Pratik and his team have created a special app for operating this robot so that it can be operated from far away places as well. The Internet of Things (IoT) mechanism will be used for this process. IoT is the process behind the automation of home appliances, or smart homes.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/thane-engineer-develops-coro-bot-to-combat-coronavirus-challenges-846688.html
07-06-2020||West||No decision yet on opening religious places in Maharashtra: Official||The Maharashtra government is yet to take a decision on opening religious places for devotees in the state as part of lockdown relaxations, an official said on Sunday. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) last week said 'Unlock-1' will be initiated from June 8 under which the nationwide lockdown, enforced on March 25, will be relaxed to a great extent, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions will be in place till June 30 in the country. The MHA also asked the Union Health Ministry to issue standard operating procedures for these sectors after consulting other ministries, departments and other stakeholders to ensure social distancing and to contain the spread of COVID-19. However, the Maharashtra government, while last week extending the lockdown period till June 30, decided to keep religious places closed for some more period, and no fresh decision has been taken on it. "A decision is yet to be taken on opening temples, mosques, churches and other religious establishments for people. There has been no decision so far on allowing people to gather at such places, Maharashtra's law and judiciary department secretary Rajendra Bhagwat told PTI. Authorities of some prominent temples in Maharashtra also said they have not received any official communication on allowing shrines to be opened for devotees. When contacted, Adesh Bandekar, chairman of the Shree Siddhivinayak Ganapati Temple Trust in Mumbai told PTI, We have not received any communication from the state regarding opening of the temple. A meeting of the temple board is scheduled in the coming week." "The trust will announce its decision once the state government issues fresh directives. We are currently creating facilities for maintaining social distancing once devotees are allowed to visit the temple," he said. Bandekar said as of now, priests are following their routine and performing rituals at the temple, which is one of the most popular shrines in Mumbai and attracts hundreds of visitors on normal days. Authorities of the Pune-based Shreemant Dagdusheth Halwai Sarvajanik Ganpati Trust and Vitthal Rukmini Temple Samiti in Pandharpur (in Solapur district) also said they have not received any communication for opening the religious places for public. The Dagdusheth Halwai Ganesh temple in Pune is quite popular among people and attracts over a million devotees every year. The Vitthal Rukmini temple in Pandharpur attracts over two crore devotees in a year. During the Hindu month of Ashaadh, lakhs of 'warkaris' and other pilgrims from across the state walk to the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/no-decision-yet-on-opening-religious-places-in-maharashtra-official-846694.html
07-06-2020||West||Sudden rise of 'Mahatma' Sood, enacting a political script: Shiv Sena on Bollywood actor helping migrants||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Sunday wondered whether the BJP propped up Bollywood actor Sonu Sood to "offer help" to migrant workers from north India stranded in Maharashtra amidst the lockdown, with the political motive to show the Uddhav Thackeray government in poor light. In his weekly column 'Rokhthok' in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana', Raut questionned the sudden rise of "Mahatma" Sood on the social scene of Maharashtra during the lockdown. Raut also referred to a "sting operation" against Sood ahead of the 2019 general elections, saying he had agreed to promote the BJP-led government at various platforms through his official social media accounts. The Sena's attack came against the backdrop of reports that Sood had arranged buses for migrant workers stuck in Mumbai. "Sood is an actor whose profession is to deliver dialogues scripted by someone else and make a living out of it. There are many people like Sood who would promote any political party if paid well," Raut said. He said no wise man would believe in Sood suddenly developing sympathy for labourers and sending them back in large numbers. Raut, who is the chief whip of the Sena in Parliament and executive editor of 'Saamana', said, "the BJP has (politically) adopted Sonu Sood and tried to create an influence among the North Indian migrant workers". During the coronavirus crisis, the BJP was struggling to stay politically relevant but faced a severe backlash from people as they did not like frequent criticism of the Thackeray government by leaders of the BJP, he stated. "The plight of migrant workers also turned many people against the Modi government for its handling of the coronavirus crisis," Raut stated. He said it was necessary to find out whether the BJP put a mask of a social worker on Sonu Sood and used him to further its political designs. "There is a person called Shankar Pawar, who is the head of Rashtriya Banjara Seva Sangh and seen frequently standing behind Sood in various photographs. He has the huge system and network to send people home," Raut said. Raut strongly defended the state government, which also comprises the NCP and the Congress, over its handling of the migrant crisis. "No other state could have treated migrant workers the way they have been taken care of by the Maharashtra government," he stated. The government has set up a special unit to streamline the process to transport migrant workers to their native states. "However, to show the state government's work in poor light, Sood has been deliberately promoted. 'If anyone wants to go home, please contact me' was the appeal of the actor," Raut wrote. The senior Sena leader also claimed that Sood had even received an invitation from Maharashtra governor B S Koshyari to laud his work. "Maharashtra chief secretary Ajoy Mehta should send a detailed list of people and organisations who served relentlessly and selflessly during the coronavirus crisis. Unfortunately, they do not have any political backing to promote their work," Raut said. In a swipe at the BJP, Raut said that people might soon here Sood's name in 'Mann Ki Baat' radio programme and him meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi.  "Sood might even visit Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi as a star campaigner for the BJP. When most of the actors were sitting at home, Sonu Sood's acting skills were flourishing," he stated. You do not need a screen all the time to show your acting skills as has been demonstrated by "Mahatma Sood", Raut said. "Sood's political directors are experts in their field. We will come to know soon about his next political move," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/sudden-rise-of-mahatma-sood-enacting-a-political-script-shiv-sena-on-bollywood-actor-helping-migrants-846762.html
07-06-2020||West||COVID-19 deaths in Maharashtra cross 3,000||The COVID-19 pandemic death toll in Maharashtra crossed the 3,000-mark on Sunday. The deaths in Mumbai and the larger  Mumbai metropolitan region also crossed the 2,000 mark. In the last 24 hours, 91 deaths were reported across the state taking the progressive total to 3,060. Of the total deaths in the state,  Mumbai-MMR accounts for 2,064 deaths - nearly one-third of the state's casualties. In the same period,  3,007 new cases were reported pushing the tally to 85,975. On the other hand,  1,924 patients were discharged taking the total to 39,314. Of the 91 deaths,  71 were reported in the MMR.  Meanwhile,  the total tests crossed the 5.50 lakh mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-deaths-in-maharashtra-cross-3000-846822.html
07-06-2020||West||Comorbidities, late treatment pushing up death rate due to COVID-19 in State: Gujarat Government||The Gujarat government on Sunday said existing comorbidities among COVID-19 patients and delay in availing medical treatment are mainly responsible for the high death rate in Ahmedabad and rest of the state. At 6.22 per cent, Gujarat has the highest death rate of COVID-19 patients in the country while the fatality rate for Ahmedabad stands at even higher at 7.2 per cent, a senior bureaucrat said. As on Sunday, Gujarat's overall COVID-19 case count mounted to 20,097 with 1,249 deaths so far, including 14,285 cases and 1,015 fatalities from Ahmedabad district. "84 per cent of the COVID-19 victims in Gujarat had co-morbidities and (also members of) vulnerable groups," state principal secretary (Health) Jayanti Ravi told reporters. Ravi said the death rate is high among patients in vulnerable groups. "These groups include the people above 65 years of age, children below 10 years and pregnant women. This vulnerable group along with those having co-morbidities are at a high risk," Ravi explained while talking about the high death incidence in Gujarat. Another reason is late arrival of patients for medical treatment, she said. "While COVID-19 death rate in the country is 2.8 per cent, the same in Gujarat is double then the national average. The death rate of Gujarat is higher in comparison to all other states," Ravi said. While the death rate in the UK was 14.17 per cent, it was 14.40 per cent in Italy, 19.13 per cent in France, 5 per cent in the USA and 7.88 per cent in New York, she said. "The death rate is high in Britain and France but the same is very low in neighbouring Germany. The reason for that is still not known," she said. Ravi said the state government had taken all necessary steps and is working hard to save every life. "The government has formed a panel of top private doctors to deal with the pandemic situation. They will submit plans for short term, medium term and long term," she said. Meanwhile, Dr Dileep Mawlankar, who is one of the members of the expert group of doctors formed by the government, said the only solution to the problem is the development of "herd immunity". "Early analysis suggests that those cities like Ahmedabad which are facing bad situation due to the pandemic will come out of it fast as the herd immunity develops," Dr Mawlnakar said. Herd immunity means the resistance to the spread of a contagious disease within a population that results if a sufficiently high proportion of individuals are immune to the disease, especially through vaccination. He further said that data for Ahmedabad suggest that areas which were worst affected by coronavirus in the initial stage are now reporting lesser number of cases. "This means that there is a possibility that herd immunity has developed among all the people living in a particular area," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/comorbidities-late-treatment-pushing-up-death-rate-due-to-covid-19-in-state-gujarat-government-846887.html
