08-06-2020||First Edit||Delhi L-G rights a Kejriwal wrong||Delhi Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal has done well to overrule the AAP government’s decision to reserve treatment in the state government’s hospitals and select private hospitals only for residents of Delhi. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had announced that all the beds in Delhi’s hospitals are needed to cater to the needs of the patients from the city and will not be available to those from outside the state. He had also said that the decision was taken on the basis of a survey conducted among residents which showed support for limiting the city’s hospitals to its residents. The government may have thought that it was a practical solution to the problem of overcrowding of hospitals, with Covid-19 cases fast increasing in Delhi. But it was a wrong and unfair decision and amounted to discrimination against those who belong to other states but live in Delhi or travel there. When all citizens have the right to live and work in any part of the country, they should also be able to enjoy the rights related to health, entertainment and other areas of life anywhere without discrimination. The Delhi government said that the central government hospitals in Delhi would be open to people from other states, but the division of the health facilities in a state for separate use by residents and outsiders was questionable. Being the national capital and a city where people from other states regularly go for work and business Delhi has a large floating population.It has reopened its borders, and many establishments like shopping malls and restaurants have reopened.So, the movement of people to Delhi is set to increase in the coming days, and many of them were bound to suffer if the government’s health facilities were denied to them. Delhi is among the most affected states in the country, and with over 1,000 new cases every day, it has the highest per capita Covid-19 infection. From the beginning, it has slipped in containment of the disease for various reasons and has suffered from policy instability and wrong strategies. The decision to limit health treatment only to the residents of Delhi could only be a variation of the “sons of the soil’’ policy, adapted to Covid-19 circumstances. Kejriwal has himself said that at any given time, 60-70% of the patients in Delhi’s hospitals are from other states. So, the decision would have hit many people hard. It would also have set a bad precedent for other states.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/first-edit/delhi-l-g-rights-a-kejriwal-wrong-847295.html
08-06-2020||Hubballi-Dharwad||Coronavirus: Four persons recover from COVID-19 in Hubballi; discharged||P-1507 (9 years, female), and P-1508 (24 years, female) of Uppin Betageri of Dharwad taluk, who tested positive for COVID-19 on May 21, were discharged. P-1060 (34 years, male) of Om Nagar in Dharwad, who contracted the virus on May 16, and P-1913 (51 years, male) of Yalakkeshettar Colony in Dharwad, who tested COVID-19 positive on May 23, were also discharged.   All the four patients were returnees from Maharashtra. So far, 38 persons have recovered from COVID-19 in the district and have been discharged from the hospital, Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/hubballi-dharwad/coronavirus-four-persons-recover-from-covid-19-in-hubballi-discharged-847099.html
08-06-2020||In Perspective||Is Mallya set to face Indian courts soon?||The Vijay Mallya extradition case has generated a lot of buzz in the country as he has turned from the “king of good times” to the poster boy of the recent breed of fugitive business tycoons after he fled the country in March 2016. The Government of India made a formal extradition request to Britain in February 2017. The UK High Court, by its judgement on April 20, dismissed the appeal filed by Mallya against the judgement of December 10, 2018 judgement of Westminster Court paving the way for him to be extradited to India. After the dismissal of the appeal, Mallya filed an application seeking permission to approach the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom, which was also rejected by the UK High Court on May 14, thus setting a 28-day deadline for him to be extradited. That deadline expires on June 12. Extradition is based on the maxim ‘aut punier aut dedere’. That is, the offender must be punished by the State of refuge or surrender to the State which can and will punish him. There were broadly three allegations against Mallya: Conspiracy to commit fraud; making false representations; and money laundering. The SDJ (Senior District Judge) Court, Westminster, as well as the Queens Court Divisional Bench of the UK High Court dealt with the allegations comprehensively. Mallya’s appeal before the UK High Court was admitted only on the ground of Section 84(1) of the UK Extradition Act, 2003, a case where a person has not been convicted. Essentially, the UK High Court had to decide whether a ‘prima facie’ case has been made so as to require the person to face trial. The grounds of Mallya’s appeal – that the case against him was politically motivated and of poor prison conditions in India -- were rejected. On examination, the UK High Court was convinced that prima facie, a strong case exists against Mallya. Interestingly, the courts arrived at this conclusion by examining the essence of Mallya’s conduct both after and before taking the loan in order to decide his complicity prima facie. Evidence recorded under section 161 of CrPC, 1973 (India) is not admissible directly before Indian courts, being hearsay evidence. However, interestingly, section 84(2) and (3) of the Extradition Act (UK) allows for such evidence, along with oral evidence, to be admitted. Moreover, the UK High Court held that documents which, even if not authenticated by the makers/witness, are admissible under section 202(5) of the UK Extradition Act. Examination of section 161 evidence, along with seized emails between Mallya and his executives at Kingfisher Airlines and UB Group, tightened the noose around him. The courts found clear evidence that a reasonable jury would be likely to convict Mallya for the alleged offences if they were committed in the UK. The alleged co-conspirators at IDBI Bank also flouted even the basic rules of the bank to lend money to Mallya. On this, the SDJ Court remarked that “various continuing failures were by a design and with a motive (possibly financial), though not clear from evidence, or it is a case of Bank who were in the thrall of this (flashy) ostensibly billionaire playboy who charmed and cajoled these bankers into losing their common sense”. There was clear evidence of loan money being used and diverted for purposes other than for which the loans were sanctioned (a round robin), thereby establishing a prima facie offence of money laundering. Significantly, the rules of recording evidence in an extradition request before the UK courts is different to that in India, which would make it really difficult for fugitive absconders such as Nirav Modi to escape the clutches of the law. Another interesting takeaway from the judgement is that it is not necessary to show direct evidence of the involvement of the fugitive offender for a prima facie case to be made out. This practice adopted by English Courts is welcome because getting direct evidence against economic offenders is often difficult because these crimes are committed smartly and covered under layers and a maze of paper trail. In such cases, the essence of conduct and circumstantial evidence must be given due weightage to deduce culpability of the accused, as was done in Mallya’s case. Learning lessons from many alleged offenders going absconding, Parliament enacted the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018, whereby a person can be declared a fugitive economic offender in case of an offence involving Rs 100 crore or more and the proceeds of crime in India as well as abroad can be attached. In the case of Mallya as well, the UK High Court had passed an order allowing seizure of his properties in the UK in July 2018. The progressive manner in which the UK courts have dealt with the Mallya extradition case, coupled with the stringent provisions of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, 2018, will make it really difficult for other economic offenders who chose to flee to the UK. It is likely that Mallya has applied for asylum in the UK to earn a temporary reprieve. But he is unlikely to succeed, but as per section 39(3) of the Extradition Act, 2003, a person cannot be extradited unless his asylum request is finally determined. Apart from this, he may approach the European Court of Human Rights, citing fear of inhumane treatment in Indian prisons, a fear which has been allayed, again at the extradition hearing itself. All these tactics are purely dilatory, meant to delay the inevitable. Perhaps the time has come to tweak the rules of evidence in India in cases of economic offences so as to ensure that justice is done timely in such cases. In Mallya’s case, we may have to wait for some more time before he faces the Indian courts. (The writer is an Advocate on Record in the Supreme Court of India)||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/in-perspective/is-mallya-set-to-face-indian-courts-soon-847296.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Coronavirus Unlock 1.0: Devotees visit temples in Dakshina Kannada as they reopen after over two months||The staff at the temple were seen checking the temperature of the devotees using thermal scanners at the entrance and were directing them to use the sanitiser before moving further inside the temple. “Not many devotees have visited the temple since morning. People are still scared to come out in public places fearing COVID-19 and its spread,” said a priest of a temple in Mangaluru.  “Once all the sevas commence, the influx of devotees will increase to temples. Now, theertha, Mangalarathi, “anna prasada” are not offered in temples. The devotees can only have a darshan of the presiding deity in the temple,” said a shopkeeper near the temple. Further, a banner in front of the temples states that children below 10 years, pregnant women and senior citizens should avoid visiting the temples as a precautionary measure. The guidelines in front of the Kadri Manjunatha Temple urged devotees not to touch pillars, chariot, books and other items inside the temple. Restrictions to continue Kateel Durgaparameshwari Temple management has decided to continue the restrictions of the lockdown period for a few more days. “If darshan is allowed inside the temple, then there are chances of a large number of devotees visiting Kateel Temple. The temple does not have enough systems to manage the crowd.  Further, two COVID-19 cases have been registered in Kateel Gram Panchayat and in the neighbouring Ekkaru Panchayat jurisdiction. Hence, it has been decided not to lift the restrictions,” said the Temple Management Committee. The Kateel Temple is mulling over making arrangements for online darshan for the devotees and a software is being developed on the same. At Kukke Subrahmanya Temple, the authorities have made arrangements to collect the address and phone number of the devotees at the entrance of the temple. DK district has 36 ‘A’ category temples, 44 ‘B’ category temples, and 416 ‘C’ category temples.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/coronavirus-unlock-10-devotees-visit-temples-in-dakshina-kannada-as-they-reopen-after-over-two-months-846989.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Wholesale vendors to shift back to Mangaluru Central Market||Wholesale vendors, who were shifted to APMC yard in Baikampady from Central Market in Mangaluru following the directions of the Mangaluru City Corporation two-and-a-half months ago, have decided to carry out business in Central Market in Mangaluru from Tuesday (June 9). “We are ready to carry out the business in the Central Market. The district administration and MCC should give us an opportunity to carry out business. Police security should also be provided,” said Central Market Merchants Association President M Mustafa Kunhi to media persons.    Stating that Central Market had 151 wholesalers and 337 retail vendors, Mustafa said wholesalers had shifted to APMC yard on April 8. Retailers could not carry out business owing to the lockdown. “Initially we will commence our business from Central Market. Later, we will urge the MCC to allow retailers to carry out the business.” He said the wholesalers are carrying out business on the outer side of the market and there will be no problem in maintaining social distancing. The merchants, however, are in distress. “We were not carrying out business illegally in Central Market. We all had a license from the MCC and were paying the rent as well. As many as 103 retailers were carrying out business in stalls and 234 retailers carried out business inside the yard of Central Market,” he explained. Association legal advisor Manmohan Jois said, “The High Court has issued a stay order for shifting of traders and demolition of the Central Market old building. Central Market is a sub yard of the APMC.  Hence, the MCC does not have any power in it. The MCC should take prior permission from the state government to take up activities.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/wholesale-vendors-to-shift-back-to-mangaluru-central-market-847082.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Rajya Sabha polls: Eranna Kadadi, a BJP loyalist and soft-spoken leader||BJP Belagavi division in charge Eranna Kadadi being announced as the party candidate for the Rajya Sabha elections has come in as a surprise for many including for party leaders from the district here. Former president of district unit and former Zilla Panchayat president, Kadadi, has been seen as a soft-spoken leader of the party who does not have any record of confrontation with party leaders and workers. After names of sitting Rajya Sabha Member, Dr Prabhakar Kore and former MP Ramesh Katti made it to the media, Kadadi did not express his wish to be party candidate and had been maintaining silence. Party leaders who did not want to be named said, they were surprised by the decision of party high command but would adhere to it.  After Balachandra Jarkiholi had joined BJP in the year 2008, Kadadi, who had been active in the constituency to pursue his political ambitions, had taken a backseat. He had contested Zilla Panchayat elections and was also its president for one term. As the party in charge of Belagavi division, he was seen toiling hard during 2018 Assembly elections and 2019 Lok Sabha elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/rajya-sabha-polls-eranna-kadadi-a-bjp-loyalist-and-soft-spoken-leader-847091.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Father, daughter die in road accident in Davangere||A man and his daughter died on spot and two others sustained severe injuries in a head-on collision between two bikes near the industrial area in Davangere on Monday. According to police, the deceased have been identified as Siddesh (35), and his daughter, Priyanka (3), residents of Turchaghatta, Davangere taluk. The incident took place when the duo was heading towards Davangere from Turchaghatta. Though injured persons were battling for life on the road, people did not make any effort to take them to the hospital. Hadadi police have registered a case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/father-daughter-die-in-road-accident-in-davangere-847092.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Hubballi AAP demands rollback of hike in property tax||District Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has urged the government to use its special power to completely rollback the hike announced in the property tax in urban local bodies during the ongoing COVID-19 crisis, failing which a popular movement would be formulated after three days. "Hubballi-Dharwad Mahanagara Palike (HDMP) increased the property tax rate by upto 30 per cent, The civic body only reduced it by 5 per cent after several memoranda were submitted. With such hike, the HDMP can earn only 12 per cent additional revenue, which can be compensated using other grants including special packages announced by Prime Minister and chief minister," said AAP district unit convener Satosh Nargund. Property tax rate is not increased in some ULBs like Shivamogga and Bengaluru. If District In-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar cannot not help citizens who are already in severe trouble due to the lockdown, he should resign, Nargund added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/hubballi-aap-demands-rollback-of-hike-in-property-tax-847118.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Devotees religiously follow guidelines at temples||Sri Chamundeshwari Devi temple, atop Chamundi Hill and Srikanteshwara Swami temple in Nanjangud, opened for devotees after a gap of nearly three months.  The temples were closed as per lockdown guidelines due to Covid-19. However, only a few devotees visited the temples on Day One. Chamundeshwari temple was opened at 7.30 am. District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar and people’s representatives took darshan. Later, the minister visited Srikanteshwara Temple in Nanjangud. All safety measures like screening and sanitising were in place. Devotees maintained social distance, following the guidelines religiously. Minister Somashekar said, “Chamundeshwari Devi darshana to devotees on Fridays during the month of Aashada, which will commence this month end, is yet to be decided.” It has to be noted that lakhs of devotees visit the temple during Aashada and the district administration makes elaborate arrangements every year. He said, “It is difficult to ensure social distance among devotees as thousands of devotees visit every Friday. A meeting will be held to discuss the issue.” However, the guidelines were violated during the visit of the minister. A large number of his supporters joined him and no social distance was maintained.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/devotees-religiously-follow-guidelines-at-temples-847253.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Mysuru Zoo reopens after 11 weeks||Sri Jayachamarajendra Zoological Gardens, popularly known as Mysuru Zoo, reopened for public after a gap of 11 months on Monday. District In-charge Minister S T Somashekar and Mandya M P A Sumalatha reopened the zoo, by offering puja to the idol of Chamundeshwari Devi. The minister adopted two elephants and a lion in the name of Kannada actors Rajkumar, M H Ambareesh and Vishnuvardhan. He said that this is the right time to pay tributes to the actors and the animals are adopted for a period of one year, as mark of respect to the actors. While an Indian elephant was adopted in the name of Rajkumar, the African elephant was adopted in the name of Ambareesh. Lion was adopted in the name of Vishnuvardhan, popularly known as Sahasasimha. Minister Somashekar has raised a total of Rs 3.23 crore in four phases, as the zoo had no revenue due to lockdown, following the outbreak of Covid-19. He had urged his supporters and colleagues to donate funds as the zoo had no sufficient funds to feed animals during the lockdown. Minister for Food and Civil Supplies K Gopalaiah donated Rs 8 lakh, Infosys Foundation donated Rs 22 lakh, following a request by the minister. Similarly, Association of Kannada Kootas of America (Akka) has collected Rs 40 lakh for the zoo. Akka former president Shivamurthy Keelara handed over a cheque to the officials on Monday. According to zoo Executive Director Ajit Kulkarni, the zoo is a self-sustained organisation, as it does not receive any funds from the state government since 2002. “The zoo needs financial support from the government, as there is no income. The funds from selling tickets and funds from the animal adoption scheme are the major sources of income for the zoo,” he said. The zoo has 152 species of birds and houses more than 1,450 specimens belonging to 168 species, representing more than 30 countries. According to zoo director, people can adopt animals under the adoption scheme, online. All details are available on the zoo website. The people can pay the fee online, he said. As the minister raised Rs 3.23 for towards the zoo, a plaque carrying his name has been erected at the main entrance. It was unveiled on Monday. The director said, “In order to maintain the crowd, entry of visitors to the zoo is limited to 8,000 per day. The zoo will be open between 10 am and 5 pm. As many as 111 visitors entered thezZoo till 1 pm.” Mayor Tasneem, MLAs S A Ramadass, G T Devegowda, L Nagendra and B Harshavardhan were present.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/mysuru-zoo-reopens-after-11-weeks-847256.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||Places of worship reopen, but no crowds||Even though temple managements had taken all precautionary measures for a safe darshan, only a few visitors were seen at Sri Ranganatha Swamy temple in Srirangapatna, Cheluvanarayana Swami temple Melkote, Bhoo Varahaswamy temple in KR Pet and other Muzrai temples in Mandya, Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts. Similarly, the number of people were less at mosques and churches. The places of worship were opened for public on Monday, after 86 days of lockdown, due to Covid 19-pandemic. The devotees, who visited Melkote temple, offered prayers to the deity. However, priests at the temple were unhappy as the officials did not give permission to keep ‘arathi’ plate, citing government norms. Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary in Srirangapatna taluk also reopened for visitors after almost three months. But, only a few persons visited the bird sanctuary. There was lukewarm response on the reopening day. However, the officials hope that the number of visitors would pick up in coming days. Malekal Tirupati temple in Arsikere, Hassan district, Biligiri Ranganathaswamy temple and Himavad Gopalaswamy temple in Chamarajanagar district too received less crowd on day one. However, Male Mahadeshwara Hill temple saw a good number of devotees. The temple managements had ensured total sanitisation of the premises and had made all arrangements for a safe darshan. However, Tipu’s tomb in Srirangapatna taluk will be open for visitors after June 15, as per the instructions of the Archaeological Survey of India. Along with this, Masjid-e-Aqsa, Gumbad-e-Shahi, opposite Tipu’s tomb will also be open after June 15, according to a press release from Hazrat Tipu Wakf Estate, Srirangapatna. Wildlife safari resumed at Bandipur Tiger Reserve and BRT Range on Monday, but only a few persons visited, according to the officials.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/places-of-worship-reopen-but-no-crowds-847258.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Districts||New dist minister Gopalaiah assures overall development||New District In-charge Minister K Gopalaiah said that he would take all elected representatives, including former prime minister H D Deve Gowda, into confidence and seek their advice for the overall development of Hassan district. Speaking to reporters here, on Monday, he said that the district is already being developed by the government. “I had not sought any district in-charge post. Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa himself gave me the responsibility. I have not come to indulge in politics of the district. I would tour the district for two days a week and would be here during emergencies. I will concentrate on works to be completed in future,” he said. Gopalaiah was accorded a welcome by DC R Girish, Tahsildar J Maruti and Additional SP Nandini. Later, MLAs C N Balakrishna and Preetham J Gowda joined them. Gopalaiah, who is a son-in-law of Shravanabelagola, Channarayapatna taluk was welcomed by a large number of relatives near Sai Mandir. He was felicitated with a huge apple garland.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-districts/new-dist-minister-gopalaiah-assures-overall-development-847259.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Mallikarjun Kharge files Rajya Sabha polls nomination; To contest from Karnataka||Veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday filed his nomination as the party's candidate for the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls from Karnataka. The former union minister filed his nomination in the presence of KPCC president D K Shivakumar, the Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah and other senior party leaders at the office of Legislative Assembly Secretary M K Vishalakshi, who is the returning officer for the polls. Ahead of filing of nomination, the Congress Legislature Party meeting was held under the leadership of Siddaramaiah, after which Shivakumar issued "B-form" to Kharge. The Congress high command on June 5 had announced Kharge as the party's candidate for the Rajya Sabha polls. Election is scheduled on June 19 to fill four Rajya Sabha seats from Karnataka represented by Rajeev Gowda and B K Hariprasad of the Congress, Prabhakar Kore of the BJP and D Kupendra Reddy of the JD(S) that will fall vacant on June 25, with their retirement. June 9 is the last date for filing nominations. Congress with 68 MLAs in the assembly can win one of the four seats easily on its own, so Kharge's victory is said to be certain. Speaking to reporters after filing nomination, Kharge thanked Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Rahul Gandhi and party state leadership for choosing him as the candidate and said, he will honestly try to fulfill their expectations. He said, "I appeal to all legislators to support me, if elections are held." This will be the first stint in Rajya Sabha for Kharge, who has always got elected directly by the people in his political career spanning over four decades. The leader, earlier popularly known as "solillada Saradara", (a leader without defeat), faced his first electoral loss in his political life against BJP's Umesh Jadhav in Gulbarga by a margin of 95,452 votes during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. A nine-time MLA and two-term Lok Sabha member, he had served as Congress floor leader in the previous Lok Sabha, and also as Union Railway and Labour Minister during the UPA government. Kharge, who is 77-years-old, has also served as minister during several Congress governments in the state, and as KPCC President and Leader of opposition in the Karnataka Assembly in the past. His son, Priyank Kharge, is currently MLA representing Chittapur constituency, and had served as minister during the previous Congress and coalition governments. Terming Kharge as a leader of national stature, State Congress Chief Shivakumar said "there was pressure on us from various opposition parties in the country including our party national leaders to field him as the candidate. Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi without any second thought cleared his name and it has satisfied all our karyakartas." His (Kharge) experience is unmatched..we are hopeful that he will continue to be the voice of the people," he said, adding that the CLP has passed a resolution thanking central leadership for choosing Kharge. CLP leader Siddaramaiah said Kharge with his vast experience has all the abilities to effectively represent the party and the state in Rajya Sabha and face the BJP. JD(S) patriarch and former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda is the JD(S) candidate. The regional party that has 34 seats in the assembly is not in a position to win a seat in Rajya Sabha on its own, and will need the support from the Congress with its surplus votes. A minimum 45 votes are required for candidates to win. The BJP with 117 members in the assembly (including Speaker), can ensure easy victory in two seats. The BJP's central leadership on Monday sprang a surprise by fielding Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti as its candidates for the Rajya Sabha election ignoring the recommendations of the state BJP unit.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/mallikarjun-kharge-files-rajya-sabha-polls-nomination-to-contest-from-karnataka-846984.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda to contest Rajya Sabha polls||The JD(S) has decided to field former prime minister and party supremo H D Deve Gowda as its candidate for the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections.  “Former PM H D Deve Gowda has decided to contest the Rajya Sabha elections at the request of party legislators, Congress’ Sonia Gandhi ji and several national leaders (sic),” former chief minister H D Kumaraswamy, Deve Gowda’s son, said in a tweet Monday.  This comes after much dilly-dallying as Gowda was apparently not keen on going to the Rajya Sabha, especially after facing defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.  “From the people, former prime minister Deve Gowda has seen success and defeat. By the people, he has acquired higher positions. It was not an easy task to persuade Deve Gowda to enter the Rajya Sabha,” Kumaraswamy said. “Finally, Deve Gowda responded to everyone's hope and ambition. He will be the state's top representative in the Rajya Sabha,” he added.  Deve Gowda will file his nomination papers on Tuesday, June 9, the last day for candidates to do so. Elections to the four Rajya Sabha seats are scheduled on June 19.  A candidate requires 45 votes to win, but the JD(S) has only 34 MLAs. In all likelihood, Deve Gowda will get the support of the Congress, which will be left with 23 votes after ensuring the victory of Mallikarjun Kharge.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/jds-supremo-hd-deve-gowda-to-contest-rajya-sabha-polls-847013.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||Karnataka: Eranna Kadadi, Ashok Gasti chosen as BJP's RS candidates||The BJP on Monday sprang a surprise by  announcing  the candidature of Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti for Rajya Sabha elections in Karnataka scheduled on June 19.  The  party top brass has rejected the names recommended by the state unit. "Both Kadadi and  Gasti are party grass root workers and active in the  organisation for several decades. Recognising their contribution to the party, the party top brass approved their names for Upper House elections, " said a senior party leader. Kadadi belongs to Veerashiva Lingayat community from  Belagavi district. He earlier served as party's Belagavi district unit president  and Zilla Panchayat president. Gasti belongs to  Savitha Samaj (barber) community  from Raichur district. He also served as party in charge for the Bellary district.  Earlier the state unit had recommended three names for the party top brass for approval : going Rajya Sabha member Prabhakar Kore, former Lok Sabha member Ramesh Katti and hotelier Prakash Shetty. However,  the party top brass rejected all the three names. "Despite intense lobbying by several leaders, by selecting common workers for Rajya Sabha polls, the party has not only recognised loyal workers but also ensured that money bag and influential people should not get upper house members," said the leader. The elections for four Rajya Sabha seats in Karnataka are to be held on June 19 and last date for filing nominations will be on June 9. Since BJP can win only two seats comfortably, it has announced only two names. Though it has some extra votes, the party will not field third candidate, said the official. Congress announced senior leader Mallikarjuna Kharge as the party candidate while former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda will file nominations as JD (S) candidate. Four Rajya Sabha members from Karnataka B K Hariprasad, Rajeev gowda, Prabhakar Kore and Kupendra Reddy are to retire on June 25.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/karnataka-eranna-kadadi-ashok-gasti-chosen-as-bjps-rs-candidates-847023.html
08-06-2020||Karnataka Politics||BJP delivers shock, selects Kadadi, Gasti for RS polls||The BJP central leadership stunned the party's state unit on Monday by naming two ‘ordinary’ party workers — Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti — as candidates for the Rajya Sabha elections from Karnataka. The shock came even as several state BJP leaders had lobbied for candidates such as Ramesh Katti, the brother of 'disgruntled' eight-time MLA Umesh Katti, and incumbent Prabhakar Kore. The move is expected to make life difficult for Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa, who may face further disgruntlement from leaders belonging to the Lingayat community in the Mumbai-Karnataka region. While Kadadi belongs to Panchamasali Lingayat community and hails from Belagavi district, Gasti is from Raichur and belongs to Savita Samaj, which the BJP hopes will further its effort to consolidate support among OBCs.  The decision could unsettle senior BJP leaders from Mumbai-Karnataka region, as the central leadership continued its pattern of promoting second-rung workers to positions of power — a formula used during the formation of Yediyurappa's Cabinet last year. The announcement went against the three names that were discussed in the state BJP core committee on Saturday — Katti, Kore and hotelier Prakash Shetty. The selection of Kadadi and Gasti also counters Yediyurappa's efforts to snuff out differences and bring a balance within the various factions of the BJP unit. Recently, a faction of MLAs under Umesh Katti, with their various demands, had ruffled some feathers in the government. MLAs like Basangouda Patil Yatnal had made their reservations against Yediyurappa clear, before the CM assuaged the worsening situation. Sources in the BJP said that the nominations sent a subtle, but clear, message to the state leadership. "The central leadership is looking for a change of guard in the state government. Though it has not yet been able to zero in on suitable alternatives to Yediyurappa, the signal is clear that it can nurture and elevate senior second-rung leaders to the political mainstream," sources said. From an organisational point of view, the decision to elevate party workers as Rajya Sabha nominees is also expected to provide a boost to the state BJP, motivating its strong army of political workers to slug it out in future elections.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/karnataka-politics/bjp-delivers-shock-selects-kadadi-gasti-for-rs-polls-847309.html
08-06-2020||Mysuru||Coronavirus Unlock 1.0: Chamundeshwari, Nanjundeshwara temples in Karnataka open for devotees||District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar visited the temples and took darshan of God's. The chief priest of Chamundeshwari Devi temple, Shashidar Dixit, offered special puja to deity in the presence of the minister and MLA, G T Devegowda, S A Ramdas, L Nagendra and Deputy Commissioner, Abhiram G Sankar.  Ashada Masa The minister said that Ashada atop Chamundi Hill will be decided soon. Lakhs of people throng the hill on all Fridays during Ashada Masa and thus it will be problematic to manege all devotees and thus it will be decided after a detailed discussion with the concerned authorities, Somashekar said. Later, the minister visited Nanjundeshwara temple in Nanjangud. He offered prayers at the temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/mysuru/coronavirus-unlock-10-chamundeshwari-nanjundeshwara-temples-in-karnataka-open-for-devotees-846986.html
08-06-2020||National||Recovery rate holds promise even as COVID-19 cases spike||As India moves towards Unlock 1.0, the number of patients recovered from COVID-19 has shown a steady rise and now almost equals those under medical supervision. According to the Health Ministry, the number of people cured of COVID-19 and discharged from hospitals on Sunday was 1,19,293 against the 1,20,406 receiving treatment at various hospitals or COVID-19 facilities. On Sunday, India had a total 2,46,628 confirmed virus cases. “The recovery rate is 48.37% among COVID-19 patients,” the ministry said.  However, there were worrying signs as Haryana, Telangana, Goa, Odisha and Jharkhand reported a fresh surge on Sunday, as India reported an increase of 9,971 new cases. The death toll also spiked by 287 in a single day to touch 6,929. Maharashtra continued to account for the maximum increase in cases — 2,739 in a single day to touch 82,968 confirmed cases — followed by Tamil Nadu 1,458 (30,152), Delhi 1,320 (27,654), Gujarat 498 (19,592) and Rajasthan 247 (10,331). However, the states of Haryana (355), Telangana (206), Goa (71), Odisha (173), Jharkhand (119) and Manipur (25) were reporting a fresh surge with their highest single-day hikes so far. According to the John Hopkins University (JHU) data, India ranks fifth in the world in the list of nations with maximum number of COVID-19 cases.  World over, according to the JHU, COVID-19 cases are fast approaching the seven-million mark with US reporting the maximum cases (1,92,00,61) followed by Brazil (6,72,846), Russia (4,67,073), UK (2,86,295), India (2,48,228) and Spain (2,41,310).  According to a DH COVID-19 Tracker, India had 2,53,216 confirmed cases while the death toll had risen to 7,070 at 8 pm on Sunday. On Saturday, India had tested 1,42,069 samples through its network of 531 government laboratories and 228 private testing facilities. The total number of samples tested thus far is 46,66,386, an official statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/recovery-rate-holds-promise-even-as-covid-19-cases-spike-846905.html
08-06-2020||National||PIB Principle Director General K S Dhatwalia tests positive for COVID-19, admitted to AIIMS||Principal Director General of Press Information Bureau, K S Dhatwalia has tested positive for COVID-19 and has been admitted to AIIMS, sources said on Sunday. Dhatwalia, who by virtue of heading the PIB, is also principal spokesperson to the central government. He had on Monday and Wednesday shared stage with Union Ministers Nitin Gadkari, Narendra Singh Tomar and Prakash Javadekar when they had briefed media on the decisions taken by the Union Cabinet. Several journalists were also present at the briefings held in the National Media Centre. But journalists were seated at a considerable distance from the stage.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pib-principle-director-general-k-s-dhatwalia-tests-positive-for-covid-19-admitted-to-aiims-846911.html
08-06-2020||National||World Meteorological Organisation lauds India Meteorological Department for its accurate prediction of Cyclone Amphan||The World Meteorological Organisation has lauded the India Meteorological Department for its “accurate prediction” of Cyclone Amphan. In a letter dated June 2, addressed to IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohapatra, WMO Secretary General E Manaenkova said the cyclone advisories were provided to the WMO and in particular Bangladesh which was also affected by the storm. Amphan intensified into a super cyclonic storm. It hit the Sunderbans and West Bengal coast as an extremely severe cyclonic storm on May 20. The Regional Specialised Meteorological Centre for Tropical Cyclones over the North Indian Ocean is based in Delhi. Through it, the IMD provides cyclone-related information to all the related countries in the North Indian Ocean, Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal. “The accurate prediction of the genesis, track, intensity, landfall point and time as well as associated weather like storm surge, rainfall and wind by IMD/RSMC New Delhi with a lead period of more than three days has immensely helped in their early response and actions,” the letter said. The WMO is part of the UN. The services provided by the IMD have been showcased as an “excellent lesson” and best practices in tropical cyclone forecasting and warning services and response actions leading to sufficient preparedness for mitigation of losses and damages. The advisories were also distributed to the WMO secretariat in Geneva and shared with the WMO regional offices in Singapore, Bahrain and the WMO coordination hub. “WMO secretary-general used the information from the bulletins to communicate with the UN secretary-general about Amphan. Those bulletins were also well-utilised by the WMO officer in New York to daily brief the relevant entities of the United Nations at its headquarters on the status and potential impact of Cyclone Amphan,” the letter added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/world-meteorological-organisation-lauds-india-meteorological-department-for-its-accurate-prediction-of-cyclone-amphan-846924.html
08-06-2020||National||Health Ministry publishes New Drugs and Clinical Trials (Amendment) Rules||The Union Health Ministry has come up with draft New Drugs and Clinical Trials (Amendment) Rules, inserting provisions for "compassionate use" of any unapproved drug that is in the phase-III clinical trial, either in India or abroad, by importing or indigenous manufacturing. The move is aimed at facilitating availability of new drugs which are in Phase-III clinical trials (human trials) for severely-ill COVID-19 patients in the country. According to a gazette notification of the draft rules published on June 5, a hospital or medical institution may import new drug for "compassionate use for treatment of patients suffering from life threatening disease or disease causing serious permanent disability or disease requiring therapy for unmet medical need", which has not been permitted in the country, but under Phase-III clinical trial in the country or abroad, by making an application to the Central Drug Regulator. Also, if any hospital prescribes a new drug for the same purposes then they may be approved to be manufactured in limited quantity subject to provisions of the rules. The manufacturer intending to manufacture a new drug will have to obtain the consent in writing from the patient to whom the medicine has been prescribed or his legal heirs and make an application to the Ethics Committee of the hospital or medical institution for obtaining its specific recommendation for manufacture of such new drug.  After obtaining the recommendation of the Ethics Committee, the manufacturer shall make an application to obtain the permission, to the Central Licencing Authority for manufacturing the new drug for the purpose of compassionate use, the draft rules stated. "The manufacturer to whom the permission is granted shall make use of the new drug only for the purposes specified in the permission and no part of it shall be sold in the market or supplied to any other person, agency, institution or place," it stated.  The new draft rules will be applicable for 15 days during which people can send their objections and suggestions to be considered by the Central Government after which the final amended rules will be published in the gazette of India.  The set of new rules have been inserted under section 96 which deals with filing an application, granting the license to the importer or manufacturer, conditions and suspension of such licenses among others. For both manufacturing and importing, the licence shall remain valid for a period of one year from the date it has been issued. If an importer or the manufacturer to whom the license is granted fails to comply with any provision of the Act and these rules, the Central Licencing Authority, may, after giving an opportunity of being heard, suspend or cancel the license for such period as considered appropriate either wholly or in respect of some of the substances to which the violation relates.  The quantity of any new drug manufactured or imported on the basis of permission granted shall not exceed one hundred average dosages per patient, the draft rules stated. But in exceptional circumstances on the basis of the prescription of the medical officer and the recommendation of the Ethics Committee, the Central Licencing Authority may allow the manufacture of such new drug in larger quantity.   In both cases, for import or indigenous manufacturing, the application should have details including rationale for the use of the new drug as compassionate use over the available therapeutic options, the criteria for patient selection with description of the patient's disease or condition and the method of administration of the drug, dose, and duration of therapy. It should also mention the description of the manufacturing facility and a description of clinical procedures, laboratory tests, or other monitoring necessary to evaluate the effects of the drug and minimize its risks among others. Several drugs across the country are in phase III clinical trials phase for COVID-19. Anti-viral drug Remdesivir, last week, was approved for "restricted emergency use" on severe COVID-19 patients. India's drug regulator granted US pharma giant Gilead Sciences marketing authorisation for the drug for "restricted emergency use" on hospitalised COVID-19  in view of the crisis posed by the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-publishes-new-drugs-and-clinical-trials-amendment-rules-846927.html
08-06-2020||National||CIC asks health ministry to appoint nodal officer for dissemination of COVID-19 info||The CIC has advised the Union health ministry to appoint a nodal officer for the dissemination of COVID-19 related information in public domain on suo motu basis in larger public interest as mandated in the Right to Information (RTI) Act. Chief Information Commissioner Bimal Julka issued an advisory to the ministry on a plea by activist Venkatesh Nayak to put out the information within 15 days. Nayak had demanded details of district-wise number of hospitals and healthcare facilities called by any other name, designated as COVID-19 treatment centres as on date; postal addresses and telephone numbers of the hospitals and healthcare facilities and other related issues but the health ministry could not provide the details. After the hearing at the CIC, Julka noted it is well recognised that the impact of COVID-19 pandemic will be far reaching and that all the stakeholders need to be cognizant of the importance of proper data and record management. "Such records could also be useful for research and educational institutions involved in tracing the disease, mapping and analysing the pathogens genome to develop vaccines that requires records and data accuracy," he said. He said a sound record management is more important than ever before with governments initiating unprecedented steps to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. He observed that very pertinent information regarding the COVID-19 pandemic situation was sought by Nayak which could not be made available by any of the respondents. "The fact that the application shuttled from one division of the public authority to another indicates that there is a very urgent requirement for notifying a nodal authority in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and DGHS to compile, collate and consolidate the information sought in the RTI application and suo motu upload the same on the website." "There is an immense necessity to evolve a strong, robust and effective documentation mechanism and its continuous updation which will be mutually beneficial not only for the government but also for the scientists, researchers, academicians, historians, law makers, etc for future," Julka said. The commission advises the secretary, Union health ministry to designate an officer of an appropriate seniority as a nodal officer to examine the matter and suo motu disclose the information sought in the RTI application on its website within a period of 15 days from the date of receipt of this order in the larger public interest, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/cic-asks-health-ministry-to-appoint-nodal-officer-for-dissemination-of-covid-19-info-846929.html
08-06-2020||National||Deccan Herald E-paper: June 8, 2020 Edition||Dear Reader, We know that you rely on your trusted newspaper Deccan Herald for credible and accurate information every day. In the time of lockdown, if you haven’t received a copy of your newspaper, don’t worry, Deccan Herald has got your back.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/deccan-herald-e-paper-june-8-2020-edition-846930.html
08-06-2020||National||The Lead: Carnatic vocalist T M Krishna talks about his book 'Sebastian and Sons' and more||The Lead from Deccan Herald Podcasts brings to you voices from across the spectrum and various spheres of life. In today’s episode, acclaimed musician T M Krishna speaks to Srivathsan Nadadhur about his new book “Sebastian and Sons” and various other topics.  Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch up show From the Newsroom everyday at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/the-lead-carnatic-vocalist-t-m-krishna-talks-about-his-book-sebastian-and-sons-and-more-846931.html
08-06-2020||National||Coronavirus India update: State-wise total number of confirmed cases, deaths on June 8||Here’s the full list of coronavirus positive cases in India and the state-wise impact of the pandemic (this list will be updated regularly). Coronavirus in India: Total number of positive cases (including deaths): 2,67,134 as of June 8. States/UTs death toll (Details are updated as we receive information) Total deaths in India: 7,595 Note: The tallies above include foreigners who have been infected with COVID-19. No. of people discharged: 1,24,095 While the Centre and state governments have been trying hard to check the spread of coronavirus by tracking, isolating and treating the infected persons, the gradual rise of the pandemic in India is worrisome.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-india-update-state-wise-total-number-of-confirmed-cases-deaths-on-june-8-846932.html
08-06-2020||National||DH Toon: Bihar's poll bugle sounds louder than migrant woes||RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday continued with his offensive against the Nitish Kumar government over a controversial circular on migrants, later withdrawn by the police headquarters, prompting the JD(U) to shed its reticence and cross swords with the opposition leader. A day ahead of Amit Shah's virtual rally to sound BJP's poll bugle in Bihar, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav on Saturday said electioneering amidst the coronavirus crisis in the country is nothing but "political vulturism", and alleged that the saffron party was only interested in electoral victory even at the cost of human lives.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dh-toon-bihars-poll-bugle-sounds-louder-than-migrant-woes-846941.html
08-06-2020||National||Petrol, diesel prices hiked by 60 paise per litre for second straight day||Petrol and diesel prices were hiked by 60 paise per litre each on Monday, for the second day in a row, as state-owned oil firms reverted to daily price revisions after a hiatus of almost three months. Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 72.46 per litre from Rs 71.86 on Sunday, while diesel rates were increased to Rs 70.59 a litre from Rs 69.99, according to a price notification of state oil marketing companies. This is the second daily increase in rates in a row. Oil companies had on Sunday raised prices by 60 paise per litre on both petrol and diesel after ending an 82-day hiatus in daily rate revision. Daily price revision has restarted beginning Sunday, an oil company official said. Oil PSUs, Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL), had put daily price revisions on hold soon after the government on March 14 hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 3 per litre each. Oil companies did not pass on the excise duty hike to customers and instead set them off against the decline in retail prices that should have effected to reflect the slump in international oil rates due to fuel demand fast evaporating following the outbreak of coronavirus pandemic. They kept accumulating the gains arising from international oil prices dropping to a two-decade low in April and set them off against the May 6 increase in excise duty on petrol by Rs 10 per litre and Rs 13 a litre hike in taxes on diesel. The Re 1 per litre cost of an upgrade to ultra-clean BS-VI grade fuel from April 1 too was adjusted against the lowering of retail prices required due to fall in international oil rates. India imports 85 per cent of its oil needs and retail fuel prices are benchmarked against international rates. It shifted to daily revision in fuel prices from June 16, 2017 to reflect market dynamics in pump rates. The official said petrol and diesel prices were frozen due to extreme volatility in the international oil markets. Since the markets have relatively stabilised, daily price revision has started again, he said. Despite the volatility, the PSUs regularly revised jet fuel or ATF and LPG prices, which too are priced at international benchmarks. ATF prices, which since March are revised every fortnight instead of month revisions to pass on the benefit of falling rates to airlines instantaneously, were cut seven times since February and only hiked once earlier this month. LPG continues to be revised on a monthly basis and had been cut thrice before the hike effected on June 1. The government mopped up close to Rs 2 lakh crore in additional revenues from the March 14 and May 6 excise duty hikes. The total incidence of excise duty on petrol has risen to Rs 32.98 per litre and that on diesel to Rs 31.83. The excise tax on petrol was Rs 9.48 per litre when the Narendra Modi government took office in 2014 and that on diesel was Rs 3.56 a litre. While IOC, BPCL and HPCL absorbed excise duty hikes, they have promptly passed to consumers increases in VAT rates by sundry state governments including Rs 1.67 a litre increase in tax on petrol and Rs 7.10 increase on diesel by the Delhi government on May 5 - just a day before the Union Government effected the massive excise duty hike. The firms had last revised price of petrol and diesel on March 16 and had kept the rates on hold since barring the times when state governments raised VAT.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/petrol-diesel-prices-hiked-by-60-paise-per-litre-for-second-straight-day-846963.html
08-06-2020||National||Schools may reopen in August, says HRD Minister: Report||In the interview, the minister said that the results of the pending CBSE exams can be expected by August 15, which means a new academic session is likely to begin soon after that. He said the circumstances to reopen schools and universities would be possible only after August 15. Over a week ago, Pokhriyal had said that students could attend examinations from their home states and districts, a sigh of relief for those who had traveled back home, vacating boarding schools, and hostels. The Centre had allowed the states to conduct exams for Class X and XII from May 25 with a few conditions like ensuring social distancing and wearing of masks by teachers and students. All educational institutions were shut since mid-March -- some of them from March 25 when the nationwide lockdown started -- to contain the spread of coronavirus pandemic. The examination for the pending papers for CBSE Classes 10 and 12 are scheduled to be held between July 1 and 15. The date sheet of the examination was announced by the CBSE on May 18. ICSE exams, which were also postponed in view of the nationwide lockdown, have been scheduled from July 1 to 14. Speaking to BBC Hindi, Pokhriyal also outpointed that the government has taken cognisance of those who do not have internet connections and smartphones and plans to ensure that their curriculum is designed keeping that in mind. Radio and necessary arrangements would be made to ensure they are not deprived of learning He added that online education seems like the only viable option under these circumstances and that students who were planning to study abroad need not do that as ample opportunities are available within the country.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/schools-may-reopen-in-august-says-hrd-minister-report-846967.html
08-06-2020||National||India records highest single-day spike of 9,983 new cases; death toll at 7,135: Health ministry||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 7,135 and the number of cases climbed to 2,56,611 in the country after it registered 206 fatalities and a record single-day spike of 9,983 cases till Monday 8 am, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active novel coronavirus cases stands at 1,25,381 while 1,24,094 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, it said.   "Thus, around 48.36 per cent patients have recovered so far," a senior health ministry official said. The total number of confirmed cases include foreigners. Of the 206 deaths reported since Sunday morning, 91 were in Maharashtra, 30 in Gujarat, 18 each in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, 13 each in West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, nine in Rajasthan, four in Haryana, two each in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand, and one each in Odisha and Punjab. Out of the total 7,135 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 3,060 deaths followed by Gujarat with 1,249 deaths, Delhi with 761, Madhya Pradesh with 412, West Bengal with 396, Uttar Pradesh with 275, Tamil Nadu with 269, Rajasthan with 240 and Telangana with 123 deaths. The death toll reached 75 in Andhra Pradesh, 61 in Karnataka and 51 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 41 fatalities due to the coronavirus disease, while 30 deaths have been reported from Bihar, 28 from Haryana, 15 from Kerala, 13 from Uttarakhand, nine from Odisha and seven from Jharkhand.  Meghalaya and Ladakh have reported one COVID-19 fatality each, according to ministry data.  More than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, according to the ministry's website.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/india-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-9983-new-cases-death-toll-at-7135-health-ministry-846972.html
08-06-2020||National||Health Ministry drafts rules to help COVID-19 patients access new drugs||Seeking to facilitate availability of experimental drugs for severely ill COVID-19 patients, the Union Health Ministry has issued a draft notification for "compassionate use" of any unapproved drug that is in the phase-III clinical trial globally. The draft New Drugs and Clinical Trials (Amendment) Rules stipulate manufacture and import of unapproved drugs based on a prescription by a hospital or medical institution According to a gazette notification of the draft rules published on June 5, a hospital or medical institution may import new drug for "compassionate use for treatment of patients suffering from life threatening disease or disease causing serious permanent disability or disease requiring therapy for unmet medical need", which has not been permitted in the country, but under Phase-III clinical trial (human trial) in the country or abroad, by making an application to the Central Drug Regulator. Also, if any hospital prescribes a new drug for the same purposes then they may be approved to be manufactured in a limited quantity subject to provisions of the rules. The manufacturer intending to manufacture a new drug will have to obtain the consent in writing from the patient to whom the medicine has been prescribed or his legal heirs and make an application to the Ethics Committee of the hospital or medical institution for obtaining its specific recommendation for manufacture of such new drug.  After obtaining the recommendation of the Ethics Committee, the manufacturer shall make an application to obtain the permission, to the Central Licensing Authority for manufacturing the new drug for the purpose of compassionate use, the draft rules stated. "The manufacturer to whom the permission is granted shall make use of the new drug only for the purposes specified in the permission and no part of it shall be sold in the market or supplied to any other person, agency, institution or place," it stated.  The new draft rules will be applicable for 15 days during which people can send their objections and suggestions to be considered by the Central Government after which the final amended rules will be published in the gazette of India.  The set of new rules have been inserted under section 96 which deals with filing an application, granting the license to the importer or manufacturer, conditions and suspension of such licenses among others. For both manufacturing and importing, the licence shall remain valid for a period of one year from the date it has been issued. If an importer or the manufacturer to whom the license is granted fails to comply with any provision of the Act and these rules, the Central Licensing Authority, may, after giving an opportunity of being heard, suspend or cancel the license for such period as considered appropriate either wholly or in respect of some of the substances to which the violation relates.   The quantity of any new drug manufactured or imported on the basis of permission granted shall not exceed one hundred average dosages per patient, the draft rules stated. But in exceptional circumstances on the basis of the prescription of the medical officer and the recommendation of the Ethics Committee, the Central Licensing Authority may allow the manufacture of such new drug in larger quantity.   In both cases, for import or indigenous manufacturing, the application should have details including rationale for the use of the new drug as compassionate use over the available therapeutic options, the criteria for patient selection with description of the patient's disease or condition and the method of administration of the drug, dose, and duration of therapy. It should also mention the description of the manufacturing facility and a description of clinical procedures, laboratory tests, or other monitoring necessary to evaluate the effects of the drug and minimize its risks among others. Several drugs across the country are in phase III clinical trials phase for COVID-19. Anti-viral drug Remdesivir, last week, was approved for "restricted emergency use" on severe COVID-19 patients. India's drug regulator granted US pharma giant Gilead Sciences marketing authorisation for the drug for "restricted emergency use" on hospitalised COVID-19  in view of the crisis posed by the pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/health-ministry-drafts-rules-to-help-covid-19-patients-access-new-drugs-846980.html
08-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: IMA Maharashtra seeks clarification over govt acquiring 80% beds in private hospitals||The Indian Medical Association-Maharashtra State has sought a clarification from the state government on a notification to acquire 80 percent beds in private and charitable hospitals. "The bed strength of the private hospitals vary from two beds to 1,500. Are all the hospitals of every type will be taken over or those above certain bed strength will be acquired...or above 30 beds or above 50 beds? Only the hospitals fulfilling the standard requirements, as per the COVID-19 hospitals' guidelines by the Central Health Ministry, will be acquired? Will, there be any inspection by the appropriate authorities before taking over the hospitals?," IMA-Maharashtra State president Dr Avinash Bhondwe wanted to know.  He sought an explanation of whether there would be any MoU or legal agreement with the hospitals, explaining the details of the procedure or only self-declaration by the hospital owner will be taken. According to him, the majority of the hospitals in the state are run by one doctor, sometimes by doctor couples or a group of doctors. "For example, a gynaecologist runs a maternity home, a paediatrician a children's hospital, an orthopaedic surgeon does fracture and joint surgeries etc. Will it not be inconvenient and inappropriate for these hospitals to treat the COVID-19 cases?" he asked. If the small hospitals with five or 10 beds begin admitting the COVID-19 patients as per the rule, the patients with non-COVID-19 ailments will stop going to such hospitals.  "In addition, it is difficult to make the separation of COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 patients for infection control. The chances of non-COVID-19 patients getting infected in such hospitals will be high. "The most important fact will be if all the hospitals are acquired for the COVID-19 treatment, where will the non-COVID-19 patient take treatment? The number of such patients not getting the hospitals will be very high," Dr Bhondwe said. He said that on March 14, a coordination committee was formed but not a single meeting has taken place.  According to him, the hospitals in the State are of two types, the first one is doctors-owned hospitals of five to 50 beds and the other being the large hospitals run by the non-medical people like corporate groups, companies, investors and some profit-making organisations. "The doctor members of the Indian Medical Association own and represent the small and medium-sized hospitals. We have always been supporting all the activities of the Government of Maharashtra, carrying out all the orders and protocols. However, the ambiguity in this ordinance should be discussed to sort out the problems and clear the fear amongst the doctor community about the legal notices flashed at them at every step," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-ima-maharashtra-seeks-clarification-over-govt-acquiring-80-beds-in-private-hospitals-846992.html
08-06-2020||National||Mizoram: More than Rs 18 lakh collected as fine from 8,107 people||More than Rs 18 lakh has been collected as fine from 8,107 people for violating the Mizoram (Containment and Prevention of COVID-19) Ordinance 2020, police said. The fine was collected from 8,107 people arrested since May 4 for violating the ordinance and other lockdown rules, a police statement said on Sunday. Of the 8,107 people, 1,355 were caught by volunteers of local or village level task forces, it said. So far, 3,381 people have been arrested in Aizawl district, 731 in Lawngtlai district, 701 in Lunglei district, 646 in Serchhip district, 508 in Mamit district, 476 in Champhai district, 354 in Hnahthial district, 345 in Saitual district, 329 in Siaha district, 162 in Khawzawl district and 90 in Kolasib district following the implementation of the ordinance, they said. According to the Containment and Prevention of COVID- 19 Ordinance 2020 promulgated by the state government on May 3, any person, who exposes the identity of coronavirus patients in print, electronic or social media without prior permission from competent authority will be punished with imprisonment of three months or with a fine up to Rs 5,000 or both. Besides, Rs 5,000 fine will be imposed on people who cross border or enter the state, or organise a social or religious event without permission or escape from quarantine facility, as per the ordinance. A fine of Rs 300 will be imposed for spitting in public, Rs 200 for failing to maintain social distancing protocol and Rs 100 for failing to wear a mask in a public place. Persons failing to comply with any other instruction or guidelines issued by the Centre or the state government, including lockdown guidelines issued from time to time, will be fined Rs 1,000. Those avoiding or attempting to evade quarantine will be fined Rs 3,000. A fine of Rs 500 will be slapped against those who fail to comply with instruction or guidelines and endangering the safety of others while staying at the designated quarantine facility.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/mizoram-more-than-rs-18-lakh-collected-as-fine-from-8107-people-846996.html
08-06-2020||National||Elephant may have accidentally consumed cracker-filled fruit: Environment Min||Primary investigations into the death of a pregnant elephant in Kerala has found that it may have accidentally consumed a cracker-stuffed fruit, the Environment Ministry said on Monday. The ministry also noted that many times locals resort to an illegal act of planting explosive-filled fruits to repel wild boars from entering plantation farms. The 15-year-old elephant consumed a pineapple filled with powerful firecrackers which exploded in its mouth in the Silent Valley forest. It died in the Velliyar River a week later on May 27. In a series of tweets, the ministry has said that one person has been arrested in the matter. “Primary investigations revealed, the elephant may have accidentally consumed in such fruit. Ministry is in constant touch with Kerala Govt & has sent them detailed advisory for the immediate arrest of culprits & stringent action against any erring official that led to elephant's death," the ministry said. “As of now, one person has been arrested & efforts are on to nab more individuals who may have participated in this illegal & utterly inhuman act. The @WCCBHQ has also been directed to act on this matter with the utmost sense of urgency. #WildlifeProtection,” the ministry posted on its official Twitter handle. It also tweeted that the Minister of State for Environment Babul Supriyo has requested people not to believe in social media “rumours”. “In the meantime, MoS, MoEF&CC, Shri Babul Supriyo requests everyone to not indulge or fall prey to in any of the rumours & fake news that are being circulated in the #SocialMedia,” the ministry said. The Kerala government and all departments concerned of the ministry are handling the matter in an unbiased manner.  “We are confident of concluding the investigation sooner than later, to be followed by exemplary #LegalActions & punishment that will act as strong deterrent to committing such future acts,” it said. “We in @moefcc are deeply concerned & pained by the pathetic death of a pregnant #Elephant in Palakkad District, Kerala. It is noted that many a times locals resort to an illegal act of planting explosive-filled fruits to repel #WildBoars from entering plantation farms,” it said. The Ministry on Sunday also held a meeting with several officials to discuss the progress in the matter. The review meeting was held under the chairmanship of Sanjay Kumar, Director General of Forests and Special Secretary in the ministry (DGF&SS) to discuss the progress on the action taken in the case. Besides DGF&SS, the meeting was attended by an official from the National Tiger Conservation Authority(NTCA), Inspector General of Wildlife, ministry of environment, additional director of Wildlife Crime Control Bureau and scientists from Elephant Cell, an official told PTI. However, the details of the meeting are still awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/elephant-may-have-accidentally-consumed-cracker-filled-fruit-environment-min-847000.html
08-06-2020||National||Smriti Irani debunks claims that coronavirus lockdown leading to increase in domestic violence||Replying to a question that the lockdown has increased domestic violence and women are not being able to even lodge complaints, Irani retorted: "It is false. Every state has a police line functioning. We have one stop crisis centres across every district of every state". "I without revealing the faces and names of women that we have rescued, have state by state, district by district rescue rehabilitation details of every individual victim," she said on Sunday. The minister for Women and Child Development and Textiles said there was some "scaremongering done especially with some development partners who are in the NGO sector that 80 per cent of women who are now at homes in India or across the world will be getting beaten up". She said every man is not beating up the woman in his house in India. "Our police lines have been functional throughout the lockdown. Our crisis centres have been functional throughout the lockdown," said the minister. Irani said rescue and rehabilitation facilities have been provided not only for women but also children. "In fact, so far as the numbers go, I have 35 helpline numbers across all states apart from a central number that has been functioning fully throughout the lockdown period," said the minister. She was addressing a TiE talk event hosted through a virtual platform on Sunday night.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/smriti-irani-debunks-claims-that-coronavirus-lockdown-leading-to-increase-in-domestic-violence-847002.html
08-06-2020||National||12 injured in clash after woman gets harassed in UP's Muzaffarnagar||Twelve people were injured in a clash between two groups after a woman was allegedly harassed by some men in Uttar Pradesh's Atkutubpur village, police said on Monday. Members of the two groups attacked each other with lathis and sharp weapons, and also hurdled stones on Sunday evening, they said. The injured are being treated at a hospital and security has been tightened in the village to thwart any untoward incident, police said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/12-injured-in-clash-after-woman-gets-harassed-in-ups-muzaffarnagar-847004.html
08-06-2020||National||WB govt to install CCTV cameras in containment zones in city||The West Bengal government has decided to install CCTV cameras in containment zones under the jurisdiction of Kolkata Police to keep a watch whether the residents of the area are strictly following the COVID-19 norms, a senior official said on Monday. The state government has decided to install 500 CCTV cameras in over 480 containment zones in the city and officers of Kolkata Police will keep a watch from the Control Room at Kolkata Police headquarters in Lalbazar, he said. "The containment zones in the city have gone up and at the moment it is over 480. So installing CCTVs will definitely make things easier for the administration to keep a tab on the activities there and see if anybody is violating the norms at those zones," the senior bureaucrat told PTI. The number of such zones in the city has gone up after the state has tweaked the conditions to earmark an area as a "containment' zone. "Keeping in mind the population density of Kolkata, we have to take extra precautionary measures to ensure that people in containment zones are staying inside their homes and not coming out of their buildings without any proper reason," he said. The CCTV cameras will also help the Kolkata Police officers to scrutinise the 'buffer zones' adjacent to these affected areas. The administration is also planning to employ locals in such affected areas to see that norms are not getting violated. Asked whether it will be followed in other affected areas in the state, the official said the matter is under consideration for neighboring districts of the city like Howrah, North 24 Parganas and South 24 Parganas. With the return of migrants and economic activities being opened up, the state government has now decided to identify a building with a COVID-19 patient and declare it as a containment zone and the area around it as a buffer zone, deviating from the earlier practice of marking the building and a portion of the roads surrounding it as an affected area. A containment zone is called "affected area" in West Bengal and the roads around it are "buffer zones".||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/wb-govt-to-install-cctv-cameras-in-containment-zones-in-city-847029.html
08-06-2020||National||Are you a resident doctor? This is the best state for you to practice||With the worsening coronavirus situation in the country, frontliners are putting their best foot forward to make sure everyone is safe. Among these frontliners, resident doctors and interns attend to COVID-19 patients for hours daily. Their salary, however, depends on the state that they are serving. UP, Bihar and Haryana pay resident doctors around Rs 80,000 to Rs 1 lakh a month while Maharashtra and southern states pay them a monthly stipend of Rs 40,000-Rs 60,000. The Medical Council of India plans to have uniform stipend after the completion of MBBS across the country. However, the plan is still on the table.  On the other hand, interns posted in Central government hospitals are paid the highest per month. But in state-run hospitals, their stipend varies from Rs 7,000 in Rajasthan to Rs 30,000 in Karnataka, the TOI report stated.  Maharashtra, however, is among the states that pays the lowest stipend to medical interns. Earlier, the state used to pay Rs 6,000 which was recently raised to Rs 11,000. Apart from that, resident doctors in the state also pay tuition fees to hospitals for training, according to the report. "Even after the recent hike of Rs 5,000, the state is among the ones paying the lowest stipend to medical interns. That has a lot of scope for improvement," Dr. Praveen Shingare, former Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) head told TOI. Resident doctors and interns across the country have been demanding a hike in their stipend. Recently, in Karnataka, resident doctors warned they would step back from non-COVID-19 duties if the state government refused to consider their request for a hike in stipend.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/are-you-a-resident-doctor-this-is-the-best-state-for-you-to-practice-847040.html
08-06-2020||National||West Bengal: Commuter woes continue as majority of private buses stay off roads||With government, private offices and other establishments reopening as part of 'Unlock-1', people in the city and districts faced problems in reaching their workplaces on Monday as a large number of private buses stayed off the roads. Though government buses were out in full strength, lesser number of private buses on the roads had people waiting for long periods of time to get required transport to their offices. "Around 25 to 30 per cent of the around 6,000 private buses that ply in the city and suburbs during normal times are back on the roads," Joint Council of Bus Syndicates general secretary Tapan Banerjee said. Banerjee said that private buses, both express and local, are also back on the roads in the districts, but in lesser number than normal. He said that the number of private buses are likely to increase in the coming days. Private bus operators have been demanding a fare hike in order to compensate for losses for carrying only seating capacity passengers as per a West Bengal government directive. State Transport undertaking buses of WBTC, NBSTC and SBSTC are out in optimum number in the city and districts, but these did not prove to be enough with a large number of offices and establishments reopening on Monday. With suburban trains and Metro Railway services not recommencing, the burden of public transportation was much more than usual on bus services. Long queues were witnessed at different places in the city and suburbs with people waiting for a long time to board a bus. The state government has allowed only seating capacity passengers in buses for maintaining social distancing norms. Auto rickshaws, app cabs, and metered taxis were also on the roads in higher numbers than the previous days. In order to avoid public transport woes, many people who have the means, pooled four-wheelers to reach their destination or rode two-wheelers to offices. Some even cycled several kilometres to reach their workplaces in the scorching heat, only to avoid jostling in buses. "I generally take the local train to office, but now I am cycling to my office at Esplanade from my residence at Sonarpur in South 24 Parganas, which is a distance of about 20 km," said Ranjit Bakshi.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west-bengal-commuter-woes-continue-as-majority-of-private-buses-stay-off-roads-847042.html
08-06-2020||National||Eastern Ladakh standoff: China says need to implement consensus reached between 2 countries' leaders||China and India have agreed to work to maintain peace along the LAC and resolve the border standoff through talks while implementing the consensus reached between the two countries' leadership that "differences" do not escalate into "disputes", a top Chinese official said on Monday. The remarks of China's Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying came two days after a marathon military dialogue between India and China was held to peacefully resolve the current border standoff in accordance with bilateral agreements. She said that on June 6, a meeting was held between the commanders of China and India in Chusul Moldo region and the two sides held consultations. "Recently, diplomatic and military channels of the two sides have maintained close communications on the situation along the border. "One consensus is that the two sides need to implement the two leaders consensus and make sure that differences do not escalate into disputes," Hua said, apparently referring to the directions of Chinese President Xi Jinping and Prime Minister Narendra Modi after their two informal summits, asking the militaries of the two countries to take more confidence building measures to maintain peace and tranquillity along the borders. The Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson further said that the "two sides will work to maintain peace and tranquillity along the border and create a good atmosphere". "So the situation overall is stable and controllable and the two sides are ready to engage in consultation to properly solve the relevant issues," she added. Her remarks came a day after the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) in New Delhi said that India and China have agreed to continue military and diplomatic talks to "peacefully" resolve the current border standoff in accordance with bilateral agreements. The Indian delegation led by Lt General Harinder Singh, the general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Commander of the Tibet Military District Maj Gen Liu Lin held the extensive meeting in Maldo on the Chinese side of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh on Saturday that began at around 11:30 AM and went on till evening. The high-level military dialogue could not produce any tangible results in ending the confrontation in eastern Ladakh, and India was ready for a long-haul in sensitive areas like Pangong Tso and Galwan Valley, people familiar with the development said in New Delhi. In a statement, the MEA said the meeting took place in a "cordial and positive atmosphere" and that both sides agreed that an "early resolution" of the issue would contribute to the further development of the relationship between the two countries. After the standoff began early last month, the Indian military leadership decided that Indian troops will adopt a firm approach in dealing with the aggressive posturing by the Chinese troops in all disputed areas of Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie. The Chinese Army has been gradually ramping up its strategic reserves in its rear bases near the LAC by rushing in artillery guns, infantry combat vehicles and heavy military equipment, the sources in New Delhi said. China has also enhanced its presence in certain areas along the LAC in Northern Sikkim and Uttarakhand following which India has also been its presence by sending additional troops, they said. The trigger for the face-off was China's stiff opposition to India laying a key road in the Finger area around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/eastern-ladakh-standoff-china-says-need-to-implement-consensus-reached-between-2-countries-leaders-847047.html
08-06-2020||National||Attractive returns and misbeliefs trigger poaching in Kerala forests||It is not just wild boars, but sambar deers, civets, monitor lizards, and even pythons are among the targets of poachers in Kerala forests. Attractive returns, the craze for the meat of wild animals, and wrong perceptions over medicinal values of meat of wild animals are the key reasons why wild animals' meat trade is flourishing, said forest department sources, and wildlife protection activists. While 223 wildlife cases were registered in Kerala in 2018, in 2019 it was 246. Wildlife biologist Roshnath Ramesh, who has been carrying out wildlife awareness programmes, said that an increase in poaching activities in Kerala forests was also found during the lockdown days,  as some recent studies pointed out. In the forest areas of Kannur, around five cases came to our notice during the last couple of months, while a deer had a narrow escape from a trap in Wayanad. At Wayanad district, a leopard was trapped in a snare set for wild boars or deers on Sunday (June 7) and further search found several such snares. Forest department officials said that wild boars and sambar deers were the easy and most lucrative targets of poachers owing to its abundance and attractive return. The use of explosives packed food and snares are the most common modus operandi.  In the forest areas of Thiruvananthapuram, even three police personnel were held in connection with the poaching of a sambar deer two years back. Two instances of poaching pythons in forest areas of Kannur a few years back. Former divisional forest officer C V Rajan said that an average wild boar could give up to 50-kilogram meat at the poachers used to set it for Rs. 300 to Rs. 400 per kilogram and thereby easily earning over Rs. 10,000 or more from a single catch. The customers were often found to be in closed circuit groups. Lack of awareness about the legal implications was also found to be a reason why poaching activities were thriving. Many who consume the wild animals' meat were ignorant about the stringent punishment that they could face, said Mr. Rajan, who held the gangs involved in python poaching. Roshnath said that pythons were mainly targeted with the intention of extracting fat as there was a misbelief that it got medicinal qualities. Similarly meat of civets and monitor lizards were also sold at attractive prices by poachers citing medicinal qualities.  "A lot of such misbeliefs were helping the poachers earn attractive returns. However, there were instances where the poached animals had infections like rabies," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/attractive-returns-and-misbeliefs-trigger-poaching-in-kerala-forests-847052.html
08-06-2020||National||Rajya Sabha polls: Gujarat Congress to shift all MLAs to Rajasthan resort||The Gujarat Congress on Monday decided to shift all its MLAs to a resort at Abu Road in Sirohi district of neighbouring Rajasthan over the fear of 'poaching' by the BJP ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls. Elections for four Rajya Sabha seats from Gujarat are scheduled on June 19. Last week, three Gujarat Congress MLAs resigned, reducing the party's strength in the 182-member state Assembly to 65. Fearing to poach, the party in the last couple of days shifted its legislators to various resorts in Gujarat, dividing them into zone-wise groups. On Sunday night, Congress shifted over 20 MLAs, mainly from the North Gujarat region, to a resort in Sirohi. However, it has now decided to shift all its Gujarat MLAs to a resort at Abu Road in Sirohi, a party source said. "The party has decided to move all the MLAs at one place, to the resort at Sirohi where they will stay until before the Rajya Sabha elections on June 19. Several MLAs have already reached the resort, while the remaining will reach by Monday evening," the source said. With the reduced strength of 65, the Congress may find it difficult to win two Rajya Sabha seats for which it has fielded Bharatsinh Solanki and Shaktisinh Gohil. The Congress leaders have accused the ruling BJP of adopting means like "blackmailing, threatening or using money to poach its MLAs", a charge refuted by the ruling party. The BJP, having 103 MLAs in the Assembly, has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara, and Narhari Amin for the election to four seats of the Rajya Sabha. Besides the BJP and Congress, the 182-member Assembly also comprises two MLAs of the Bharatiya Tribal Party, one MLA of the NCP and an Independent legislator, Jignesh Mevani. The effective strength of the House, however, stands at 172 as of now as 10 seats are currently vacant - two due to court cases and the rest because of resignations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/rajya-sabha-polls-gujarat-congress-to-shift-all-mlas-to-rajasthan-resort-847053.html
08-06-2020||National||SC notice to Centre on plea against child trafficking in wake of COVID-19 lockdown||The Supreme Court on Monday (June 8) issued notice to the Union government on a petition for framing guidelines to prevent child trafficking in the wake of lockdown imposed to contain COVID-19 pandemic. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy sought a response from the National Disaster Management Authority and states on a PIL filed by NGO Bachpan Bachao Andolan. The bench told senior advocate H S Phoolka, representing the petitioner, that trafficking was done primarily to use the child as cheap labour. Can every contractor be registered somewhere? The issue exists because there is a market for child labour, the bench said. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said he would sit with Phoolka and collate suggestions to take effective measures. The court put the matter for consideration after two weeks.  The petitioner claimed that traffickers have already become very active in various areas of the country and were tapping vulnerabilities of poor families by coercing and inducing them into selling their children for child labour and sexual exploitation. "A targeted COVID-19 response in the form of formulating a policy can substantially decrease the trafficking the children. If proactive steps are taken, the impending humanitarian crisis in the aftermath of the ongoing global health crisis can be largely prevented," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-centre-on-plea-against-child-trafficking-in-wake-of-covid-19-lockdown-847063.html
08-06-2020||National||HC seeks police reply on Shashi Tharoor's plea to preserve Sunanda Pushkar's Twitter a/c, tweets||The Delhi High Court Monday sought Delhi Police's response on a plea by Congress MP Shashi Tharoor seeking direction to it to take steps to preserve the Twitter account and tweets made by his wife Sunanda Pushkar prior to her death in 2014. Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri issued notice to the police on the application which sought a direction to the investigating officer (IO) in the case to write a letter to social media platform 'Twitter' for securing the inactive Twitter account of Pushkar as her tweets are extremely relevant for the criminal trial. The court, which conducted the hearing through video conferencing, listed the matter for further hearing on July 15. Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa and lawyer Gaurav Gupta, representing Tharoor, argued that perusal of the tweets of Pushkar would reflect her actual frame of mind which is contrary to the prosecution case. The counsel claimed that she never had any suicidal ideations which is manifested from the series of tweets withheld by Delhi Police from the trial court. Tharoor, in his application, has said the tweets and Twitter timeline of Pushkar are of utmost importance in the case and as she is not alive, there is an apprehension that they might be deleted, denying a crucial right of Tharoor to exonerate himself from the alleged charges levelled against him. The application was filed in a pending petition seeking direction to the police to place before the trial court certain tweets of Pushkar. Tharoor, the sole accused in the death case of his wife, sought direction to the police to take steps to preserve the social media account and tweets by asking 'Twitter India' to preserve Pushkar's account till the pendency of the proceedings before the trial court. The former Union minister was accused by Delhi Police under Sections 498-A (husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty) and 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code. The plea referred to Twitter's policies as per which it can delete the accounts of users who have been inactive for a prolonged period of time. “Further, in certain cases, if some authorised person or close relative of a deceased person contacts Twitter, the account of such deceased person can be deactivated. In such cases of deletion of account or deactivation of account, the tweets and contents of the Twitter timeline are lost forever,” it said. The police had earlier told the court that Pushkar was suffering from mental agony due to a strained relationship with her husband. She had a scuffle with her husband and had various injury marks a few days before her death, it had said. Police has accused Tharoor of torturing his wife which led her to commit suicide. The maximum punishment for the offence listed in the charge sheet is 10 years of imprisonment. However, if convicted for 302 (murder), the maximum punishment is death penalty while the minimum is life imprisonment. Pushkar, 51, was found dead in a suite of luxury hotel Leela Palace in Delhi's Chanakyapuri on the night of January 17, 2014. The couple was staying at the hotel as the official bungalow of Tharoor was being renovated at that time.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/hc-seeks-police-reply-on-shashi-tharoors-plea-to-preserve-sunanda-pushkars-twitter-a/c-tweets-847070.html
08-06-2020||National||Coronavirus-related Google searches drop in May as people go back to films, weather||After dominating the conversations for weeks, coronavirus seems to be falling off the popularity charts as netizens in the country went back to searching for topics like films and weather on Google in May. According to Google search trends, the search volume for coronavirus in May was half of that in April even though the number of COVID-19 cases have continued to rise in the country. 'Coronavirus' dropped to 12th most searched topic overall during May, behind topics like Film, Meaning, News and Weather. All these terms are consistently highly searched topics in India. This probably indicates that people are trying to return back to consumption patterns seen in the pre-COVID times. An exception was cricket. With no tournaments being organised in wake of the pandemic, coronavirus was "five times more searched than cricket", showed the trends.  The top trending search term overall for May was 'Lockdown 4.0', followed by 'Eid Mubarak'. Netizens also sought answers to questions like "Which disease is related to coronavirus?", "Can asymptomatic people spread coronavirus?" and "Will lockdown extend after 17 May?". The Indian government had announced a nationwide lockdown on March 25, which was extended in the following weeks. The third and the fourth phase of the lockdown was imposed between May 4-17, and May 18-31, respectively. On searches relating to coronavirus, Google saw volumes for "coronavirus lockdown zones Delhi" spike 1,800 per cent over the month, while "Italy coronavirus vaccine" saw 750 per cent jump. The top trending topic related to coronavirus was 'Vaccine' that witnessed 190 per cent increase in May, the data showed. The state/union territory with the highest search interest for coronavirus over May is Goa, followed by Meghalaya, Chandigarh and Tripura.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-related-google-searches-drop-in-may-as-people-go-back-to-films-weather-847075.html
08-06-2020||National||People of Kashmir took Article 370 scrapping positively; Pakistan unhappy with peace in valley: Lt General Raju||People of Kashmir took the scrapping of Article 370 in a "positive manner" as there was relative peace for a long time but Pakistan is on a "hyperdrive" on peddling a false narrative to keep the pot boiling in the valley, a top army officer said on Monday. "Starting from the situation post abrogation of Article 370, I think the population took the decision in a positive manner. We saw relative peace for a fairly long period of time," Lt Gen B S Raju, heading the strategic XV corps, told reporters in Awantipora, 33 km from here. Flanked by General Officer Commanding of Army's South Kashmir based Victor Force Major General A Sengupta and Inspector General of CRPF, Gen Raju, who was talking to media following killing of nine militants in two encounters in Shopian district in less than 24 hours, said normalcy was almost back in the valley by February this year. Gen Raju said Pakistan was "not happy" with the peaceful situation in the valley. "Pakistan is unhappy because it is in its larger plan to keep the pot boiling in the valley. That is how the relevance of the Pakistan army remains within Pakistan. As far as Pakistan's contribution to violence here is concerned, it is a combination of two things -- on the physical front inducting weapons along the Line of Control and, the second is, the information warfare Pakistan intends to fight," he said. Gen Raju appealed to people not to get swayed by the misinformation that is coming from Pakistan. "This is very important. Pakistan is on a hyperdrive to bring in false propaganda. If there is one person who is not happy today as to what is happening in the valley in terms of peace is Pakistan. So we need to fight that. "I would say that 120 crore of the country's population have a role to play in demolishing false narratives, which are coming from Pakistan. While we are fighting on ground, we will definitely look forward to the cooperation of the public and the population in general to spread the right message and demolish the false narratives," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/people-of-kashmir-took-article-370-scrapping-positively-pakistan-unhappy-with-peace-in-valley-lt-general-raju-847080.html
08-06-2020||National||Ayodhya temple opens with coronavirus precautions in place||The Ram Janmabhoomi temple in Uttar Pradesh’s Ayodhya opened to devotees after a gap of over two months on Monday with precautions in place to prevent the coronavirus spread. The temple will be open for eight hours from 8 am to 1 pm and then 3 pm to 6 pm every day. On the first day, very few devotees came to the temple with the authorities restricting the number of people to five at a time at the places of worship during the current phase of the coronavirus lockdown.   According to Acharya Satyendra Das, chief priest of the temple, only five people will be allowed to pay obeisance at a time and that too 15 metres away from the idol of Ram Lalla. “No prasad will be allowed as earlier. Devotees will have to follow the coronavirus protocol,” he said. Resident Magistrate K D Sharma said though prasad is not allowed, devotees can put money in the donation box. When asked that due to the restrictions very few people will be able to pay obeisance at the temple, he said, " Nowadays, people are likely to come in less numbers. So, there will be no problem. As the footfall increases, we will decide accordingly."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/ayodhya-temple-opens-with-coronavirus-precautions-in-place-847083.html
08-06-2020||National||Worshippers in masks return to temples as India reopens amidst rising coronavirus cases||People trickled into temples and mosques in India on Monday as the federal government lifted most restrictions on public places, even as the country added a record number of infections in a single day. It ordered shopping malls, places of worship and restaurants to open under a set of guidelines meant to prevent a further surge of infections in the world's second-most-populous country. Worshippers wore masks, stood 6 feet (2 metres) part and went through thermal scanners at Hindu temples in Delhi and elsewhere in the country that are usually filled to capacity. Harsh Vyas of an ISKCON (International Society for Krishna Consciousness) temple in the western city of Ahmedabad said access was strictly controlled. "We are allowing only a small number of devotees inside the temple at one time. We have drawn circles where they need to stand to ensure proper distancing of at least 6 feet," Vyas said. Disinfection tunnels were installed at the entrance to Delhi's shopping malls, due to open later Monday. But the capital, one of the country's hotspots, will not allow hotels to reopen because it said it might need to convert them into temporary hospitals if there were a big jump in cases. "Our cases are rising each day; we could run out of beds," said Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. India's total number of coronavirus cases reached 256,611, the health ministry said, just behind Spain after a record one-day jump of 9,983 infections. Only the United States, Brazil, Russia and the United Kingdom have more cases, and health experts say India's peak could still be weeks away, if not months. Deaths from COVID-19 stood at 7,135, still low compared with other countries that have suffered tens of thousands of fatalities. In Mumbai a few offices opened, and in the suburbs there were long queues at bus stops as the commuter trains that are its lifeline have not yet opened. Sajjan Jindal, chairman of the conglomerate JSW Group, said India needed to reopen fully to save livelihoods. "The slower we are to restart, the more we lose against countries out of lockdown. We can't lose any more time," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/worshippers-in-masks-return-to-temples-as-india-reopens-amidst-rising-coronavirus-cases-847093.html
08-06-2020||National||DGCA advises airports to not ease wildlife control measures amid COVID-19 pandemic||Indian aviation regulator DGCA on Monday advised all airport operators to not ease their wildlife control measures even though air traffic has reduced due to the coronavirus pandemic. Many regular activities such as grass cutting, bird activity monitoring patrols, and dispersal measures may be limited given the current situation of reduced manpower and lower aircraft movements at airfields, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) said in its circular. "This may result in an increase of bird/wildlife that forage, feed and rest or even nest within or near aerodromes," it stated. In the past, there have been many incidents in India where aircraft have hit animals on the runway during take off or landing. There have also been incidents where a bird has hit the engine of an aircraft during its take off or landing or when it is at a lower altitude. The regulator on Monday said as per its rules, an airport operator must take action to decrease the risk to aircraft operations by adopting measures to "minimise the likelihood of collisions between wildlife and aircraft". "Therefore, airport operators are advised not to ease bird/wildlife control measures and bird/wildlife monitoring be continued. Particular attention should be given to the increase of bird/wildlife activities as a result of reduced air traffic," it said. After a gap of two months, India resumed its domestic passenger flight operations from May 25. Scheduled international passenger flights continue to remain suspended in the country. Cargo flights, medical evacuation flights and special repatriation flights have been operating in the country as usual amid the pandemic. The rapid spread and deadly effect of COVID-19 has had a drastic effect on the airport operations, the regulator said in its circular. "During the lockdown period, airports have seen a significant reduction in operations. With less air traffic and stay-at-home orders, it has also seen a reduction in personnel deployed on the airfields for various duties and functions, including wildlife management," it said. Many airports are near substantial wetlands, or drainage ponds, making these areas attractive to thousands of migratory birds including waterfowl, shorebirds, gulls and other large birds, the DGCA noted. "Unfortunately, it is these birds that present a higher risk to aircraft. Therefore, given the current environment of reduced aviation activity, birds/wildlife are expected to expand their environment," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/dgca-advises-airports-to-not-ease-wildlife-control-measures-amid-covid-19-pandemic-847098.html
08-06-2020||National||SC seeks Centre's reply on plea alleging rise in child trafficking during lockdown||A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrisheksh Roy, in a hearing through video conferencing, sought the assistance of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on the issue and indicated that it may appoint an “experts committee” to look into the child trafficking issue. It also sought reply of National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on the plea by the NGO, ‘Bachpan Bachao Andolan’ . Senior advocate H S Phoolka, appearing for the NGO, said that a “pro-active approach” is required by all district authorities to ensure that such incidents, which have risen recently, are effectively curbed. The matter has been listed for hearing after two weeks and the apex court has asked the parties to do research on the issue and find some way to ensure that children are not exploited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-seeks-centres-reply-on-plea-alleging-rise-in-child-trafficking-during-lockdown-847102.html
08-06-2020||National||Identify patients early, step up testing: Centre as India sees 11k jump in single-day COVID-19 cases||As India added 11,265 new cases of COVID-19 in a single day, the Centre on Monday asked top officers of 38 districts, including Mandya and Yadgir, to assume a leadership role in proactively managing the hotspots and stepping up door-to-door surveys to identify patients at an early stage. Health Secretary Preeti Sudan also asked the top officers, which also included municipal commissioners of 45 municipalities from the 38 districts across 10 states, to ensure prompt COVID-19 tests and effective clinical management of patients to reduce the fatalities due to the infectious disease. The directives from the Centre’s top healthcare officer came on a day India’s COVID-19 count touched 2,57,983 cases and the death toll crossed the 7,000 mark to settle at 7,186. According to the Health Ministry, 9,983 new cases were reported from across the country as of Monday morning taking the total number of confirmed cases to 2,56,611. However, the ministry had not taken into account 1,282 fresh infections in the national capital, which if included, took the daily increase in COVID-19 cases to 11,265 and the nationwide tally to 2,57,983. The 10 states – Maharashtra, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat, J&K, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh – where these 45 municipalities are located, account for 1,76,634 cases or nearly 70 per cent of the nationwide patients. Sudan asked the municipal authorities to take leadership roles and rally the entire municipal infrastructure for implementing containment measures that include constant house-to-house survey for timely detection of infections and clinical management to reduce the fatalities due to the disease. She also suggested involving elected representatives in rural areas to ensure cooperation with district authorities for confidence building measures and timely access to health services. Of the total 2,57,983 cases, 1,26,277 are active and under medical supervision whereas 1,24,430 persons have been cured and discharged. According to the health ministry, the recovery rate stood at 48.35%, as against a growth rate of 3.89 per cent. India is now the fifth worst pandemic-hit country globally. The other top countries are the US (19,42,363), Brazil (6,91,758), Russia (4,67,073), the UK (2,87,621) according to the data collected by Johns Hopkins University and Medicine.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/identify-patients-early-step-up-testing-centre-as-india-sees-11k-jump-in-single-day-covid-19-cases-847110.html
08-06-2020||National||SC notice to Rajasthan govt on plea for CBI probe into NLU student's death||The Supreme Court on Monday sought a response from the Rajasthan government on a plea to transfer probe into the suspicious death of National Law University, Jodhpur student Vikrant Nagaich in 2017, to the CBI. A bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha, and B R Gavai asked the state government to explain why they failed to achieve a headway into the matter for over three years. Advocates Sunil Fernandes and Astha Sharma, representing Neetu Kumar Nagaich, the mother of the deceased, accused the state police of "lackadaisical and callous manner of the probe" into the FIR lodged on June 29, 2018, with Jodhpur's Mandore police station. The petitioner said the state was criminally negligent in the investigation or was trying to cover up for the perpetrators or had some mala fide intention to the detriment of her who lost her only son three years ago. Vikrant, a third-year law student, was found dead on August 14, 2017, under unnatural circumstances near Railway track opposite the university. The authorities first tried to present the case as that of suicide due to alleged depression, though there was no such evidence.   After about 10 months of the incident, the FIR was lodged but the CID-CB failed to arrive at any outcome. Petitioner's husband, Colonel Jayant Nagaich procured an Internal Railway Enquiry Report, which showed no record of any incident or accident by any member of lobby crew, locomotive drivers, or guards of the trains on the date. The petitioner also approached the Rajasthan HC which on February 24, 2020, disposed of the matter, though the investigating agency amongst other things failed to create a digital footprint, including retrieval of mobile records, of the circumstances surrounding the place of the incident, which would have led to the apprehension of the offenders.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/sc-notice-to-rajasthan-govt-on-plea-for-cbi-probe-into-nlu-students-death-847111.html
08-06-2020||National||Kerala girl accused of exam malpractice found dead||A week after Kerala witnessed a school girl ending life owing to lack of online study facilities at home, a 20-year-old girl accused of malpractice in university examination was found dead in a river. Police suspect that she committed suicide.  Anju P. Shaji, of Kanjirapally in Kottayam district, who was reported missing since Saturday evening, was found dead at Meenachal river near the college where she appeared for exam. While her father and relatives alleged that the BVM Holy Cross college authorities mentally harassed her with false accusation of malpractice in exam on Saturday, the college authorities came out with CCTV footage and Anju's hall ticket with notes scribbled on it defending the charges that the girl indulged in malpractice in the B.Com final semester university examination. It was suspected that Anju jumped into the river on Saturday owing to mental trauma. Her bag was spotted near the river. Meanwhile, apart from a police probe, the Kerala Women's Commission also launched a probe into the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/kerala-girl-accused-of-exam-malpractice-found-dead-847114.html
08-06-2020||National||Focus on house-to-house survey, prompt testing: Health ministry to officials of 45 civic bodies||Union Health Secretary Preeti Sudan along with senior officers of the Health ministry held a high level review meeting, via video conference, with the district collectors, municipal commissioners, superintendent of district hospitals and principals of medical colleges from 45 municipal corporations. The 38 districts are from Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat, Jammu and Kashmir, Karnataka, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh. In view of the easing of lockdown and lifting of curbs, states were advised to make a district-wise prospective plan for the coming months," the Union Health ministry said. During the meeting, issues discussed include widespread infection in densely populated urban areas, with areas that shared public amenities, importance of house-to-house surveys, prompt testing, clinical management of cases and containment strategy which needs to be implemented, it said. "The state officials were advised on the measures to be taken in the containment zones for case management and buffer zones surveillance activities and promotion of COVID appropriate behaviour," the ministry said. To reduce the case fatality rate, the officials were briefed on measures that include prioritising high-risk and vulnerable segments like elderly people and people with comorbidities while contact-tracing to prevent deaths. They were also asked to focus on active surveillance measures, adequate testing and promoting health seeking behaviour for timely detection of cases. They were also asked to ensure timely shifting of patients without escalating the symptoms, the ministry said. In terms of infrastructure and human resource management for containment of COVID-19, the Health Ministry said proper planning for health infrastructure should be taken up, adequate number of surveillance teams should be provided and a system should be put in place for bed availability management. Centres of Excellence can provide hand-holding for medical professionals, it said and added that senior officers should be deployed for hospitals to offer help to citizens to find health services as per their need. On field governance, municipal authorities were advised to take leadership and put the entire municipal infrastructure for containment measures using the 'whole of government approach'. The ministry also highlighted that along with COVID-19 management efforts, care needs to be given to regular and essential health services that are also available for the citizens. Officials were asked to focus on areas like active house-to-house survey for timely detection, augmentation of the survey teams, efficient ambulance management, efficient triaging of patients at the hospitals and bed management, clinical management of the hospitalised cases through rotational 24x7 teams to ensure reduction in the fatality rates, the ministry said in the statement. They were also advised to ensure that labs return the testing results on time to ensure early identification and timely treatment. It was also suggested that elected representatives in the rural areas should be involved to help cooperate with district health authorities to build confidence and timely accessing of available health services. The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 7,200 and the number of cases climbed to 2,56,611 in the country, registering an increase of 271 deaths and a record single-day jump of 9,983 cases till Monday 8 PM, according to the updated Union Health Ministry data. The number of active COVID-19 cases stood at 1,24,981 while a total of 1,24,430 people have recovered so far with 5,137 patients having been cured in the last 24 hours, the ministry said. "Around 48.49 per cent patients have recovered so far,"  the statement said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/focus-on-house-to-house-survey-prompt-testing-health-ministry-to-officials-of-45-civic-bodies-847116.html
08-06-2020||National||Despite Centre's nod, J&K, 4 states to keep ASI monuments with places of worship shut||In view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation, ASI monuments having places of worship will remain shut in Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Odisha and Jammu and Kashmir despite nod from the central government to reopen them from Monday, officials said. In an order issued on Sunday, the Union Culture Ministry approved reopening of 820 Archeological Survey of India (ASI) protected monuments which have places of worship from June 8, but allowed local authorities in the states to take the final call depending on the situation on the ground. The officials said around 65 such monuments in Maharashtra, 28 in Rajasthan, 46 in Odisha, 75 in Tamil Nadu and nine in Jammu and Kashmir will remain closed due to the prevailing coronavirus situation. The authorities in Agra have decided that all the 14 monuments, listed by the Culture Ministry to be opened in the city from June 8, will remain shut. While the ministry had given its nod to the reopening of three places of worship near and in Taj Mahal premises -- the Fatehpuri Masjid on the south-west corner of Taj Mahalś entrance, the mosque inside its complex and the Kali Masjid near it -- the district authorities in a meeting on Sunday decided against it. The local administration in these states and the Union Territory have informed the ASI offices there on the decision to keep the monuments shut, the officials said. They said in Odisha, where the lockdown is till June 30, popular places of worship that will remain shut are the Jagannath Temple in Puri, Lingaraj, Mukteswar, Ananta Vasudev and other ancient Shaiva centres, 64 Yogini Pitha at Heerapur and Kapilash Pitha in Dhenkanal will stay shut till then at least. Local authorities in the states and the UT have also told ASI officials that since the pandemic is still not contained, they did not feel the need to reopen these sites as very few are expected to come. In Delhi, Friday prayers would be allowed in the Qutub archaeological area and at Afsah-wala-ki Masjid outside the west gate of Humayun's Tomb, the list said. All the 3,691 Centrally-protected monuments and archaeological sites maintained by the ASI were shut from March 17 due to the coronavirus crisis. Among the ASI monuments having places of worship which would be opened from Monday include 114 from the northern region, 155 from the central region, 120 from the western region, 279 from the southern region and around 100 from the eastern region, the officials said. Most such monuments are in Vadodara (77), followed by Chennai (75), Dharwad (73) and Bengaluru (69). Statewise, Uttar Pradesh has 111 such monuments, followed by Maharashtra with 65 and 60 in Madhya Pradesh. The Centre had on May 30 said that 'Unlock-1' would be initiated in India from June 8 under which the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown effectuated on March 25 would be relaxed to a great extent, including reopening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places, even as strict restrictions would remain in place till June 30 in the country's worst-hit areas. The Health Ministry on Thursday released SOPs for reopening offices, hotels, shopping malls, restaurants and religious places. Some of them have already reopened in parts of the country and a few others are scheduled to re-start in the next phase of unlocking from Monday. The stakeholders will be responsible for following the guidelines. The guidelines released by the Ministry of Home Affairs state that hand hygiene (sanitizer dispenser) and thermal screening provisions are to be made compulsory at the entrance. Only asymptomatic persons shall be permitted entry to the premises. Entry will be allowed only to the people using masks or face covers. It also stated that footwear or shoes should be preferably taken off. The MHA guidelines said in order to manage the queue and ensure social distancing on the premises, specific markings must be made with sufficient distance and separate entry and exit should be organized for the visitors. When queuing for the entry, a minimum of 6-feet distance should be maintained at all times.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/despite-centres-nod-jk-4-states-to-keep-asi-monuments-with-places-of-worship-shut-847119.html
08-06-2020||National||COVID-19: AIMTC warns of community transmission in road transport sector||All India Motor Transport Congress (AIMTC) on Monday said there is a threat of community transmission in the road transport sector as a large number of truckers across various states have become infected with COVID-19. AIMTC is the apex body of transporters representing about 95 lakh truckers and such entities. Large number of truckers in Delhi, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh have become infected with coronavirus and in many cases entire families have been infected and quarantined, AIMTC President Kultaran Singh Atwal told PTI. Transporters have been consistently asking the government for implementing safety measures for the drivers and labourers who in fact have become carriers of coronavirus, he said and added that more than 20 crore people associated with the transport sector face the risk of getting infected. "Our worst fears are coming true. There has been increasing number of cases of COVID-19 among the transport community as the information trickles in from across the country. Their entire families are infected and quarantined," Atwal said. AIMTC Secretary General Naveen Kumar Gupta said under such circumstances where the transporters do not have adequate finance for sustenance of their families or to pay for their statutory compliances they are being forced to remain off roads. "Coronavirus could explode among this vulnerable population sooner than it is expected as the community transmission has taken its foothold in the road transport sector," Gupta warned. AIMTC former President Bal Malkit Singh said vehicles are getting stranded as the transporters are not having enough money to run their vehicles not there is any demand in the market. "More than the statutory compliances, corruption is taking toll of the transport trade," he said. In near future more vehicles will go off the roads widening the demand supply deficit, he warned. Singh said these will result in increase in freight rates, pressure on essential supply chain and loss of livelihood. "We asked for minimum rescue package from the government like waiver of interest on Equated Monthly Installment (EMIs), extension of validity of statutory documents to run vehicles, extension of validity of motor insurance, waiver of state taxes, loans etc but in vain," Singh said. Alleging that the government seems to have turned a blind eye towards their plight, transporters have been warning that prevailing circumstances may compel them to take vehicles off the road if no relief is announced to mitigate the impact of coronavirus-related lockdown.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-aimtc-warns-of-community-transmission-in-road-transport-sector-847129.html
08-06-2020||National||Boiler blast at chemical factory in Dahej: NGT slaps penalty of Rs 25 cr on Gujarat-based company||The National Green tribunal Monday slapped a penalty of Rs 25 crore on a company where a huge fire caused by a blast in the boiler at Dahej in Bharuch district of Gujarat on June 3 resulted in the death of eight workers. A bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed Yashashvi Rasayan Pvt. Ltd to deposit an amount minus the statutory compensation/ex gratia payments already made to the victims, if any, with the District Magistrate, Bharuch within 10 days from today. Liability of the Company is strict and absolute for the loss caused by its activities, the NGT said. "The amount may be disbursed by the District Magistrate by making disbursement plan. Disbursement plan may consider safeguards to ensure that amount reaches the beneficiaries and is not misappropriated by any intermediary," the bench said. The NGT also constituted a six-member committee headed by former High Court judge Justice B C Patel and sought a report in a month.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/boiler-blast-at-chemical-factory-in-dahej-ngt-slaps-penalty-of-rs-25-cr-on-gujarat-based-company-847134.html
08-06-2020||National||Security forces have eliminated over 100 militants in Jammu and Kashmir this year: Officials||Security forces have managed to eliminate 101 militants this year in Jammu and Kashmir, and are now focusing on neutralising around 125 more ultras, including 25 foreign terrorists, in the southern districts of the Valley, officials said on Monday. General officer commanding of the Army's XV Corps Lt General B S Raju said while it was difficult to put out an exact number of militants active at the moment, the security forces were looking at 100 odd local ultras and around 25 foreign terrorists in south Kashmir. "We can give a rough figure of 100 odd local terrorists (that) we are looking at and, may be, another 20-25 foreign terrorists," Gen Raju told reporters at a hurriedly convened press conference at the Victor Force Headquarters in Awantipora, 33 km from here. Police officials said the total number of militants killed in the Union territory has crossed 101 since the beginning of this year but the security forces have paid a heavy price for their efforts to maintain peace, losing 29 personnel, including some officers, during the counter-insurgency operations. "With the four militants killed in the encounter at Pinjora in Shopian this morning, the total number of ultras eliminated this year has reached 101," the officials said here. They said while 29 security forces personnel have laid down their lives while fighting the ultras, the militants have shot dead 11 civilians in the corresponding period. There was a slight lull in anti-militancy operations during the month of March but the operations have picked up speed since April. While 29 militants were killed in April, 15 were neutralised in May and an equal number have been killed in the first eight days of June. Gen Raju said the successes against the insurgents were due to the professionalism of all agencies involved in these operations. "Starting from the intelligence given by the Jammu and Kashmir police, the solid crowd control done by the CRPF and the appropriate tactics that were used by the forces on ground ensured that it was done in the most professional manner," he added. Gen Raju said he would give credit to the local population, "which kind of facilitated in conducting the operation in such a smooth manner". "We will continue with our professional operations in a manner that we cause minimum inconvenience to public and our primary aim remains to bring in peace. We are neutralising somebody so that people can live without fear, they can go about their routine in a manner where their livelihood is not disturbed. That is our primary focus," he added. Asked about the emergence of The Resistance Force (TRF), the corps commander said, "There is no organisation called TRF. It is a social media entity which is trying to take credit for anything and everything that is happening within the Valley. It is in the electronic domain. We are taking appropriate action to neutralise it. To me, it is a mirror image of a foreign entity of Lashker-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammad," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/security-forces-have-eliminated-over-100-militants-in-jammu-and-kashmir-this-year-officials-847136.html
08-06-2020||National||COVID-19 toll rises to 7,200; Record jump in cases||The novel coronavirus toll rose to 7,200 with 271 more deaths and the number of infections climbed to 2,56,611 in India on Monday after a record single-day spike of 9,983 cases, the Health Ministry said in its revised data. The country has been registering over 9,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) for the fifth day in a row. There are 1,24,981 active cases while 1,24,429 people have recovered and one patient has migrated, the ministry said in its updated data at 8 am. "Thus, 48.49 per cent patients have recovered so far," it said. According to the ICMR, a total of 47,74,434 samples have been tested till 9 am on June 8, with 1,08,048 samples been tested in the last 24 hours. The Health Ministry has revised the figures of death and cases for Delhi and Telangana. Of the 271 more deaths, 91 were in Maharashtra, 51 in Delhi, 30 in Gujarat, 18 each in Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh, 14 in Telangana, 13 each in West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh, nine in Rajasthan, four in Haryana, two each in Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand, and one each in Odisha and Punjab. India is the fifth worst-hit nation by the COVID-19 pandemic after the US, Brazil, Russia and the UK, according to the Johns Hopkins University data. Out of the total 7,200 fatalities, Maharashtra tops the tally with 3,060 deaths followed by Gujarat with 1,249 deaths, Delhi with 812, Madhya Pradesh with 412, West Bengal with 396, Uttar Pradesh with 275, Tamil Nadu with 269, Rajasthan with 240 and Telangana with 137 deaths. The death toll reached 75 in Andhra Pradesh, 61 in Karnataka and 51 in Punjab. Jammu and Kashmir has reported 41 fatalities due to the coronavirus disease, while 30 deaths have been reported from Bihar, 28 from Haryana, 15 from Kerala, 13 from Uttarakhand, nine from Odisha and seven from Jharkhand. Himachal Pradesh and Chandigarh have registered five COVID-19 fatalities each and Assam and Chhattisgarh have recorded four deaths each so far. Meghalaya and Ladakh have reported one COVID-19 fatality each, according to ministry data. More than 70 per cent of the deaths are due to comorbidities, the ministry's website stated. The highest number of confirmed cases in the country are from Maharashtra at 85,975, followed by Tamil Nadu at 31,667, Delhi at 28,936, Gujarat at 20,070, Rajasthan at 10,599, Uttar Pradesh at 10,536 and Madhya Pradesh at 9,401, it said. The number of COVID-19 cases has gone up to 8,187 in West Bengal, 5,452 in Karnataka, 5,088 in Bihar and 4,708 in Andhra Pradesh. It has risen to 4,448 in Haryana, 4,087 in Jammu and Kashmir, 3,650 in Telangana and 2,856 in Odisha. Punjab has reported 2,608 novel coronavirus cases so far while Assam has 2,565 cases. A total of 1,914 people have been infected by the virus in Kerala and 1,355 in Uttarakhand. Jharkhand has registered 1,099 cases, while 1,073 cases have been reported from Chhattisgarh, 800 from Tripura, 413 from Himachal Pradesh, 314 from Chandigarh and 300 from Goa. Manipur has 172 and Nagaland has 118 cases till now. Ladakh has 103 COVID-19 cases, Puducherry has 99 cases, Arunachal Pradesh has 51 cases, Meghalaya 36 cases, Mizoram has 34 cases while Andaman and Nicobar Islands has registered 33 infections so far.  Dadar and Nagar Haveli has 20 cases while Sikkim has reported seven cases till now. The ministry's website said that 7,837 cases are being reassigned to states and "our figures are being reconciled with the ICMR". Statewise distribution is subject to further verification and reconciliation, it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/covid-19-toll-rises-to-7200-record-jump-in-cases-847137.html
08-06-2020||National||UP Deputy CM seeks withdrawal of Delhi govt decision on hospitals||Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Monday sought the withdrawal of the Delhi government decision barring people from other states to get coronavirus treatment in hospitals run by them. He also sought a apology from Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for the move, saying no such discrimination should be done in the time of crisis. On Sunday, the Delhi chief minister had announced that the hospitals run by the his government and private players in the national capital will treat only Delhi residents during the coronavirus crisis. Addressing an online media briefing, Kejriwal said the hospitals run by the Centre will have no such restriction and if people from other states come to the national capital for specific surgeries, they can get medical treatment at private hospitals. "As far as medical treatment is concerned, no discrimination is done. This was not done even done during Ravan raaj,” the Deputy CM said. “I fail to understand how Arvind Kejriwal gave this statement. He must withdraw it as getting medical treatment is the right of each and every citizen of the country, irrespective of the place he belongs to," Maurya said. "This is the time of emergency and this type of behaviour, should not be there. He should not have made this type of statement and I hope that he withdraws it and tenders an apology," Maurya added. Maurya said the statement could have been made during the election time but it did not go well now. “He should abstain from such statements, withdraw it and tender an apology," the Deputy CM said. While making the announcement, Kejriwal on had claimed,"Over 90 per cent of people want Delhi hospitals to treat patients from the national capital during the coronavirus pandemic. Hence, it has been decided that government and private hospitals in Delhi will only treat patients from the national capital."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/up-deputy-cm-seeks-withdrawal-of-delhi-govt-decision-on-hospitals-847138.html
08-06-2020||National||Coronavirus lockdown extended in West Bengal till June 30: CM Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday announced that the coronavirus lockdown in the state has been extended till June 30. Addressing media persons at the State Secretariat she also said that instead of the earlier upper limit of 10 people at social events such as marriage or funerals maximum of 25 persons will be allowed. “We are extending the lockdown till June 30. However, the restrictions and relaxations already in place will continue unchanged,” said Banerjee. The Chief Minister also instructed Kolkata Police to issue notification allowing bicycles on certain busy roads in the city since people are depending on bicycles to reach their destinations in absence of local trains and metro services. Currently, bicycles are not allowed on several busy thoroughfares in the city. She also announced that in the cabinet meeting during the day it was decided that Rs 1,050 crore has been allotted for development of industrial infrastructure and logistics. Earlier the state government had announced that the lockdown will continue in West Bengal till June 15. Banerjee also said that the state government has allotted Rs.850 crore for several social security schemes. "Earlier, we had allowed only 10 people at social programmes such as a marriage or a funeral ceremony, now we have increased it to 25," she said after a meeting of the state cabinet. The Mamata Banerjee-led government eased shutdown curbs in the state from June 1, allowing places of worship to reopen, and jute, tea and construction sectors to resume full-fledged operations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-lockdown-extended-in-west-bengal-till-june-30-cm-mamata-banerjee-847145.html
08-06-2020||National||Expand scope of MGNREGA to meet migrants' work demand: Congress to Centre||The Congress on Monday asked the government to expand the scope of MGNREGA to meet the growing work demand of 8 crore migrants expected to relocate in villages in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic. Asking the prime minister not to view Centre's "reliance on the MGNREGA as the victory of the scheme or of BJP's political adversaries", Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said the government should look at the scale of benefits the scheme will provide to migrants. He said COVID-19 has demonstrated the "unmatched value of a people-centric scheme like the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) with a humbled Modi government being constrained to commit an additional Rs 40,000 crore to it". "MGNREGA must be scaled up and made open-ended to meet the massively increased demand," he said at a virtual press conference. Singhvi said the scheme was a Congress brainchild and it has proved to be the world's largest social welfare scheme and "clearly the most efficacious government scheme". "Please forget that your remarks Mr Prime minister will come back to haunt you. Please forget political adversariness. Please forget that your current reliance on MGNREGA is the scheme's biggest victory and therefore, indirectly the victory of some of your political opponents. "Please consider how much good you can do to the nation through this scheme. So don't take our remarks in an adversarial spirit. MGNREGA is a reality, it's a done deal and you have to build on it," Singhvi said. He said since PM Modi is "compelled to fall back on a UPA scheme", it is only appropriate that the Congress provides him with additional guidance for the next steps. The Congress leader said the government has rightly given Rs 40,000 crore extra, but it must remember that the scale of the disaster of COVID-19 will require its further expansion. In May 2020, he said, 2.19 crore households have benefitted from this scheme, which is the highest for May in the last eight years. Singhvi said as many as 12 crore people, as of March 31, 2020, have benefitted cumulatively from this scheme ever since its inception. With 8 crore migrants expected to relocate due to COVID-19 pandemic, the Congress leader urged the government to increase the number of guaranteed days of employment to 200 from the current 100 under the scheme. He said this will help provide employment opportunities to the relocated migrants near their homes and asked the government to make panchayats the fulcrum, in terms of both devolution of funds and in identifying prospective projects. The nature of work must be left to gram sabhas, he said, adding local elected bodies understand the ground realities, the influx of workers and their needs. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in an article, has also said that this is not about BJP vs Congress, but MGNREGA should be used to help people of India. "The Modi government has grudgingly come around to the significance of the programme. My plea to the government is, this is a time of national crisis, not a time to play politics. This is not a BJP versus Congress issue. You have a powerful mechanism at hand, please use it to help the people of India in their time of need," she said in the article.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/expand-scope-of-mgnrega-to-meet-migrants-work-demand-congress-to-centre-847147.html
08-06-2020||National||From the Newsroom: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, Rajya Sabha polls and poaching MLAs in Gujarat||From the Newsroom today, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has gone into self-quarantine and will get himself tested for COVID-19 on Tuesday.  The Gujarat Congress decides to shift all its MLAs to Rajasthan over the fear of 'poaching' by the BJP. H D Deve Gowda to contest Rajya Sabha elections and after about two-and-half months, places of worship, hotels and restaurants opened for the public on Monday in Bengaluru and several parts of Karnataka. Catch our feature show, The Lead, Monday to Friday at 7 am, and our evening news catch up show From the Newsroom everyday at 6 pm.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/from-the-newsroom-delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-rajya-sabha-polls-and-poaching-mlas-in-gujarat-847149.html
08-06-2020||National||All states did good work in battle against COVID-19, says Union Home Minister Amit Shah||Home Minister Amit Shah said on Monday that all states have done a good job in the battle against COVID-19 pandemic which the central government has jointly fought with them. Speaking at a 'virtual rally' for people of Odisha, Shah also lauded the Modi government's track record on national security and recalled the air and surgical strikes inside Pakistan ordered by the Prime Minister in his first term. "Under PM Modi's leadership, any intrusion into the the borders of India will be punished. Some used to say that US and Israel were the only countries which were willing and capable of avenging every drop of the blood of their soldiers. Modi Ji has added India to that list," he said.  The world realises that India will now not tolerate any intrusion into its borders, he said, while underscoring the Modi government's commitment to protect India's sovereignty. His comments came at a time when Indian and Chinese armies are engaged in a standoff in Ladakh with both countries trying to defuse the crisis through diplomatic and military channels. Shah, however, made no direct comment on the issue. The BJP leader also strongly defended the central government over the migrant crisis, saying everyone was anguished by their pain but their safety was a top priority for the Centre. Targeting the opposition, he said the central government might have made a mistake or had some shortcomings but its commitment was always there, and then asked what the rival parties did. Somebody was interviewing people abroad in English on how to fight the coronavirus, Shah said in an apparent jibe at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, and added that the Congress never did anything during disasters that the country has faced over the years except for "interviews".  Gandhi has been speaking to personalities from different fields on various aspects of the coronavirus crisis. The senior BJP leader said the central government sought suggestions from all states; be it Odisha, West Bengal or Kerala, and rose above any partisan biases in this joint battle against the disease. He noted that Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to chief ministers through videoconferencing five times. Over 1.25 crore migrants were transported safely to their homes by the government which had announced a package of Rs 1.70 lakh crore to help the poor immediately after the lockdown was announced, Shah said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/all-states-did-good-work-in-battle-against-covid-19-says-union-home-minister-amit-shah-847152.html
08-06-2020||National||Plea filed in HC against order restricting COVID-19 treatment to Delhi residents||A batch of petitions were filed on Monday (June 8) in the Delhi High Court questioning validity of the Delhi government's decision to restrict COVID-19 treatment in government as well as private hospitals only for bona fide residents of the capital city. Delhi University student, Gaurav Sarkar, and advocate Abhay Gupta and others contended the decision was against Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution. The petitioners claimed the order issued on June 7 was also violative of Article 19 (1)(e) as it would force those living without valid ID proof of Delhi to move out of the capital city for the treatment.  They also pointed out the law did not confer any power on the Delhi government to restrict the treatment of the disease on the basis of residence.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/plea-filed-in-hc-against-order-restricting-covid-19-treatment-to-delhi-residents-847161.html
08-06-2020||National||Talks with China positive, says Rajnath Singh||The recent talks between senior military officials of India and China were “very positive”, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said, even as Indian Army started a review of its preparedness along the entire stretch of its disputed boundary with the neighbouring communist country.  The Defence Minister had a meeting with the top military officials and was briefed about the ongoing build-ups by both sides along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) – the de facto boundary between the two nations – on the bank of the Pangong Tso lake in eastern Ladakh. He was also briefed about the efforts to de-escalate the situation, including what transpired in the meeting between the commanders of Indian Army and Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on Saturday.  Singh later said that the boundary dispute between India and China had been going on since long back and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Government was keen to resolve it “as soon as possible”.  He also referred to the recent demand by the Congress MP Rahul Gandhi and other opposition leaders for a statement by the government on the situation along India-China disputed boundary in eastern Ladakh. “As the Defence Minister of the country, I want to say that whatever I have to say I will say it inside Parliament, I will not mislead the people,” the Defence Minister said while addressing over video-link an event organised by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).    Singh had a meeting with Chief of Defence Staff Gen Bipin Rawat and the chiefs of Indian Army, Air Force and Navy – Gen M M Naravane, Air Chief Marshal R K Singh Bhadauria and Admiral Karambir Singh – on Monday. He was briefed about the meeting between the senior officials of the Indian Army and the Chinese PLA had on Saturday to defuse tension along the disputed boundary between the two nations on the northern bank of the Pangong Tso lake.  Lt Gen Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding (GOC) of the 14 corps of the Indian Army, led the delegation from India in the meeting with the Chinese PLA officials at Chushul-Moldo point on the LAC on Saturday. The Chinese PLA delegation was led by its commander in charge of the South Xinjiang Military Region, Maj Gen Liu Lin.  “Talks with China are on at military and diplomatic levels (to de-escalate the situation),” Singh said, adding: “The June 6 talks were very positive and both the countries have agreed to continue talks to resolve the ongoing situation”. He also said that leadership of the country was “in strong hands”.  “We will not compromise on India's pride and self-respect”.  The Defence Minister also reviewed during his meeting with the top military brass the general preparedness of the Indian Army, Navy and Air Force to deal with any eventuality.  Lt Gen RP Singh, General Officer Commanding in Chief of the Western Command, on Monday visited forward posts on the India-China border in Himachal Pradesh and reviewed the “operational preparedness”. The Indian Army is conducting similar review of its preparedness in the eastern sector of the disputed boundary between India and China too.  Beijing too on Monday echoed New Delhi, with Hua Chunying, spokesperson of the Chinese Government’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, stating that the military officials of the two sides had discussed India-China border area situation and agreed to implement important consensus reached by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping, not to turn differences into disputes, work together to maintain peace and tranquility in border areas to create favourable atmosphere for stable development of bilateral relations.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/talks-with-china-positive-says-rajnath-singh-847168.html
08-06-2020||National||Anxiety over COVID-19 on the rise in India: Survey||Indians are getting more anxious and worried about the COVID-19 situation in the country amid a surge in the number of cases, according to a new survey. While 21 percent felt anxious about the situation during the lockdown 1.0, the survey by LocalCircles said, the number has risen to 56 per ent now with the government's announcement of 'Unlock 1.0'. This is a 166 percent rise from how they felt in early April during lockdown 1.0. "With the government now announcing unlocking of the country in three planned phases, citizens are getting anxious due to the growing numbers of COVID-19 cases," the survey, which covered around 17,000 people in 211 districts of the country stated. The survey also said the need of the hour is for the government to evaluate if Unlock 1.0 makes sense for every district or the high virus-load cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, etc. must be treated differently. "Also, a serious plan needs to be drawn upon how the healthcare system should be scaled effectively if the daily case load rises from 11,000 to 20,000 within a few weeks. A clear message also needs to be put out stating 'the lockdown has ended, the pandemic hasn’t and its getting worse” for there is a sizable group who feels COVID-19 has ended with the lockdown ending," it said. To a question on how they felt about opening up of most activities, the survey said 27 per cent were of the view that it will likely lead to significant rise in cases and complete lockdown should have been implemented in high virus load districts, while 52 per cent said it will likely lead to major increase in cases but we as a nation do not have the option of staying locked any more. According to the survey, 12 per cent said that the peak is almost here, and cases will reduce from here, so, unlocking makes sense. Only 6 per cent said that there should not have been any lockdown in the first place at all and just learn to live with the risk of the virus. "This means that 79 per cent of citizens feel that unlock 1.0 will lead to a significant hike in COVID-19 cases in India," it said. The survey said the situation in Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai seems to be the worst as reported by citizens in these cities. While the state governments are found saying that they have enough beds, the reality experienced by citizens is reported to be somewhat different, it claimed. "In several hospitals of Mumbai, there is a major shortage of staff and hence, a bed is not useful if a patient on it can’t be serviced or cared for. In Delhi, several cases have come to light where the helplines could not be reached, the hospital bed availability was drastically different than what was advised on the helpline or the website of Delhi government. Some private hospitals have also been reported to charge an upfront amount of Rs 3 lakh before even admission despite the various government advisories and orders," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/anxiety-over-covid-19-on-the-rise-in-india-survey-847169.html
08-06-2020||National||PNB scam: Court allows confiscation of Nirav Modi's assets||A special court here on Monday allowed confiscation of assets owned by diamantaire Nirav Modi, a key accused in the multi-crore Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam, under the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act (FEOA). This is the first order of confiscationpassed under the FEO Act,enacted two years ago, anywhere in the country. Special Judge V C Barde permitted the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to confiscate those assets owned by Nirav Modi that are not mortgaged or hypothecated to the PNB. The court, in its order, said the assets shall be attached by the ED under the provisions of the FEO Act within one month. After that, the said properties/assets shall stand confiscated to the Central government under section 12(2) and 8 of the FEO Act, the judge said. Senior advocate Nitesh Jain from Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas law firm, who appeared for PNB, said the court has allowed those assets that have not been mortgaged, secured or hypothecated to the bank to be confiscated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pnb-scam-court-allows-confiscation-of-nirav-modis-assets-847173.html
08-06-2020||National||Supreme Court seeks reply of Centre, NDMA on plea for framing of policy to curb child trafficking||The Supreme Court Monday sought response from the Centre and the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) on a plea by an NGO seeking framing of a policy to prevent child trafficking which has allegedly seen a sudden rise during the COVID-19 lockdown. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde, hearing the PIL filed by the NGO -- ‘Bachpan Bachao Andolan’, run by Nobel laureate Kailash Satayathi -- issued notices to the NDMA, ministries of Home Affairs and Labour and Empowerment and nine states. The bench, also comprising Justices A S Bopanna and Hrisheksh Roy, took note of the submissions of senior advocate H S Phoolka on behalf of the NGO and asked him to find and suggest “some way” to ensure that children are not “exploited”. Seeking assistance of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta during the hearing via video conferencing, the top court said it may appoint an “experts committee” to look into the child trafficking issue and asked Phoolka to do “some homework” for suggesting ways to deal with the problem. Phoolka, assisted by lawyers Jagjit Chabbra and Prabhsahay Kaur, said that a “pro-active approach” is required by all district authorities to ensure that such incidents, which have risen recently, are effectively curbed. The law officer said that the matter was not adversarial in nature and would assist the court in dealing with the issue. During the hearing, the bench also asked the NGO also suggest mechanisms to control the market of Child Labour and prevent contractors from employing child labour. The nine states to which the top court issued notices are: Assam, Bihar, Chattishgarh, Jharkhand, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Delhi and Telangana. It has fixed the hearing on PIL after two weeks. The plea said that these states have seen largest number of transfer of migrant workers and this is the time when children trafficking can be effectively curbed. “Issue an appropriate writ...directing Respondent no.1 (NDMA) to frame an appropriate policy/guidelines on prevention of trafficking of children and their rescue and rehabilitation in the wake of COVID-19 at the earliest,” the NGO said. The NGO, in its plea, also sought a direction to the NDMA and the Centre to “circulate the policy so prepared under to Chief Secretaries of all states and governors of all UTs for action and mandatory implementation.” The PIL sought a direction to the MHA to “mandatorily direct all states to activate their anti-human trafficking units to prevent and take appropriate action on child trafficking” including but not limited to identifying the known and potential traffickers, monitoring and sharing information and intelligence with the Centre as a part of coordinated response and action. The NGO said that it has received information that cases of trafficking will increase once the lockdown is relaxed as potential victims are already being approached. The PIL said that children trafficking is prone to manifest it two ways - child labour and sex trafficking.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/supreme-court-seeks-reply-of-centre-ndma-on-plea-for-framing-of-policy-to-curb-child-trafficking-847184.html
08-06-2020||National||LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti to appear in person when called in Babri demolition trial: Court||A special court hearing the Babri Masjid demolition case on Monday put BJP veterans L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti on notice to appear in person when asked to record their statements. The court is recording the statements of the 32 accused under section 313 of the CrPC, an opportunity for them to respond after the Central Bureau of Investigation completed the examination of its witnesses. The three leaders were earlier exempted from personal appearance in court till further orders. Special judge Surendra Kumar Yadav said while granting this exemption it was clarified that they would have to appear in person "as and when their presence was required". He said the three accused “are directed that they will ensure their presence in the court on the date to be fixed by the court”. No date was immediately fixed. “The purpose of Monday's order was to alert the three that they have to appear soon before the court,” CBI counsel Lalit Singh later said. The court has so far recorded the statements of four of the 32 accused under section 313. On Monday, Ramji Gupta’s statement was recorded. The accused include former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, former deputy prime minister L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Uma Bharti, Vinay Katiyar, Sadhvi Rithambara, Sakshi Maharaj, Champat Rai and Ram Vilas Vedanti. The court has been conducting day to day proceedings in order to conclude the trial by August 31, as directed by the Supreme Court. L K Advani, M M Joshi and Uma Bharti had appeared before the special court on May 26, 2017. The three had then sought bail from the court and also moved an application seeking exemption from personal appearance during the proceedings. This was allowed by court till further orders. Under section 313 of the CrPC, the accused get the chance to make their statements after the prosecution has completed the examination of their witnesses. The Babri Masjid was demolished in December 1992 by "kar sevaks" who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/lk-advani-murli-manohar-joshi-uma-bharti-to-appear-in-person-when-called-in-babri-demolition-trial-court-847216.html
08-06-2020||National||IAF inducts indigenously developed pod ARPIT to evacuate critical patients from remote areas||The Indian Air Force on Monday inducted an indigenously designed and manufactured pod called ARPIT, which will be used for evacuation of critical patients suffering from infectious diseases like COVID-19 from isolated and remote areas. "The IAF has designed, developed and inducted an Airborne Rescue Pod for Isolated Transportation (ARPIT)," said the IAF in a statement. It said when COVID-19 outbreak was declared a pandemic, it felt the need for an evacuation system that prevents the spread of infectious aerosol from the patient to another person. This indigenously designed system has been developed at a cost of Rs 60,000, which is very less when compared to imported systems which cost up to Rs 60 lakh a piece, the IAF stated.  The isolation system has a suitable number of air exchanges, integration of medical monitoring instruments, and ventilation for an incubated patient, the IAF said. In addition, the pod generates high constant negative pressure in the isolation chamber for prevention of infection risk to air crew, ground crew and health care workers involved in air transportation, the IAF noted. "This pod will be utilised for evacuation of critical patients with infectious diseases including COVID-19 from high altitude area, isolated and remote places," it added. More than 2.56 lakh have been infected and around 7,100 people have died due to the virus in India till now.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/iaf-inducts-indigenously-developed-pod-arpit-to-evacuate-critical-patients-from-remote-areas-847242.html
08-06-2020||National||Coronavirus: HRD ministry begins consultations on reopening schools, safety of students||The HRD ministry on Monday began consultation with states and other stakeholders on reopening of schools which have been closed since March due to COVID-19 pandemic. In the meeting chaired by Secretary School Education, Anita Karwal, the state education secretaries also deliberated upon health and safety of students, hygiene measures in schools and issues regarding online and digital education. Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' said the suggestions will be examined and sent to the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and Ministry of Home Affairs. "Obtained valuable suggestions from state governments regarding issues related to school education. Our priority has always been the safety and security of students and teachers," the minister said in a tweet. "The suggestions received will be examined and sent to the @MoHFW_INDIA and Ministry of Home Affairs for appropriate actions regarding framing guidelines for education sector during COVID-19 times," he said in another tweet. According to ministry officials, suggestions received from states included staggered classes, non compulsion of maintaining attendance, calling students on alternative days and a flexible plan to be able to avoid any exigencies. "The government is clear on one part that nothing will be rushed without proper consultations and students' safety will be the top priority while making any decision," an official said. "However, it is early to decide on when schools will reopen, consultations have begun. A final decision will be taken by MHA in this regard and states will also have to keep the COVID-19 situation in mind," the official said. "Among the issues that were discussed included preparedness for the opening of schools, what kind of arrangements will be made by the administration for the health and safety of students, and the hygiene measures in schools,” the official added. Universities and schools across the country have been closed since March 16, when the Centre announced a countrywide classroom shutdown as part of a slew of measures to contain the COVID-19 outbreak. A 21-day nationwide lockdown was announced on March 24, which came into effect the next day. While the government has announced easing of certain restrictions, schools and colleges continue to remain closed. The government had on May 30 announced phase-wise easing of restrictions, while the lockdown will continue in containment zones till June 30. It said schools, colleges and coaching institutes will be opened after consultation with states and UTs. "State governments and UT administrations may hold consultations at the institution level with parents and other stakeholders. Based on the feedback, a decision on reopening of these institutions will be taken in the month of July," the home ministry had said. However, the announcement has rung alarm bells among parents who believe the move will be unsafe. More than 4 lakh parents from across the country petitioned the government demanding that schools should not be reopened unless the COVID-19 situation improves or a vaccine is ready. According to the health ministry, the coronavirus toll rose to 7,200 with 271 more deaths and the number of infections climbed to 2,56,611 in India on Monday after a record single-day spike of 9,983 cases. The country registered more than 9,000 cases of coronavirus for the fifth day in a row on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/coronavirus-hrd-ministry-begins-consultations-on-reopening-schools-safety-of-students-847262.html
08-06-2020||National||Will not allow India's pride and self-respect to be hurt: Rajnath Singh on eastern Ladakh row||The high-level dialogue between Chinese and Indian militaries was "positive", and both sides vowed to continue the talks to end the "tussle", Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday on the eastern Ladakh standoff, asserting that the government will not allow India's pride and self-respect to be hurt at any cost. His comments indicating India's resolve to deal with the row with a firm approach came even as the two armies remained engaged in a bitter confrontation in several areas in eastern Ladakh including Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso. The defence minister, addressing a virtual rally for the people in Maharashtra, also came down hard on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for his remarks that the government should “come clean" and tell the country what is happening on the border with China. "The talks held on June 6 were quite positive. India and China have agreed to continue the talks to resolve the border issue including the current tussle. I want to assure people that leadership of the country is in strong hands and we will not compromise on India's pride and self-respect at any cost," the defence minister said. Talking about decades-old border row with China, Singh said India wants its resolution as soon as possible, adding the military and diplomatic engagement between the two sides to end the current row continues. "India's policy has been to not hurt anyone's dignity and honour. At the same time, we do not allow the country's honour and self-respect to be hurt. On Gandhi's comments, Singh said the whole country should be united on such an issue and have faith in the capability of the armed forces. "I cannot even imagine that any political leader will make such comments on an issue of the country's security.... As the defence minister, I will say whatever I have to say in Parliament," he said. "Do not try to tell us (about our responsibility). There is a dispute between the two countries and the whole country should stand united," he added Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in a month-long confrontation since May 5 following a violent clash in Pangong Tso which is turning out to be biggest military standoff after the 2017 Doklam episode. In their first serious efforts to end the row, Lt General Harinder Singh, the general officer commanding of Leh-based 14 Corps, and Commander of the Tibet Military District Maj Gen Liu Lin held an extensive meeting on Saturday. However, it could not produce any tangible results. In a statement, the external affairs ministry on Sunday said the meeting took place in a "cordial and positive atmosphere" and that both sides agreed that an "early resolution" of the issue would contribute to the further development of the relationship between the two countries. In its comments, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said both the countries have agreed to work to maintain peace along the Line of Actual Control and resolve the standoff through talks. Saturday's talks also came a day after the two countries held diplomatic talks during which both sides agreed to handle their "differences" through peaceful discussions while respecting each other's sensitivities and concerns. After the standoff began in early last month, Indian military leadership decided that Indian troops will adopt a firm approach in dealing with the aggressive posturing by the Chinese troops in all disputed areas of Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley, Demchok and Daulat Beg Oldie. The Chinese Army has been gradually ramping up its strategic reserves in its rear bases near the the LAC by rushing in artillery guns, infantry combat vehicles and heavy military equipment, the sources said. The trigger for the face-off was China's stiff opposition to India laying a key road in the Finger area around the Pangong Tso Lake besides construction of another road connecting the Darbuk-Shayok-Daulat Beg Oldie road in Galwan Valley. The road in the Finger area in Pangong Tso is considered crucial for India to carry out patrol. India has already decided not to stall any border infrastructure projects in eastern Ladakh in view of Chinese protests. The situation in eastern Ladakh deteriorated after around 250 Chinese and Indian soldiers were engaged in a violent face-off on May 5 and 6. The incident in Pangong Tso was followed by a similar incident in north Sikkim on May 9. The India-China border dispute covers the 3,488-km-long LAC. China claims Arunachal Pradesh as part of southern Tibet while India contests it. Both sides have been asserting that pending the final resolution of the boundary issue, it is necessary to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/will-not-allow-indias-pride-and-self-respect-to-be-hurt-rajnath-singh-on-eastern-ladakh-row-847265.html
08-06-2020||National||Chopper scam: HC dismisses ED plea to revoke approver status of Rajiv Saxena||The Delhi High Court Monday dismissed the Enforcement Directorate's (ED) plea to revoke approver status of Rajiv Saxena in the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam. Justice C Hari Shankar, who pronounced the verdict via video conferencing, upheld the trial court's decision not to revoke Saxena's pardon as sought by the ED. ED had sought revocation of Saxena's approver status on the ground that he had undertaken to disclose all the facts related to the offence but he was not doing so. The probe agency had challenged the trial court's order which had refused to revoke Saxena's approver status. The Dubai-based businessman, Saxena was extradited to India on January 31 last year in connection with the Rs 3,600-crore scam case relating to the purchase of 12 VVIP helicopters from AgustaWestland. The high court said that the ED's plea before the trial court for revoking the approver status was not maintainable as his statement under section 306 (4) of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) had not been recorded. The high court further said that once his statement under section 306 (4) of CrPC is recorded, the ED can again move an application for revoking Saxena's approver status. Section 306 (4) of CrPC provides for recording of statement of an accomplice who has been granted pardon. The high court also said that the public prosecutor issuing a certificate, under section 308 CrPC, stating that the approver has given false evidence or wilfully concealed material has to be preceded by recording of the statement. Section 308 of CrPC lays down procedure for trial of an approver who has not complied with conditions of a pardon. The high court said the certificate of the public prosecutor in the present case was based entirely on alleged non-cooperation by Saxena during investigation and it does not conform to the provisions of sections 306 and 308 of CrPC. Therefore, it cannot legitimately constitute the sole basis for seeking revocation of the pardon given to Saxena, the high court said. "Resultantly, I find myself in agreement with the view expressed by the special judge, that, before the recording of his statement under section 306 (4) CrPC, the application of the petitioner (ED), as preferred before him, was not maintainable. "The petition, therefore, fails and is dismissed. Needless to say, however, the liberty, reserved by the impugned order (of trial court), with the petitioner, to re-approach the special judge by an appropriate application, at the appropriate stage, remains reserved," Justice Shankar said in his 50-page judgement. ED, in its plea before the trial court, had said that while seeking pardon, Saxena had said he will make full disclosure of the facts within his knowledge and his statement was recorded in March last year after which he was granted pardon. He was allowed to be an approver by the trial court subject to his making full and true disclosure of the whole of circumstances within his knowledge relating to the offence. The ED had contended that Saxena has very strategically withheld and not disclosed full and true facts which were within his knowledge, relating to the commission of the offence, and has deliberately hidden and fabricated certain documents to shield the other co-accused, which was contrary to the terms of the grant of pardon granted by the trial court. The trial court, in its order refusing to revoke his approver status, had said that failure of accused to comply with the conditions on which the pardon was tendered, makes him liable to be tried. However, Saxena was yet to enter into the witness box to depose before the court and as on date, his status was of a witness and he has ceased to be an accused, the trial court had said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/chopper-scam-hc-dismisses-ed-plea-to-revoke-approver-status-of-rajiv-saxena-847268.html
08-06-2020||National||Pak Army shells forward areas along LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch||Pakistani troops on Monday opened fire and heavily shelled forward areas along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district, drawing retaliation from the Indian Army, a defence spokesperson said. "At about 1945 hours today, Pakistan army initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation by firing with small arms and intense shelling with mortars along LoC in Khari Karmara sector in the district," he said. He said the Indian Army retaliated befittingly and cross-border shelling between the two sides was going on when last reports were received.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/pak-army-shells-forward-areas-along-loc-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-poonch-847283.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Keep aside politics, implement UPA's MGNREGA, says Congress President Sonia Gandhi||Gandhi, in an article released by the party, asked the Modi government to keep aside politics and implement MGNREGA to provide jobs to the dejected workers who are returning from towns and cities to their villages in droves.  “My plea to the government is, this is a time of national crisis, not a time to play politics. This is not a BJP versus Congress issue. You have a powerful mechanism at hand, please use it to help the people of India in their time of need,” the Congress President said. She reminded the Modi government that MGNREGA was not a centralised programme and urged it to strengthen the capacity of panchayats to manage public works projects. PM Modi had ridiculed MGNREGA as the “living monument of the failures of the UPA government”. “Deeds are more important than words, and nothing speaks more eloquently than the Finance Minister’s recent and belated increase in the overall allocation of the programme to more than Rs 1 lakh crore,” Gandhi said underscoring that the Modi government was “obliged” to fall back on UPA’s flagship rural relief initiative in time of crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-keep-aside-politics-implement-upas-mgnrega-says-congress-president-sonia-gandhi-847057.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||Everyone knows reality of borders: Rahul Gandhi takes jibe at Home Minister||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday took a swipe at Home Minister Amit Shah for his remarks that India is strong in protecting its borders and said everyone knows the reality of the situation at the country's borders. "Everyone knows the reality of the 'borders', but the thought is good to keep one's heart happy," he said in a tweet in Hindi. Gandhi tweaked a couplet from noted Urdu poet Mirza Ghalib to take a dig at the Home Minister. Shah had on Sunday said India's defence policy has gained global acceptance and the world agrees that after the US and Israel, if there is any other country that is able to protect its borders, it is India. Gandhi has been attacking the government and the prime minister on the border standoff with China in Ladakh and has been asking the government to come clean on the situation there.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/everyone-knows-reality-of-borders-rahul-gandhi-takes-jibe-at-home-minister-847069.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||Priyanka Gandhi equates UP teachers' appointment matter with Vyapam scam||Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Monday termed the matter relating to appointment of 69,000 teachers in UP's Basic Education department as the state's "Vyapam scam". The Congress leader also said that if the government does not give justice to hard-working youth in this matter, they would resort to an agitation. The Allahabad High Court on Wednesday stayed the appointment of 69,000 assistant basic teachers in the state, holding that there has been an 'error' in the evaluation of question paper. "The facts of anomalies in this matter are not normal. Involvement of racket, names of students in diaries, transaction of money, anomalies in examination centres points that its links are vast," she said in a series of tweets. "Recruitment of 69,000 teachers is UP's Vyapam scam," she said. The Vyapam scam refers to irregularities in exams held by the Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board, also called Vyavasayik Pareeksha Mandal or Vyapam, for admission in professional courses and state services. The Congress leader said, "Injustice should not be meted to hard-working youth. If government cannot give justice, its reply will be given with agitation". The Lucknow bench of Justice Alok Mathur on June 3 had stayed the selection process, prima facie finding that certain questions and answers were 'ambiguous and wrong' and, hence, it required fresh scrutiny by the UGC. The HC bench had held that there has been an 'error' in the evaluation of question paper. The recruitment examination was held on January 6, 2019 and its result was declared on May 12 this year. Earlier, the Supreme Court on May 21 had asked the state government to explain the process adopted for the appointment through a chart, posting the matter for further hearing on July 6. It asked the Uttar Pradesh government to explain why it changed the earlier criteria of 45 per cent cut-off marks for the general category and 40 per cent for the reserved category. The UP government has challenged the high court order.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/priyanka-gandhi-equates-up-teachers-appointment-matter-with-vyapam-scam-847072.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||Ensure every MNREGA worker gets 100 days of work: Derek O'Brien||Batting for expansion of MNREGA in times of COVID-19, senior Trinamool Congress leader Derek O'Brien said the Centre should ensure that every registered worker must get 100 days of work besides further revising the wages and linking it to rural consumer price index. O'Brien quoted Mahatma Gandhi to say that "poverty is the worst form of violence" and MNREGA is a key instrument to prevent violence and suffering in rural India. "The Centre must act now. Each registered worker must get 100 days of work. It is most critical. Wages need to be further revised and linked to the rural consumer price index. The revised wages of Rs 202 is 40-50 per cent lower than average unskilled worker's wages. All wages need to be cleared within 15 days," he said. He accused the government of "doing everything to weaken and dismantle" MNREGA and referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech in Parliament in 2015 where he referred to the rural employment guarantee scheme as a "living monument of failure". "The Prime Minister said in Parliament that MNREGA work is digging holes and a living monument of failure. I hope there is some realisation now. MNREGA is one of the largest social welfare programmes in the world. With unemployment down to the worst, MNREGA is important," he said. O’Brien, also Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha leader, said the Modi government had reduced the budget allocation for MNREGA in 2019-20 and 2020-21 in comparison to actual expenditure. In January this year, he said, 95 per cent of allocation for 2019-20 was spent and the Ministry of Rural Development sought an additional Rs 20,000 crore but the Finance Ministry gave only Rs 5,000 crore. He also found fault with the government's claims on increasing the MNREGA wages by Rs 20 to Rs 202 saying it is lower than the minimum wages of the states across the country. "Centre claims that this will help in increase of annual income of a rural household by Rs 2000. How did they arrive at this figure? By calculating that 100 days of work will be given. But on average, if you look at states, the work days are 45-50 days of employment generation. So this claim of Rs 2,000 is not there. There is grandstanding when common people are facing a serious situation," he said. O'Brien said Mamata Banerjee-led West Bengal government is alive to the utility of MNREGA and in the past three years, the state received the award for best MNREGA performer. Between 2011 and 2019, he said, the annual expenditure on MNREGA rose by over 200 per cent in Bengal. Asked about Home Minister Amit Shah's virtual campaign, he said if a party wants to do political campaign at this moment, it is their prerogative. "Our focus is on tackling the challenges of COVID-19 and standing with people who suffered due to Cyclone Amphan. If somebody else is indulging in politics, it is their strategy. Our party chief has clearly told us that this is the time to stand with people. Our outlook is different, our priorities are different," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ensure-every-mnrega-worker-gets-100-days-of-work-derek-obrien-847105.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||While some parties confined to 'family frame', BJP an 'all-embracing family': Naqvi||While some political parties are confined to a "family frame", the BJP is an "all-embracing family" moving forward with a commitment to nationalism, Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said on Monday in an apparent dig at the Congress and other opposition parties. Addressing Uttar Pradesh BJP Minority Morcha workers through a video conference, the Minority Affairs minister said the Modi government is committed to maintain the honour of all Indians, but some people are conspiring to create "horror" in the country. Unable to digest the positive atmosphere and constructive mood of the country, the "bogus bashing brigade" is trying to raise the bogey of "Islamophobia", intolerance, safety of minorities etc, just to defame India and disturb the fabric of communal harmony and unity, he said. The BJP is not only the largest political party of the world, it is also an "inclusive family" which is working for prosperity of all with a commitment to nationalism by removing the barriers of region and religion, Naqvi said. "While on one hand some political parties are confined to a particular family frame, the BJP is an 'all-embracing family' which is moving forward with ethos of 'sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas' and a commitment to 'Ek Bharat Shreshtha Bharat'," he said. The BJP often accuses the Congress and other opposition parties of practising dynastic politics. Naqvi said "inclusive empowerment" has been the "rashtraniti (national policy)" and not "rajniti (politics)" for the government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Each and every section of the society including minorities have become an equal partner of prosperity, dignity and empowerment, the senior BJP leader said. All sections of the society are moving forward on the path of inclusive empowerment without any discrimination, he said. Some people and organisations in the country are engaged in obstructing this journey of inclusive growth, empowerment, dignity and harmony due to their narrow and prejudiced political self-interests, he said. They are involved in a "criminal conspiracy" to disgrace India and Indians, he said. "We should not only remain cautious of these nefarious elements but also expose and isolate them," he said. In the last six years, the Modi government has worked with the commitment to "development without discrimination" and "development with dignity" which has ensured that minorities have also become an equal partner in mainstream development, Naqvi said. All the poor and weaker sections, including minorities, have been equally benefitted through Modi government's schemes such as PM Awas Yojana, Ujjwala Yojna, Ayushman Bharat, Kisan Samman Nidhi, Jan Dhan Yojana, Mudra Yojana, electrification drive, PM Sadak Yojana, One Nation-One Ration Card etc. Besides, the minorities have significantly benefited through various welfare measures taken by the Minority Affairs Ministry, Naqvi said More than five lakh master artisans, craftsmen and culinary experts and people associated with them have been provided employment and employment opportunities through 'Hunar Haat' during the last about five years, he said. More than 10 lakh youth have been provided skill development training and employment and employment opportunities during last about six years through employment oriented skill development schemes such as 'Ustad', 'Garib Nawaz Self Employment Scheme', 'Seekho aur Kamao', 'Nai Manzil' etc., he said. Thousands of healthcare assistants, who have been trained under the skill development programme of the Minority Affairs Ministry, are assisting in treatment and well-being of COVID-19 patients, he said. More than 3 crore 80 lakh students from the minority communities have been provided various scholarships during the last six years, Naqvi said. The government is providing 100 per cent funding to develop schools, colleges, hospitals, community hall and other basic infrastructure on Waqf land under the Pradhanmantri Jan Vikas Karykram (PMJVK) for weaker sections and the needy especially girls in those backward areas which had been deprived of these basic facilities, he said. The Modi government has developed socio-economic-educational and employment-oriented infrastructure across the country in deprived minority concentration areas, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/while-some-parties-confined-to-family-frame-bjp-an-all-embracing-family-naqvi-847115.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||AIMIM chief wants govt to tell the country if China has occupied Indian territory||Amid a border standoff with China, AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi on Monday demanded that the government tell the country whether or not Chinese troops have occupied Indian territory and on what exactly is it talking to the Chinese. Addressing a press conference here, the Hyderabad MP said the Home Minister (Amit Shah) and the Defence Minister (Rajnath Singh) can easily tell the nation on what is it that they are speaking to the Chinese. "What exactly are they speaking to the Chinese, because our Army people and the Chinese PLA are talking to each other. The Central government should tell the country...why are they embarrassed? why are they maintaining this silence. Can they tell us whether the Chinese have occupied Indian territory....," Owaisi said. Owaisi's remarks come a day after India and China held talks to resolve the crisis. India and China have agreed to continue military and diplomatic talks to "peacefully" resolve the current border standoff in accordance with bilateral agreements, the external affairs ministry said on Sunday as it shared the outcome of a marathon military dialogue that appeared to be inconclusive. Owaisi, who has termed the ongoing lockdown in the country to combat COVID-19 "unconstitutional", reiterated his charge and alleged the government has completely failed in tackling the COVID-19 crisis. "They have utterly failed in discharging their constitutional duty.They imposed a lockdown which I have been saying from day one it is unconstitutional. The AIMIM leader claimed that the government has not ramped up medical infrastructure during the lockdown and in Gujarat the fatality rate was higher than the national avaerage. "This government has completely failed... 12 crore people have lost their jobs.There is no plan to provide any succor to them...," the MP said. The way the COVID-19 cases are increasing in the country is a huge cause of concern, but the government is "least bothered" to contain the spread of the virus, he maintained. Owaisi alleged that in Bihar Nitish Kumar failed to address the issue of migrant labourers and has completely failed as a Chief Minister. "He (Nitish Kumar) has badly managed the issue of migrant labourers in Bihar and nowa virtual rally was held," he said, apparently referring to Amit Shah's virtual political rally yesterday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/aimim-chief-wants-govt-to-tell-the-country-if-china-has-occupied-indian-territory-847123.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||Gujarat Rajya Sabha polls: BJP hasn't purchased any MLA, says state unit VP||Amid the resignations of Congress MLAs ahead of the Gujarat Rajya Sabha polls on June 19, the BJP state unit vice president IK Jadeja on Monday said his party had not "purchased" any opposition legislator. A total of eight MLAs of the Congress have resigned since March, when the election for four RS seats were first declared and then postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The BJP has not purchased any MLA. None of them have joined the BJP after resigning. We cannot stop legislators from resigning. It was their own decision and the BJP should not be blamed for it," Jadeja said at a virtual press conference organised to mark the first anniversary of the second term of the Narendra Modi government. In the wake of resignations by the MLAs, state Congress leaders had accused the BJP of indulging in "money politics and resorting to horse trading". The Congress' strength in the 182-member House has been reduced to 65 now against 103 of the BJP. While the Congress has fielded Shaktisinh Gohil and Bharatsinh Solanki, the BJP has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin. Jadeja said the BJP was confident of winning three of the four seats, and it was for this reason that it fielded three candidates. To commemorate the first anniversary of the second term of the Modi government, Jadeja said the Gujarat BJP would organise virtual rallies and other events across the state through June to highlight achievements of the Centre. The virtual rallies would be addressed by party chief JP Nadda, and Union ministers Nitin Gadkari, Prakash Javadekar and Dharmendra Pradhan. "Between June 15 and 28, BJP workers will visit booths to distribute a copy of PM Modi's letter to the countrymen," said Jadeja.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/gujarat-rajya-sabha-polls-bjp-hasnt-purchased-any-mla-says-state-unit-vp-847150.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||Ahead of Bihar polls 'Yadavs' again raise demand for 'Ahir Regiment' in Indian Army||Apparently keeping the caste equations in the forthcoming Bihar assembly polls in mind, prominent leaders of the 'Yadav' community again raised demand for an 'Ahir' (yadav) regiment in the Indian Army. These leaders, including the kin of senior politicians and film personalities, cited, what they termed as the ''supreme sacrifice'' made by the members of the 'Ahir' community in the Indo-China war in 1962 to justify their demand. Former Samajwadi Party (SP) MP Akshoy Pratap Yadav's wife Raj Lakshmi Yadav took to the Twitter to demand and justify an 'Ahir' regiment in the Army. ''It is not casteism to demand Ahir regiment....there are many regiments in the Army which are named after castes like Rajput, Dogra, Jat, Gorkha etc,'' Raj Lakshmi, who is the daughter of RJD leader and former Bihar chief minister Lalu Prasad Yadav, said. ''Either disband all such regiments or give us Ahir regiment,'' she demanded. Social media users also shared a video of Bollywood actor Rajpal Yadav in which he was heard supporting the demand. The demand for a regiment in the name of 'Ahir' community comes barely a few months before the crucial assembly elections in Bihar and is apparently aimed at garnering the support of the influential 'Yadav' voters, who account for around 14 per cent of the total electorate in Bihar. Lalu Yadav had been successful in weaving the 'MY' (Muslim-Yadav) equation in successive Bihar polls to emerge victorious. SP supremo Akhilesh Yadav had also made the demand in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and had also included it in his party's election manifesto.  The centre had earlier made it clear that it is not in favour of forming any new regiment in the army after any particular caste, community or religion.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/ahead-of-bihar-polls-yadavs-again-raise-demand-for-ahir-regiment-in-indian-army-847163.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||PM Modi made world realise India will punish anyone intruding into its borders, says Amit Shah||Citing surgical and air strikes ordered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi inside Pakistan, Home Minister Amit Shah said on Monday that Modi made the world realise that any intrusion into Indian borders will not be tolerated but punished. "The world was made to realise that encroaching upon India's borders is not a child's play. Punishment is meted out here," Shah said at a 'virtual rally' for Odisha while referring to surgical and air strikes. His comments came at a time when Indian and Chinese armies are engaged in a standoff in Ladakh with both countries trying to defuse the crisis through diplomatic and military channels. Shah, however, made no direct comment on the issue. He asserted in his address, "Under PM Modi's leadership, any intrusion into the borders of India will be punished. Some used to say that US and Israel were the only countries which were willing and capable of avenging every drop of the blood of their soldiers. Modi ji has added India to that list." India's borders used to be violated earlier and our soldiers beheaded, the senior BJP leader said, claiming that "Delhi darbar", a reference to the previous Congress-led UPA government, would keep quiet. Such incidents happened during our times as well, he noted and referred to terror attacks in Uri and Pulwama during the Modi government's first term. Shah's strong emphasis on the Modi government's commitment to national security came on a day Congress leader Rahul Gandhi took a swipe at him for his remarks that India is strong in protecting its borders, saying everyone knows the reality of the situation at the country's borders, a clear reference to the Ladakh situation.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/pm-modi-made-world-realise-india-will-punish-anyone-intruding-into-its-borders-says-amit-shah-847185.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||If I live or work in Delhi, am I a Delhiite: P Chidambaram asks Arvind Kejriwal||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday asked whether he qualified as a Delhiite as he worked in the national capital, questioning Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal's announcement that Delhi hospitals will treat only locals. "Mr Kejriwal says Delhi hospitals are only for Delhiites. Will he please tell us who is a Delhiite? If I live or work in Delhi, am I a Delhiite," he asked on Twitter. "I thought if a person had enrolled in Jan Arogya Yojana/Aayushman Bharat, he can seek treatment in any enlisted hospital, public or private, anywhere in India (sic)," said the former union minister, who is also a noted lawyer. He also asked whether Kejriwal sought legal opinion before making the announcement. "Did Mr Kejriwal take legal opinion before he made his announcement," he asked. Kejriwal on Sunday announced that the hospitals run by the Delhi government and private entities will only treat Delhiites during the coronavirus crisis while the city's borders will be reopened from Monday. Lt Governor Anil Baijal, however, overruled the AAP government's order to reserve Delhi government-run and private hospitals in the national capital for Delhiites, sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/if-i-live-or-work-in-delhi-am-i-a-delhiite-p-chidambaram-asks-arvind-kejriwal-847190.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||Appoint full-time health minister for effective COVID-19 handling: BJP to Mamata||The BJP unit in West Bengal on Monday claimed that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who also holds the health portfolio, is not devoting enough time to deal with the COVID-19 outbreak, and demanded appointment of a full-time health minister in the state. In a letter to the CM, BJP president Dilip Ghosh suggested several measures to handle the crises of coronavirus outbreak and the devastation caused by cyclone Amphan, and demanded that those affected by the natural disaster be given financial aid and jobs through MNREGA. Besides health, the chief minister has to look after several other departments and this is leading to neglect in dealing with the COVID-19 outbreak, Ghosh said in the letter. "We propose that a full-time Health minister be appointed who will deal with the crisis the state is facing in public health management since the chief minister is not devoting enough time to the crucial department," the letter read. Hailing Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visit to the Amphan-affected areas and immediate release of Rs 1,000 crore as ad hoc assistance to the state, Ghosh said the Mamata Banerjee government should provide Rs 2 lakh as compensation to the family of those who died in the cyclone and Rs 50,000 to the seriously injured. "Every poor person affected by the cyclone be given Rs 1,000 each for the next three months. Money should be transferred directly to the bank accounts of the affected in order to keep the process of financial assistance free from corruption," he said. The BJP MP suggested that in all the cyclone-affected districts, proper arrangements should be made to ensure people get food, drinking water, safe shelter and medical assistance. He demanded that people in those districts be tested for coronavirus infection and proper infrastructure be put in place for treating COVID-19 patients there. Ghosh said in the letter that pucca houses should be built under the PM Awas Yojana in cyclone-prone areas of the state so that people do not have to live in potentially dangerous mud houses. Alleging that unscrupulous people were stealing food grains meant for the public distribution system in the state, he said, "We request you to take steps for reaching ration to the doorsteps of the poor families in West Bengal." "Though the state government has taken initiative for home delivery of liquor, but such steps have not been taken for reaching ration to the residences of the poor people," the state BJP president claimed. Taking up the issue of migrant workers which has led to a verbal duel between the ruling Trinamool Congress and the BJP, he demanded that state government ensure that entrepreneurs in the MSME sector get easy loans to create more jobs so that workers who have returned do not need to leave the state again. He demanded that investment be made in self-help groups to ensure that women workers become an important part in the state's economy. The BJP leader also asked for a Rs 3,000 relief package for all small-time traders, hawkers and transport workers so that they are able to overcome their financial woes owing to the closure of business during the lockdown. He also sought waiver of duty on electricity bills in the MSME sector for two months to help these make a turnaround. Ghosh, however, thanked the chief minister for ramping up corona tests and discarding an audit committee that had been set up by her government to review the cause of the death COVID-19 patients. He demanded that the Trinamool Congress government introduce PM Kisan Yojana and Ayushman Bharat Yojana in the state, claiming "These will save Rs 3,131 crore from the state Budget that can be used for turning around West Bengal's economy."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/appoint-full-time-health-minister-for-effective-covid-19-handling-bjp-to-mamata-847195.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||Govt is poor, needs more taxes: P Chidambaram on fuel price hike||Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram on Monday took a dig at the government for raising fuel prices, saying it is poor and needs more taxes. "Fuel selling prices raised twice in two days, following tax hikes two weeks ago. This time to benefit oil companies. "Government is poor, it needs more taxes. Oil companies are poor, they need better prices. Only the poor and middle class are not poor, so they will pay," he said on Twitter. Petrol and diesel prices were hiked by 60 paise per litre each on Monday for the second day in a row as state-owned oil firms reverted to daily price revisions after a hiatus of almost three months. Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs 72.46 per litre from Rs 71.86 on Sunday, while diesel rates were increased to Rs 70.59 a litre from Rs 69.99, according to a notification of state oil marketing companies. This is the second daily increase in rates in a row. Oil companies had on Sunday raised prices by 60 paise per litre on both petrol and diesel after ending an 82-day hiatus in daily rate revision. Daily price revision has restarted beginning Sunday, an oil company official said. Oil PSUs, Indian Oil Corp (IOC), Bharat Petroleum Corp Ltd (BPCL) and Hindustan Petroleum Corp Ltd (HPCL), had put daily price revisions on hold soon after the government on March 14 hiked excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 3 per litre each.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/govt-is-poor-needs-more-taxes-p-chidambaram-on-fuel-price-hike-847214.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Does govt exist in Maharashtra or is there a circus going on, asks Rajnath Singh||Union Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday slammed the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government over its handling of the COVID-19 situation, saying the current situation in the state looks like a circus is going on instead of governance. Singh also backed Sonu Sood for his work for stranded migrant workers and questionned the state government's criticism of the actor. "It looks like the situation in Maharashtra is more of a circus than a government. It is highly unfortunate to see state crawling despite having a strong leadership of NCP chief Sharad Pawar," Singh said while addressing a virtual rally of BJP workers from Maharashtra. "The greed for power has prevailed over political alliance and commitments," Singh said in an oblique reference to the Shiv Sena, which had parted ways with the BJP post assembly elections in 2019. "I wonder whether any government exists in Maharashtra when I see a coronavirus patient waiting for ambulance for more than 16 hours," he said. He also criticised the Sena which had on Sunday said that Sood was doing the BJP's bidding to show the state government in poor light. "Instead of lauding his work, the government has criticised actor Sonu Sood for his efforts to send migrant workers back home. The Maharashtra government should learn from UP and Karnataka on how to contain coronavirus spread," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-does-govt-exist-in-maharashtra-or-is-there-a-circus-going-on-asks-rajnath-singh-847255.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||Coronavirus: Lockdown 1.0 was imposed at an interval of 4 hours, which resulted in chaos for migrants, says Ashok Gehlot||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot gives interesting insights into how the states and the Centre have so far tackled the spread of COVID-19. He rues that states got just 4 hours of notice before the Centre imposed the lockdown. The Centre’s interaction with the states should be more meaningful, and it should treat states as equal partners in the federal structure, Gehlot tells DH’s Chaitanya Gudipaty in an interview. Excerpts:   Q) Revival of the economy has been a concern for many states. How does Rajasthan plan to put the pedal to the metal? The state government will take concrete steps to revive industrial units and create a conducive environment for entrepreneurial activities in Rajasthan. For resuming economic activities and imparting an impetus to the state economy, we constituted a task force early on, headed by Arvind Mayaram (Retd. Finance Secretary, GOI) to suggest policy interventions and a plan to combat the impact of the virus. We have always been found handholding trade, industries, services, real estate, farming and all other sectors that would help speed up the economic growth of the state. Employment generation is one of the top-most priorities of the state government. We will come out with the policies realigned to the needs of different sectors. Q) To safeguard the interests of migrant workers, Yogi Adityanath's government is mulling a permission policy for other states. What are your views on that? Do you intend to plan a migrant worker policy along similar lines? Though we have not received the details of any such policy by the Uttar Pradesh government, India being a free country governed by constitutional provisions, restrictions cannot be imposed on anybody seekingemployment outside their state. This sort of restriction would not stand the test of legality. From the standpoint of pragmatism also. this would be counter-productive and result in chaos. Without imposing any restrictions, our government plans to ensure that those migrant workers who wish to seek employment in Rajasthan should get suitable employment here. For this, the state has launched an online employment exchange with special emphasis on migrant workers. Q) Your Bhilwara model was a big success. Why was the model not replicated across the state? Why are the results so different in Bhilwara and rest of Rajasthan? The essence of Bhilwara Model is ruthless containment, strict compliance of the curfew and screening of the total population of the district. The same model has been applied in the whole state, wherever coronavirus hotspots emerged. This is also to be understood that each place has a different geography, population density and other variations. We followed the same model for all the hotspots in the state-- by way of imposing curfew, sealing the area, massive screening and total restriction on movement. Yet another strategy has been to increase the number of coronavirus tests, so that not a single case remains undetected in the state. Increase in the number of tests has resulted into the number of positive cases going up. As of June 3, the number of active cases is 2766 and the number recoveries is 6506. The situation has been managed effectively. Q) Rajasthan is home to several manufacturing industries for textiles, groundnut oil, mustard, among others. Do you envisage a time period when such industries will be back to optimal capacity? The government and its agencies are working tirelessly to facilitate the resumption of functioning at optimal levels for industries.District collectors, officials of the industries department, RIICO etc have been sensitized to ensure all possible facilities are made available to industrial and manufacturing units. On account of the large-scale migration of workers, some of the units may encounter shortage of industry-specific workers. The government is aware of all such issues and is trying its best. I hope the industries that you have mentioned, would not take too long to resume optimal functioning. Q) There are around 3,000 active COVID-19 cases in the state and majority of them are being attributed to returnees. Do you expect the tally to go up given that air travel has been permitted? When there is an inflow of a large number of people, an increase in the number of coronavirus-positive cases is quite understandable. As of today, out of nearly 9475 total positive cases in the state, migrants constitute almost 2712 positive cases. As the to and fro movement of migrants has almost settled down, I believe after some days there will be some respite. Any way, we are ready for any eventuality. Q) What are the migrant transport management initiatives Rajasthan is taking to help improve the situation? Apart from the special trains, Rajasthan has pressed into service a huge number of free of cost "Shramik Special Buses". Senior officers have been made nodal for each state to coordinate the inter-state movement of migrant workers. All SDMs of the state have been given the responsibility to ensure that no worker is found walking along the roads in their jurisdiction. If a group of workers are found walking on roads, immediate arrangements for their temporary stay, food etc. are to be made and buses to be provided to send them to destinations by these SDMs. This proved to be a very effective measure. Q)  What do you think of how the Centre and states handled the pandemic. Any particular state you want to single out for effectively responding to the situation? The Centre and all the state governments are doing their best to fight the coronavirus pandemic. At this juncture, it is not appropriate to judge others. There is always a room for improvement and more so when we look back and think that a particular situation could have been handled differently. Q) How far are states involved in the decision-making process on the Centre's COVID-19 strategy? Why is there a tussle between the Opposition and the ruling party on the pandemic? As far as Rajasthan is concerned, there are some interactions happening at various official levels between the Union Government and the state government. In addition, there had been a couple of video conferences between the PM and CMs. As and when required, we write to the Union Government on issues we deem fit. Lockdown 1.0 was imposed abruptly by the Union Government with an interval of 4 hours only. This has resulted in chaos for migrants including labourers, which was avoidable. No consultation with states happened before the announcement of the economic package by the central government. So, we feel that the interaction should be more meaningful-- states should be treated as equal partners in a federal structure.     Q) When is the leadership crisis in Congress going to end and how? Why doesn’t Rahul Gandhi want to come back as Congress chief and why is Sonia Gandhi reluctant to continue in the top role for a long time? There is no leadership crisis in Congress. Sonia-ji and Rahul-ji are consensus leaders of Congress who enjoy people's support throughout India. Rahul-ji gave up his post taking the moral responsibility of Congress' performance at some point. This is not reluctance but an example to be followed by others. It is between the party and Rahul-ji as to what role he wishes to play at what point in time. But his vision and energy are a source of great hope for this country. Q) Why is the relatively younger generation of leaders in Congress restless? Jyotiraditya Scindia joined BJP. Sachin Pilot's discomfort with you is also talked about. Where will this old versus young turf war will lead the Congress? Mostly it is the media that blows things out of proportion. For somebody to have political aspiration is valid and quite understandable. Except for the unfortunate happenings in Madhya Pradesh, the Congress is united and committed to serving the nation to the best of its abilities. History bears witness to this. All parties have a synergy between the experience of old leaders and the energy of young ones. There is no turf war and issues are addressed in a democratic spirit as and when they come up.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/coronavirus-lockdown-10-was-imposed-at-an-interval-of-4-hours-which-resulted-in-chaos-for-migrants-says-ashok-gehlot-847298.html
08-06-2020||National Politics||BJP chief J P Nadda appoints 2 central leaders to oversee restructuring of party's Delhi unit||BJP national president JP Nadda on Monday appointed two central leaders to oversee organisational restructuring of the party's Delhi unit. Adesh Gupta, who was recently appointed as president of the Delhi BJP had hinted that the organisation will witness an overhaul with induction of hardworking party workers. Nadda appointed BJP national general secretary Arun Singh and  Mahila Morcha  national president Vijaya Rahatkar for formation of the new team of state office bearers in Delhi, said a Delhi BJP statement. A former Delhi BJP president said the move is likely to curb favouritism in appointment of new office bearers of Delhi unit as there has been allegations that a few leaders have dominated organisational matters so far. Delhi BJP insiders claimed that it was for the first time that the national leaders has appointed central leaders to supervise state unit's restructuring. A national level BJP leader said the new team of Delhi BJP's office bearers will be formed by June end.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/national-politics/bjp-chief-j-p-nadda-appoints-2-central-leaders-to-oversee-restructuring-of-partys-delhi-unit-847306.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||PIL filed in SC for CBI probe into pregnant's elephant's killing in Kerala||A PIL has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking the CBI probe into tragic killing of a pregnant elephant by feeding her explosive-filled pineapple in Palakkad district of Kerala, last month. The plea by advocate Avadh Bihari Kaushik contended that it appeared to be the well-calculated and organised killing of the protected animals. The "horrific, tragic, brutal, cruel and inhumane act" was required to be probed by the CBI or a special investigation team, consisting of experts from various fields, headed by a retired judge of this court to examine the entire issue on a larger scale and to suggest requisite steps to be taken in order to curb the menace, he said. Besides, the incident at Palakkad, yet another elephant was reported to have been killed in a similar fashion in Pathanapuram forest range area under Punalur division in Kollam district of state of Kerala in April, 2020, he pointed out. The elephant is a protected wildlife animal listed in scheduled-I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972.  The act of killing of the pregnant elephant triggered nationwide outrage making the citizens of the entire country agonized. Social media was also flooded with messages of anguish and anger. The petitioner contended that the authorities concerned have failed to take requisite and appropriate measures to curb the menace of illegal poaching and brutal killing of the wild elephant in various states including Kerala, Karnataka, Odisha, Bihar, West Bengal and Assam.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/pil-filed-in-sc-for-cbi-probe-into-pregnants-elephants-killing-in-kerala-846896.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus situation under control but can't allow violation of safety protocols: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday said though the coronavirus situation was under control in the state, people can’t be allowed to violate safety protocols. Responding to questions during the latest Facebook live edition of #AskCaptain, he made an impassioned appeal to people to strictly adhere to the safety measures to save themselves, their families and the state. The CM said the COVID-19 situation in Punjab had so far been manageable due to a strict lockdown imposed in the state, according to a government release. However, he said it had become essential now to ease some of the restrictions, but that did not mean that people could be allowed to violate the safety protocols. He termed as unfortunate the large number of violations being reported, forcing police to take strict action. Singh said on Friday alone, 4,600 challans were issued for the failure to wear masks in public. He said 160 challans were issued for spitting and around two dozen for not adhering to social distancing norms. Such irresponsible behaviour could not be permitted as it could push Punjab on the same path as many other states in India, he warned, pointing out that with 2.5 per cent of the country's population, the state was currently contributing a mere 0.5 per cent of the coronavirus cases. On the state's roadmap to handle the pandemic, the CM said Punjab's situation has been under control so far but the state government was not taking any chances. In the first stage, 4,248 beds in government hospitals were set aside, he said, adding that another 2,014 now being available while private hospitals have allocated 950 beds for virus patients. Of the 554 ventilators available, only one was in use till Saturday, said the CM, adding that in addition to the equipment already handed over to hospitals and other frontline workers, the Health Department has a stock of 4,88,000 N95 masks, 64 lakh triple-layer masks, 2,28,000 PPE kits and 2,223 oxygen cylinders. Responding to a complaint that private hospitals were charging exorbitantly for admitting COVID patients, the CM said he will ask the medical department to check it. He, however, urged people to go to government hospitals equipped with the best-in-class facilities and staff. To a question regarding problems faced by farmers in the sowing of paddy due to a shortage of workers, the CM said less than five lakh of the total 13 lakh migrant labourers have left the state. With over eight lakh migrant workers still here, along with the state's own local labour, there is no problem in the fields or in the industrial units, he said. Singh also assured that sugarcane arrears of cooperative sugar mills were being expeditiously cleared by the state government. Singh assured that his government will try to provide more relief to power consumers next year as the current situation had constrained the power utility, which despite the cash crunch had announced domestic power tariff cuts for the poor and small consumers.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-situation-under-control-but-cant-allow-violation-of-safety-protocols-punjab-cm-amarinder-singh-846897.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Will probe farm loan waiver of previous Congress govt in MP: BJP||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh will investigate the loan waiver scheme launched by the previous Kamal Nath government for farmers, state Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel said on Sunday. Talking to reporters durng his visit to Ujjain and Agar Malwa, Patel said the entire scheme was a "deception and cheating of farmers". After taking oath as the CM in December 2018, Nath announced that farm loans up to Rs two lakh will be waived, as promised by the Congress during its campaign for the Assembly polls. "Rs 200 crore was spent on publicity for this decision," Patel said. "We will investigate this (waiver) and Nath will be sent to jail," he said without elaborating. When asked whether the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government would waive farm loan, Patel said, "You all had published that farm loan of farmers had been waived. Why would we do it now?" He said Jyotiraditya Scindia left the Congress because it had deceived farmers of the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/will-probe-farm-loan-waiver-of-previous-congress-govt-in-mp-bjp-846917.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: Same name of two victims causes confusion among families during funeral||Two men, having the same name and who died the same day at a dedicated COVID-19 hospital here, caused confusion among the families during funeral, sources said. Both patients named Moinuddin had tested positive for coronavirus and died on June 4, sources said. A man, son of one of the Moinuddins had collected the body of his 'father' from the mortuary of Maulana Azad Medical College, to which the LNJP Hospital is attached with. After conducting the burial, it turned out that he had collected the body of 'the other Moinuddin'. The two families later sorted the matter among themselves as it was confusion due to the same name, sources added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-same-name-of-two-victims-causes-confusion-among-families-during-funeral-846928.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Four militants killed in encounter with security forces in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian||Barely 24-hours after the killing of five Hizbul Mujahideen militants in south Kashmir’s Shopian district, four unidentified ultras were killed in a fierce encounter with security forces in the same district on Monday. Three army personnel were also injured in the gun battle that erupted during wee hours of Monday after a joint team of Army’s 44-Rashtriya Rifles and J&K police launched a cordon-and-search-operation in Pinjura village of Shopian, 52 km from, here,  following ‘specific inputs’ about the presence of a group of militants in the area. A police officer said the operation turned into an encounter after hiding militants fired at the search party, which was retaliated. “In the initial firing, three army personnel were injured. Four militants who were hiding in a residential house were killed,” he said and dead bodies of slain ultras have been recovered and their identification and group affiliation is being ascertained. The bodies of the militants would be taken either to Sonamarg in central Kashmir or Boniyar in northern Baramulla district for a quiet burial. Lately, police have been denying the bodies of militants to their families as their funerals used to attract large crowds. Pertinently, five Hizbul militants, including its top commander, were killed in a similar encounter at Reban village in the same district on Sunday. There has been an increase in anti-militancy operations in the Valley since March. Since COVID-19 lockdown, a total of 53 militants and two of their associates have been killed while 24 security forces personnel, including two in ceasefire violations, have lost their lives. Since the beginning of this year, 91 militants have been killed across Kashmir in dozens of encounters with security forces and 154 militants were killed in gun battles across Kashmir in the first seven months of 2019.   In the next five months, only 20 militants were neutralised by the security forces as anti-insurgency operations almost came to a halt as security and communication clampdown was imposed to prevent civilian protests in the wake of revocation of Article 370 on August 5. Last month, J&K police chief Dilbagh Singh had said that less than 240 militants were active in Kashmir.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/four-militants-killed-in-encounter-with-security-forces-in-jammu-and-kashmirs-shopian-846935.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||CRPF jawan among two more COVID-19 victims in Jammu and Kashmir; toll rises to 43||A paramilitary CRPF jawan posted in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district died at tertiary-care SKIMS hospital in Srinagar, while a patient from old city Khanyar area of Srinagar, who had met with an accident, took his last breath at Chest Diseases hospital early morning. Doctors said both the deceased tested positive for the deadly virus.  A doctor at the SKIMS said the CRPF man with underlying illness was admitted in the hospital on June 4. “His condition deteriorated and he died in the wee hours. He tested positive for the virus,” he said. CRPF spokesman, Junaid Khan while confirming the death said the deceased was posted with the 90-Battalion. “He was a bit sick and had tested positive for the virus,” he said. Asked whether the body of the deceased CRPF trooper would be dispatched to his native place, he said higher-ups will take a call on the issue. This is the first COVID-19 death in paramilitary CRPF in Kashmir since the outbreak of the pandemic in March. A 35-year-old man from Khanyar, who had tested positive after he met with an accident, also passes away on Monday morning. The fresh deaths in Jammu and Kashmir have taken the total death toll across the Union Territory up to 43 -- 38 from Kashmir (including a non-local resident and a CRPF man), and five from Jammu region.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/crpf-jawan-among-two-more-covid-19-victims-in-jammu-and-kashmir-toll-rises-to-43-846976.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Another COVID-19 death in Rajasthan, toll rises to 241||The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 241 in Rajasthan on Monday, with the state recording one more fatality.    The number of cases climbed to 10,696 as 97 more people tested positive for the disease, officials said. One death was reported from Bharatpur, they said. Of the fresh cases, 58 were reported in Alwar, 12 in Kota, six in Dungarpur, four each in Jaipur and Bharatpur, three each in Banswara and Sirohi, two each in Bundi, Pali and Jhalawar and one in Baran district, officials said. Jaipur has reported maximum COVID-19 cases (2,230) and 112 deaths in the state followed by 1,843 cases and 21 deaths in Jodhpur. There are 2,641 active COVID-19 cases in the state. A total of 7,450 patients have been discharged after treatment, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/another-covid-19-death-in-rajasthan-toll-rises-to-241-847010.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Proposed electricity bill not in interest of poor, farmers: Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel||Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Monday strongly opposed the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill 2020, saying it is not in the interest of the poor and farmers. In a letter to Union Minister of State for Power R K Singh, the chief minister urged that the proposed bill be held in abeyance in view of the current (pandemic) situation of the country, and state governments should be consulted thoroughly before its implementation. The implementation of the proposed amendment bill will adversely affect the lower sections of society as the provision of cross subsidy in it is "impractical" and not in the interest of farmers and the poor, Baghel said in an official statement. He said farmers will face a crisis if the subsidy on electricity given to them for irrigation is not continued and thereby, it will affect the production of food grains. "The bill could be suitable for the upper class people and advisers who sit in air-conditioned rooms, but is far from the ground reality. The implementation of this amendment bill will create many problems before the country and will not only harm the poor and farmers but also power companies and common people," he said. The proposed bill will usurp rights of state governments, as a provision has been made under it to bring the rights of appointment to the State Electricity Regulatory Commissions under the purview of the Centre which is contrary to the system of federal structure, he said. This amendment bill will promote capitalism and allowprivate companies to take possession of the Electricity Board, Baghel claimed. ...the billproposes formation of Centralised Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority (ECEA) which is also unjustified. If this is done, the state electricity regulatory commission will become devoid of powers, he said. The proposed amendment also empowers the central government to preserve renewable and hydroelectric procurement obligations. Different states of the country have different resources and in view of this, it will not be appropriate to implement it for the whole country, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/proposed-electricity-bill-not-in-interest-of-poor-farmers-chhattisgarh-chief-minister-bhupesh-baghel-847011.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi CM Kejriwal goes into self-quarantine; to be tested for COVID-19 on June 9||Falling sick, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has gone into self-quarantine and will get himself tested for COVID-19 on Tuesday. Kejriwal, who is diabetic, has developed sore throat and fever and has been feeling unwell since Sunday afternoon.  He has cancelled all his appointments since Sunday, after attending a Cabinet meeting and a digital address during which he announced that Delhi hospitals will be reserved only for the residents of the national capital. “He has mild fever and sore throat since Sunday afternoon. As advised by doctors, the chief minister will undergo COVID-19 test on Tuesday morning,” officials said. Kejriwal has been holding most of his meetings via video conferencing for the past two months. Meanwhile, a top official of government's media arm Press Information Bureau has been admitted to AIIMS with "COVID-19 like" symptoms. The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting issued an order closing the National Media Centre on Monday for extensive sanitisation. There were also reports of around a dozen officials and staff of Ministry of Labour and Employment, including a Joint Secretary, testing positive for COVID-19.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-cm-kejriwal-goes-into-self-quarantine-to-be-tested-for-covid-19-on-june-9-847015.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Uttar Pradesh: Man arrested for raping 20-year-old woman||A man has been arrested for allegedly raping a 20-year-old woman in Uttar Pradesh's Shamli district, police said on Monday. The man was at large since the incident, which occurred last week, they said. The case in the matter was registered at the Jhinjhana police station.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/uttar-pradesh-man-arrested-for-raping-20-year-old-woman-847017.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Election Commission official tests COVID-19 positive||An official of the Election Commission has tested positive for COVID-19, sources in the poll panel said on Monday. The official, an assistant section officer, had tested positive on Friday evening, the sources said. He sits on the second floor of Nirvachan Sadan and is attached with the electronic voting machine (EVM) division of the poll panel. All standard operating procedures issued by the Union Health Ministry to deal with such cases are being followed, the sources said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/election-commission-official-tests-covid-19-positive-847018.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir starts preparations for curtailed Amarnath Yatra||A senior official of the J&K government said preparatory work like snow clearance of the track from Baltal up to the cave shrine will be taken up in the coming days. Deputy Commissioner, Ganderbal, has also issued orders for forming committees to fix the rates for service providers during the pilgrimage, including labourers and other facilitators, they said. Nodal officers of various departments for the Yatra have also been nominated after Divisional Commissioner, Kashmir, visited Baltal base camp and took stock of the situation on Sunday, sources said. Earlier, the ‘Pratham Puja’ for the yatra was held on Friday in Jammu. The 42-day-long annual pilgrimage to the 3,880 metre-high holy cave shrine in south Kashmir Himalayas was scheduled to begin from June 23 from traditional Pahalgam -Chandanwari track and shorter Sonamarag-Baltal route. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the decision to cut short the time period of the pilgrimage was taken during a meeting held by Jammu and Kashmir Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu, recently.  However, sources said that the decision about final dates is yet to be taken. The final decision has to be taken by the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB). Every year lakhs of pilgrims either take the traditional and longer 45 km-long Pahalgam route or the shorter 14 km-long Baltal route to Amarnath, one of Hinduism’s holiest shrines. The pilgrimage usually spans nearly a month-and-a-half and takes place during July and August. Last year, the yatra was cut short following intelligence inputs of terror threats ahead of the Centre scrapping Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. In 2018, the pilgrimage was held for 60 days.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-starts-preparations-for-curtailed-amarnath-yatra-847027.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||SC seeks reply of Centre, J&K on plea of Congress leader Soz’s wife against his house detention||The Supreme Court on Monday issued notice to the Centre on a plea by former Union Minister Prof Saifuddin Soz's wife against his detention in Jammu and Kashmir with the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution on August 5, 2019. A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and Indira Banerjee sought a response from the Union government and Jammu and Kashmir administration to the petition filed by Mumtazunnisa Soz. The court put the matter for consideration in the second week of July. Senior advocates A M Singhvi and P Chidambaram, appearing for the petitioner, sought a short date. Singhvi said that the detention has been made without showing a single document. He said in other similar habeas corpus petitions, short dates were given but the court did not prepone the hearing.  The petition, filed by advocate Sunil Fernandes, Mumtazunnisa Soz, contended the octogenarian leader has been illegally and arbitrarily detained for the past ten months purportedly under the Jammu and Kashmir Public Safety Act, 1978 without having been provided with the materials indicating grounds for it."All efforts by him to obtain a copy of the detention order have been of no avail due to the illegal, arbitrary exercise of powers by the Jammu and Kashmir administration," she claimed in the petition.Her plea claimed that the detention was not only illegal, malafide and unconstitutional, it was also extremely appalling.The petitioner contended that the house arrest ordered against Prof Soz was also "arbitrary, whimsical and fanciful and deserves to be quashed on the anvil of Articles 14, 21 and 22 of the Constitution".She also pointed out Prof Soz has not committed a breach of peace, neither has he disturbed the public tranquility nor is he likely to do any wrongful act that will occasion a breach of peace or cause any disturbance of public tranquility.  Several senior politicians of Jammu and Kashmir were put under detention in August, last. Former Ministers Farooq Abdullah and his son Omar Abdullah were subsequently released. Former Chief Minister Mahbooba Mufti's daughter Iltija has also challenged her mother's detention before the top court.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sc-seeks-reply-of-centre-jk-on-plea-of-congress-leader-soz-s-wife-against-his-house-detention-847030.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus: 77-year-old moves Delhi High Court against order restricting COVID-19 tests||Petitioner, Renu Goswami, claimed that this was against ICMR guidelines of May 18 and it may lead to a further spike in cases, besides resulting into other dire consequences. Her plea contended that a positive, yet asymptomatic primary contacts of COVID-19 patients, if left untested, would unknowingly end up infecting senior citizens, and those with comorbidities, termed as the high-risk cases, and others.  "It is alarming that at a time when the state of NCT of Delhi is seeing a surge in community spread of the infection with nearly 1,000-1,500 reported daily cases and 10-15 deaths per day, the Delhi government is making COVID-19 testing more restrictive," the petition filed by advocate Shubhangni Jain said. Further, the revised Delhi testing strategy leaves private laboratories in a Catch-22 situation as to whether to comply with ICMR directions or go with Delhi government's guidelines, it added. "The rationale behind disallowing testing of asymptomatic cases was that it will increase hospital admission is counter-productive as non-testing will only increase the burden. Moreover, banning testing is not a solution to decrease admission of asymptomatic cases in the hospital," she said. The actions restricting testing to symptomatic and high-risk cases and reducing testing capacity of the state are in violation of the Article 21 of the Constitution in as much as denying the right of a citizen to get tested for an infection. It is a gross violation of Right to Life and the attendant right to health guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, her plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-77-year-old-moves-delhi-high-court-against-order-restricting-covid-19-tests-847036.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||High Court seeks Delhi govt's reply on plea to quash order against COVID-19 test on asymptomatic people ||A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan sought a response from the Delhi government on June 22 on the petition filed by Renu Goswami. The petitioner, represented by senior advocate Sidharth Luthra, advocate Ketaki Goswami and Shubhangni Jain, claimed that the order was against ICMR guidelines of May 18 and may lead to a further spike in cases, besides resulting into other dire consequences. The matter was taken up by the court on a day when Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal himself has gone into self-quarantine after developing fever and sore throat.  In her plea, the petitioner contended that a positive, yet asymptomatic primary contacts of COVID-19 patients, if left untested, would unknowingly end up infecting senior citizens, and those with comorbidities, termed as the high-risk cases, and others. The order is likely to affect pregnant woman too. "It is alarming that at a time when the state of NCT of Delhi is seeing a surge in community spread of the infection with nearly 1,000-1,500 reported daily cases and 10-15 deaths per day, the Delhi government is making COVID-19 testing more restrictive," the petition filed by advocate Shubhangni Jain said. Further, the revised Delhi testing strategy leaves private laboratories in a Catch-22 situation as to whether to comply with ICMR directions or go with Delhi government's guidelines, it added.  "The rationale behind disallowing testing of asymptomatic cases was that it will increase hospital admission is counter-productive as non-testing will only increase the burden. Moreover, banning testing is not a solution to decrease admission of asymptomatic cases in the hospital," she said. The actions restricting testing to symptomatic and high-risk cases and reducing the testing capacity of the state are in violation of the Article 21 of the Constitution in as much as denying the right of a citizen to get tested for an infection. It is a gross violation of Right to Life and the attendant right to health guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution, her plea said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/high-court-seeks-delhi-govts-reply-on-plea-to-quash-order-against-covid-19-test-on-asymptomatic-people-847041.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Bois Locker Room case: Delhi Police files FIR after girl receives threats on social media||One of the girls who had shared screenshots of chats from Instagram group "Bois Locker Room" alleged that she was receiving threats and offensive messages on social media, following which the Delhi Police's Cyber Cell registered an FIR, officials said on Monday. The Instagram group was being used to share obscene messages and morphed pictures of underage girls on social media sites, according to police. The girl lodged a complaint with the local police last week after she received "threats, obnoxious and offensive" messages on social media for posting about the "Bois Locker Room", the officials said. The complaint was then transferred to the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police, a senior police officer said. "We have registered an FIR based on the complaint from the girl. As per the complaint, she was threatened. She received obnoxious and offensive messages. The nature of content she received was threatening but primarily obnoxious in nature," the police officer said. Police said they are in touch with the complainant. Information about the Instagram group came to light after a girl shared screenshots of its activities. Following this, the group started being called out on social media. Police said during social media monitoring, it was noticed that the group was being used by the participants to share obscene messages and morphed pictures. A case under relevant sections of the IT Act and the IPC was registered. During investigation, the admin of the Instagram group was arrested while a juvenile was apprehended in connection with the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bois-locker-room-case-delhi-police-files-fir-after-girl-receives-threats-on-social-media-847048.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Plea alleges delay in issuance of e-coupons for disbursing ration: HC seeks Delhi govt reply||The Delhi High Court has sought response of the AAP government on a plea alleging delay in issuance of e-coupons for availing ration during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Justice Navin Chawla directed the Delhi government to file a status report within one week on the petition in which reference has been made about applications filed by around 309 families with regard to the e-coupons. The high court's June 5 order came on the plea by a woman, living in north-east Delhi, who claimed she was not issued an e-coupon till June 4, despite applying for it on April 23. Advocate Tushar Sannu, appearing for the woman, told the court that on June 5 morning the woman was issued an e-coupon and also ration along with a kit. Sannu, however, drew the court's attention to a list of 309 families who had not received e-coupons till then. Taking note of the submission, the court issued notice to the Delhi government and directed it to file a status report within one week regarding the applicants mentioned in the list filed along with the petition. With the direction, the court listed the matter for further hearing on June 17.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/plea-alleges-delay-in-issuance-of-e-coupons-for-disbursing-ration-hc-seeks-delhi-govt-reply-847073.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||BJP's Bihar virtual rally show of money power, says Akhilesh Yadav||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav alleged on Monday that the BJP was using money power and holding virtual rallies in Bihar to break the morale of the opposition parties there. "After defeat in Jharkhand, the BJP is understanding that people are against it in Bihar too," Yadav tweeted. "That's why it did a Rs 150 crore virtual rally to show its money and muscle power as it wants to break morale of the Opposition." In Bihar, the BJP's "so-called alliance" has become triangle of mutual distrust and groupism, the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister added. Addressing the BJP workers and the people of Bihar through a virtual rally on Sunday, Union Home Minister Amit Shah had said the state moved from "jungle raj to janta raj" during the NDA rule and expressed confidence that the alliance would get a two-thirds majority in assembly polls under the leadership of Chief Minister Nitish Kumar.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/bjps-bihar-virtual-rally-show-of-money-power-says-akhilesh-yadav-847081.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Coronavirus Lockdown: Shopping malls reopen in Jaipur as 'Unlock-1' kicks in||Many shopping malls in Jaipur reopened on Monday, as the state government decided to gradually ease restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19. On the first day of reopening, limited customers visited the city malls and there were arrangements for thermal scanning and sanitization at most places. “All the arrangements for sanitization and thermal scanning have been made. A buffer area has also been made where the material and goods will be kept for a certain period of time before being shifted to shops,” Anoop Bartaria, MD of Jaipur’s World Trade Park mall said. He said, “Entire mall has been disinfected and the arrangement of sanitization is also there at different places.” Some hotels and restaurants, however, remained closed despite permission from authorities to start their business. “We are not prepared to start operations of hotels and restaurants and will take another two-three weeks,” president of Rajasthan Hotel and Restaurant Association, Kuldeep Singh, said. He said there is a delay in reopening as most of the workers at restaurants and hotels are not available. Some restaurant and hotel owners decided to keep their facilities shut as they were not expecting many guests to visit in this season. “It is off-season and guests are not expected, therefore we have decided to keep the hotel and booking closed this month,” a hotel owner in Jaipur said. The government in its guidelines for restaurants had asked them to maintain a distance of six feet between tables, among other measures, to maintain social distancing and some restaurant owners see no profitability in such an arrangement. Chiranjeev Singh, owner of Baba Ganoush restaurant in Jaipur, said opening at this juncture is not likely to invite much footfall therefore he has decided to continue the closure of his restaurant. “It will take some more time for the market to get normal. Customers are not likely to come in the expected number so therefore I have decided to not open the restaurant for a few more days,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-shopping-malls-reopen-in-jaipur-as-unlock-1-kicks-in-847100.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Jawan found dead near forward post in Poonch||An Army man was found dead under suspicious circumstances along the LoC in Jammu and Kashmir's Poonch district on Monday, officials said. The body was found near a forward post along the LoC, they said. Further details are awaited.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jawan-found-dead-near-forward-post-in-poonch-847101.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||J&K admin seeks action against IAS officer for 'creating hurdles' during Amarnath yatra prayer||The Jammu and Kashmir administration has asked the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) to take action against an IAS officer who allegedly tried to prevent the Amarnath Shrine Board officials from undertaking "pratham pooja" (first prayer) for Amarnath yatra, sources said on Monday. This is for the first time in many years that the J and K administration has made a complaint to the DoPT against a bureaucrat, they said. This step was taken after the Shri Amarnath Shrine Board (SASB) officials made a complaint to to the office of Lieutenant Governor G C Murmu that an IAS officer tried to prevent them from undertaking "pratham pooja" for Amarnath yatra, the sources said. The administration has written to the DoPT seeking action against the officer who tried to create hurdles in the passage of the pooja, the sources told PTI. The Lt governor has taken a serious note of the "behaviour" of the officer, they said. The traditional ''pratham pooja'' (first prayer) for the annual pilgrimage to the holy cave shrine of Amarnath in south Kashmir Himalayas was held here last week, officials said. Normally, the ceremony marks the start of the Amarnath Yatra, which spans nearly two months. However, this year, according to sources, the yatra is likely to begin on July 21 and its duration shortened to 15 days due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jk-admin-seeks-action-against-ias-officer-for-creating-hurdles-during-amarnath-yatra-prayer-847121.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi govt to hold meeting to assess if there is community transmission of COVID-19 in city||Sources said the meeting will take a holistic view of the situation and hear health experts to understand the emerging situation in the capital, which has witnessed nearly 30,000 cases since the first case was reported on March 2. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the meeting would discuss whether Delhi has entered the third stage of community spread of Covid-19. "If participant experts say there is community spread in Delhi, our strategy will change," Sisodia said. Sisodia has been assigned by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to attend the meeting chaired by Baijal, as he has gone into self isolation after developing Covid-19 like symptoms. Kejriwal will be tested for COVID-19 on Tuesday. Reports of community spread emerged as the national capital opened shopping malls, religious places and restaurants on Monday, following the Centre's 'Unlock 1.0' strategy. Kejriwal has been saying that Delhi cannot be in lockdown for long as it would hurt its economy and result in huge job loss while emphasising that one has to live with the virus. As on Sunday, Delhi had reported 28,936 cases since the first case was reported on March 2. In June alone, there were 9,092 cases, which is 31.42% of the total cases. In May alone, there were 16,326 cases (56.42% of total cases as of now).  Except for June 1 when the capital reported 990 cases, the city has seen more than 1,250 cases every day. On June 2, it recorded 1,298 cases and it rose 1,513 the next day, the highest spike for any single day. Since then, there has been a decrease in the number of cases but it has not gone down below 1,000-mark. On June 4, there were 1,359 cases while it was 1,330 on June 5, 1,320 on June 6 and 1,282 on June 7. There are 17,125 active cases, while 10,999 people have so far recovered from COVID-19 in the national capital. Maharashtra(85,975 cases), Tamil Nadu(30,152), Delhi(28,936), Gujarat (20,097) and Rajasthan (10,599) were the five worst affected states. Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh inched towards the 10,000 mark.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-govt-to-hold-meeting-to-assess-if-there-is-community-transmission-of-covid-19-in-city-847124.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi COVID-19 cases estimated to rise to 56K by end of next 2 weeks: Jain||The current doubling rate of COVID-19 here is 14 days so the national capital as per that estimation will see over 56,000 cases by the end of next two weeks, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday. The number of coronavirus cases in the national capital crossed the 28,000-mark with 1,282 fresh infections, while the death toll climbed to 812 on Sunday. "The expert committee, which was set up by us earlier, has said that the doubling rate is 14-15 days and currently the city has recorded 28,936 cases in total so by the end of two weeks, it is estimated to rise to 56,000," the minister told reporters. Barring June 1, when Delhi saw a spike of 990 cases, it has been recording over 1,000 fresh cases every day from May 28 to June 7, the highest being 1,513 on June 3.  A total of 51 fatalities were reported on June 6, the Delhi health department bulletin said on Sunday, adding that deaths took place between May 8 and June 5. There are 17,125 active cases while 10,999 people have either been cured/discharged or have migrated. Asked about the Delhi government's decision to reserve beds only for residents of the city, Jain said, "Delhi and Mumbai are big metros which are facing a heavy brunt of the virus." "A lot of foreigners come here, and had flights been closed earlier, the infection would not have spread that much. But given the situation now, when for the past several days, over 1000 cases are being reported every day, the situation is that Delhi people would need more space in hospitals," he said. Jain claimed that cases weren't much in neighbouring cities. On the order issued to private hospitals on schedule of charges and if any price capping policy is being planned, he said, "We are going to first examine the schedule of charges that we have asked from hospitals." In an order issued to all private hospitals identified for the purpose of treating COVID-19 patients, the Delhi government has asked them to provide their schedule of charges for treatment of the virus to the Directorate General of Health services, Delhi and the same is also to be displayed at conspicuous places in their hospitals. On the order to depute a senior nursing officer in private hospitals, the Delhi health minister said this was done as there were complaints coming that people were being denied admission or beds not being made available. He also said, on the Delhi Corona App, nearly half of the 8,500 beds are showing as vacant. But we will need 15,000-17,000 beds in 14-15 days as cases will rise. "While beds at some private hospitals may be exhausted, no complaint has come about any shortage of beds at our hospitals like LNJP Hospital, GTB Hospital and Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital," he claimed. From June 8, the Delhi inter-state border has been opened and malls, restaurants and worship places allowed to resume functioning in adherence to all COVID-19 safety norms.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-covid-19-cases-estimated-to-rise-to-56k-by-end-of-next-2-weeks-jain-847127.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Eight more COVID-19 fatalities in UP, toll 283; 411 fresh cases push state's tally to 10,947||Uttar Pradesh on Monday reported eight more coronavirus deaths, taking the toll to 283, while 411 fresh cases pushed the state's infection count to 10,947, officials said. There are 4,320 active COVID-19 cases in the state, while 6,344 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals, Principal Secretary Health Amit Mohan Prasad said. Prasad said 13,236  tests were done on Sunday, which is so far the highest in a day. The target has been fixed to increase the testing capacity to 15,000 per day, he added. He said there was an urgent need for people, especially in urban areas, to strictly follow the coronavirus protocol to prevent themselves from the infection as the lockdown restrictions are being eased. Most of the cases being presently reported are from western districts of the state like those of Meerut division and, therefore, the need of the hour is that people living in cities should be more careful, Prasad said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/eight-more-covid-19-fatalities-in-up-toll-283-411-fresh-cases-push-states-tally-to-10947-847140.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Gairsain becomes Uttarakhand's second capital||Gairsain in Chamoli district was formally declared as the summer capital of Uttarakhand on Monday, with Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat saying it would be developed as an ideal seat of the administration. Rawat had announced making Gairsain the second capital, besides Dehradun, during the budget session of the assembly on March 4. A notification was issued by Chief Secretary Utpal Kumar Singh after Governor Baby Rani Maurya gave her assent to the move. The chief minister dedicated the summer capital status to Gairsain to the thousands of men and women of Uttarakhand who fought for its statehood. Expressing happiness at the formal declaration, Rawat said Gairsain would be developed as the ideal capital of a hill state. Making Gairsain the summer capital of the state was part of the Bharatiya Janata Party's vision document for the 2017 assembly election. Rawat said an action plan was being prepared to create suitable basic infrastructure there in consultation with planners and experts. Work on creating an e-Assembly at Gairsain is underway so that files need not be taken there and sessions are conducted in a paperless way, he said, adding that it would promote paperless work culture in the state. A lake is being developed on the Ramganga, a tributary of the Ganga, to streamline water supply in Gairsain and adjoining areas, including Bhararisain where the assembly is located, Rawat said. According to the chief minister, work is also in progress on strengthening connectivity in Gairsain. Rawat added that roads connecting Gairsain and Bhararisain would be widened as required, and work on the Rishikesh-Karnaprayag railway project, which would take tracks very near Gairsain, was also going on rapidly. BJP vice president Devendra Bhasin said the party had fulfilled a major promise made in its poll manifesto.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/gairsain-becomes-uttarakhands-second-capital-847143.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Lt Governor Anil Baijal overrules AAP govt's decision to reserve Delhi govt-run and pvt hospitals for Delhiites||Setting the stage for a confrontation, Delhi Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Monday junked Arvind Kejriwal government's decision to reserve city's hospitals only for its residents, saying it is "impermissible", and ordered that treatment is ensured to everyone "without any discrimination". The order issued by Baijal in his capacity as the Chairperson of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) came even as a high-level meeting is scheduled for Tuesday to ascertain whether Delhi has entered the third stage of community transmission of COVID-19. Baijal’s order came as there were criticism from several quarters including from Union Minister Mukthar Abbas Naqvi and senior Congress leader P Chidambaram. Kejriwal sought to find fault with the order saying it has created a "huge problem and challenge" for the people of Delhi. "Providing treatment for people coming from all over the country during the Karona epidemic is a big challenge. May be it is God's will that we serve the people of the entire country. We will try to provide treatment to all." In his order issued within 24 hours of Kejriwal announcing the move, Baijal cited Supreme Court judgements which stated that 'Right to Health' is an integral part of 'Right to Life' and a Delhi High Court order. The order said that denying patients and medical treatment on the ground of not being resident of National Capital Territory of Delhi is "impermissible". All government and private hospitals and nursing homes situated in the NCT of Delhi have to extend medical facilities to all Covid-19 patients coming for monitoring/treatment "without any discrimination" of being resident or non-resident of the capital, it said. The order instructed that treatment is not denied to any patient on the ground of not being a resident of Delhi. While announcing the decision to reserve treatment in hospitals owned by Delhi government and private sector, Kejriwal had relied on a report by a five-member expert panel and a suggestions received from public. The expert panel had said that if people from outside Delhi are allowed treatment in the capital, the hospital beds will be filled within three days. It also said that Delhi would need around 42,000 beds for treating COVID-19 patients by mid-July. Kejriwal also claimed that 90% of people who gave suggestions on the issue favoured reserving the beds for Delhiites. Questioning the move, Chidambaram tweeted, “Mr Kejriwal says Delhi hospitals are only for Delhiites. Will he please tell us who is a Delhiite? If I live or work in Delhi, am I a Delhiite? I thought if a person had enrolled in Jan Arogya Yojana/Ayushman Bharat, he can seek treatment in any enlisted hospital, public or private, anywhere in India? Did Mr Kejriwal take legal opinion before he made his announcement?" I thought if a person had enrolled in Jan Arogya Yojana/Aayushman Bharat, he can seek treatment in any enlisted hospital, public or private, anywhere in India? Did Mr Kejriwal take legal opinion before he made his announcement? Naqvi asked how can Delhi's beds be reserved for the people of Delhi alone. "How can Mumbai's beds be only for Mumbaikars? How can Kolkata's beds be only for people of Kolkata? There isn't a requirement of passport and visa to come to Delhi. People from all across the country come to the national capital for treatment. There shouldn't be any politics in this. There is a need for sensitivity," he told NDTV. CPI issued a statement saying the move was "unconstitutional and goes against the oath of office" Kejriwal had undertaken while assuming charge of the UT as Chief Minister. Meanwhile, a meeting of the DDMA chaired by Baijal on Tuesday will assess the Covid-19 situation and decide on overhauling the strategy if needed. Sources said the meeting will take a holistic view of the situation and hear health experts to understand the emerging situation. Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said the meeting would discuss whether Delhi has entered the third stage of community spread of COVID-19. "If participant experts say there is community spread in Delhi, our strategy will change," Sisodia said. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who has gone into self isolation after he developed COVID-19 symptoms, will miss the meeting as he is scheduled to have his Covid-19 test on Tuesday and he has assigned Sisodia to attend the meeting. Reports of community spread emerged as the national capital opened shopping malls, religious places and restaurants on Monday, following the Centre's 'Unlock 1.0' strategy. Kejriwal has been saying that Delhi cannot be in lockdown for long as it would hurt its economy and result in huge job loss while emphasising that one has to live with the virus.  As on Sunday, Delhi had reported 28,936 cases since the first case was reported on March 2. In June alone, there were 9,092 cases, which is 31.42% of the total cases. In May alone, there were 16,326 cases.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lt-governor-anil-baijal-overrules-aap-govts-decision-to-reserve-delhi-govt-run-and-pvt-hospitals-for-delhiites-847160.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||HC to examine PIL alleging loot in construction workers fund||The Delhi High Court on Monday referred to a division bench for consideration of a PIL seeking a CBI probe into massive misappropriation of the Rs 3,200 crore funds meant for migrants and construction workers in the national capital. A bench of Justice V Kameshwar Rao said the petition filed by Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Smriti Sansthan through Advocates R Balaji and Yogesh Pachauri, would be taken up on June 16. The NGO sought the CBI probe to prevent large scale corruption, misappropriation of the massive Rs 3,200 Crore cess fund managed by Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board. It claimed the Board made bogus registration of lakhs of non-construction workers without any verification. "Most of these bogus workers are security guards, Ola-Uber Taxi drivers, factory and shop workers, auto and taxi drivers, house wife, maids, tailors and barbers etc. It is very shocking that how these irregularities and loot are happening by board, headed by the Minister of Labour, Government of NCT of Delhi who is also the Chairman of Board," it claimed. It further alleged that these bogus registrations were carried out on the recommendations and certification of 80-90 Unions which were registered recently in the last four and five years. These Unions are illegally charging Rs 500-1000 for each fraudulent registration with the help of 150 outsourced staff of M/s ICSIL Okhla, New Delhi (outsourced company) recruited  by the construction Board of Delhi. Building and Other Construction Workers (RE & CS) Act, 1996 (BOCW Act) have come into existence through an Act of Parliament exclusively for the benefits and welfare of building and other construction workers. Each state has its own fund called cess fund which is collected from the owners and employers of building and other construction works by collecting 1% on the cost incurred on the project. Till recently Delhi Cess fund has been collected approximately Rs 3200 crore. Besides the CBI, the NGO through its president Vinod Shukla urged the court to direct the CAG to conduct a detailed Statutory Audit of the accounts of the Board as about Rs150-200 crores have already been transferred in the bank accounts of non-construction workers. The money was disbursed in the name welfare of the registered construction workers such as grant of Rs 51,000 for the marriage for female construction workers or the female child, Rs.500 to Rs 10,000 as scholarship to the wards of registered construction worker from Class I to postgraduate professional courses. According to the petitioners, nearly 90 % of the 5.40 lakh odd registered workers' registrations were not renewed because there were about 80 complaints lodged in Police Station Bharat Nagar, New Delhi by the officials of Labour Department and another FIR in the Anti Corruption Department of Government of NCT of Delhi. "Despite 80 odd complaints and FIR, nothing concrete has been done to stop such massive loot," the plea claimed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/hc-to-examine-pil-alleging-loot-in-construction-workers-fund-847165.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Zero tolerance towards terrorism resulted in killing of 15 militants in J&K in 1 week: G Kishan Reddy||Union Minister G Kishan Reddy on Monday said the zero tolerance policy against terrorism adopted by the Narendra Modi government has resulted in successful neutralisation of 15 terrorists in Jammu and Kashmir in last one week. Reddy's remarks came hours after security forces killed four Hizbul Mujahideen terrorists in Shopian district in the Union Territory. This is the second encounter in Shopian district in the past 24 hours. On Sunday, five Hizbul Mujahideen militants were killed in an eight-hour-long gun battle with security forces in Reban area of Jammu and Kashmir. "In pursuance of the Govt of India's 'Zero Tolerance Policy against Terrorism', coupled with proactive approach and credible intelligence network; our security forces have successfully neutralized 15 terrorists in J&K in last 7 days," Reddy tweeted. General officer Commanding (GoC) of 15 Corps Lt Gen BS Raju has said the number of terrorists in South Kashmir is around 125 of which 25 are foreign terrorists. "We can give a rough figure of approximately 100 odd local terrorists we are looking at and may be another 20-25 foreign terrorists is the number we are broadly looking at," Lt Gen Raju said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/zero-tolerance-towards-terrorism-resulted-in-killing-of-15-militants-in-jk-in-1-week-g-kishan-reddy-847177.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||SGPC authorities defy lockdown guidelines, offer langar at Golden Temple||The Golden Temple restarted its 'langar' and distributed 'prasad' among devotees as it reopened on Monday, defying the Punjab government's lockdown guidelines. Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) authorities said they ensured complete hygiene at the community kitchen centre. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal had on Sunday urged the government to review its guidelines prohibiting the offering of 'prasad' and 'langar' (community kitchen). On being contacted, SGPC secretary Kulwinder Singh said, "It is very strange that during the lockdown period, governments were urging religious institutions including SGPC to come forward to make available food for the needy people. SGPC then did not discontinue 'Guru Ka Langar'. "Now religious shrines have opened for the public. In such circumstances, how SGPC could stop its several decades old religious tradition of serving food whosoever visits here. SGPC will never shut down its community kitchen, since it is a round the clock service for visiting devotees,” he added. Amritsar Deputy Commissioner SS Dhillon was not available for comments. Other places of worship and shopping malls also reopened after a gap of more than two months while adhering to the guidelines issued by the state government. At the Golden Temple, devotees underwent thermal screening before entering the shrine. Various teams of doctors were deputed at the entry points of the shrine, officials said. An SGPC task force ensured hand hygiene before allowing entry to devotees and all norms of social distancing were strictly followed, they said. "I am very happy to be here again. We pray that with the blessing of the almighty, the world gets rid of this coronavirus disease," said a devotee at the Golden Temple. However, on the first day of reopening, the usual rush of devotees was not visible. Religious places shall remain open between 5 am and 8 pm in the state. At Ludhiana, the Jama Masjid reopened with the management of the mosque ensuring social distancing, thermal screening and hand hygiene. Shopping malls also reopened in Ludhiana, Amritsar and Jalandhar. Customers were allowed to enter the malls only if they had downloaded state government's COVA application on their mobile phones. The app has been developed by the state government to provide people with preventive care information and other government advisories. Though not many people were visible at shopping malls, a token system was put in place for the entry. An official of a mall in Ludhiana said they have put in place all measures to ensure social distancing. According to the guidelines, the managements of shopping malls will ensure that not more than 50 per cent of the maximum capacity shall at any point of time enter the mall. People can't try clothes and accessories at shops in shopping malls. At restaurants, only takeaway and home delivery is allowed as of now. No dine-in facility has been permitted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/sgpc-authorities-defy-lockdown-guidelines-offer-langar-at-golden-temple-847186.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||NHRC notice to Uttar Pradesh govt over medical apathy to two pregnant women in Noida||The NHRC Monday issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government over reports of medical apathy towards two pregnant women in Noida. It asked the Union Health Ministry to issue instructions to states and UTs not to deny treatment to those needing critical care other than COVID-19, an official release said. An eight-month pregnant woman had died in an ambulance in UP's Gautam Buddha Nagar after a frantic 13-hour hospital hunt failed to find her a bed as over half-a-dozen facilities denied her treatment, her family claimed on Saturday. In the second case, as per media reports on Monday, a pregnant woman was brought to the Noida district hospital in an auto-rickshaw, the NHRC said in the release. When the hospital refused to attend to her, her family tried to arrange an ambulance but in the meantime, the woman delivered a stillborn baby on a pavement, it said. Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and SP chief Akhilesh Yadav on Sunday hit out at the UP government over the matter.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nhrc-notice-to-uttar-pradesh-govt-over-medical-apathy-to-two-pregnant-women-in-noida-847192.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Madhya Pradesh minister violates norms at Mahakal temple||Reopening of the famous Mahakal temple in Ujjain after 79 days of lockdown was marked by the flagrant violation of guidelines by the state’s Agriculture Minister Kamal Patel, who not only entered the temple with supporters but handed over puja materials offering to a priest. The state government has allowed reopening of the religious places with the strict condition that puja materials will not be carried by the devout inside. They can only offer prayer observing social distancing norms. Defending his action, the minister said the devout, who came here for “darshan”, are not coronavirus infected and, therefore, there was no harm in his offering puja materials to the priest. “Although I am observing social distancing,  people sometimes get physically close and it is not harmful.’ “Anyway”, the minister reasoned, “the COVID-19 is affecting mostly people above 65 years of age and afflicted by some diseases. India’s youth, who are hardworking, are not susceptible to the coronavirus, he claimed.   Religious places have been reopened from Monday across Madhya Pradesh. Temple and mosque management committees have made arrangements to ensure strict adherence of guidelines for prayers. Elderly persons above 65, children and pregnant women have been banned from entering religious places such as mosques, temples and Gurudwaras and offering puja materials are strictly banned.     Devout coming to these places are screened for symptoms of diseases such as fever, cough and cold. Only those who are free from all these symptoms are allowed to enter religious places.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/coronavirus-lockdown-madhya-pradesh-minister-violates-norms-at-mahakal-temple-847196.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi hospital releases wrong bodies to families of two coronavirus victims||What's in a name? A lot, if one goes by what families of two COVID-19 patients, both with the same name Moinuddin, who died in a Delhi hospital recently, had to undergo. The Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital had mixed up details of the bodies at the mortuary due to similarities in the name but sought to defend itself saying such instances of mis-identification "sometimes occur". The Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital had released the body of "wrong" Moinuddin to Kalamuddin for burial and it came to light only after the other family found out that the person belonging to them had already been buried. Hospital authorities had released the body to Kalamuddin, saying it was his father, who had contracted COVID-19. He conducted the burial soon after. While Kalamuddin appeared to have reservations while identifying the body, the hospital records attached with the body showed correct details. However, when Aijasuddin looked for the body of his brother Moinuddin, he found out that his brother has already been buried by Kalamuddin. Aijasuddin then contacted Kamaluddin and asked to send them a photograph of the body, following which he identified it as his brother. Aijasuddin's family felt there was no point in extracting the body again and the body of Kamaluddin's father was buried following all rituals.  In a statement, the hospital sought to defend itself, saying such instances of mis-identification "sometimes occur" because, after death there is a "loss of facial expressions and stiffening of muscles and skin".   "The relatives who are already emotionally distressed due to the personal loss, identify the body from a distance due to fear and stigma attached to COVID-19. In these circumstances, similar looking persons can be mis-identified," it said. "In the current instance, both the parties were pacified and mutually agreed to perform the last rites of second Moinuddin on June 7. The first Moinuddin’s last rites were performed on June 6. There has been no negligence on the part of the hospital in this matter. However, every effort will be made to improve the system to prevent such errors from occurring in future," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-hospital-releases-wrong-bodies-to-families-of-two-coronavirus-victims-847217.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||LG's overruling of COVID-19 order has created major problem for Delhiites, says Arvind Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said Lt Governor Anil Baijal's order overruling AAP government's decision to reserve state-run and private hospitals for Delhiites has created a major problem and challenge for the residents of the city. Taking to Twitter, the chief minister said that providing treatment to people coming from all over the country is a big challenge during the COVID-19 pandemic. He also said that the Delhi government will try to make arrangements to provide treatment to all those coming from outside the national capital. "May be God wants us to serve the people of the whole country. We will try to provide treatment to all," he said. Earlier in the day, Baijal overruled the AAP government's order to reserve Delhi government-run and private hospitals in the national capital for Delhiites. On Sunday, Kejriwal had announced that the hospitals run by the Delhi government and private entities will only treat Delhiites during the coronavirus crisis.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/lgs-overruling-of-covid-19-order-has-created-major-problem-for-delhiites-says-arvind-kejriwal-847234.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Jammu and Kashmir mainstream political parties condemn killing of sarpanch by militants in Anantnag||Cutting across party lines, mainstream political parties on Monday condemned the killing of a Congress sarpanch by militants in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir. Militants shot dead the sarpanch, a Kashmiri Pandit, in the Larkipora area in Anantnag at around 6 pm, a police official said. "Very sorry to hear about the killing of sarpanch Ajay Pandita in Anantnag earlier this afternoon. I unequivocally condemn this terror attack on a grassroots political worker & pray that his soul rests in peace," National Conference leader Omar Abdullah said in a tweet.  The People's Democratic Party also condemned the killing but trained its guns at the government. "Left in lurch by the system and hounded by those revolting against it, such is the dismal state of political workers. What can someone hope to achieve by silencing those actively serving poor and marginalised? We vehemently condemn such brutal assassination of Mr Ajay Pandita ji," the PDP tweeted.  The Congress demanded a judicial enquiry into the gruesome incident. "The killing of Ajay Bharti (Pandit) is a mindless and shameful act which needs exemplary punishment against those behind it," a party spokesman said. He said the party demands a judicial enquiry into the killing of the sarpanch to fix responsibility. "The deceased Ajay Bharti, apprehending attack on his life, had written to Govt for security cover, which was reportedly denied to him. As a result, Bharti lost his life in a gruesome attack," the spokesman said. The Apni Party led by Altaf Bukhari also condemned the killing.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/jammu-and-kashmir-mainstream-political-parties-condemn-killing-of-sarpanch-by-militants-in-anantnag-847245.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Amid spike in coronavirus cases in J&K, SABLO favours cancellation of annual Amarnath yatra||With coronavirus cases continuing an upward trend across Jammu and Kashmir, the Shri Amarnath Barfani Langars Organisation (SABLO) has suggested the cancellation of the upcoming annual pilgrimage to the 3,880-metre-high holy cave shrine of Amarnath in south Kashmir Himalayas. The 42-day yatra was scheduled to commence from the twin tracks of Pahalgam in Anantnag district and Baltal in Ganderbal district on June 23, but the Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) headed by Lt Governor G C Murmu has said the appropriate decision on it would be taken after a fresh review of the situation arising out of the COVID-19 outbreak in the near future. On April 22, the SASB had announced the cancellation of the yatra due to the coronavirus pandemic but the statement was later "cancelled and withdrawn". The traditional 'pratham pooja' (first prayer) for the annual Amarnath pilgrimage was held here on June 5, the ceremony which normally marks the start of the yatra. According to sources, the SASB is planning to undertake the yatra in the last week of July for a short duration of 15 days due to the coronavirus pandemic. "The SASB is contemplating conducting the yatra from July 21 to August 3 for a short period of two weeks. Even if shrine board takes such a decision, we are ready to render our services as in the past, but for the safety and security of yatris in particular and all other stakeholders in general, we once again like to apprise our strong apprehensions about difficulties and grave threat involved in conducting the yatra amid the pandemic," the SABLO said in a statement here. The SABLO, a non-profit and non-funded association of 'bhandara' (community kitchen) organisations which are engaged in rendering various services on both routes like serving free food, distribution of blankets, night shelter and various other facilities to the yatris, said it had already suggested to the SASB in the last meeting on April 22 that the yatra should not be conducted this year in the best interest of the pilgrims and other stakeholders. It said the organisation is ready to set up community kitchens at designated sites in case the board still decides and plans to conduct the yatra under the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. However, the SABLO said a decision to undertake the yatra despite the prevailing situation would not at all be good for the pilgrims, administration, bhandaraswallahs and other stakeholders including police, security forces, labourers, ponnywallahs, porters and shopkeepers. "It will put the lives of all into danger and will also create additional problems for all the stakeholders to render their services under this dangerous situation," it said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/amid-spike-in-coronavirus-cases-in-jk-sablo-favours-cancellation-of-annual-amarnath-yatra-847246.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Nothing wrong in using Hindi in subordinate courts: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said that there was nothing wrong in preferring Hindi as the first language in subordinate courts as 80% of the people do not understand proceedings being conducted in English. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and Hrishikesh Roy said that Hindi remained the preferred language in large parts of the country. The court was dealing with a plea by advocate Samir Jain against the Haryana government's order allowing use of Hindi as their first language in subordinate courts. "This is not a question of fundamental right at all since lawyers haven't been stopped from practising. If English too can be allowed with the permission of the court, there is nothing wrong," the bench said. The bench was quick to add that we are not saying that the Haryana government is wrong in making Hindi as the official language of subordinate courts in the state. The court asked the petitioner to approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court with his plea. The Haryana government's counsel said that HC can take a better view since it has all data on judges. In his plea, the petitioner contended people from across the country came to settle in Haryana, being an industrial hub, and if Hindi was used as official language in courts, it would have adverse impact on different sections of the society.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/nothing-wrong-in-using-hindi-in-subordinate-courts-sc-847286.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi riots: Tahir Hussain gave money for purchasing ammunition for “big riot”, police tells court||Suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain, arrested in connection with the recent communal violence in north-east Delhi, allegedly gave money to a local in January for purchasing fresh ammunition to prepare for a “big riot”, the Delhi police told a court on Monday in its charge sheet. The charge sheet was filed in a case related to attempt to murder of a local during the February violence by the Crime Branch of Delhi police before Metropolitan Magistrate Rakesh Kumar Rampuri against eight persons including Hussain, his brother Shah Alam, Gulfam and Tanveer. According to the charge sheet, Gulfam’s licensed weapon, a .32 bore pistol, was recovered along with one extra magazine and seven live rounds, the charge sheet said. It further said that during investigation Gulfam had disclosed that he actively participated in the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act “In the month of January, Tahir Hussain had asked him to be prepared for a ‘big riot’. Tahir had also given him Rs.15,000 to purchase fresh ammunition. Accordingly, on January 31 he had purchased 100 rounds. He already had about 100 rounds stored with him from before,” police claimed. Police further said that Gulfam had allegedly fired most of these 200 rounds during the riots and only seven live rounds were recovered from him. “The preparation for ‘big riot’, purchase of bullets and indiscriminate firing from Tahir Hussain’s house show the extent of conspiracy behind, the riots,” police said. All the accused are in jail and they have been charged for the offences under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code. The offences entail a maximum punishment of life imprisonment. The charge sheet said that further investigation was going on to identify other accused in the case. The case was registered on the complaint of Ajay Goswami who had received a bullet injury on February 25 during the riots and he had named Gulfam and Tanveer as the main accused in the case. Goswami had alleged in the complaint that both the accused were firing indiscriminately from the terrace of Hussain’s house. Hussain has been charge sheeted in two other cases including the alleged murder of IB official Ankit Sharma during the riots.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-riots-tahir-hussain-gave-money-for-purchasing-ammunition-for-big-riot-police-tells-court-847313.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Delhi High Court to hear next week plea seeking CBI probe into misappropriation of Rs 3200 Cr funds for workers||The Delhi High Court Monday said its division bench will hear next week a PIL seeking CBI probe into alleged massive misappropriation of funds of Rs 3,200 crore meant for migrant and construction workers in the national capital. The petitioner's counsel said the matter came up before Justice V Kameswar Rao who said the plea would be heard by its division bench on June 16. The plea by PT Deendayal Upadhyay Smriti Sansthan, through advocates R Balaji and Yogesh Pachauri, said each state has its own 'Cess fund' which is collected for the owners/employers of building and other construction works under the Building and Other Construction Workers (RE & CS) Act, by collecting one per cent on the cost incurred on the project. Till recently Delhi Cess fund has collected around Rs 3200 crores.  The fund was created exclusively for the benefit of registered construction workers. The plea said during the COVID 19 lockdown, it was announced by the Delhi government that Rs 5000 per month will be transferred to all the registered construction workers. However, when the organisation's volunteers enquired, the workers revealed that none of them have received any amount from the government, the plea added. “The enquiry revealed that there was rampant corruption in registration of bogus construction workers and concerned authorities have registered non-construction workers as construction workers so that they can misappropriate the Cess fund,” it alleged. It alleged that there is misappropriation of Rs 3,200 crore Cess fund which is managed by the Delhi Building and Other Construction Workers (DBOCW) Welfare Board due to bogus registration of lakhs of non construction workers as construction workers without any verification and sought CBI probe into the purported large scale corruption. It claimed that most of these bogus workers are security guards, auto and taxi drivers, factory and shop workers, house wives, maids, tailors and barbers. “It is very shocking how these irregularities and loot are happening by the DBOCW Welfare Board headed by the Minister of Labour, Delhi government, who is also the Chairman of Board,” the lawyers said. Besides seeking probe by CBI or an independent investigating agency, the organisation has urged the court to direct the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) to conduct a detailed statutory audit of the accounts of the board as about Rs 150-200 crores have already been transferred in the bank accounts of non-construction workers who are living in Delhi since long in their own houses. The petition said around 80 complaints have been lodged at a police station by the officials of the Labour Department and an FIR was registered  by the Anti Corruption Branch of Delhi government but nothing concrete has been done to stop the loot. It claimed that the misappropriation of funds has been allegedly done by the dishonest employees of the Board, unions and other middlemen||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/delhi-high-court-to-hear-next-week-plea-seeking-cbi-probe-into-misappropriation-of-rs-3200-cr-funds-for-workers-847316.html
08-06-2020||North and Central||Cooperative crop loans of Rs 5,287 crore disbursed to 16.36 lakh Rajasthan farmers: Min||Cooperative crop loans of Rs 5,287 crore have been disbursed to 16.36 lakh farmers of Rajasthan, State Cooperative Minister Uday Lal Anjana said on Monday.  He said that a cooperative loan for kharif crop of Rs 5,287 crore has been disbursed to 16,36,396 farmers of the state. This interest-free short-term crop loan is targeted to be distributed to 25 lakh farmers in the year 2020-21. Anjana said the target of distributing Rs 10,000 crore to farmers by August 31 in the kharif season crop loan started from April 16 whereas in the rabi season, crop loan of Rs 6,000 crore will be disbursed from September 1 to March 2021. He informed that against the target of three lakh in the year 2020-21, 2,34,189 new farmers have also been linked to crop loans scheme, out of which loans have been disbursed to 86,558 farmers so far in the kharif season.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/north-and-central/cooperative-crop-loans-of-rs-5287-crore-disbursed-to-1636-lakh-rajasthan-farmers-min-847320.html
08-06-2020||Opinion||Agricultural ordinances: Unclear benefits for many||The two separate ordinances related to Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce and agreements on price assurance raise a number of important economic issues – apart from their controversial constitutional and legal basis.  Legally, they indicate an attempt by the executive to remove any judicial recourse to dispute resolution – a problem that will come back to haunt India due to our complex social and power-relations matrix. The objectives assume that the proposed changes are far superior and they introduce a fair, transparent and “mutually agreed remunerative price framework” and focus on the written contract. Unfortunately, the Indian agricultural ecosystem is far more complex and historically, the introduction of written agreements into land relations of various kinds has benefited those already with access to resources than the vast majority.  Rise of large organised participants The road to remunerative prices is only through organised participants over the present millions of individual farmers. Organised private players are free to buy and sell anywhere and the rules apply anywhere except within the physical boundaries of the existing private or government market yards. Registration, creation of databases and interoperability of computer systems is at its foundation. Traders, defined as any juridical person who buys farmers’ produce, have powers to buy and sell anywhere in the country subject to certain rules, primary of which is the need for the counterparty to possess a PAN card issued under the Income Tax Act, 1961. Electronic trading platforms are now empowered to trade with fewer likely restrictions. In short, the implication of this is that it allows for large investments by private participants across the agriculture value chain anywhere in the country without any interference from the states – despite the fact that most parts of the agricultural value chain are state subjects under the Constitution.  In the case of the ordinance on price agreements, there is an implicit encouragement of written agreements or “farming agreements” based on a forthcoming Central model farming agreement. Practically, written agreements are – in the present context of small, marginal and medium farmers who comprise about 97 percent of the total agricultural holdings – difficult to enter and enforce compliance due to their costs and cumbersome process, both of which are not solved in the proposed changes.  The sanctity of contract and enforcement of contracts was, and continues to be, the Achilles’ heel of the Indian economy with precious little change over the past decades. Low education levels and inability to understand the language of the contract are factors that will continue to play a central part. Hence, farming agreements are unlikely to be very different.  Farmer protection The ordinance on trade requires that farmers are to be paid on the same day or within a maximum of three working days with the caveat that the receipt of delivery mentions the due date for payment being issued on the date of delivery itself. The useful aspect of the ordinances is that the farming agreements do not create rights against the proprietary rights of the landowners. However, the proposed changes do not offer any additional measures that increase confidence among the landowners that signing long-term contracts will not facilitate a litigious counterparty to get a foot in the door that may ultimately deprive them of their practical control over their precious holding.  In the era of rising land prices and multiple avenues to monetise land holdings only such protection will give the confidence to enter into written contracts. It is pertinent to note that this factor is largely responsible for the unwillingness of landowners to sign formal tenancy agreements. Without that, it is unlikely that small and marginal farmers will voluntarily consent to the long duration agreements.  A concern with the proposed changes is that they leave sufficient room for information asymmetry and interpretation of the contract to be detrimental to the small and marginal farmers. Present-day agriculture is critically dependent on various factors including the importance of credit either in cash or inputs, the role of intermediaries who operate within village social networks and unwritten social norms and behaviour even in economic activities, especially in the context of dispute resolution. Despite its many flaws the system meant that in case of disputes the interests of the farmers were pitted against individual and unorganised intermediaries with the institutions of the state (bureaucracy, police and judiciary) called to arbitrate in disputes, often in the full glare of the public.  Public interest and public pressure invariably led to instances where excesses were limited to the collateral political and other costs. These will now be replaced by dispute resolution where the bureaucracy is the final arbitrator of disputes by supplanting the courts, including the higher judiciary, where the farmers will be arrayed against possible national level, deep-pocketed and well-organised participants and its implications.  Any person well-versed with the practical working of the economy and society economy at the sub-district level understands these dynamics sufficiently well to understand which way power relations are stacked. With these changes, the only option for individual farmers may be to join a Farmer Producer Organisation (FPO). Unfortunately, the limited success of the cooperative movement in the past is in itself food for thought.  (S Ananth is an independent researcher based in Andhra Pradesh. The views expressed are strictly personal) Disclaimer: The views expressed above are the author's own. They do not necessarily reflect the views of DH.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/agricultural-ordinances-unclear-benefits-for-many-847049.html
08-06-2020||Second Edit||LAC face-off: Prepare for long haul||The talks on Saturday between Indian and Chinese military commanders at the Chushul-Moldo border point regarding the escalating tensions along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh did not produce a breakthrough as is evident from the Ministry of External Affairs’ anodyne press statement that the talks had taken place in a “cordial and positive atmosphere” and that the two sides had agreed to keep talking, both at military and diplomatic levels. While it is heartening that the two sides seem committed, at least in their rhetoric, to resolving the current tensions through dialogue, the fact that the military stalemate continues and is likely to do so for several weeks, if not months, is a matter of serious concern. It does seem that the month-long face-off along multiple points in eastern Ladakh is nowhere near ending. In the Galwan Nala and Pangong Tso areas, for instance, where Chinese troops are reported to have moved several kilometres into the Indian side of the LAC, they have dug in their heels, pitched tents, moved in heavy weapons and deployed large numbers of soldiers. It is evident that China is preparing for a long haul. India will need to step up its own presence and preparedness not just in eastern Ladakh but across all sectors of the LAC. Over the past several weeks, the Narendra Modi government has maintained that Indian and Chinese troops were engaged in mere scuffles at the LAC and that the spat near Pangong Tso was about patrols transgressing a fuzzy border. It is evident now that far more serious issues underlie the current face-off. Chinese troops have moved into areas that have for long been understood to be Indian territory and are trying to push Indian presence further back. It is time the government ended its opacity on what is happening at the LAC. More transparency is necessary on the challenges India is up against in the Himalayan heights. In the run-up to the recent talks, Indian officials said they would be telling their Chinese counterparts to pull back to pre-April positions. It does seem that the Chinese are unwilling to do so. So how does Delhi propose to persuade Beijing to restore the status quo ante in Ladakh? Dealing with the Chinese is never easy. The government should take opposition parties and the people at large into confidence through greater transparency and consultations and build an internal consensus on how to deal with Beijing in general and with its repeated transgressions on the borders in particular. Such a consensus will strengthen the government’s hands to take tougher actions that may be required in the weeks to come.||https://www.deccanherald.com/opinion/second-edit/lac-face-off-prepare-for-long-haul-847294.html
08-06-2020||South||Union minister Shripad Naik tests negative for coronavirus||Union AYUSH minister and North Goa MP Shripad Naik on Sunday said he and his family members have tested negative for coronavirus. "We gave our samples for testing on Friday after one of our neighbours in my native village, who is working as a health worker at Mangor Hill in Vasco, tested positive for COVID-19. He was one of the eight workers who have tested positive. The results came negative for me and my family," Naik told PTI. Goa's COVID-19 case count mounted to 300 on Sunday, mainly on account of new cases being reported from Mangor Hill area, which has since been declared a containment zone.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/union-minister-shripad-naik-tests-negative-for-coronavirus-846903.html
08-06-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: 3-day darshan rehearsal begins at Tirupati Hill shrine||Ahead of allowing devotees' entry from June 11 after a nearly 80-day long COVID-19 lockdown ban, a three-day trial run of darshan began at Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala here on Monday with staff and others attached to it following strict protective measures. About 6,000 employees were permitted into the over 2000- year-old hill temple complex shrine with time slot free darshan, a temple official told PTI. Before making the offerings at the hundi, all devotees cleaned their hands with sanitizers, he said. On Monday, visitors had to offer worship to the presiding deity of Lord Venkateswara from the 'Dwarapalakas Mandapam' itself, located over 100 feet away from the inner sanctum at the shrine, he said. The employees involved in regulating the crowd wore Personal Protectiive Equipment (PPE) suits, he said. After the rehearsals, general devotees in limited numbers would be allowed entry, he said. Only 6,000 devotees per day as against the normal rush of over 60,000 would be permitted with COVID-19 precautionary procedures, including six feet distance between each other and wearing of face masks to the holy hills, he said, adding that online ticket sales commenced from Monday. Of this total, about 3,000 special entry darshan tickets, each priced at Rs 300, would be madeavailable online daily. The remaining 3,000 would be set apart for off-line allotment for devotees who opt for time-slot free darshan tickets at designated places here, he said. Those above 65 years of age and children below 10 years would not be allowed entry, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-3-day-darshan-rehearsal-begins-at-tirupati-hill-shrine-847112.html
08-06-2020||South||Don't take coronavirus lightly, says Kerala Health Minister K K Shailaja||Kerala health minister K K Shailaja on Monday cautioned the people to take the coronavirus seriously by maintaining the health protocol such as social distancing, hand-wash and masks. As part of the phase-by-phase easing of restrictions imposed due to the virus-induced lockdown, the Centre had decided to re-open the places of worship, malls and government offices across the country from Monday. "This is a disease anyone can get infected with. We cannot take thepandemic lightly. We all need to strictly maintainsocial distancing," the Minister told reporters. The government had issued strict guidelines in this regard and if people diligentlyfollow the instructions, they need not worry about the community spread, she said. The Minister said the antibodytests are not conclusive, as the positive results in such tests may differ from the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests. "We cannot completely go by them," she said. Shailaja said home quarantine is effectively room quarantine, which should be strictly followed, and that it has proven to be more effective in containing the spread than institutional quarantine. Later, the minister reeled out statistics on how many people have come to the state during the lockdown period. Till now, 1,87,619 people have reached the state from outside.0 At least 1,20,590 came through various checkposts and 47,033 by flights from various countries; 1,621 came by sea and 18,375 by rail, she pointed out.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/dont-take-coronavirus-lightly-says-kerala-health-minister-k-k-shailaja-847146.html
08-06-2020||South||Jagan orders CID probe into woman doctor's harassment allegations against YSR Cong leaders||Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday ordered an investigation by the Crime Investigation Department into the allegations of harassment, by the ruling YSR Congress leaders, of a government doctor in Chittoor district. The doctor, Anita Rani, working in the health centre at Penumuru village in the G D Nellore Assembly constituency, represented by Deputy Chief Minister K Narayana Swamy, alleged that she was locked up in a hostel room on March 22, abused and threatened by the local YSRC leaders. "They harassed me, abused and threatened me.They took my pictures even when I was going to the washroom. I approached the police with a complaint and video evidence but the YSRC leaders again threatened me against filing the case.The police too did not act," the doctor said. All this was done after she tried to expose the corruption of lower level staff in the hospital, she alleged. Anita Rani said she filed a petition in the High Court last week over the incident. Reacting to reports on this, the Chief Minister ordered an investigation by the CID, a CMO release said. "The Chief Minister directed the CID to thoroughly probe the incident and bring out the facts," the release added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/jagan-orders-cid-probe-into-woman-doctors-harassment-allegations-against-ysr-cong-leaders-847174.html
08-06-2020||South||BJP, Hindu Aikya Vedi oppose temple opening in Kerala; Padmanabha temple revokes decision||Kerala government's decision to allow devotees at worship centres, especially major temples like Sabarimala Ayyappa temple, amid a spike in COVID-19 cases, has been flayed by the BJP and Hindu Aikya Vedi, alleging that the government decision is aimed at addressing financial crunches. Meanwhile, Padmanabhaswamy Temple in Thiruvananthapuram revoked the decision to allow devotees through online token from Tuesday. The existing ban on devotees will continue till June 30, said a temple official. BJP Kerala state president K Surendran demanded that the government provide financial assistance to temples facing financial crunch instead of hastily opening them while COVID-19 cases were increasing. Hindu Aikya Vedi state general secretary R V Babu said urged that devotees should abstain from temples. However, Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran alleged that objections came from a political agenda over the issue. The same people who earlier demanded that temples be opened are now denouncing the decision. While all major temples including the Guruvayur Sri Krishna temple are scheduled to allow devotees from Tuesday, Sabarimala temple will be opened by June 14. Devotees will be allowed only through the virtual queue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/bjp-hindu-aikya-vedi-oppose-temple-opening-in-kerala-padmanabha-temple-revokes-decision-847178.html
08-06-2020||South||Farmers oppose move to seek urgent hearing in eight-way lane case||The 272.3 km controversial Chennai-Salem Green Corridor that is envisaged to run through fertile agriculture lands, forests and mountains is back at the centre stage. Farmers are up in arms yet again demonstrating their resolve to fight the Union Government as National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has moved the Supreme Court seeking urgent hearing of its appeal against the April 2019 Madras High Court order quashing the land acquisition process for the Rs 7,200 crore project. Several farmers in villages that will lose their fertile lands if the project sees the light of the day cutting across districts have come onto the streets to protest against the Centre’s decision to seek an urgent hearing “even during the COVID-19 pandemic.” The NHAI had on June 4 moved the Supreme Court seeking urgent hearing of the case. During the course of the hearing last year, the apex court had refused to stay the High Court order striking down the acquisition process. And the Tamil Nadu government, which had made a volte-face on the issue during the 2019 elections and changed its stand after the poll ended, came in support of the project yet again with two ministers making it clear that the highway was indeed the need of the hour. The farmers, who are protesting in a group of less than ten persons in their respective villages due to Section 144 being in force, sought to know why the government is “hell bent” on 'destroying' fertile lands to build a highway while one of the existing three highways that connect the two cities can be expanded and upgraded. “We really do not understand the need to seek an urgent hearing at a time the country is reeling under COVID-19 crisis. What is the need for such a project now? This is the time for the government to increase agriculture production and encourage more people to take up farming and increase farmers’ income instead of taking away their lands forcibly,” Arul Arumugam of the Movement Against Eight-Way Lane told DH. The ambitious project that seeks to cut down the travel time between Chennai and Salem in western Tamil Nadu by three hours and distance by 68 km ran into rough weather immediately after it was announced in the first half of 2018. Farmers in Salem, Dharmapuri, Tiruvannamalai, and Kanchipuram were vociferous in their opposition to the project, which they feel would not just wipe out agriculture in the region but also lead to greenery being affected big-time by cutting down of lakhs of trees. Mohana Sundaram, a farmer from Pulaveri in Salem district and one of the petitioners in the case against the project in the Madras High Court, asked where would the government get funds to build the highway when it is seeking contributions from the public to fight Covid-19. “We don’t understand the motive of the government. On one hand, it asks for money from the public to fight Covid-19 and on the other hand it wants to implement a project that costs Rs 7,200 crore with urgency. This highway is unnecessary and unwarranted. The government should reconsider its decision,” Mohana Sundaram said. Arumugam said the farmers are determined not to part with their lands. “Why should we give away our land? The matter is in the court and we will fight legally. But why are the ministers behaving like judges saying the project will be implemented?” he asked. A field visit by this DH correspondent to 16 villages spread across Salem, Dharmapuri and Tiruvannamalai districts in September 2018 had established that the highway has been designed in such a way that it passes through the middle of fertile farmlands, rendering remaining land on both sides useless. In total, nearly 150 villages will be affected, and hundreds of acres of coconut, betel nut, banana, and mango plantations would face the axe if the farmlands are acquired for the project. After their protests failed to move the Tamil Nadu government and the Centre, the farmers knocked at the Madras High Court seeking justice. PMK leader Anbumani Ramadoss was also party to the case as he sought quashing of the move on land acquisition for the project. The High Court in April 2019, in the midst of the high-octane Lok Sabha poll battle, struck down the land acquisition process and opined that a “more thorough study” was required for a “sensitive project” like the green highway.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/farmers-oppose-move-to-seek-urgent-hearing-in-eight-way-lane-case-847179.html
08-06-2020||South||Class X students to be promoted without exams in Telangana: CM Chandrasekhar Rao||Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has decided not to conduct the SSC examinations in the state this year, due to the increasing COVID-19 cases. All the 5.35 lakh 10th students would be promoted to the next standard by providing them with grades based on their internal assessment marks. In a review meeting with education department officials on Monday, the chief minister took the decision as it would not be possible to conduct examinations due to the spread of coronavirus in the state, a CMO official said. Child rights activists welcomed the decision as one saving the 5,34,903 students from the possibility of contracting the virus. 3650 COVID-19 cases were reported in Telangana till Sunday night, most of them from Hyderabad. Out of the 206 fresh cases on Saturday, 152 are from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area. Out of the 143 fresh cases on Friday, 116 are from Chennai.  The education department was, till Saturday, keen to conduct the examinations. However, the Telangana high court, which was hearing a petition challenging the exam decision, directed the state not to hold them in the Hyderabad area now. It allowed exams in other districts with several safety conditions. In a revised schedule, exams were to begin from June 8. Education officials then opined that such a segmented arrangement would be complicated and the determination to hold exams is prone to blame the government in case of spike in cases with congregation of students at the centres. The High Court order has thus, compelled the education department to announce deferment of exams on Saturday night. SSC final examinations comprise 11 papers under six subjects. Of this, three examinations pertaining to two subjects were conducted in March before the rest were postponed due to the COVID-19 situation and the High Court orders. Intermediate exams in Telangana were conducted earlier in March. The remaining Geography and modern language exam were held on June 3.    A call on the degree/Post Graduate course examinations will be taken later based on the situation that prevails, officials said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/class-x-students-to-be-promoted-without-exams-in-telangana-cm-chandrasekhar-rao-847181.html
08-06-2020||South||Doctors appeal TN CM K Palaniswamy to increase COVID-19 testing drastically||As this metropolis struggles with over 22,000 coronavirus patients, two doctors, including the man behind Tamil Nadu’s organ donation system, on Monday launched a petition asking the government to “drastically increase testing” across the state and ensure strict enforcing of wearing of masks by people. Dr J Amalorpavanathan, former member-secretary of Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu, and Dr Sumanth C Raman, an Internal Medicine consultant and political commentator, launched the petition on www.change.org, on Monday, which had received over 500 signatories at the time of writing. Both Amalorpavanathan and Sumanth Raman have been stressing the need for ramping up of testing numbers in Tamil Nadu, especially in Chennai, for the past few weeks as the number of positive cases is steadily increasing. Tamil Nadu tests anywhere between 12,000 to 16,000 samples a day with over 4,000 in Chennai alone, but experts feel the number is “very less” as there is “wide-spread” community transmission in the city, though the government denies it. The doctors highlighted 12 points that need the immediate attention of the Tamil Nadu government like testing of all symptomatic patients irrespective of the duration of symptoms, all immediate and high-risk contacts of positive patients and all high-risk people like health care staff, police and media, and going beyond the ICMR guidelines and test asymptomatic persons in the cluster dense zones for source location. “(The government should) drastically increase testing in Chennai and the rest of the state to the levels recommended by the medical experts. This initially must at least be by a magnitude of 4-5 times the current testing levels in Chennai. Sample collection centres in Chennai can be drastically increased to help boost testing. Pooled testing can be started. Some states are already doing this,” they said in the petition, addressed to Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. Dr Amalorpavanathan told DH that the testing numbers should be ramped up big time as it is necessary to identify the source with the city alone recording over 1,000 cases every day. “It is necessary to test more and more people. Wuhan city tested all its citizens when they feared a second outbreak. It is a very costly affair and a difficult task to test lakhs of people, but it is absolutely necessary,” he said. Dr Sumanth Raman said the cost incurred in conducting 40,000 tests a day in the state for the next two months would be just a fraction of the impact that the economy has been subjected to since the outbreak. “The government should set up kiosks in every ward in Chennai for people to come and get tested. This is absolutely necessary to contain the spread of the virus,” he told DH. The duo also asked the government to ensure that police enforce the wearing of face masks in public and arrange to distribute cloth masks free through the PDS, while appealing to it to publish the number of patients in ICU and those on Ventilator in the daily reports issued by Health Department. The doctors also asked the government to issue strict orders that the WHO definition of COVID-19 death is to be followed when certifying death. “That will help us get accurate data on the number of COVID-19 deaths and for research. There are reports of patients dying of breathlessness before reaching hospital. They must also be tested after death and their contacts traced,” they said. Dr Amalorpavanathan and Dr Sumanth Raman also asked the government to make available Pulse Oximeter and Portable Oxygen Canisters to people on demand and at reasonable costs. They also asked the government to start the surveillance testing for disease prevalence using the rapid antibody tests as advised by the ICMR.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/doctors-appeal-tn-cm-k-palaniswamy-to-increase-covid-19-testing-drastically-847188.html
08-06-2020||South||One dies, 91 more test COVID-19 positive in Kerala||A person who returned from Maldives died of COVID-19 in Kerala on Monday, while 91 others were tested positive and 11 recovered. Dini Chacko, 41, who returned from Maldives on May 16 and later tested COVID-19 positive, died at Thrissur government medical college hospital. He was suffering from kidney ailments also. Though an 87-year old person died at Thrissur on Sunday evening was tested COVID-19 positive initially the government was awaiting further confirmation from NIV. Apart from him, 17 persons died of COVID-19 in Kerala so far, of which one was a native of Mahe, which is part of Puducherry. Meanwhile, of the 91 fresh cases 88 were people from abroad and other states. The total infected persons in Kerala so far reached 2004, of which 1,174 were now active and 814 recovered.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/one-dies-91-more-test-covid-19-positive-in-kerala-847215.html
08-06-2020||South||Coronavirus Lockdown: Film shootings to resume in Telangana; Theaters to remain shut||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao has permitted film and TV shootings to recommence in the state with a condition that the units follow all the COVID-19 guidelines and lockdown conditions. Film/TV shootings can be held with limited staff. Post-production works are also permitted. Permission for the film theatres to open for the public is refused as per the central guidelines. The Telugu film industry, one of the biggest in the country, is majorly concentrated in Hyderabad. All the movie-making processes were halted with the announcement of COVID-19 lockdown in March.   Several prominent personalities like K Chiranjeevi met the CM recently and requested him for permission for the film/TV shootings and post-production works as well as opening the film theatres. Responding to their demand, Rao asked the officials concerned to prepare the guidelines. Following this cinematography minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, and industry representatives met and prepared draft guidelines. The film celebrities gave an assurance that they would conduct the film shootings/post-production works with a limited number of people and abide by the guidelines of the state, officials said||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/coronavirus-lockdown-film-shootings-to-resume-in-telangana-theaters-to-remain-shut-847230.html
08-06-2020||South||COVID-19: Madras HC against holding Class X Board exams; Tamil Nadu govt says it is right time now||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday informed the Madras High Court that the present schedule for holding Class X Board exams from June 15 was the right time as experts' opinions published in news reports forecast COVID-19 cases in the state might rise up to two lakh in coming days. The court, however, said it cannot put lives of more than nine lakh students at stake and asked the government to consider postponement of the exams in view of soaring COVID-19 cases across the state, where the tally as of Monday stood at 33,229. Hearing a petition by a teachers' association challenging the government's decision to conduct the exams amid the pandemic, a division bench of justices Vineet Kothari and R Suresh Kumar made it clear it was prima facie convinced that the state has to be restrained from going ahead with the schedule.  We cannot allow the state to put lives of more than nine lakh students at stake. This is not like opening TASMAC (liquor) shops during lockdown, the court said. However, the bench restrained itself from passing any interim order and adjourned the hearing to June 11 directing the state to inform its stand. The government has also been directed file a detailed report on the steps taken for conduct of the examinations, which were originally scheduled in March but postponed in view of the national lockdown. When the hearing on the petition commenced on Monday, the bench wondered whether the government can give an undertaking that no student will get COVID-19 infection if it was allowed to conduct the exams from June 15. Responding to this, Advocate General Vijay Narayan submitted that according to expert opinions which are widely published in news reports COVID-19 cases might increase up to two lakh and evern go up further in the coming days. "Therefore, this is the right time to conduct the exams," he added. He also pointed to the CBSE's move to hold Class XII exams and said there were over 200 schools affiliated to the central board in the state and none have complained. "We do not know why only the state board schools are targeted, Narayan said. Anyhow exams should be conducted at some stage, and if it was not now, it would be difficult to hold them at a later date, he added. The bench then said when the government has decided not to open educational institutions till COVID-19 threat subsides, why it should force Class X students to write the exams. There is absolutely no logic in conducting the exams risking the lives of 9 lakh students, the court said. The petition has been filed by the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers Association challenging the state's decision to conduct the exams from June 15.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/covid-19-madras-hc-against-holding-class-x-board-exams-tamil-nadu-govt-says-it-is-right-time-now-847231.html
08-06-2020||South||HC poses serious questions to Tamil Nadu govt on conduct of Class 10 exams||The Madras High Court on Monday posed several uncomfortable questions to the Tamil Nadu government on conducting Class 10 board exams at a time the state is witnessing a massive spike in the number of people testing positive for coronavirus. During the course of the hearing, a division bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and R Suresh Kumar even asked whether the Tamil Nadu government can give an undertaking that no student will contract COVID-19 if the examinations are allowed to be conducted. After the government argued that the exams need to be held now as the state expects more infections in the coming days and weeks, the bench adjourned the case to June 11. The court was hearing a petition filed by the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Graduate Teachers Association challenging the conduct of the examination. Tamil Nadu postponed the examinations originally scheduled to begin in the last week of March due to the lockdown. Later, it announced the exams would begin from June 1 and postponed it to June 15 after outrage. The state currently has over 33,000 COVID-19 cases and experts and political parties want the government to defer the examinations until the spread of the virus is brought under control. Over nine lakh, students have registered to appear for the examination in the state.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/hc-poses-serious-questions-to-tamil-nadu-govt-on-conduct-of-class-10-exams-847263.html
08-06-2020||South||Another elephant dies in Kerala||Close on the heels of the death of a wild elephant in an explosion at Palakkad district in Kerala, another elephant died at Kalikavu forest range near Nilambur in Malappuram district on Sunday night. The preliminary finding was that the tuskless male elephant, aged around 20, suffered injuries in its tongue and abdomen during a fight with another elephant. Nilambur (south) divisional forest officer V Sajikumar said that in order to rule out any suspicions and allegations the post-mortem examination was conducted in the presence of two veterinary doctors from other government departments. Kalikavu is about 60 kilometres from Ambalappara in Palakkad were a pregnant elephant was killed in an explosion recently. A father and son, who are the key accused in the case, were still absconding while the third accused was held. Sajikumar said that the elephant was found with injuries at Kalikavu area about five days back. Despite giving treatment, it died by Sunday night. It was also found to be having liver ailments also. There were no signs of explosions, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/south/another-elephant-dies-in-kerala-847297.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Trio sets truck afire on NICE Road||Three unidentified people followed a trucker in a car, browbeat him into pulling over and set the truck on fire on NICE Road in western Bengaluru early on Saturday, according to a police complaint.   Veerendra said he was driving into Bengaluru from Chennai, transporting steel racks. As he reached NICE Road, a rashly driven car tried to overtake his truck several times. The car driver eventually succeded and pulled over ahead in the middle of the road.  Veerendra said, he also pulled over and ran to the nearby forest. Minutes later, three men from the car walked up to the truck and set it on fire before fleeing. Some passersby had already called the fire brigade, which quickly sent over firefighters to douse the flames.  Veerendra later filed a complaint with the jurisdictional Jnanabharathi police.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/trio-sets-truck-afire-on-nice-road-846895.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus or cold? Monsoon brings confusion||Change in weather conditions prompted by the monsoon has resulted in the rise of seasonal snivels, fevers, dengue and respiratory infections. With the similarity of these diseases in symptoms to COVID-19, people are becoming increasingly confused as to whether they have the novel coronavirus or a harmless cough. A rash of coughs and colds has been reported across Bengaluru. These, coupled with the onset of dengue and chikungunya which can mimic certain symptoms of COVID-19, especially fever and chills, could alter the dynamic of the anti-COVID campaign and prompt fewer people to report symptoms. If there is a surge in cases, it could also severely strain the health infrastructure in the state, an expert said. Dr Giridhar Babu, a member of the COVID Task Force, explained that while surveillance measures against dengue had improved significantly since 2017, the lockdown had also potentially changed mosquito breeding. With the monsoon likely to continue for the next 115 days, Dr Babu suggested that the situation may become clear in the next 10 days. “If there is a surge of COVID-19 cases and if there is also a spike in other diseases such as dengue, we could see the number of available beds to dwindle,” he said. As per the latest Department of Health and Family Welfare data, there have been 1,632 confirmed dengue cases so far, plus over 15,000 suspected cases as of June 5. There are 759 confirmed chikungunya cases in the state, plus 6,792 suspected cases. The total number of Covid-19 cases to date stands at 5,452.  The total number of beds in the state is 28,686. The occupancy is between 4% and 6%, as per government figures. Fear of reporting symptoms The other part of the equation is how many people, out of fear of COVID-19, will not report symptoms to health officials, especially in light of an April 23 order instructing all chemists and pharmacists in the state not to sell over-the-counter medication for cold, coughs and fever. These include paracetamol, cetirizine and chlorpheniramine and cough syrups. Pharmacies are also to register individuals seeking over-the-counter drugs for a health screening at fever clinics. While Dr M K Sudarshan, chairman of the state’s COVID Analysis Committee, acknowledged concerns that people who are used to self-medicating may hesitate to go to pharmacies if they get a fever or a cough, he added that the regulations could not be relaxed. "We cannot afford to because our focus is to break the transmission and the pattern of the disease,” he said. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, said there were no plans to withdraw the order as it was proving instrumental in identifying people with early stages of Covid-19, especially among those who self-medicate. “This is designed to capture people who might otherwise not come under the Covid-19 screening ambit. Some 43% of total pharmacies in the state or 17,000 shops have reported self-medicators, some of whom have subsequently tested positive. In that sense, it has been successful and it is a very important tool for us,” he said. Chief among these are ILI cases. According to Department of Health and Family Welfare data, a total of 60 ILI cases (by all methods) have been uncovered in the state since April 24, including 10 this Sunday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-or-cold-monsoon-brings-confusion-846902.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Coronavirus: Malls, religious places to open today||Religious places, malls, hotels and restaurants will throw open their doors on Monday after more than two months of crippling lockdowns, as the nation gets used to the new normal amid the raging coronavirus. Safety guidelines prescribed by the state government based on the Centre’s directions will be in place at all these places.  In Karnataka, the Muzrai and Minority Welfare, Haj and Waqf departments have issued guidelines for places of worship for the effective containment of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Measures such as thermal screening, hand sanitisers and social distancing norms will be followed at all places. In temples, devotees will not be allowed to touch walls, idols, religious books etc, while mosques have to be disinfected after Isha prayers and devotees have to carry their own namaz carpets. For churches, restrictions have been placed on receiving the holy communion. Business establishments such as hotels will see a radical shift in their work and service culture. According to the Centre’s guidelines, hotels have to ensure hand sanitisers, thermal screening, face masks and social distancing for customers. They have to also record guest details including health status, digital payments and others.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/coronavirus-malls-religious-places-to-open-today-846907.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BMRCL begins tree felling even as activists move Karnataka High Court||Days after activists moved the high court against the BBMP’s permission to fell trees for a metro project, the BMRCL began felling the trees at the Jayanagar Fire Station, citing that there was no stay to the nod by the civic body. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) gave a permit to fell 165 trees for the Gottigere-Nagawara metro line of Phase 2 (Reach 6). It had said its order would come into effect 15 days after publishing the same on the website. However, Dattatreya T Devare of Bangalore Environment Trust, whose public interest litigation led to the setting up of the latest tree committee, moved the court questioning the BBMP’s permission. While Devare refused to speak about the petition, activist Arun Prasad, who is closely following the case, said he was shocked to see the felling of trees on Sunday afternoon. “Even in the middle of COVID-19 crisis, the court has agreed to hear the case. The BBMP should have understood its importance and waited for three more days,” he said. Officials from BMRCL refused to comment. However, on its part, the corporation seemed to have gone ahead with the civic body’s nod after waiting for 15 days as per the court order. The nod was based on the tree committee recommendations, which the petitioner has questioned. The petitioner approached the court on June 1. However, as no stay was given, about 30 trees were axed near the Jayanagar Fire Station on Sunday. Alexander James, another activist, said at least three trees were cut at Vellara Junction, about 100 yards from the All Saints’ Church. “These were old trees with huge canopy. It is sad the officials could not retain them,” he said. BBMP Deputy Conservator of Forests H S Ranganathaswamy did not answer the calls and messages. However, sources in the BBMP said there was nothing wrong. “We have proceeded according to the rule,” the source said. Prasad said the government organisations should not have exploited the legal gaps. “The BBMP’s permission itself is questionable. If officials were confident of the order to fell trees, what would they lose in a matter of three days? It is not just the legalities, where is the ethics,” he asked.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bmrcl-begins-tree-felling-even-as-activists-move-karnataka-high-court-846925.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Three Portuguese nationals held by forest officials for trespassing into Bandipur Tiger Reserve ||According to the forest officials, the trio has been identified as Nuno Ricardo Bernardes Miranda Paciencia, Angelo Miguel Garrido and Tomas Pinho Marquez. Giving more details about the incident, T Balachandra, Conservator of Forests and Field Director of Bandipur Tiger Reserve told DH that all the three have been handed over to the Gundlupet police on Monday.  “Our frontline staffers alerted us about the people's movement inside the Tiger Reserve on Sunday afternoon. At around 4:00 pm on Sunday, we detained them and interrogated them. During the interrogation, they refused to cooperate with our officials and behaved very rudely with the Range officials. Since we do not have power under the law to book any foreign national, we only registered a Forest Offence Case (FOC) under Karnataka Forest Act and produced them before the magistrate who handed them to the local police,” Balachandra explained. The department has seized the trio’s bullet vehicles and kept them in the department custody.  The Forest Department officials further explained, “As per the papers they produced, they were not supposed to travel out of Bengaluru where they were assisting a premier organisation in maintaining aircraft. But all the three had hired bullet motorcycles and entered the forest area without prior permission especially when the Reserve is closed for the public due to lockdown rules against the COVID-19.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/three-portuguese-nationals-held-by-forest-officials-for-trespassing-into-bandipur-tiger-reserve-847074.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||308 new coronavirus cases reported, 3 die; 387 discharged in Karnataka||Over 300 new cases of COVID-19 and three deaths were reported in Karnataka on Monday, taking the total number of infections to 5,760 and death toll to 64 till now, the state health department said on Monday. The day also saw a record of 387 patients getting discharged after recovery. Out of the 308 new cases, 277 are returnees from other states, majority of them from neighbouring Maharashtra. As of June 8 evening, 5,760 positive cases have been confirmed. These included 64 deaths with 2,519 being discharged, the health department said in its bulletin. Out of 3,175 active cases, 3,161 patients are in isolation at designated hospitals and are stable, while 14 are in the intensive care unit (ICU). The three who died were all hospitalised on June 4. The first case was a 67-year-old man from Bengaluru urban, who was diagnosed with influenza like illness (ILI) and had a history of ischemic heart disease with left ventricular dysfunction. The second death was that of a 48-year-old woman also from Bengaluru urban diagnosed with ILI, fever and breathlessness. The third case was that of a 65-year-old woman also from Bengaluru Urban diagnosed with severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), and had giddiness and breathlessness. Among the districts where the new cases were reported were Kalaburagi accounting for 99 cases, Yadgir (66), Bidar (48), Udupi (45), Bengaluru urban (18), Ballari (8), Gadag (6), four each from Shivamogga and Dharwad, three each from Hassan and Dakshina Kannada, Bagalkote 2, and one each from Koppal and Ramanagara. Udupi district tops the list of positive cases with a total of 947 infections, followed by Kalaburagi (759) and Yadgir (581). The number of people discharged in the districts: Udupi reported 318 discharges, followed by Bengaluru urban (298) and Mandya (222). A total of 3,93,221 samples were tested so far, out of which 8,779 were tested on Monday alone. Till now, 3,80,630 samples have reported negative and out of them 8,231 returned as negative today, according to the bulletin.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/308-new-coronavirus-cases-reported-3-die-387-discharged-in-karnataka-847232.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Delight dawns on devotees as places of worship reopen||Delight seemed to have dawned on the faithful in the state with the opening of the places of worship after a gap of nearly three months on Monday.  The Chamundeshwari temple atop Chamundi Hill in Mysuru and Srikanteshwara temple in Nanjangud of Mysuru district opened their doors for the devotees. However, only a few devotees visited the temples on day one. District in-charge Minister S T Somashekar and people’s representatives took darshan of the deity at both the places. All safety measures like screening and sanitising were in place. Devotees maintained social distance. Somashekar said a decision was yet to be taken on allowing devotees to have darshan of Chamundeshwari on the Fridays during the month of Aashada, which commences this month end. He said it is difficult to ensure social distance when large crowdsgather. Only a handful of devotees were present at the Rangananatha temple in Srirangapatna, Chaluvaraya Swami temple in Melkote, Bhoovarahaswamy temple in KR Pet and other Muzrai temples in Mandya district, even though all precautions had been taken.  Tipu Sultan’s tomb and other related monuments in Srirangapatna will open for visitors only after June 15.  The scene was the same in Hassan and Chamarajanagar districts. There were not many people in the mosques and churches too in the region. But the Male Mahadeshwara Hill temple in Chamarajanagar district saw a good number of devotees. The Kollur Mookambika temple in Udupi district was decked with flowers to  mark the reopening. The Udupi Krishna Mutt will open for devotees after a few more days. The Zeenath Baksh Central Jumma Masjid at Bunder in Mangaluru allowed the devotees to offer congregational prayer (namaz) on Monday, by adhering to the guidelines. Only a few masjids in the district allowed devotees to offer prayers.  Devotees started visiting temples in Mangaluru like Kadri Manjunatha, Mangaladevi, Polali Rajeshwari, besides Kukke Subrahmanya and Dharmasthala in Dakshina Kannada district.    Devotees wore masks and used hand sanitisers provided at the entrance of the temples and maintained social distance. The staff at the Manjunatha temple in Dharmasthala were seen checking the temperature of the devotees using thermal scanner at the entrance. At Kukke Subrahmanya Temple, authorities had made arrangements to collect address and phone number of the devotees The Siddharoodamutt in Hubballi opened for devotees, with many offering prayers in the morning. The Moorusaviramutt also opened its doors for the faithful, who had the darshan of the Gadduges and Gurusiddha Rajayogindra Swami.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/delight-dawns-on-devotees-as-places-of-worship-reopen-847233.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Pvt schools warned against selling masks||The Department of Public Instructions has asked private unaided schools in the state not to insist parents for purchasing sanitiser, mask and hand gloves from particular vendor or from school. Following complaints from parents and posts circulated on social media platforms, the department has issued a circular asking schools to restrain themselves from such activities else face action under the Karnataka EducationAct. The circular reads: “The parents are free to buy gloves, sanitiser and mask from whoever they want to. If possible schools can provide them free of cost. But no school is allowed to sell or insist parents to buy those items from a particular vendor or shop.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/pvt-schools-warned-against-selling-masks-847237.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Online classes: Decision on June 10||The fate of online classes in the state will be decided on Wednesday as the meeting conducted to discuss the issue was inconclusive on Monday. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S Suresh Kumar said that a final decision will be arrived at the meeting scheduled for Wednesday. Following complaints from several parents against schools conducting online classes even for kindergarten children, the department of public instructions had sought a report from Nimhans. The Nimhans had recommended that no online classes should be conducted for children till the age of 6 years.  However, following feedback from parents and teachers, several schools in Bengaluru have discontinued online classes for students up to Class 3.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/online-classes-decision-on-june-10-847238.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Cabinet to decide on reopening of schools||The decision on reopening of schools in state will be decided after discussing the issue in the Cabinet. The primary and secondary education department held a meeting in this regard on Monday.  An official communication from the office of primary and secondary education minister says:  "The ministry of Union Human Resource Development has said the re reopening of schools will be decided only after August 15 considering that we are gathering opinion of parents, students, teacher and other stakeholders. We have no intention to open schools from July. This matter will be discussed in Cabinet."||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/cabinet-to-decide-on-reopening-of-schools-847239.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Almatti plant exceeds power generation target in 2019-20||The Almatti hydel power plant has generated 631.5 million units (MU) of power in 2019-20 as against its target of 447 MUs. This happens to be the second highest power generation in the last 12 years. The plant had produced 664 MUs in 2007-08. Power generation exceeded the target by 184 MUs over the planned 447 MUs owing to the increased inflows into the Lal Bahadur Shastri Sagar (Almatti dam), last season. R Y Shirali, Superintending Engineer, Karnataka Power Corporation Limited (Almatti project) told DH, "The government has set a target of 466 MUs for the Almatti hydel power plant for 2020-21. The plant has five units of 55 Megawatt (MW) capacity each and one unit of 15 MW generating capacity. All six will become operational if the reservoir reaches 519 metres and starts pumping/releasing 45,000 cusecs from the said height, R Y Shirali explained. If all the six units are functional, the Almatti plant can generate 6 MUs daily. Only one unit with 15 MW capacity was functional for three days in the last one week. Even that too has stopped producing power from Saturday. For now, all six units have stopped generating power. The units will run to their optimum level in July, if the reservoir continues to receive steady inflows, the Superintending Engineer added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/almatti-plant-exceeds-power-generation-target-in-2019-20-847241.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Wholesalers to carry out business in Central Market from today||Wholesale vendors, who were shifted to APMC yard in Baikampady from Central Market following the directions of Mangaluru City Corporation two and a half months ago, have decided to carry out business in the Central Market from Tuesday. To maintain social distance in the backdrop of the spread of Covid-19, the wholesalers from the Market were shifted to the APMC yard on April 8. Now, the lockdown has been completed. “We are ready to carry out the business in Central Market. The district administration and the MCC should give us an opportunity to carry out the business. Police security should also be provided,” Central Market Merchants' Association president M Mustafa Kunhi told mediapersons.   Stating that the Market had 151 wholesalers and 337 retail vendors, Mustafa said wholesalers had shifted to the APMC yard on April 8. Retailers could not carry out business owing to the lockdown. “Initially, we will commence our business from the Market. Later, we will urge the MCC to allow retailers to carry out the business.” He said the wholesalers were carrying out business outside the market and there was no issues with regard to social distancing. The merchants are in distress. “We were not carrying out business illegally in the Market. We all had licence from the MCC and were paying the rent as well. As many as 103 retailers were carrying out business in stalls and 234 retailers were carry out business inside the yard of the Market,” he said. Association Legal Advisor Manmohan Jois said, "The High Court has issued a stay order for shifting of traders and demolition of the Central Market old building. Central Market is a sub yard of the APMC.  Hence, the MCC does not have any power in it. The MCC should take prior permission from the State government to take up activities.”||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/wholesalers-to-carry-out-business-in-central-market-from-today-847249.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Recoveries outnumber fresh infections in K'taka||Karnataka witnessed 308 fresh infections, including three deaths, in the last 24 hours (ending 5 pm on Monday). In keeping with the trend, interstate passengers accounted for the lion’s share of state’s Covid-19 cases reported on Monday. As many as 277 new cases are linked to Maharashtra or other states. One international passenger also tested positive for the virus. Among the remaining cases, 20 are contacts of the previously diagnosed patients and the rest are either ILI or SARI cases and from the containment zones. The virus hotspots in Kalyana Karnataka - Kalaburagi, Yadgir and Bidar - combined saw a whopping 213 cases on Monday. Kalaburagi alone reported 99 cases followed by Yadgir 66 and Bidar reported 48 fresh infections. Maharashtra returnees accounted for all cases reported in Kalaburagi and Yadgir districts. Bidar districts saw 41 migrants from Maharashtra, three contacts of infected and four Telangana returnees contract the virus. Four contacts of Patient 4350 tested positive for Covid-19 in Ballari. The district also saw two contacts of Patient 4,184 contract disease. A 26-year-old woman from Koppal, diagnosed with influenza-like illness (ILI) tested positive for the virus on Monday. Udupi district continued to report a flurry of infections. On Monday, 48 people more from the coastal district tested positive for coronavirus. On the bright side, the state saw as many as 387 people walk out of the Covid hospitals, post recovery. Udupi district alone accounted for 213 recoveries in the last 24 hours while Kalaburagi reported 47 discharges and Vijayapura and Raichur 29 each.  The number of active patients in the state now stands 3,175. In the last 24 hours, 8,779 samples were tested and the cumulative number of samples tested in the state, as on June 8, are 3,93,221. Three more deaths  Two elderly persons and a 48-year-old woman, all from Bengaluru Urban and with underlying chronic conditions, died due to Covid-19. The death toll in the state has now gone up to A 67-year-old man (P-4851), with the complaints of influenza-like illness (ILI), IHD and LV dysfunction, died at the designated Covid hospital in Bengaluru on Monday.A 48-year-old woman (P-5335), diagnosed with ILI, was admitted to a private hospital after she developed fever and breathlessness on June 4. However, she died the following day. A 65-year-old woman with complaints of SARI and breathlessness died at a private hospital on May 5. Throat swab samples of all three tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/recoveries-outnumber-fresh-infections-in-ktaka-847250.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Election Commission defers elections to four Legislative Council seats in Karnataka||The Election Commission on Monday deferred the elections to the four Karnataka Legislative Council seats, which was due on June 30, in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The decision was taken following the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs issued on May 30 and inputs from the Chief Electoral Officer of Karnataka. The Commission said it is of the considered view that going ahead with the electoral process in the current environment may not be feasible in view of the restrictions imposed for the maintenance of public safety and avoiding health hazard, and therefore, the election cannot be completed within its scheduled term. "Now, therefore, Commission, invoking its powers under Article 324 of the Constitution of India read with section 16 of the Representation of the People's Act, 1951, hereby orders that the process of elections to the above-mentioned seats shall be initiated at a later date after reviewing the situation," the Commission noted. The four seats that will fall vacant comprise two Graduates constituency and two Teachers Constituency. While R Chowdareddy Thoopalli from JD(S) and S V Sankanur from the BJP represents Graduates Constituency, Sharanappa Mattur from Congress and Puttanna represent the Teachers' Constituency. Puttanna was elected on a JD(S) ticket but had switched loyalty to the BJP. He was expelled from the JD(S) in November after which he joined the BJP in March.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/election-commission-defers-elections-to-four-legislative-council-seats-in-karnataka-847254.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka reverts to 7-day home quarantine for asymptomatic Maharashtra returnees||Four days after extending home quarantine for asymptomatic Maharashtra returnees to two weeks from one, Karnataka on Monday again reverted to its old rule of quarantining them for a week at home after seven days in institutional quarantine.  The state for several consecutive days has been seeing majority of its cases from Maharashtra. Many from Monday's 277 interstate patients were from Maharashtra.  People aged above 60, those with comorbidities like HIV, Tuberuclosis, cancer, stroke, dialysis, organ transplant history, diabetes, hypertension and other immunocompromised individuals will be tested once between fifth and seventh day of arrival.  Even those under exempted categories along with one attendant had to undergo 21 days home quarantine according to June 4 circular. But now they have to undergo only two weeks quarantine as per old rules. Those under exempted categories are persons with death in the family, pregnant women, children below the age of 10, elderly aged above 60, those with serious illness and those under distress.    Also, there is no test for asymptomatics who do not fall in these categories. There is no test for asymptomatic persons from other states too. According to the last available state COVID-19 war room report of June 7, 3,922 of the 5,452 cases reported in the state have a domestic travel history. Further, 3,537 are from Maharashtra.  Pooling of five samples will be done for asymptomatic international and interstate returnees.  According to the last available state COVID-19 war room report of Karnataka on June 7, 93 per cent of all cases were asymptomatic. This means as many as 5,072 cases out of 5452 are asymptomatic. Only 7 per cent, that is 380 cases are symptomatic.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-reverts-to-7-day-home-quarantine-for-asymptomatic-maharashtra-returnees-847257.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||My services recognised: Ashok Gasti||Fifty-five-year old Ashok Gasti hails from Raichur district and was the former chairman of State Backward Classes Commission. Hailing from OBC and a lawyer by profession, he joined BJP in 1989 and was president of Raichur district Yuva Morcha. In 2009, he was appointed the president of Raichur district BJP, and subsequently as general secretary of BJP OBC Morcha. During the tenure of Jagadish Shettar as chief minister of Karnataka, he was made chairman of Devaraj Urs Backward Classes Development Corporation. He is currently serving as party in-charge of Koppal, Raichur and Ballari districts. Gasti said that he had no indication of his nomination to Rajya Sabha. “I have been working for the party for the past three decades and am happy that the party leaders have recognised my services,” he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/my-services-recognised-ashok-gasti-847271.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||There’s no such word as retirement, says Kharge ahead of RS stint||Congress veteran Mallikarjun Kharge filed his nomination for the Rajya Sabha election on Monday. A nine-time MLA and 2-term Lok Sabha member, Kharge was known as ‘Solillada Saradara’ for his undefeated poll streak that ended last year. He talks to Bharath Joshi on entering the Rajya Sabha and the way forward:  Q. Many see this as the start of a second innings in your political career.  It’s not second innings, really. I’ve been winning consistently for 48 years. From 1969, till now, 51 years, I’ve been active in politics. Even before that I was a student leader and a small trade union functionary. So, this isn’t a new thing for me. It’s a continuous process. There’s no such word as retirement.  Q. But we did sense some hesitation in you in being a Rajya Sabha member. Why?  Well, this is the first time this (opportunity) has come. I lost the election a year ago. Now, the party has chosen me after observing my work, commitment and all that. I’ll try to live up to their expectations. Q. What role do you see yourself play in the Rajya Sabha?  That you can see only after June 19. Everyone has seen my performance as the floor leader in Lok Sabha. The north Indians used to say, “Some Madrasi fellow has come. How can he face the north Indian Hindi-speaking belt, that too, with just 40-45 people.” I tried my best and the leadership also backed me fully.  Q. Former PM H D Deve Gowda and you, together in Rajya Sabha, have raised expectations for Karnataka.  Both of us will do our job. Both of us have been there (in Parliament). People have seen me here when I was the CLP leader for six years, party president and minister. Deve Gowda worked as CM, minister and then as the PM, which was a great honour for India, especially Karnataka. He’s 10 years senior to me. Politically, I’m nearing 48 and he 58. According to age, I’m completing 78 and he’s 88. Wherever differences are there, they’re there. Q. Much has been said about the lockdown and the problems that came with it. What’s the one thing the Congress would have done differently to handle the situation? Look, I don’t want to criticise the government at this juncture. But the first COVID-19 case was detected on January 30 itself, isn’t it? Then, February went. Then, in March you did this. A small country like Singapore gave 4-5 days time for people to settle. For a country of 130 crore, there was no thought about their food, water and jobs. It was like how demonetisation was announced. You have to admit your failures. If you had warned people in January itself, that would have prevented people walking, dying on the roads and all that. There was no forethought.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/there-s-no-such-word-as-retirement-says-kharge-ahead-of-rs-stint-847273.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Gowda confirms RS candidature, to file papers today||After much uncertainty over his candidature, former prime minister H D Deve Gowda has decided to contest the upcoming Rajya Sabha polls. This announcement came on Monday, even as Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge filed his nomination for the polls and the BJP announced two candidates - Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti. JD(S) Legislature Party leader H D Kumaraswamy confirmed Deve Gowda’s candidature. “Former Prime Minister H D Deve Gowda has decided to contest the Rajya Sabha elections at the request of the party legislators, Sonia Gandhi and several national leaders...Thanks to Sri Deve Gowda for agreeing to everyone’s consensus,” Kumaraswamy said in a tweet.  “Deve Gowda has seen success and defeat from the people. By the people, he has acquired higher positions. It was not any easy task to persuade Deve Gowda to enter Rajya Sabha. Finally, he responded to everyone’s hope and ambition,” Kumaraswamy added. Recently, the party legislators unanimously passed a resolution backing his candidature. However, the JD(S) supremo is said to have had some reluctance in taking the decision considering his age and especially after facing defeat in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The senior leader recently turned 87. If he wins, this will be his second stint in Rajya Sabha. He was RS member from 1996-98.  While a candidate requires 45 votes to win, JD(S) has only 34 MLAs. The party is likely to get support from the Congress, to overcome the deficit in numbers.  When asked about the same, KPCC President D K Shivakumar told mediapersons that the Congress party high command’s decision was final in this regard. “We are all bound by what the party leadership decides. Sonia Gandhi has discussed the issue with us,” he said, not wanting to comment further on the issue.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/gowda-confirms-rs-candidature-to-file-papers-today-847274.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||BJP loyalist who missed MLC bus gets rewarded with RS ticket||BJP’s Belagavi unit incharge Eranna Kadadi being announced as party candidate for the Rajya Sabha elections has come in as a surprise to all, including party leaders from the district. Former president of district unit and former Zilla Panchayat president Kadadi has been seen as a soft spoken leader, who gets along well with party leaders and workers. After names of sitting Rajya Sabha Member Dr Prabhakar Kore and former MP Ramesh Katti made it to the media, Kadadi did not express his wish to be the party candidate and maintained silence. Party leaders said they were surprised by the decision of the high command, but added that they would adhere to it. After Balachandra Jarkiholi joined BJP in 2008, Kadadi - a native of Kalloli village in Gokak taluk who had been active in the constituency to pursue his political ambitions - had taken a backseat. He had won Zilla Panchayat elections and was also its president for one term. He was also district unit president of BJP and chairman of NGEF, Hubballi. As party incharge of Belagavi division, he toiled hard for the party’s victory in the 2018 assembly elections and 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Kadadi had also made efforts to get BJP candidature for Legislative Council elections earlier and had met Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa in this regard. But that did notsucceed.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/bjp-loyalist-who-missed-mlc-bus-gets-rewarded-with-rs-ticket-847277.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||Karnataka to test pregnant women from COVID-19 containment zones two weeks before due date||Revising its testing protocol, Karnataka will test all pregnant women from containment zones and buffer zones two weeks before their due date. The new criteria for testing released on Monday also states that those who have undertaken international travel in the past two weeks, if asymptomatic, will be tested once between 5th and 7th day of arrival. As far as contacts of confirmed cases go, primary contacts if symptomatic will be tested immediately. If asymptomatic, they will be tested once between day 5 and day 10 of coming into contact.  Secondary contacts will be tested only if symptomatic. All SARI and ILI patients will be tested. All healthcare workers and frontline workers involved in containment and mitigation of COVID-19 will be tested immediately. Business travellers staying less than 48 hours are exempted from COVID-19 test and quarantine. No quarantine is required for business travellers who are from Karnataka, go to another state and return within four days. There will be no hand-stamping either. The respective district Deputy Commissioners and BBMP Commissioner have the power to assess and change quarantine of inter-state travellers from home quarantine to institutional quarantine, and vice-versa.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/karnataka-to-test-pregnant-women-from-covid-19-containment-zones-two-weeks-before-due-date-847290.html
08-06-2020||Top Karnataka Stories||DH impact: Govt restores BBMP marshals' power to fine people without mask||The state government has restored the power of the BBMP Marshals to enforce the rules that make wearing masks mandatory in public spaces and fix a penalty of Rs 200 on the violators. Marshals have been instrumental in enforcing the rule made by the the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which had fixed the penalty at Rs 1000. However, the state government's notification that came days later not only reduced the penalty to Rs 200 but gave the power to impose penalty to the helath inspectors. The poor enforcement, reported by DH on June 5, was visible in the number of people penalised for the violation. The BBMP marshalls collected Rs 1,000 penalty on 197 people on May 3, when people's movement was highly restricted. In the days that followed, the lockdown measures were relaxed, allowing more people to come out but the enforcement collapsed. Only 18 persons were fined per day for not wearing masks in public space. Senior officials had raised the issue to the BBMP commissioner, expressing concerns over a high number of people not wearing masks. The matter was escalated to the state government last week. Following, this the marshals are back on duty. On Monday, a notification to this effect was issued by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department and Medical Education Department. "The government hereby authorises the marhals of the BBMP to enforce provisions," it added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/state/top-karnataka-stories/dh-impact-govt-restores-bbmp-marshals-power-to-fine-people-without-mask-847303.html
08-06-2020||West||Bouquet after brickbat as Sonu Sood meets Uddhav Thackeray||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday lauded actor Sonu Sood's initiative to arrange buses for stranded migrant workers. The actor met Thackeray at the latter's residence Matoshree in suburban Mumbai in the night. The meeting came on a day the Thackeray-led Shiv Sena launched a scathing attack on Sonu saying he was "enacting a political script written by BJP". Sena MP Sanjay Raut had wondered whether the BJP propped up the Bollywood actor to "offer help" to migrant workers from North India stranded in Maharashtra amidst the lockdown, with the political motive to show the Uddhav Thackeray government in poor light. In his weekly column 'Rokhthok' in Sena mouthpiece 'Saamana' on Sunday, Raut questioned the sudden rise of "Mahatma" Sood on the social scene of Maharashtra during the lockdown. Raut also referred to a "sting operation" against Sood ahead of the 2019 general elections, saying he had agreed to promote the BJP-led government at various platforms through his official social media accounts.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/bouquet-after-brickbat-as-sonu-sood-meets-uddhav-thackeray-846916.html
08-06-2020||West||Private hospitals in Maharashtra charging hefty sums from COVID-19 patients: BJP||Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Legislative Council Praveen Darekar has claimed that private hospitals are charging hefty amounts from COVID-19 patients and demanded the state government to intervene in the matter. The state government has included COVID-19 treatment under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana, but private hospitals are still charging huge sums from patients, the BJP leader told reporters here on Sunday. Charges of some hospitals for COVID-19 treatment range from thousands to lakhs of rupees and they have no fear of the government, he said. "The state government should intervene in this and reimburse the excess money charged from patients. We will undertake an agitation for this, if needed," Darekar said. He also claimed that several COVID-19 patients lost their lives in Mumbai as they could not get timely treatment. The BJP leader said the government should not try to hide the actual number of COVID-19 cases in the state.  "If such a thing happens, COVID-19 will become more severe in the state," he said. Till Sunday, Maharashtra reported 85,975 COVID-19 cases and 3,060 deaths due to the disease, as per the state health department. Darekar also said that the makeshift COVID-19 hospital at the Bandra-Kurla Complex in Mumbai was damaged due to rains last week and the money spent on setting up the facility got wasted.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/private-hospitals-in-maharashtra-charging-hefty-sums-from-covid-19-patients-bjp-846962.html
08-06-2020||West||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray calls toddler chided by parents over social distancing||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to a three-year-old girl whose parents had playfully chided her for 'violating' social distancing norms. Thackeray called up the father of Anshika Shinde, whose video expressing apology for inadvertently touching currency notes while handing them to the milk vendor went viral on social media. The Shinde family, living at Vishrantwadi area in Pune, was in for a pleasant surprise when the chief minister called and spoke to Anshika, telling her to contact him if her parents scolded her again. In the video, Anshika's mother is heard telling her that she will inform 'Uddhav uncle' about her act of touching the currency notes while handing them to the milk vendor. Thackeray, who was apprised of the viral video, rang the girl's father and asked him not to trouble a Shiv Sainik (Sena worker). "I came to know that you are scolding Anshika using my name," a jovial Thackeray is heard saying in the call recording. The girl's father told the chief minister that she loves him very much, to which Thackeray responded, "Anshika, tell your parents that you are a good girl and will listen to them. But if they scold you again, then inform me."||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-calls-toddler-chided-by-parents-over-social-distancing-846997.html
08-06-2020||West||COVID-19 curve flattens, death rate declines in Mumbai's Dharavi||Dharavi, that comes under G-North ward, that also comprises Dadar and Mahim, is a COVID-19 hotspot of Mumbai, the commercial capital of India. The death rate has come down and the flattening of the curve is seen, according to the data of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation.   During the last week, not a single death was reported from Dharavi. On April 1, Dharavi reported its first case and death, when a 56-year-old person from Dr Baliga Nagar died. In the next couple of weeks, the cases zoomed and even the Inter Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) visited Dharavi to review the situation and discussed the issue with Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Rajesh Tope. The state government had also given a briefing to Union Health Minister Dr Harsha Vardhan.  As on Sunday, the total deaths due to COVID-19 in Dharavi was 71, while positive cases stood at 1,912. In Dharavi itself, the worst-hit areas are Social Nagar, Matunga Labour Camp, Dharavi Cross Road, 90 Feet Road and Kumbharwada. According to BMC officials, the recovery rate is nearly 50 percent and the doubling rate, over 40 days. "In Dharavi, we followed the testing and screening aggressively," BMC officials said, adding that preventive measures were the strategy.   Several fever clinics were opened and people were checked.  As part of the war against novel coronavirus,  the 'Chase the Virus' campaign was launched to break the cycle of spread. Against every patient, 15 of their close contacts were quarantined. The frontline caregivers were also given medicines. New institutional quarantine facilities with ICU beds also came up at the Mahim Nature Park. The three hospitals here are Sai Hospital, Family Care Hospital and Prabhat Nursing Home, that together has 100 beds.   Senior patients were shifted to the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital at Sion and the King Edward Memorial Hospital at Parel. A senior official of the Maharashtra Medical Council also noted that a very large migrant population have moved out from Dharavi. "That ensured physical distancing. The CRPF was also deployed along with local police," the official said. According to Assistant Municipal Commissioner, Kiran Dighavkar, around 38,000 people were quarantined at home and 8,500 were sent to institutional quarantine. Dharavi has a population of nearly 7 to 10 lakh, staying and working in 2.1 sq km.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-curve-flattens-death-rate-declines-in-mumbais-dharavi-847005.html
08-06-2020||West||Awhad asks people to stay cautious during lockdown easing||Maharashtra Cabinet Minister Jitendra Awhad has expressed fear that COVID-19 cases may rise in Thane's Mumbra township if residents do not take adequate precautions during the relaxation of lockdown from Monday. Talking to reporters on Sunday night, Awhad, who is an MLA from Kalwa-Mumbra constituency of Thane district and himself suffered from COVID-19 in April, appealed to people to maintain social distancing and follow all safety guidelines. Till Sunday, Thane district reported 11,359 COVID-19 cases, which includes a number of cases from Mumbra area. The number of cases in Mumbra was high as people were moving around freely, Awhad said, and asked residents to exercise restraint. When the number of COVID-19 cases has come down in Dharavi slum area of neighbouring Mumbai and Malegaon township of Nashik district, why it can't happen in Mumbra, the minister said, while seeking cooperation of citizens in containing the spread of the viral infection. He said additional facilities for testing, ventilators and oxygen supply were being provided and the government would take all steps to ensure lives of people are saved. Awhad asked local doctors not to treat people having fever and COVID-19 symptoms and instead, refer them to testing centres as specified by the government and the civic body.  He also urged people to adhere to quarantine and isolation guidelines and not violate them. The minister said he lost almost 12 kg weight while suffering from COVID-19 and despite doctors advising him not to step out of home for two months, he preferred to be in the midst of "his people to serve them and save their lives". Just by sending messages on social media will not help people and one has to come out to provide assistance to those suffering, he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/awhad-asks-people-to-stay-cautious-during-lockdown-easing-847022.html
08-06-2020||West||Coronavirus: Navy commences operation to evacuate Indians from Iran||The Indian Navy has now launched an operation to rescue Indian nationals from Iran. Last month, the Indian Navy launched Operation Samudra Setu to repatriate Indian citizens. Indian naval ships Jalashwa and Magar have already evacuated 2,874 personnel from the Maldives and Sri Lanka to ports of Kochi and Tuticorin. In the next phase of Samudra Setu, INS Shardul will evacuate Indian citizens from the port of Bandar Abbas, the Islamic Republic of Iran to Porbandar, Gujarat. The Indian Mission in the Islamic Republic of Iran is preparing a list of Indian citizens to be evacuated and will facilitate their embarkation after the requisite medical screening.  The evacuated personnel would be provided with the basic amenities and medical facilities whilst undertaking the sea-passage to Porbandar. Special isolation compartments have also been earmarked for any contingencies. In view of the unique challenges associated with COVID-19 including asymptomatic carriers, stringent protocols are being stipulated during the passage. After disembarkation at Porbandar, the evacuated personnel will be entrusted to the care of State authorities.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/coronavirus-navy-commences-operation-to-evacuate-indians-from-iran-847024.html
08-06-2020||West||Mumbai: BEST buses hit road; offices, shops open||As restrictions on movement were eased from Monday, a number of buses of the Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport Undertaking (BEST) with seats occupied were seen plying in the city. Offices started functioning in the Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) and Lower Parel and shops in key market areas of Dadar, Colaba and Kurla also opened for businesses. Even as the lockdown remains in force till June 30, the Maharashtra government, as part of the phase-wise reopening of the economy and public activities under 'Mission Begin Again', has allowed private offices to resume operations with 10 per cent staff. Since the lockdown came into force in March, regular operations of BEST buses were suspended and services were available only for the essential services staff and health workers. Following relaxations in lockdown on Monday, around 2,100 buses hit the city roads till noon, a BEST statement said. The BEST has decided to operate 250 more buses in Mumbai in addition to 1,800 to allow employees of government, private sectors and those who are self-employed to travel.   In the morning, long queues were seen at bus stops in some areas of suburban Malad, Mulund and neighbouring Thane city, as less number of buses were availablecompared to the number of people who came out to travel. "The BEST has decided to allow only five people to stand in a bus after all the seats are occupied to maintain physical distancing. Thus, we had to say no to many people who were standing at the bus stops, a BEST official said. Several offices in the business district of BKC and Lower Parel started functioning even as most of the employees have been working from home. Shops in big market areas of Dadar, Kurla, Colaba and Ghatkopar opened for business with many of them santising their premises before allowing in customers. In the rest of Maharashtra, except red zones, life is returning to normalcy. In Pune, Nashik and Nagpur, shops and other commercial establishments opened in the morning and will continue to operate till around 7 pm.  Meanwhile, temples, mosques, churches and other places of worship were yet to open across the state. "It will take some to open these places for mass gatherings," an official from the state law and judiciary department said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-best-buses-hit-road-offices-shops-open-847035.html
08-06-2020||West||Two coronavirus positive prisoners escape from COVID-19 care centre in Maharashtra||Two prisoners who recently tested positive for coronavirus escaped from a COVID care centre in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district, a prison official said on Monday. The duo bent grilles of a window to make space to sneak out and used bed sheets as ropes to climb down from their room at the facility late Sunday night, he said. A prison employee has been suspended and a case has been registered at Begumpura police station, he said. "Teams have been sent out and search for the prisoners is on," a jail official told PTI. A couple of days back, 29 undertrial prisoners of Harsul jail here tested positive for coronavirus. They were later sent to a COVID care centre for treatment. Two of them, Sayyed Saif and Akramkhan, both residents of Aurangabad, escaped from the facility around 10.45 pm on Sunday, the official said. Saif was facing trial for offences of cheating and forgery, while Akramkhan was arrested in a case of murder and criminal conspiracy, he said.  As many as 14 jail personnel, including two officers, were deployed there in two shifts and the rooms of prisoners were kept locked from outside, the official said. The two accused bent grilles of a window to come out and used bed sheets as a rope to climb down from the building on Sunday night, he said.  Security personnel chased them in nearby areas but the duo escaped taking advantage of the darkness, he said. An inquiry is on and a prison employee has been suspended, he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/two-coronavirus-positive-prisoners-escape-from-covid-19-care-centre-in-maharashtra-847050.html
08-06-2020||West||COVID-19: Ahead of all-party meet, GFP hits out at Goa govt||Ahead of an all-party meeting called by Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday evening on the COVID-19 outbreak, the opposition Goa Forward Party released a series of tweets claiming the state government had mishandled the situation. Goa currently has 300 COVID-19 cases, with a spike since movement of people was allowed amid the lockdown from May 1. "We @Goaforwardparty always said we want to keep aside our political battles & collaborate willingly in this COVID- Fight for sake of #Goa & #Goans. Govt however, did not listen till date as it appears it had an ulterior political agenda & wanted to take political mileage out of it." In another tweet, he said the COVID warriors in the state had done a great job but the state government had messed up everything "due to their obsession with their political health at cost of public health". Sardesai claimed Sawant was showing people a "rosy picture" of the situation, while health minister Vishwajit Rane was enraging his party bosses by presenting the true "gloomy picture" and then retracting his statements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/covid-19-ahead-of-all-party-meet-gfp-hits-out-at-goa-govt-847065.html
08-06-2020||West||Mumbai Ranji cricketers donate blood at MCA and VIVA-organised drive to fight COVID-19||Over 90 popular Mumbai Ranji cricket team players voluntarily donated blood at a blood donation camp. The camp was organised by Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) in collaboration with JJ Hospital, Mumbai, Vishnu Vaman Thakur Charitable Trust, VIVA College, and MCA affiliated Vasai Taluka Cricket Lovers, Sainath Sports Clubs and Our’s Cricket Club on Monday. Among them were current Ranji players such as Vinayak Bhoir, Royston Dias and Hardik Tamore.  The blood donation camp was organised considering the advisory from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW) for voluntary blood donations during the novel COVID-19 pandemic. The Ministry has assured that there remains no precedent for the occurrence of respiratory viruses being transmitted by transfusion. Besides the cricket players, Ajinkya Naik, Apex Council Member, MCA, Pankaj Thakur, former Vice President, MCA, Shikhar Thakur, Treasurer, VIVA College and Kshitij Thakur, BVA MLA from Nallasopara among others also donated blood in the drive.  Ajinkya Naik said volunteering for blood donation will help save many lives. "We are in these tough times when there is unfortunately an abundance of patients and dearth of blood for them. The players have set an example for the whole state and country to come up and serve the nation," he added. Pankaj Thakur said the cricketers have batted for humanity in these troubling times of coronavirus. "It also goes on to show the need for prime fitness and health going forward into the future," he said.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbai-ranji-cricketers-donate-blood-at-mca-and-viva-organised-drive-to-fight-covid-19-847086.html
08-06-2020||West||Gujarat: Boiler pipe bursts in Surat firm, 6 suffer burn injuries||Six workers suffered burn injuries on Monday after a pipe attached to a boiler burst open and released hot water at a fabric dyeing factory in Palsana in Gujarat's Surat, officials said. The condition of three of them is serious and they have been kept in the ICU, said an official. "Early Monday morning, we admitted six workers who suffered burn injuries due to a blast in a pipe joined to a boiler. Three of them are serious and have been admitted in the ICU," Mukesh Rana, medical officer of Sanjeevani Hospital said. Prem Sharma, the manager of Viveklene Industries, where the accident took place, said the workers were sleeping near the pipe and got scalded by hot water when it burst.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/gujarat-boiler-pipe-bursts-in-surat-firm-6-suffer-burn-injuries-847088.html
08-06-2020||West||Man kills wife, son with iron rod in Rajasthan's Sriganganagar||A 50-year-old man allegedly bludgeoned his wife and son to death with an iron rod in Rajasthan's Sriganganagar district, police said on Monday. The incident occurred on Sunday night in Arayan village which comes under the jurisdiction of Srikaranpur police station. Satnam Singh attacked his wife Veerpal Kaur and son Balvinder Singh with an iron rod, leading to their death on the spot, police said. The accused fled away from the spot after committing the crime and surrendered before police on Monday morning, a police officer said. According to police, the couple shared a strained relationship and a personal dispute is believed to be the reason behind the killing. Police said the postmortem was conducted and the matter was being investigated.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-kills-wife-son-with-iron-rod-in-rajasthans-sriganganagar-847096.html
08-06-2020||West||Navy ship reaches Iran to bring back stranded Indians to Gujarat||Navy ship INS Shardul reached Bandar Abbas port in Iran on Monday to evacuate stranded Indians and bring them to Porbandar in Gujarat, a senior defence official said. "The boarding process at Bandar Abbas has begun. Being the nearest port, INS Shardul will bring stranded Indians to Porbandar port in coming days. "Earlier, Naval ships Jalashwa and Magar had evacuated 2,874 Indians from Maldives and Sri Lanka and brought them to Kochi and Tuticorin ports," said Puneet Chadha, Defence PRO for Gujarat. A PIB release said all safety protocols, including pre-boarding health check up and social distancing, will be followed on INS Shardul as part of coronavirus protocols. It said doctors and nutritionists are on board with life-saving equipment, and isolation compartments have been set up to address any emergency during the journey.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/navy-ship-reaches-iran-to-bring-back-stranded-indians-to-gujarat-847109.html
08-06-2020||West||Yes Bank case: ED raids premises of Cox & Kings promoter Kerkar, senior officials in Mumbai||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday raided five premises of global tours and travel company Cox and Kings, including its promoter Peter Kerkar and former senior executives, in Mumbai in connection with the Yes Bank money laundering probe case. The agency, in a statement, said the group and its companies have outstanding loans amounting to Rs 3,642 crore. Agency sleuths searched the premises of Ajay Ajit Peter (Peter Kerkar), Directors Pesi Patel and Abhishek Goenka, former chief financial officer (CFO) Anil Khandelwal and internal auditor Naresh Jain as part of the action undertaken under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA), it said. Cox and Kings was one of the top borrowers of Yes bank and as per the ED, Cox and Kings Ltd (CKL) had an outstanding loan of Rs 563 crore and its linked firms like Ezeego One Travel & Tours Ltd India (EOTTL) Rs 1,012 crore, Cox and Kings Financial Services Ltd Rs 422 crore, Prometheon Enterprise Ltd, UK Rs 1,152 crore and Malvern Travel Ltd, UK Rs 493 crore. The total unpaid loan amount stands at Rs 3,642 crore. The searches are aimed at gathering more evidence in the case, agency officials said. The ED alleged that the travel and tours group "had created multiple layers of on-shore and off-shore subsidiaries across the globe through which the money was siphoned off". The agency is probing Yes Bank and a number of other large corporate groups in connection with an alleged fraud case where huge loans issued by the bank became non-performing assets (NPAs). It arrested Yes Bank co-founder Rana Kapoor in March this year followed by DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan and his brother and RKW Developers Director Dheeraj Wadhawan.  The ED recently also filed its first charge sheet in the case before a special PMLA court in Mumbai. The agency explained the role of Cox and King Group (CKG) travel company in perpetrating the alleged bank loan fraud. Malvern Travel Limited, UK is an entity of CKG and was having outstanding of Rs 493 crore, which submitted "forged" bank statement of RBS Bank, UK and SBI, UK and then forged the end-use certificates of BDO LLP (statutory auditor of the UK-based entity)  to avail loan from Yes Bank, it said. "This forgery was pointed out by KPMG, which is the administrator of this UK-based entity. In relation to CKL, the company manipulated its consolidated financials by forging the balance sheets of the overseas subsidiaries," the ED charged.  The statutory auditor for Prometheon Enterprise Limited, UK (also a subsidiary of CKG), the ED said, was Raffingers UK LLP and the financials of PEL were sent to India by fictitious domain name "impersonating" the current officials of Raffingers UK LLP.  It said after CKL defaulted on the loans, Yes Bank brought in PricewaterhouseCoopers for a forensic audit job but the travel company's management "did not cooperate" with it. "However, based on the limited data available with them, PwC confirmed falsification of accounts, overstating the sales figures and understating the debt figures, fictitious transactions among others," the ED said.  PwC reported, it said, that from FY 15-FY19, sales of Rs 3,908 crore were made to 15 non-existent or fictitious customers.  "Majority of the collection shown in ledgers from Ezeego (another group entity) was not found in the bank statements and 147 sets of customers are also suspicious and not existent, as per PWC report," it said.  As per the report, the ED said, CFO Anil Khandelwal "diverted" Rs 1,100 crore to Alok Industries Ltd without any approval of the board. The agency also alleged that CKG sold its subsidiary firm, Holiday Break Education Limited, UK for Rs 4,387 crore and instead of discharging the liability of bank, it "siphoned off" the majority of the money.  "From this siphoning, USD 15.34 million was transferred to Kuber Investment Mauritius Pvt Ltd which was controlled by Peter Kerkar," it said. Kerkar was summoned by the ED in the past for questioning in the case after it similarly questioned Reliance Group Chairman Anil Ambani, Essel Group Chairman Subhash Chandra among other corporate honchos. The agency further alleged that from Ezeego Rs 150 crore was "diverted" to Redkite Capital Private Limited which was promoted by ex-CFO Khandelwal and auditor Naresh Jain. "This fund diverted to Redkite was used to buy a controlling stake in Tourism Finance Corporation Of India Ltd, a listed NBFC," the ED charged.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/yes-bank-case-ed-raids-premises-of-cox-kings-promoter-kerkar-senior-officials-in-mumbai-847166.html
08-06-2020||West||3 held for Navi Mumbai shootout in which builder was killed||Three people were arrested on Monday in connection with a shootout in neighbouring Navi Mumbai on June 4 in which a builder was killed and his friend injured, police said. Rabale police station official said the arrests were made from near NEFT College in Kharghar in the morning. "On June 4, some people in an Alto car came and fired at builder Pravin Tayde (35) and his friend who were on a two-wheeler. Tayde was killed and the friend injured. We found the car lying abandoned in Koparkhairane on June 6," Senior Inspector Yogesh Gawde said. "We checked CCTV footage and sent teams to Thane, Kalyan, Lonavla, Pune as part of the probe. We arrested Jayesh Patil (37), who had a business rivalry with the deceased, and Santosh Dora (22) and Devendra Mali (22) for the firing. We have seized two pistols and six bullets," he added.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/3-held-for-navi-mumbai-shootout-in-which-builder-was-killed-847170.html
08-06-2020||West||Man grilled in Palghar mob lynching case commits suicide||A man who was questioned in the sensational Palghar mob lunching incident has allegedly committed suicide.  The deceased Vinus Dharma Dhangada (32) was found hanging from a tree in a forest. He was a resident of Divshi-Chinchpada. The Pune-headquartered State-CID had taken over the investigations of the Palghar mob lynching case from the Kasa police station. An Accidental Death Report (ADR) has been registered and investigations are underway. Two sadhus, Kalpavriksha Giri Maharaj (70 years), Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) and their driver Nilesh Telgade (30), were lynched to death on the night of April 16 in the Gadchinchale village in Dahanu tehsil of Palghar district,  nearly 120 kms from downtown Mumbai. For four days before the incident, there were rumours that robbers had come to the village to steal kidneys, particularly of children, and sell them in the black market. This led to the villagers mounting a round-the-clock vigil.  The sadhus and their driver were attacked by villagers suspecting them to be kidnappers. More than 130 villagers have been arrested in the case.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/man-grilled-in-palghar-mob-lynching-case-commits-suicide-847183.html
08-06-2020||West||Mumbai's tally of coronavirus cases cross 50,000||On a day Mumbai took baby steps for the new normal, the total COVID-19 cases in India's financial capital crossed the 50,000-mark on Monday. The total death toll in Mumbai now stands at 1,702 and the positive cases 50,085. As far as Maharashtra is concerned, the total deaths and positive cases stand  at 3,169 and 88,528. On Monday, 1,661 patients were discharged taking the total to 40,975 who have gone home.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/mumbais-tally-of-coronavirus-cases-cross-50000-847244.html
08-06-2020||West||Goa government insensitive, like those headed by Bolsonaro, Trump, Johnson: Former Deputy CM||An angry opposition MLA and former Deputy Chief Minister Vijai Sardesai on Monday described CM Pramod Sawant's BJP-led coalition regime in Goa to those led by Jair Bolsnaro, Donald Trump and Boris Johnson of Brazil, US and UK respectively, accusing it of having failed to rein in the COVID-19 menace in Goa and putting the people of the state to risk. After meeting Sawant, at an all-party conference held at the official residence of the Chief Minister in Panaji, Sardesai, who heads the Goa Forward party also said, that in the quest for attaining "herd immunity", the state government was in the process of putting its people at risk. "This government is a cowboy government. It is a rightist government like the ones run by Bolsonaro in Brazil, Trump in US and Boris Johnson in the UK. They do not care about the people," Sardesai told reporters on Monday, a day which saw the state's tally of active COVID-19 cases rise to 263. Goa which was a COVID-19 free zone for more than a month has seen a sharp spike in the number of cases, many of them emerging from the Mangor hill area of South Goa's Vasco town, which has now been declared as a containment zone. Despite requests and demands made by the Opposition as well as ruling MLAs Chief Minister Pramod Sawant has refused to order a lockdown in Vasco town, insisting that the infection had not spread out of the Mangor hill cluster. Nearly 15 health workers who were posted to the containment zone have also tested positive for COVID-19, even as, according to health department officials 95 percent of the patients who have tested positive in Goa are asymptomatic and most of them in the age group of 20-40 years. Sardesai however said, that at the all-party meeting, Opposition MLAs were informed about the Goa government's intention to let herd immunity take its course in the state, to which the Opposition MLAs took issue with. "It is a dangerous scenario. By looking for herd immunity the state government is putting people at risk, because to develop herd immunity 70 per cent of the state's population has to be either infected to or injected with a vaccine. The latter cannot happen as there is no cure," Sardesai said. Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat also said that the opposition had placed three key demands before the government to be incorporated into a new SOP being evolved by the Sawant-led administration. "Goans entering Goa should be offered free testing and quarantine. Swab-testing should remain mandatory for all persons entering Goa and a financial package should be offered to people from vulnerable sections of society," Kamat told Deccan Herald.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/goa-government-insensitive-like-those-headed-by-bolsonaro-trump-johnson-former-deputy-cm-847266.html
08-06-2020||West||Brahman mahasangh members destroy Chinese products in Pune||Amid the Sino-India border standoff, members of an organisation on Monday destroyed Chinese products, including smartphones, and called for a ban on import of items from the neighbouring country. Members of the Akhil (rpt Akhil) Bhartiya Brahman Mahasangh gathered at the Savarkar Smarak on Karve Road and destroyed smartphones and other items presumably manufactured by Chinese companies by banging them on the road. They also threw Chinese flag on the ground during the protest. Anand Dave, a key member of the Pune-based outfit, said China "systematically" spread the COVID-19 infection across the world and this has been universally accepted. "Besides this, China unnecessary picks up quarrels with other nations and with India," he said, apparently referring to the ongoing border stand-off between the two Asian giants in Eastern Ladakh. A message should be sent to China that it is Beijing which is dependent on India in terms of trade, Dave said. "We appeal that by the end of 2020, India should ban all Chinese products and start manufacturing them on its own. India is capable of manufacturing its products which can be exported to China," he added. The protest came at a time when China is under intense global scrutiny over the origin and spread of COVID-19, which has infected more than 2.55 lakh people in India so far. India and China are also engaged in a border standoff in Ladakh since early last month and on June 6, a meeting was held between their Army commanders to resolve the decades-old row in accordance with bilateral agreements.||https://www.deccanherald.com/national/west/brahman-mahasangh-members-destroy-chinese-products-in-pune-847299.html
